Rinehart's funding coup a show of faith in Roy Hill vision

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Rinehart's funding coup a show of faith in Roy Hill vision

Malcolm Maiden
948 words
22 March 2014
Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
7
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Iron ore price weakness means different things for different producers and prospective producers, as
the $US7 billion-plus debt financing package for Gina Rinehart's $US10 billionRoy Hilliron ore
project underlines.

Export credit agencies in Korea, Japan and the US and 19 banks, including Australia's big four, have
agreed to provide $US7.2 billion ($7.9 billion) of debt funding for the project, which is 70 per cent
owned by Rinehart's Hancock Prospecting, 15 per cent by Marubeni Corp of Japan, 12.5 per cent by
Korean steelmaker Posco and 2.5 per cent by Taiwan's China Steel Corp.

The banks will provide about a third of the money in their own right, and a similar amount backed by
guarantees from five export credit agencies - Export-Import Bank of Korea, Korea Trade Insurance
Corporation, Japan Bank for International Co-operation, Nippon Export and Investment Insurance, and
the Export-Import Bank of the United States. The final third will come from the export agencies
themselves.

Roy Hill will start exporting several years later than originally hoped, but the signing of the debt deal,
despite recent weakness in the iron ore price, vindicates the strategy that Hancock and its joint debt
advisers, BNP and NAB, pursued.
Two years ago Hancock sold a 30 per cent equity stake in the project to Marubeni, Posco and China
Steel.

That created a base for debt negotiations by securing initial funding for the development and also
locking in export markets: Roy Hill's 30 per cent shareholders will between them buy more than 30 per
cent of its iron ore production.
Another slice of production is reserved for Chinese steel mills, and a year ago Roy Hill signed a
fixed-price project construction contract with Korea's Samsung group.

Informal debt discussions with export credit agencies began around the time the Japanese, Korean
and Taiwanese groups acquired equity and committed as customers, and kicked off formally in
December 2012.
By that time, the iron ore mining industry had received a shock. After peaking above $US190 a tonne
early in 2011, the iron ore price fell below $US140 a tonne in the middle of 2012. In plunged below
$US100 a tonne in August and hit a low of $US86.70 a tonne in early September.

It was back above $US110 a tonne by the time the Roy Hill debt financing talks began in December,
however, and the introduction of Marubeni, Posco and China Steel as shareholder-customers and the
subsequent signing of Samsung as lead project contractor created a pathway for the negotiation of
credit agency funding from Japan and Korea that in turn gave the private banks more confidence to
participate. The debt raising was oversubscribed in the end.

Page96of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.All the groups taking exposure are making a call on Roy Hill's underlying economics. They won't know
that they have backed a winner until the mine is up and running.
The lending group has agreed to finance the project despite renewed pressure on the iron ore price
that pushed it to a low of $US104.70 fortnight ago - they are doing so because they believe Roy Hill
has plenty of commercial headroom. The mine is slated to begin exporting in September next year and
is expected to ramp up to production of 55 million tonnes a year by 2018.
It will tip extra iron ore into the global market, adding pressure to prices that experts including
Citigroup and Goldman Sachs think are headed down towards $US80 a tonne in the medium term, but
is expected to be a relatively low-cost producer, sitting comfortably below the 40th percentile of the
global cost curve for iron ore mined, delivered and loaded for export.

That's not the lowest cost base in the Pilbara. Rio Tinto leads the pack, followed by BHP Billiton. Roy
Hill's debt suppliers must be confident however that the project will be in a similar position to the two
Pilbara giants after it ramps up: able to keep producing in the face of price weakness, in the
expectation that production cuts that pull up on the iron ore price will eventually be delivered by
higher-cost competitors.

Rate expectations

The markets continue to jump at shadows. They fell on Thursday after US Federal Reserve
chairwoman Janet Yellen said the Fed's commitment to hold its benchmark federal funds rate at close
to zero for a "considerable time" after it finished unwinding quantitative easing "probably means
something on the order of around six months".

That would see the fed funds rate moving up by the middle of next year, about six months earlier than
the market hoped for, but Yellen added the obvious caveat: it all depends on how the US economy is
travelling.

At its mid-week meeting the Fed continued to reduce its quantitative easing cash splash for the US
economy, but also said it was no longer tying rate increases to a sub- 6.5 per cent US unemployment
rate.

Unemployment is already down to 6.7 per cent and is no longer a trigger because the Fed thinks it
may be overstating the strength of the jobs market and the economy.

The Fed will take a wider read before moving, will not move if the economy weakens, will be moving
off the lowest-ever base when it does start pushing rates higher, and doesn't expect to take rates as
high as it usually does in the rate rise cycle.

Not exactly a recipe for a market meltdown.

mmaiden@fairfaxmedia.com.au

CO

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

chnstl : China Steel Corporation | exmbnk : Export-Import Bank of the United States | expimp :
Export-Import Bank of Korea | hkpros : Hancock Prospecting Pty. Ltd. | mrubni : Marubeni Corp | neaiii
: Nippon Export and Investment Insurance | pohn : Posco Co
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys |
imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i81501 : Credit Types/Services |
i8150110 : Export-import Financing | i82 : Insurance | i82003 : Non-life Insurance | i8396 : Diversified
Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial
Services | isteel : Steel Production | itci : Trade Credit Insurance
reqrmm : Suggested Reading Metals/Mining | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr :
Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | jap : Japan | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140321ea3m00057

Page97of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.