GURUS TARGET ASIANS

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
GURUS TARGET ASIANS

JACK HOUGHTON JACK.HOUGHTON@NEWS.COM.AU
507 words
11 December 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
11
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THEY have dominated the Gold Coast property market for 25 years and now the Bell brothers have
their sights set on Asia.
Ray White Surfers Paradise Group heads Andrew and Greg Bell say the city’s post-GFC market is
ready to tackle the lucrative emerging middle-class in China and India.

“These new buyers are guys just like us,” Andrew said.
“They used to be investors with heaps of money but now they are lifestyle purchasers.

“It is a different way of doing business and it will make up a huge part of our operation in the future.

“Asian business used to come in waves of interest from different regions but it is becoming broader.

“As of the September quarter just passed, 50 per cent of our buyers were from outside the Gold Coast.
That means we have a huge level of national and international wealth being invested into the city.” On
the eve of the company’s 25th anniversary, property tycoon Andrew said his business had learnt
valuable lessons from tough economic times.
The Bell brothers survived near-financial ruin in the 1990s only to be hit by plummeting property prices
in 2007.
Andrew said the company survived by becoming more efficient. “It taught me a lot about conviction,”
he said.

“I believe your setbacks in life are for the greater good but all my life since then I have always
wondered how it was for the greater good.

“We burned through so much money it was unbelievable.

“But after surviving the global financial crisis, I honestly think those tough times in the ’90s prepared us
and made us strong.” Greg Bell, who heads the commercial side of business, said the positive culture
allowed staff to band together through difficult times.

“Our staff are our family and being able to provide them an income through such a tough time really
meant a lot to me,” he said.
“Real estate was hit particularly hard and being able to give these guys a pay cheque to put food on
their plates really mattered to me.

“And now that we have come out the other side and the market is looking positive, we are in a great
position to grow.” The Ray White Surfers Paradise Group has more than 200 staff across the Gold
Coast.

Page148of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Property prices are on the rise and the Bell brothers are still hosting the Gold Coast’s largest auction
every year.

“The Event”, an auction that puts more than 100 properties under the hammer in a single day, has
become an integral part of the Gold Coast property market.
This year, the Ray White Surfers Paradise Group racked up more than $25 million at The Event.

All up, the agency made $50 million in sales in the month, transacting 151 properties, more than a third
of which sold under the hammer.The RWSP group will be celebrating selling property on the Gold
Coast for 25 years at the Miami Marketta tonight.

NS

RE
PUB
AN

c182 : Asset Transactions | mpcsmt : Precious Metals Markets | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals
Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce
: C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020141211eacb0001n

Page149of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.