SKY HIGH

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Life & Leisure - Luxury
SKY HIGH

Robert Bevan
1,604 words
20 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
30
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

WHEN THE ONLY WAY IS UP, THERE WILL INEVITABLY BE SOME FALLOUT, WRITES ROBERT
BEVAN.
According to the architect himself, Rafael Viñoly's new 425-metre-tall Park Avenue skyscraper will be
"ridiculously luxurious", with top-end fittings, four-metre-high ceilings and killer views. It will be the
tallest building, not just in New York, but in the entire Americas. Expect price tags to match.

Across the pond in London, an apartment designed by Sir Richard Rogers set a new residential
property record this year when it sold for $255 million. True, it is a roomy 1500 square metres, but it is
a flat, not a mansion. No real garden – unless the eastern European buyer hopes to wall off Hyde Park
opposite as his personal fiefdom.

When the GFC hit, construction cranes across the globe immediately juddered to a halt. High-profile
skyscraper projects were cancelled or put on indefinite hold, including Santiago Calatrava's Chicago
Spire tower, which was to spiral up from beside Lake Michigan like a narwhal's tusk.

Now, across the English-speaking world, there is more demand than ever for high-rise living. Melbourne
is building some 41 towers across its CBD, Southbank and Docklands areas, including the Australia
108, which will vie with Q1 on the Gold Coast to be the tallest skyscraper in the southern hemisphere.
London has some 230 in the pipeline (80 per cent of which will be residential) and last month Sydney's
Urban Taskforce put forward proposals for dozens more super-tall towers, arguing they are necessary if
the city is to maintain its global status. If these projects all go ahead, they will change our cities forever.

Their proponents argue that future cities have to be denser if they are to be greener, and something
needs to be done about the housing shortage endemic to desirable cities the world over. Others worry
that while a wealthy few will benefit from these luxurious windows on the world, their host cities will
suffer the consequences.

Carol Willis, director of Manhattan's Skyscraper Museum, has staged an exhibition SKY HIGH & The
Logic of Luxury, to examine the trend.Giddy heights of luxury

"New York and London are both hot markets for luxury housing, and in both, developers are adding
conspicuously tall new towers to the skyline to answer demand and compete for the attention of wealthy
investors," Willis says. The form these take varies from city to city. In New York, super-slim tall towers
are the go. These are made possible by advances in lift technology, materials and wind-bracing.

Manhattan's zoning laws allow unlimited heights in some areas, as long as the set ratios of floor space
to height are adhered to. Developers can even buy up the unused development rights from
neighbouring sites. A dozen towers of between 50 and 96 storeys are planned or under construction.

"Slenderness," Willis notes, "is a strategy that produces several benefits. Piling fewer apartments per
floor higher into the sky allows for open, panoramic views. Having fewer units per floor – often only one
or two – speaks of exclusivity and luxury."

Page223of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.This also has the effect of reducing the area of the building core devoted to lifts, as does the use of
"scissored" escape stairs where staircases are entwined within the one stairwell.Next novelty act

While New York is aiming for super slim, London is forever searching for the next novelty act, with
towers incorporating gimmicks such as wind turbines that don't turn or throwing fantastical shapes that
attract instant nicknames: the Gherkin, the Shard, the Walkie Talkie, the Cheesegrater, the Can of
Ham. Most of these are office or mixed-use towers, with residential-only skyscrapers a little more
sombre, such as the grey cylinder of One St George Wharf that has been likened to a nose-hair
trimmer. A whole comic book of topsy-turvy towers is set to emerge around Battersea Power Station,
designed by Frank Gehry et al.

Some of these weird forms have derived from developers wanting to maximise the size of a building
without fouling the invisible web of protected views criss-crossing the sky above the city, including those
safeguarding the setting of St Paul's Cathedral.

Many Londoners are horrified at what will happen to the traditional scale of the city and its skyline.
Mayor Boris Johnson promised that he would not allow "Dubai on Thames" to emerge – a reference to
the Gulf city's fondness for vertical bling – but that's exactly what the UK capital appears to be getting.

Australia has not been immune to this novelty trend either, as Jean Nouvel's vertical garden tower at
Central Park, Sydney, or Yve, the swooning glass block by Wood Marsh in Melbourne, testify.The NSW
Urban Task Force's CEO, Chris Johnson, argues: "Sydney is being held back by out-of-date planning
rules … Across Asia, many cities are building towers that are symbols of the prosperity and the
optimism of that city's economic growth."

While it might be reasonable to use grandiose skyscrapers in an attempt to put on the map a city that
has emerged from the sand only a few decades ago, it suggests a juvenile lack of self-confidence to
argue that long-established cities such as London or Sydney need to emulate Dubai and Doha to be
relevant. Tell that to Berlin with its strict height controls. Australian cities already build higher than
London, Paris or Tokyo. A changing skyline might be one sign of a healthy, dynamic city but a
deliberate free-for-all smacks of desperation or an ideological, "let-the-market-rule" attitude to planning
– as in London where regulations are often simply set aside. Mischievous delight

Perhaps more important than skylines is the effect skyscrapers can have at ground level: Londoners
were mischievously delighted when the concave glass façade of the Walkie Talkie, officially 20
Leadenhall Street and also by Viñoly, accidentally concentrated the sun's reflected rays on a Jaguar
parked nearby, melting its panels.

That's an extreme case, but all tall buildings create microclimates if not carefully handled. Wind
turbulence can create permanently blowy conditions at street level, or throw whole areas into shade for
part of each day. This is less a problem in sunny climes where a certain amount of shade might provide
welcome relief, but can become a big issue in temperate winters.

Even super-slim skyscrapers can create substantial change when they arrive in numbers. New York's
Municipal Art Society has warned that seven of the new luxury towers planned for the south end of
Central Park will throw extensive areas of its lawns into gloom during winter.
Critics of Melbourne's tower frenzy also warn that apartment blocks are too close together, shading
each other and creating future slums in the sky.

Part of the problem is that, despite the benefits of being able to pile a lot of building on to a relatively
small site, skyscrapers are still enormously expensive to build, compared with lower blocks. So while
luxury fit-outs might be necessary to attract buyers, corners are cut with cheap external details and
materials. They are equally expensive to repair and almost impossible to replace.

Despite all these potential pitfalls, Daniel Safarik, spokesman for the international Council on Tall
Buildings and Urban Habitat, argues such towers are inevitable: "We're running out of developable
space in our cities, and that means there is nowhere to go but up," he says.

There is also a realisation that access to greenery and fresh air is important, he adds. "In places with
temperate or warm climates particularly, we are seeing sky gardens and green walls at height, and
bridges connecting multiple towers in clusters." Singapore is one of the leaders in this area. Star
trappings

Other star towers are coming with star trappings. In Miami, the 60-storey Porsche Design Tower, being
developed in partnership with the German sports car company, has amenities such as plunge pools on
most balconies. According to The Atlantic magazine's Citylab summit, 22 billionaires, some 2 per cent
of the world's total, have bought units there.

Page224of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.These are investment homes: architectural safety deposit boxes designed to appeal to Russian
oligarchs, China's business elite or Indian steel magnates in a time of global, political and financial
uncertainty. They may never be actually occupied before being resold.

Their expense also means these cloud-bothering buildings are not a solution to the mass housing
needs of most cities, despite what tower-backers in many cities argue. It's true that almost 90 per cent
of Singaporeans live in high-rise social housing, but these are cheap, grim affairs. Super-tall,
super-snazzy towers will remain the preserve of the rich and famous, the kings and queens of all they
survey. In this market, Chicago's Spire looks like it might be revived.

All depends on local factors, however. In Melbourne, the supply of apartments is 60 per cent higher
than demand, with rents likely to fall in consequence. Suddenly, luxuriously tall towers can look like bad
investments.
In the white-hot premium property market of London, Renzo Piano's $2.74 billion Shard, the tallest
tower in Europe, has just celebrated the opening of its Shangri-La Hotel, but many of its other floors
remain unrented, its $91 million apartments unsold.

Just across the Thames, meanwhile, the Gherkin has gone into receivership 10 years after its elegant
snout was completed.

Bubbles this size will make an almighty bang should they pop.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

garchi : Architecture | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gart : Art | gcat : Political/General News | gent :
Arts/Entertainment
usa : United States | austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | nyc : New York City | sydney : Sydney | usny
: New York State | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz :
North America | nswals : New South Wales | use : Northeast U.S.
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140620ea6k0000m

Page225of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.