Concerns over Chinese investment in Australian homes "overblown"

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Concerns over Chinese investment in Australian homes "overblown"

626 words
31 March 2014
Nikkei Report
NKRP
English
© Copyright 2014. Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Inc. All rights reserved.

MELBOURNE -- A string of reports in Australian media have raised concerns that Chinese investors are
buying too many homes and pricing local people out of the market.
Chinese buyers account for 18% of new home purchases in the state of New South Wales and 14% in
Victoria, according to a report from Australia-based Credit Suisse analysts. The report estimates
Chinese buyers to have bought up 24 billion Australian dollars ($22.5 billion) in residential property in
the past seven years and predicts they will buy nearly double that amount over the next seven years.

Sydney-based Louis Christopher, managing director of property information company SQM Research,
said that overseas investment in existing, rather than newly built, properties could become a problem.
"The risk is that the prices rise beyond the actual income levels of the domestic population," he said.
Sydney-based Credit Suisse analysts Hasan Tevfik and Damien Boey wrote that Chinese buyers are
currently purchasing more than A$5 billion in Australian residential property a year, accounting for
12% of new supply. "We believe this demand will only increase as the Chinese become wealthier and
the links between the two countries become even stronger."

Empty investments?

Those predictions, made amid speculation about the exact nature of the foreign investments, has
triggered a Federal Parliament's House Economics Committee probe into whether foreign buyers of
Australian property are actually living in the homes bought, as is required by law, or whether the
properties are sitting empty, as investments.

"I think what there's concern about is whether or not apartments are being occupied," Kelly O'Dwyer, a
Liberal member of parliament who is chairing the committee, told the Australian Broadcasting
Corporation.

With the aim of increasing the supply of homes in the local market, Australia allows foreigners and
temporary residents to purchase multiple newly built properties. Temporary residents can also buy
existing houses, if they plan to sell them when their visas expire.
There were 12,025 approvals for real estate in the Australian financial year ended June 2013, up from
10,118 approvals in the previous fiscal year, according to the Foreign Investment Review Board.
Despite the fears and frequency of articles about the subject in Australia's domestic media, the country's
housing market has long been highly priced without pressure from overseas buyers, analysts said. The
median home price in Sydney was a staggering A$610,000 in February, up 14.1% over the year. In
Melbourne it was A$515,000, up 9.9% over the same time, according to RP Data-Rismark.

SQM's Christopher believes that the fear of foreigners as the single driving cause of rising home prices
are "overblown."

"We have just too many other factors occurring such as low interest rates, a positive domestic economy
where nominal gross domestic product is rising", he said. "We have a relatively low unemployment rate
and a bit of depreciation in the Aussie dollar."

The Reserve Bank lowered Australia's cash rate to a record low of 2.5% in August 2013, and signaled
as recently as March that "a period of stability in interest rates" would be the most prudent course.

Page80of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."While there are some Chinese and other foreigners buying existing dwellings, I don't think it's
happening en masse and I think we need to take it in the context of the number of properties being
sold," Christopher said. Going by SQM Research estimates, the total turnover of Australian residential
property last financial year was A$240 billion, and approximately A$150 billion of commercial property
transactions.
In other words, the A$5.9 billion in Chinese property purchases represented less than 1.5% of the
total property market.

NS
RE

IPC
PUB
AN

ereal : Real Estate Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | china : China | melb : Melbourne | nswals : New South Wales | victor : Victoria
(Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz
: Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz :
Eastern Asia
EG001000
Nikkei Digital Media Inc.
Document NKRP000020140331ea3v0002z

Page81of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.