RPT-UPDATE 1-Australia shortlists Chinese billionaires , state firm for Queensland casino licences

HD

WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

RPT-UPDATE 1-Australia shortlists Chinese billionaires, state firm for Queensland casino
licences
689 words
29 May 2014
07:25
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2014 Reuters Limited

(Repeats story first published late Wednesday; no change to text)

* Far East Consortium/Chow Tai Fook, state-owned Greenland shortlisted bidders

* Chinese developers up against domestic stalwarts Crown and Echo

By Byron Kaye
SYDNEY, May 28 (Reuters) - Some of China's biggest property developers will compete against
Australian gaming giants for casino licences in Queensland, boosting the government's plans to turn the
popular tourist destination into a haven for big-spending Chinese gamblers.
The Queensland government, seeking to capitalise on the growing appetite of well-heeled Chinese for
travel and gaming, revealed on Wednesday the names of the bidders it had shortlisted for the three
casino licences.
They are property giant Far East Consortium/Chow Tai Fook Enterprises, controlled by Hong Kong
billionaire Cheng Yu-tung, one of the world's richest businessmen, and Chinese state-owned real
estate developer Greenland Group.
These Chinese firms are vying against established domestic casino operators Crown Resorts Ltd,
owned by Australia's richest man James Packer, and rival Echo Entertainment Group Ltd for permission
to build a casino in central Brisbane.

The enmity between Echo and Crown is well-known: Echo unsuccessfully tried to stop Packer building a
new casino near its casino in central Sydney. But Echo brings to the table its experience in Queensland,
where it already operates several casino and hotel complexes.

Across Asia, countries from the Philippines and Vietnam to South Korea are setting up lavish casino
resorts to lure moneyed Chinese, who have earned a reputation as the world's most prolific, and
biggest spending gamblers.
DRAWING IN THE CHINESE

Brisbane, the capital of Australia's third most populous state, is already a hit with tourists because of its
warm climate and proximity to the Great Barrier Reef.

The city is keen to emulate the success of Singapore's two casino resorts, run by Genting Singapore
PLC and Las Vegas Sands Corp and which dramatically boosted visitor spending after they opened in
2010.

"It will be a landmark development designed to be a drawcard for international tourists and businesses
for generations to come," Queensland Deputy Premier Jeff Seeney said in a statement.

Australian casinos are expected to increase revenues by about 4 percent in the current 2013/14
financial year to A$5.6 billion ($5.18 billion), according to consultants IBISWorld.

Page133of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Shortlisted companies, chosen from 12 bidders including Australian developer Lend Lease Corp Ltd,
must submit fully developed proposals by late 2014 with the winner to be announced in early 2015,
Seeney said.
The Chinese developers are keen to take a chunk of a market so far dominated by domestic firms.
Greenland told Reuters on Wednesday it is studying the project in Brisbane.
The company has so far invested 8.7 billion yuan ($1.39 billion) in four residential and hotel projects
in Australia and also runs an integrated resort with casinos, residential and commercial operations in
Jeju, South Korea.

Cheng Yu-tung's Chow Tai Fook Enterprises has been closely involved with the development of
Macau's casino industry over the past two decades through a 10 percent stake in STDM, which was
founded by his close friend, the former Macau gaming kinpin Stanley Ho.
Cheng in January this year spent $950 million via International Entertainment Corporation to buy a
Macau junket operator to expand his position in the lucrative industry.
The Chinese bidders for the Brisbane licences will join two other compatriots that the Queensland
government has already cleared to seek planning and environmental approval for regional projects.
These were Hong Kong billionaire Tony Fung, his son Justin Fung and their Aquis Casino Acquisitions
Ltd, who plan to build an A$8 billion ($7.40 billion) casino near the beachside city of Cairns, and
state-backed ASF China Property Consortium, which wants to build a A$7.5 billion casino and cruise
ship terminal at the Gold Coast. ($1 = 1.0815 Australian Dollars) ($1 = 6.2486 Chinese Yuan)
(Additional reporting by Farah Master and Clare Jim in Hong Kong; Editing by Miral Fahmy)

Released: 2014-5-28T22:25:38.000Z
crncas : Crown Resorts Limited
i97912 : Gambling Industries | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
china : China | austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | singp :
Singapore | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz
: Greater China | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | queensl : Queensland |
seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Business
SERVICE:AUF
Thomson Reuters (Markets) LLC
Document LBA0000020140528ea5s00o5u

RF
CO
IN
NS
RE

IPD
IPC
PUB
AN

Page134of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.