DTZ Becomes a Private, Independent Global Property Services Company

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

DTZ Becomes a Private, Independent Global Property Services Company

1,038 words
6 November 2014
00:00
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
English
(c)2014, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved

Confirms Completion of Acquisition by TPG & PAG Consortium; Poised to Lead Industry in Next Phase
of Dynamic Growth under DTZ Brand

Business Editors

CHICAGO--(Business Wire)--November 05, 2014
DTZ, a global leader in property services, today confirmed the close of its sale to the private investment
consortium of TPG Capital (TPG), PAG Asia Capital (PAG) and Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan (the
TPG & PAG Consortium), and its beginning as an independent, privately owned global property services
company.

DTZ will continue to operate under the DTZ brand and its seasoned executive leadership team. Brett
White, former Chief Executive Officer of CBRE Group, will begin serving as full-time Executive Chairman
of the new company in March 2015. Tod Lickerman will continue in his current role as Global Chief
Executive Officer of DTZ and report to Brett White.

“DTZ now has the independent governance, strong capital base and speed-to-market of a private
company, which will allow us to grow and serve our clients’ ever-changing needs,” said Tod Lickerman.
“Today’s dynamic business environment holds both opportunities and challenges for our clients. DTZ is a
progressive partner who understands their needs and can deliver tailored solutions wherever they do
business, while offering the client experience of a smaller, more nimble and more tenacious
organization.”

DTZ's new capital structure and strong financial backers better positions DTZ to make continued
investments to expand its capabilities and offer clients a complete suite of services in every major market
around the world. In September, an affiliate of DTZ Investment Holdings (backed by the TPG &PAG
Consortium) announced it had entered into an agreement to acquire Cassidy Turley, with plans to
combine it with the DTZ business during 2015. The acquisition of Cassidy Turley is expected to be
completed by December 31, 2014.
The acquisition of Cassidy Turley, represents the first significant investment in DTZ’s growth strategy –
immediately expanding DTZ’s brand and commercial real estate presence in the U.S. The new
company will represent $2.9 billion of annual revenue and more than 28,200 employees. As previously
announced, Joseph Stettinius Jr., Cassidy Turley CEO, will become Chief Executive of the Americas,
reporting to Tod Lickerman. The combined new company will re-brand under the DTZ name and new
visual brand identity in 2015.

Speaking on behalf of the TPG & PAG Consortium, TPG’s Ben Gray said, “We are pleased to have
completed the DTZ transaction. The combination of DTZ’s strong businesses in Asia and Europe, its
existing businesses in the United States and Cassidy Turley’s market-leading business in the United
States, will create a global, full service property services company that will be top 3 in the sector. And
we will have an executive team equal to anyone in the world.”

In closing Tod Lickerman said “Our strategy is to grow better, not just bigger. We’ll do this by continuing
to foster a unique and progressive culture, and by converting new capabilities into strategic advantages
for our clients and exciting professional opportunities for our people.”

Page143of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.About DTZ
DTZ is a global leader in property services, providing occupiers and investors around the world with
industry leading, end-to-end property solutions. They comprise leasing agency and brokerage,
integrated property and facilities management, capital markets, investment and asset management,
valuation, building consultancy and project management. In addition, its award-winning research and
consulting services provides clients with global and local market knowledge, forecasting and trend
analysis to make the best long-term decisions for their continuous success. DTZ has 24,200 employees
operating across 209 offices in 52 countries. For further information, visit: www.dtz.com or follow us on
Twitter @DTZGlobal

About TPG
TPG is a leading global private investment firm founded in 1992, with $66 billion of assets under
management and offices in San Francisco, Fort Worth, Austin, Dallas, Houston, New York, Beijing, Hong
Kong, London, Luxembourg, Melbourne, Moscow, Mumbai, São Paulo, Shanghai, Singapore and Tokyo.
TPG Capital has extensive experience with global public and private investments executed through
leveraged buyouts, recapitalizations, spinouts, growth investments, joint ventures and restructurings. The
firm has been very active in Asia for twenty years having completed major investments including BTPN,
Shenzhen Development Bank, Daphne, China Grand Auto and has made many investments in Australia
including Healthscope, Myer, Pet Barn, Alinta and Inghams. For more information visit www.tpg.com.

About PAG

PAG is one of the largest Asian based alternative investment managers with funds under management
across Private Equity, Real Estate and Absolute Return strategies. PAG currently has US$11 billion in
capital under management, with over 300 staff and offices in Hong Kong, Shanghai, Tokyo, Beijing,
Sydney, Singapore, Seoul, Shenzhen, and Delhi. PAG Asia Capital (“PAGAC”), the private equity
strategy of PAG, is currently investing its US$2.5 billion pan-Asian buyout fund and its current portfolio
includes control and structured investments across the financial services, pharmaceuticals, automotive
services and consumer retail sectors. In addition to the extensive investment experience in private equity,
PAG has a solid track record in real estate, completing over 500 real estate related transactions
throughout Asia with total investment value in excess of US$20 billion. For more information visit
www.pagasia.com.

About OTPP
With $140.8 billion in net assets as of December 31, 2013, the Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan is the
largest single-profession pension plan in Canada. An independent organization, it invests the pension
fund's assets and administers the pensions of 307,000 active and retired teachers in Ontario. For more
information, including our annual reports from 2013 and previous years, visit www.otpp.com. Follow us on
Twitter@OtppInfo

Contact:

DTZ

Agnes Estes (Global)

Agnes.Estes@dtz.com

+1.312.424.8067

or

Anna Reid (Europe, Africa and Middle East)

Anna.Reid@dtz.com

+44 (0)20 3296 3486

or

Mary Tamaki (Americas)

Mary.Tamaki@dtz.com

+1 213 426 3015

Page144of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.or

Davina Cassell (Asia Pacific)

Davina.Cassell@dtz.com

+61 2 9224 8030

or
Wye Yee Low (North Asia and China)

WyeYee.Low@dtz.com

+86 21 2208 0187

CO

IN

NS

RE

coldb : CBRE Group, Inc. | otppb : Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan Board | tpgpar : TPG, Inc. | hesco :
Healthscope Ltd | dtc : DTZ Holdings plc | uncont : UGL Ltd.
i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i834 : Real Estate Agents/Brokers | i85 : Real Estate
Transactions | i8500021 : Office Real Estate | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences | i95107 : Hospital Care |
icireal : Commercial/Industrial Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ifinal : Financial Services |
iinv : Investing/Securities | ipension : Pension Funds | iphhp : Healthcare Provision | ippf : Public Pension
Funds | ireest : Real Estate
c18 : Ownership Changes | cacqu : Acquisitions | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin
: C&E Industry News Filter
usa : United States | africaz : Africa | cana : Canada | caon : Ontario | china : China | lux : Luxembourg |
namz : North America | nswals : New South Wales | singp : Singapore | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia
| ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | benluxz : Benelux Countries | bric : BRICS Countries |
chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz
: Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | weurz :
Western Europe
FINANCE

IPD
PUB The Press Association Limited
AN

Document PRESSA0020141105eab50048u

Page145of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.