Corporate News: Chinese Firm Looks At Australian Ports

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Corporate News: Chinese Firm Looks At Australian Ports

By Daniel Stacey
491 words
18 July 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
19
English
Copyright © 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

SYDNEY -- China Merchants Group Ltd. is in talks to buy a large stake in four Australian container
ports, the latest push by Asian investors to own infrastructure vital to regional trade networks, a person
familiar with the situation said.
China Merchants is seeking to buy a majority stake in Asciano Ltd.'s Patrick Terminals and Logistics
business, which runs international container terminals in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth, the
person said. However, recent discussions with Asciano over a deal worth around 1.1 billion Australian
dollars (US$1.03 billion) have foundered because the Australian transport group is reluctant to sell
more than a 49% stake and cede control of the business, the person said.

Asciano is being advised by Goldman Sachs and J.P. Morgan on the process to sell the stake, which
is code-named "Project Guinness," the person said. While talks with China Merchants have taken
place on and off for two years, Asciano recently signed a 60-day memorandum of understanding with
the state-owned Chinese conglomerate to pursue a deal, the person added.
An Asciano spokesperson didn't reply to a request to comment. China Merchants declined to
comment.
China Merchants, which owns property and banking businesses, has long viewed Australian export
infrastructure as an attractive investment.
In April, China Merchants was part of a consortium that successfully bid A$1.75 billion for a 99-year
lease on the Port of Newcastle in eastern Australia on offer by the New South Wales state
government. The port exports coal produced by mining companies including Glencore PLC, Peabody
Energy Corp. and Rio Tinto PLC.
China Merchants also has a ports joint venture with France's CMA CGM SA, the world's third-largest
shipping company. In May, CMA CGM lost out in bidding for the rights to build a A$1.6 billion
container terminal in Melbourne.

For the fiscal year through June 2013, the Patrick ports business generated earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization of A$198 million, or 19% of Asciano's profits as a whole. Still, the
ports operation is facing headwinds as Australian state governments seek to inject competition into the
sector and bring down freight costs for local businesses.
In 2008, the Port of Brisbane Corp. signed up Hong Kong-based ports operator Hutchison Whampoa
Ltd. to build a third container terminal. A year later, Sydney Ports Corp. signed a deal with Hutchison
Whampoa to expand capacity at Port Botany. Another foreign investor -- Philippines-based
International Container Terminal Services Inc. -- won a contract in May as part of a consortium to build
a third container terminal in Melbourne.
Asciano put its ports business up for sale in 2009, as management sought funds to repair its balance
sheet. China Merchants's former chairman publicly expressed interest in the port assets two years
later.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Page91of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO
IN

NS

RE

IPC
PUB
AN

ascian : Asciano Ltd.
i763 : Port/Harbor Operations | iindstrls : Industrial Goods | itsp : Transportation/Shipping | iship :
Water Transport/Shipping
c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
neqac : Equities Asset Class News | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | brisbn : Brisbane | hkong : Hong Kong | melb : Melbourne | queensl :
Queensland | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales
ABO
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document AWSJ000020140717ea7i0001l

Page92of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.