Insurance Titans Wager on Asia

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Insurance Titans Wager on Asia

By Enda Curran
714 words
15 August 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
1
English
Copyright © 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

HONG KONG -- Two octogenarian insurance magnates are making bets on Asia. Warren Buffett's
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and Maurice "Hank" Greenberg's Starr Cos. are quietly expanding their
operations, hoping to capitalize on a fast-growing market that they believe is underserved by existing
insurers.

In recent months, the two have been building up their presences in Asia's general insurance market, a
sector that remains dominated by local players though some foreign firms, such as France's AXA SA,
are active here. Mr. Greenberg, 89 years old, a former chief executive officer of American International
Group Inc., completed the first foreign takeover of a Chinese state-owned general insurer last month.
The 83-year-old Mr. Buffett's firm has been hiring high-level executives from AIG and others as it builds
up its fledgling commercial insurance business.

"The insurance market in Asia offers so much potential for growth," said Sally Yim, a senior credit
officer at Moody's Investors Service. "That's why these two tycoons are expanding here."

AIG remains one of the most significant insurers in Asia, and is working to grow as well. Already, it has
property-casualty operations in countries including Japan, China, South Korea, Singapore, Vietnam,
Thailand, Australia and Indonesia.

Other foreign insurers, including the U.K.'s Prudential PLC and Germany's Allianz SE, are also present,
selling life insurance and general protection policies. But analysts say that in general insurance, outside
of auto protection, there are large coverage gaps in areas from real estate to aviation. Those
underserviced markets, mixed with a rapidly rising middle class and relatively strong economic growth,
have caught the eye of Mr. Buffett and Mr. Greenberg. Premiums in Asia outside of Japan for property
and casualty insurance grew almost 15% a year in the decade ending in 2012, compared with 3% in the
U.S., according to Swiss Re.
Last month, the Starr group, led by Mr. Greenberg, completed its takeover of China's Dazhong
Insurance in the first foreign buyout in the country of a state-backed general insurer. It originally held a
minority stake.

Mr. Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway has hired two senior executives from AIG's Asian operations and has
picked up staff from other companies, too, as part of ambitious plans to boost its commercial insurance
business in the region, according to people familiar with the matter.

"People like Warren Buffett have a very sensitive nose," said Jonathan Zhao, head of actuarial and
insurance-advisory services for the Asian-Pacific region at Ernst & Young. "There is a big potential for
commercial insurance in Asia that has not been captured and this is one area that could potentially
push the local players out and get the international players in."

Mr. Greenberg's acquisition of Dazhong turned heads in the industry and marked a significant
expansion in China by the man who helped turn AIG into the world's biggest insurer before his forced
departure from the company amid an accounting scandal in 2005. Since then, Mr. Greenberg has been
building the Starr Cos.' insurance operations across the world.

Page73of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.He has already started to restructure his Chinese acquisition, renaming it Starr Property & Casualty
Insurance (China) Co. Ltd. (Starr China). New product lines are planned in commercial
property-and-casualty products, covering everything from political risk to food safety.
Mr. Greenberg's company, which already has operations in Hong Kong, Japan, Australia and
elsewhere in Asia, has deep links to China. The purchase of Dazhong was made by Starr Indemnity &
Liability Co., part of the Starr group, which can trace its roots back to Cornelius Vander Starr, who
founded insurer C.V. Starr & Co. in Shanghai in 1919.

Mr. Buffett's conglomerate, which has long been a big player in insurance in the U.S., established a
U.S. commercial-coverage business last year. It has been in the process of expanding globally.
Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance, which provides commercial property, casualty and other
types of coverage, is applying for licenses to regulators in Sydney, Hong Kong, Singapore and Europe,
as well as recruiting talent from established rivals such as AIG, a separate person familiar with the
matter said.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

CO

IN

NS

RE

IPC
PUB
AN

aiu : American International Group Inc | bkht : Berkshire Hathaway Inc | cvstrr : CV Starr & Company
Inc | midi : AXA SA
icaslty : Property/Casualty Insurance | i82 : Insurance | i82002 : Life Insurance | i82003 : Non-life
Insurance | ifinal : Financial Services | i832 : Insurance Brokering | i8396 : Diversified Holding
Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | npag : Page-One Stories | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters
china : China | austr : Australia | eurz : Europe | fra : France | hkong : Hong Kong | indon : Indonesia |
singp : Singapore | skorea : South Korea | thail : Thailand | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States |
use : Northeast U.S. | usne : Nebraska | usny : New York State | vietn : Vietnam | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European
Union Countries | indochz : Indo-China | medz : Mediterranean | namz : North America | seasiaz :
Southeast Asia | usc : Midwest U.S. | weurz : Western Europe
ABO
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document AWSJ000020140814ea8f0001c

Page74of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.