Gina nabs a $40m beef stake

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

TheNation
Gina nabs a $40m beef stake

Andrew Burrell
477 words
3 July 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
5
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Gina Rinehart, the nation’s richest person, has joined the rush to capitalise on Asia’s booming
demand for Australian food by paying $40 million for a 50 per cent stake in two Kimberley cattle
stations as she negotiates further investments in the agricultural sector.

It is the first time Mrs Rinehart, a long-time advocate for the development of Australia’s far north, has
invested in the agribusiness industry after two decades spent building her private company, Hancock
Prospecting, into a mining behemoth.

“She is really putting her money where her mouth is,” said a person familiar with the deal.

Hancock Prospecting said yesterday it had bought a 50 per cent interest in the Liveringa and Nerrima
cattle stations, which measure a combined 4700sq km.

The Australian understands Hancock Prospecting had been negotiating the deal for about eight
months and is also close to finalising talks to buy other pastoral assets in the region, as part of a
quest by Mrs Hancock to become a key player in the industry.
Mrs Rinehart’s mining rival, Fortescue Metals Group chairman Andrew Forrest, is embarking on a
similar quest after buying Western Australia’s biggest beef producer, Harvey Beef, for more than
$30m in May.

The twin deals confirm Mrs Rinehart and Mr Forrest view the potential growth in demand for
Australian beef in the same way they have grown rich from China’s soaring demand for the Pilbara’s
iron ore. The largely untapped Chinese market is seen as the holy grail for the Australian beef
industry, both for processed beef and live cattle exports.
In another deal last month, West Australian meat processor V & V Walsh entered a $1 billion joint
venture with the Inner Mongolian government and a Chinese farming group that will provide a
massive boost to the company’s lamb and cattle exports to China.
Hancock said it would buy the two cattle stations in a joint venture with private company Dowford
Investments, the parent of the Milne Agrigroup owned by the Laitt family.

Milne’s businesses include Milne Feeds, Mt Barker Free Range Chicken and Plantagenet Free
Range Pork.

The joint venture has also acquired the mothballed Waroona Abattoirs, once one of the state’s
biggest meat processors, with the aim of possibly reopening it.

Mrs Rinehart said her investment would provide capital and commercial knowledge to support the
industry as it targets expansion into global markets.

“Australia’s north has vast potential as a food producer and we are well-placed to meet the growing
needs of our Asian neighbours,” she said.“We are already exporting some of the finest produce in the

Page12of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.world. My family has had a long history in the West Australian pastoral industry with our interest
continuing over generations in Mulga Downs Station in the Pilbara.”

hkpros : Hancock Prospecting Pty. Ltd.
i412 : Animal Slaughtering/Processing | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods |
ifood : Food Products | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
c312 : External Markets | c184 : Joint Ventures | c18 : Ownership Changes | c31 : Marketing | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140702ea7300086

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page13of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.