Milky way leads to China

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Lifestyle
Milky way leads to China

ROGER HANSON
413 words
21 November 2014
Tasmanian Country
TASCOU
TasCountry
3
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

TASMANIA’S dairy industry could double with 160,000 new head of cattle to cater for expected
demand from China.
Big Cow is a new project presented at the TasInvest summit this week, coinciding with Chinese
President Xi Jinping’s visit to the state.

EconomistSaul Eslake said Tasmania was potentially at a turning point, with Australia and China
having signed a free-trade deal this week.

KPMG managing partner Martin Rees told the investor delegates the scale of the Big Cow project was
doable in Tasmania.
The project is seeking $1.1 billion to fund a rapid expansion of the dairy industry by re-purposing
76,000ha of farmland, new cattle and building a new $215 million processing plant in the Midlands.
The facility would produce up to 100,000 tonnes of Tasmanian-branded milk powder for export to
China.
“We rethought the whole finance approach. The structure is around a co-operative. No sale of land is
involved, so it has every chance of getting up,” Mr Rees said.
Tasmania’s dairy industry is worth around $1 billion, provides about 3000 jobs and produces more
than 800 million litres of milk a year.
Mr Rees said his firm was talking to Chinese investors and had “a lot” of farmer clients keen to be
involved.

“This project is only the size of the third largest in New Zealand, so this is absolutely doable,” Mr Rees
said.

The proposal plans to source 44,000 megalitres of water via the Midlands and South Esk irrigation
schemes.

Mr Eslake said the TasInvest summit was an ideal showcase for the state’s range of opportunities.
“Chinese tastes are changing and the free-trade agreement will create opportunities, but we still have
a lot to do,” Mr Eslake said.

State Growth co-ordinator-general John Perry said investors at the summit had a strong desire to
invest in the state.

DairyTas chief executive Mark Smith said building farm infrastructure and management to support the
expansion would be a challenge.

Page52of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Other projects presented included the expansion or purchase of vineyards, fruit orchard development
and water rights in irrigation schemes.
Next week Dairy Australia will present a market perspective of the Tasmanian and Australian
industries in Smithton and Burnie. The one-hour sessions are on Tuesday from 12.45pm at Agritas in
Smithton and on Wednesday from 10.45am at UTAS Burnie. For details contact DairyTas on 6432
2233.

RE

PUB
AN

china : China | austr : Australia | tasman : Tasmania | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document TASCOU0020141120eabl00006

Page53of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.