Sale may be close for casino

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Sale may be close for casino

LIAM WALSH and TONY RAGGATT
349 words
24 January 2014
Townsville Bulletin
TOWNBU
Townsville
7
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

A NEW player could emerge as the buyer of Echo Entertainment’s Jupiters Townsville Hotel and
Casino.

An announcement is expected within days, but Echo and the Lasseters group, which has been
negotiating to buy the hotel, yesterday both declined to comment.

New Zealand’s SkyCity which operates casinos at Darwin and Adelaide and Chinese investors
including Hong Kong tycoon Tony Fung are being named as potential buyers.
Civic leaders hosted Chinese investors from Foshan last weekend who were said to have shown
interest in the port, which is proposed to be privatised, and properties including the casino.

The Bulletin reported last October that Singapore-based Lasseters International Holdings, which
operates a casino hotel at Alice Springs, had been looking at the property with negotiations becoming
more serious since mid-2013.

Sources yesterday suggested Echo were looking to give Lasseters until this week to finalise its
position at which point it would terminate exclusive rights to sale negotiations.
Echo chief executive John Redmond told the company’s annual meeting last November it was
considering selling the Townsville property because it needed cash to fund other Queensland
developments. He said there was limited potential to develop the Townsville assets.

“While the recent performance of the Jupiters Townsville has been positive, the size and breadth of the
appeal of the Townsville market means a more limited opportunity for the creation of a large-scale
integrated resort,’’ Mr Redmond said.
Echo has announced plans to redevelop its Jupiters Hotel and Casino on the Gold Coast and build a
new casino in Brisbane to replace its existing Treasury Casino, expected to cost $1.5 billion. A sale
price for the Townsville property is expected to be between $65 million and $75 million.

Dr Sudhir Kale, of GamePlan Consultants and Bond University’s business faculty, said Townsville was
constrained by its market potential.Townsville did not have substantial food and beverage earnings,
nor VIP gaming, plus it was known as attracting “the grind market” where people bet in smaller sums,
he said.

CO
IN
NS
RE

ekoee : Echo Entertainment Group Ltd.
i97912 : Gambling Industries | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality
gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

Page238of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

News Ltd.
Document TOWNBU0020140124ea1o00006

Page239of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.