Greenland picks the fast track

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Greenland picks the fast track

Rebecca Thistleton
533 words
23 August 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
39
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Building Melbourne's relatively easy approval system is proving to be a developer drawcard.
Greenland Group, the Chinese-backed development behemoth, will explore future projects in
Melbourne ahead of Sydney, where planning approval can be granted for high-rise projects in a
matter of weeks.

Sydney development applications can take months, sometimes years, to be processed. In Victoria,
projects more than 25,000 square metres are automatically referred to planning minister Matthew
Guy, who introduced the rule to streamline and encourage development.

Despite industry warnings the city centre has an oversupply, and vacancy rates around the CBD,
Southbank and Docklands have spiked, developer enthusiasm has led to approvals for the tallest
projects in the Southern Hemisphere.
AFR Weekend understands Greenland, which is building Sydney's tallest residential tower, has
been encouraged by the ease of securing a development permit in Melbourne, compared to Sydney.
It is believed to be among the frontrunners to buy two development lots on Melbourne's CBD fringe,
which are expected to sell for at least $60 million.

Local developer Grocon put the properties on the market at the end of July. At the time, chief
executive Carolyn Viney said Grocon wanted to "rebalance" its development portfolio away from
Melbourne apartment projects.
Grocon bought the huge site on the edge of the CBD in 2007 for $40 million.

CBRE agents Mark Wizel, Josh Rutman and Tom Tuxworth hold the listing, but declined to comment.
Greenland development and marketing director, Kang Xue, said the group would continue to look at
Sydney sites, but did not want to comment further.

In a written response to questions from the AFR Weekend, Mr Xue said "no comment" about the
Grocon-owned site, and "no comment" as to whether Melbourne was a more attractive development
destination than Sydney thanks to its planning system.

Was Greenland concerned about an oversupply of apartments? "Definitely not," he responded.

Mr Guy said in a statement that the state's planning system was well placed to deal with population
growth.

"In Victoria we provide a strong housing supply to provide for a quickly growing population.

"We are ensuring that we do not end up with a gross shortage of housing, and skyrocketing housing
costs, like Sydney."

Page242of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Greenland has previously said there is "no ceiling" for the value of its investment potential in
Australia.
Already, the group has plans to build 1000 apartments near Melbourne's Flemington Racecourse.
The group is building 470 apartments on Bathurst Street in Sydney's CBD. The $600 million project
will be the city's largest residential tower. The group paid $100 million for the property and has
stood out among developers for its capacity to pay a premium for sites. Greenland paid $47 million
for a Leichardt property in March, where it intends to build 288 units.
The developer is also gearing up to launch its next project, the $200 million, 211-apartment "Lucent"
development in North Sydney, at the end of August.

The Turner Architect-designed project will include studios through to three-bedroom apartments and
will be aimed at up-market buyers. It is expected to be finished in the 2016second quarter.

IN

RE

PUB
AN

i5010022 : Residential Building Construction | ireest : Real Estate | i501 : Building Construction |
iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction
austr : Australia | greenl : Greenland | melb : Melbourne | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria
(Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North America | nswals : New
South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140822ea8n0000j

Page243of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.