Retail outlook bright: report

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Retail outlook bright: report

287 words
13 June 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
67
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

FOREIGN investment, along with a weaker Australian dollar and the improving housing market, are
contributing to gains in Australia’s retail sector, Colliers International says.

Colliers in a report — Can recent consumer spending growth be sustained? — identifies a lift in retail
spending over the past six months that annualises out at 9.4 per cent.

Colliers head of retail, Michael Bate, said a major driver for the spending was the amount of foreign
investment in Australian property.
He said offshore investment in the residential market has been flowing through to the retail sector in
the form of stronger demand, and prices, for housing.

“Rising home values impact on how wealthy consumers feel and, in turn, on their propensity to spend,’’
he said.

“Also, there has been a direct impact on retail spending.
“Many foreign buyers make the most of the lower dollar on their visits to buy luxury goods in Australia.”
According to the Foreign Investment Review Board, $17.2 billion in approved residential property
investment flowed into Australia in the year to June 2013.
The Chinese are spending about $5.9 billion a year to purchase Australian property, and are
acquiring both residential and commercial holdings.

The report says the strength of Asian purchasing power and the preference Asians have for buying
luxury goods will support retail spending growth.

It says the weakening Australian dollar also has been a key factor in the improving retail sector.Nora
Farren, director of research at Colliers International and author of the report, said the dollar’s level “is
supportive not only of attracting more overseas visitors to Australia, but also acts as a disincentive for
Australians to take offshore holidays, particularly to the US”.

IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

iretail : Retail | i64 : Retail/Wholesale
ereal : Real Estate Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020140612ea6d0002e

Page63of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.