RBA board member joins EnergyAustralia

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
RBA board member joins EnergyAustralia

Matt Chambers
349 words
16 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
25
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

RESERVE Bank of Australia board member Catherine Tanna is returning to executive work after two
years as chairwoman of BG Group’s local operations, as the Melbourne-based head of
EnergyAustralia.

Ms Tanna will replace EnergyAustralia managing director Richard McIndoe on July 1.

Mr McIndoe announced his intention to leave in December after eight years at the helm of the
business formerly known as TRUenergy.
Ms Tanna’s appointment comes at a challenging time for EnergyAustralia, whose parent, Hong
Kong-owned CLP Holdings, abandoned an initial public offering last year amid poor Australian equity
markets, reduced electricity demand and increased competition.
Chairman Graham Bradley said Ms Tanna had been appointed to lead the company through a
phase of consolidation and growth.

“The strong leadership Catherine has shown in previous roles, coupled with a deep understanding
and experience across the energy sector, will stand her in good stead for navigating us through the
challenges we face in the external market, including the complex regulatory and market forces at work
in our sector,” Mr Bradley said.
After a long stint overseas as an oil and gas executive, Ms Tanna returned to Australia in 2009 as
managing director of BG’s Australian operation to oversee development of the $US20 billion
($18.7bn) Queensland Curtis LNG plant being built at Gladstone.

Ms Tanna stepped back from executive duties to take the role of non-executive chairman in 2012.
The move continues a turbulent time at management and board level at BG. Chief executive Chris
Finlayson stepped down suddenly this month in London, while Ms Tanna’s replacement as BG
Australia, managing director, Derek Fisher, left last month, as did local external affairs boss Rob
Millhouse.

TRUenergy acquired NSW government retailer EnergyAustralia in 2011 and retained the name.

As well as power and gas retailing in NSW, Victoria, Queensland and South Australia,
EnergyAustralia owns black and brown coalmines and power stations, gas power stations and wind
farms.Ms Tanna will remain on the RBA board and continue as a member of the Business Council of
Australia.

CO

IN

brgas : BG Group PLC | chlp : CLP Holdings Ltd | sretpl : EnergyAustralia Pty Ltd | rbkaus : Reserve
Bank of Australia
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300014 : Natural Gas Extraction | i16 : Electricity/Gas
Utilities | i16101 : Electric Power Generation | ieutil : Electric Utilities | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil
Extraction | iutil : Utilities

Page37of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE
PUB
AN

c411 : Management Moves | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c41 : Management Issues | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140515ea5g0006l

Page38of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.