Q&A with Brett Draffen of Mirvac - Developing Australia

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Q&A with Brett Draffen of Mirvac - Developing Australia

Steven Cardell
941 words
18 December 2014
Mondaq Business Briefing
BBPUB
English
(c) 2014 Mondaq Ltd

Mirvac is well known for its role within the Australian development and construction industry, with a
diverse portfolio of assets and projects across the office, retail, industrial and residential sectors. In May
2014, Brett Draffen was appointed Chief Investment Officer, having previously held a number of senior
positions with Mirvac. In this edition, Brett speaks to Property & Projects Partner Steven Cardell about
future opportunities and some of the emerging issues that will impact on new ventures.

WHAT MARKET SECTORS DO YOU SEE AS PROVIDING OPPORTUNITIES FOR MIRVAC GOING
FORWARD?

Mirvac is committed to being a diversified and integrated group, leveraging our integrated delivery model
to create assets. There are opportunities for us to exceed our benchmarks in a number of sectors. The
question is; how can we be more focussed in each sector around capital allocation?

In the office sector, it's about creating and repositioning assets. Mirvac is not a buyer of the new, shiny
thing, rather we're a creator of the new, shiny thing, such as 8 Chifley in Sydney; or we look at
repositioning assets using our integrated skill set.

In the retail space, it's about improving the quality of our portfolio with a focus on non-discretionary,
food-based, subregional or urban centres and CBD centres.

It's about repositioning, exiting out of some non core centres, and then using our integrated model to
develop some $800 million of accretive development potential in our existing portfolio.

For industrial, we're a niche player and have a relatively small portfolio. Our strategy is around specific
opportunities to, again, leverage our development capability to create new assets or reposition existing
assets, potentially through change of use.

LOCALLY, MIRVAC HAS BEEN VERY ADAPTABLE AND WAS THE FIRST TO RIDE THE CREST OF
THE RESOURCES BOOM AND GET INTO A NEW MODEL OF DELIVERY. HAS THE MODEL BEEN
ADAPTABLE FOR NEW VENTURES?

Mirvac's integrated delivery model allows us to fast track how we respond to market opportunities. Our
strategy is to narrow our directional mandates so that our teams know where they can and can't play
across the sectors.

While extra flexibility might allow us to go into emerging markets, it doesn't necessarily mean the returns
are there. Some markets might provide a higher return initially, but if those markets don't have the depth,
ultimately, it's better not to play.

That was probably the case with the resources space - we went in quickly, did a few things, and made
some good returns. However, we also made sure we didn't risk a lot of capital.

IS THE ASIAN MARKET HAVING ANY IMPACT ON THE WAY YOU DEVELOP AND MARKET YOUR
PROPERTIES?

Over the last 20 years, the Asian market has had several investment cycles, but it's always been in
established development product. Now, for the first time, the Chinese are entering the market as

Page210of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.developers, particularly in the residential sector, and undertaking much larger projects. They're long
term players, and their return expectations appear to be lower. Also, many of the Chinese groups are
developing products for their own markets, rather than our local markets.

We tend to look for projects where we can leverage our integrated model; something that is multi-staged,
has a level of complexity about the planning, or has a partnering angle with the State government or
private organisations.

In the long term, there is room for both players. Over time there will be a greater focus on return from
offshore parties. At some point, the discipline around capital will kick in and there'll be some stability.
Asian investment will be a significant part of the market, in terms of competition, for some time.

CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY ARE BECOMING INCREASINGLY
IMPORTANT IN BUSINESS LIFE. HOW IS MIRVAC'S 2014 SUSTAINABILITY PLAN IMPACTING ON
THE WAY YOU DO BUSINESS?

Sustainability has gone from something that is "nice to do" to something that is embedded. We have just
returned from our international roadshow where our top investors wanted to know about our approach to
sustainability and social responsibility, which is very encouraging.

For office space, sustainability is at the forefront. Now you can see a premium price for a building
because of its sustainability rating, and you will see that in the cap rate. Tenants are requiring it and
some tenants, such as government and big corporates, have a minimum requirement, so it's a strong
driver.

It is fair to say this has also filtered quickly down into retail and industrial asset classes. Sustainability is
also critically important in the residential sector, however it is often a delicate balance between
"compliance" and purchasers seeing extra value for leadership in this area.

Mirvac's sustainability strategy is called "This Changes Everything" and is very specific about our
expectations relating to Resources, the Future of Place, Communities and Portfolio thinking. It
deliberately doesn't yet have all the answers, but does provide a sound framework to measure our
performance.

We have already made great progress and I recommend you download our FY14 Sustainability Report
from www.mirvac.com.

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice
should be sought about your specific circumstances.

Mr Steven Cardell

ClarkeKann Lawyers

Level 7, 300 Queen Street

Brisbane

4000

AUSTRALIA

Tel: 73001 9222

Fax: 73001 9299

E-mail: t.justins@clarkekann.com.au

URL: www.clarkekann.com.au

Click Here for related articles

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2014 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com

IN
NS

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c411 : Management Moves | cslmc : Senior Level Management | nitv :
Interviews | c41 : Management | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive
News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter

Page211of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Government

RE
IPD
PUB Mondaq Limited
AN

Document BBPUB00020141218eaci000b7

Page212of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.