Fast track to high-speed rail

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News - Opinion
Fast track to high-speed rail

Capital idea Brian Toohey
880 words
1 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
22
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Brian Toohey

With high-speed rail spreading to the US from Asia and Europe, the chances of Australia following suit
are better than usually assumed.

Success is likely to require a private-sector consortium to fund construction and recover a large slice of
the cost by developing land along the route. This requires governments to reserve suitable land for
development as well as a route.

The choice of technology is also important. Wheel-on-steel high-speed rail has been 50 years in Japan
and 32 in Europe. It is energy efficient, well proven, having carried 6.5 billion passengers in Japan
without injury.

But mechanical friction causes costly wear and tear above an operating speed of about 300km/h. The
alternative is to use "magnetic levitation" to lift and propel trains at speeds of about 500km/h before air
friction takes a high toll. Maglev should boost revenue by cutting travel time to two hours between
Sydney and Melbourne, instead of three hours for wheel-on-steel, but it could have higher capital costs.
The joint chief executive of the Pottinger consulting firm, Nigel Lake, told a forum in Canberra on
Monday that the private sector could deliver a high-speed rail network as a transformational piece of
infrastructure. He said having worked on transactions worth hundreds of billions of dollars, he believes
HSR could be running in 10 years. China is building a 7000-kilometre HSR link from Moscow to Beijing
in five years at $A39 million a kilometre.

Capital cities are the major source of passengers in Australia. Sydney-Melbourne is the world's
fourth-busiest domestic air corridor.
Lake said the cost of $40 billion to $50 billion for the 800 kilometres from Sydney to Melbourne is
high. But operating costs are very low, so increases in passenger volumes have a big impact on
profitability. He said based on good data, both volumes and ticket prices are likely to be higher than
often assumed.

Others see the financial task as easier if a HSR consortium also develops land whose value will rise
around new stations. Speakers at a recent Tokyo conference on the 50th anniversary of the commercial
operation of the Shinkansen (or "bullet" trains) showed how HSR boosts economic growth and land
values (as also occurs in Europe).Generated return

The Labor government's 2013 HSR study found a Melbourne-Sydney-Brisbane line would generate a
7.6 per cent economic internal rate of return. But it wrongly asserted there was no way to capture part
of the increase in land values. One way is for the line's builder to also develop new suburbs at new
stations, including a second one in spacious areas within capital cities.

Page197of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Growth alongside regional cities would have the political and economic advantage of easing congestion
in Sydney and Melbourne. Otherwise, these cities would contain more than half the projected
15.5 million increase in Australia's population by 2050.

The Prime Minister's Business Advisory Council chairman Maurice Newman, who attended the Tokyo
conference, said some form of joint land/train development would probably be needed to make
private-sector funding viable. Government funding should not be needed, although the Abbott
government is putting $40 billion into road projects, many of which Infrastructure Australia has not
passed. Assistant Infrastructure Minister Jamie Briggs told Monday's forum the government will limit
itself to preserving an HSR corridor. But value capture requires more land set aside.

The French TGV wheel-on-steel trains have sold widely in Europe and done well in the Middle East and
Korea. The biggest market is a Chinese version of the TGV. China has 18,500 kilometres of HSR
track, and planned extensions into Russia and south-east Asia. Japan Rail Central developed the
Shinkansen. After a slow start, its first sale was to Taiwan. It is on offer to Australia, the proposed Kuala
Lumpur-Singapore line, two in India and the US market. California has started a 1287-kilometre track,
but is still to choose the trains. A privately funded line from Houston to Dallas is likely to use the
Shinkansen. A proposed Washington-New York-Boston link will use Japan's maglev.
Either China's TGV or the Shinkansen should suit an Australian wheel-on-steel line. The Shinkansen is
lighter, has better acceleration and requires smaller tunnels. Both rely on a mature technology but lack
the advantages of the quicker journeys of maglev's speed and rapid acceleration.Maglev approved

The Japanese government approved maglev trains in October, each carrying 1000 passengers, for a
new line between Tokyo, Nagoya and Osaka. JRC will fully fund the infrastructure and trains internally.
Its latest net operating annual profit is over $A2.5 billion, mainly from its Shinkansen line from Tokyo to
Osaka.

Opinion is split on the best technology for Australia. After riding JRC's maglev in Japan, Newman
prefers it. But China could offer a cost-competitive version of the German Transrapid maglev it has
operated on a short route from Shanghai airport for 10 years. Ultimately, a private consortium should
say if wheel-on steel, maglev or neither, is viable.

The writer travelled to Japan as a guest of JRC.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive
News Filter
austr : Australia | jap : Japan | melb : Melbourne | sydney : Sydney | usa : United States | victor :
Victoria (Australia) | tokyo : Tokyo | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America | nswals : New South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141031eab10003v

Page198of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.