Moore Stephens walks

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Professional Services
Moore Stephens walks

Agnes King
536 words
12 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
41
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The partnership of mid-market accountancy practice Moore Stephens Melbourne has voted in favour
of a merger with expansionary Chinese firm ShineWing.
It's believed about 75 per cent of MS Melbourne's partners agreed to merge with ShineWing. Staff
were informed about the deal last week.

Details of the alliance remain scant, including what Moore Stephens believes it can extract from the
merger.

Moore Stephens managing partner Marco Carlei and ShineWing Hall Chadwick Melbourne managing
partner David Chu were not returning calls on Tuesday. It is believed ShineWing is now trying to lure
Moore Stephens' Perth practice to join.
The news raises questions about the future of ShineWing's existing partnership with $54 million
mid-market network Hall Chadwick.

There is some speculation that ShineWing will bed down the Melbourne alliance before applying
pressure to Hall Chadwick to rebrand.
ShineWing is China's eighth-biggest domestically owned accounting firm. It entered the Australia
market through an alliance with advisory firm Hall Chadwick in 2010, but remains relatively small,
surviving on big clients, such as Yancoal, a subsidiary of China's Yanzhou Coal Mining Company
and the largest Chinese state-owned enterprise investor into Australia with more than $6 billion
worth of acquisitions over the past four years.

Hall Chadwick has long harboured reservations about taking on the ShineWing name holus bolus.

The deal also raises questions about the future of the Moore Stephens network in Australia.
Melbourne was its largest member firm.Second practice to exit

Mr Carlei told The Australian Financial Review in 2012 that he expected revenue in the Melbourne
firm to surpass $40 million in the 2012-13 financial year, as income from a spate of lateral hires
flowed in.
Industry insiders say the practice's revenue is closer to $20 million, but in either case, its loss means
Moore Stephens will no longer be a top 20 accounting brand, reduced to consolidated income of less
than $62 million, and ranked behind William Buck, HLB Mann Judd, Nexia and PKF-Lawler.
Melbourne's exit comes hot on the heels of the loss of Moore Stephens' $10 million western Sydney
practice to Deloitte in February.

It is thought Moore Stephens Brisbane managing partner Ken Pickard is best placed to succeed Mr
Carlei as national chairman.

Page87of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Pickard and Moore Stephens Sydney managing partner Robert Southwell declined to comment.

Meanwhile, there is some controversy about whether the Melbourne outfit joining ShineWing will be
granted access to the Praxity international network of accounting firms, of which ShineWing is a
member.

Mid-market rival William Buck is a Praxity member and will almost certainly contest its joining. An
alternative option is that it falls under the control of ShineWing Australia, but it is hard to conceive
Moore Stephens Melbourne partners agreeing to this.

Talk of a tie-up between William Buck and ShineWing, now or in the near future, were laid to rest
yesterday by William Buck national chairman Nick Hatzistergos.

"We've not been approached by ShineWing," he told the Financial Review from a partner conference
in the United States.

"We have no interest in joining ShineWing. As a group it is not something that would take priority."

RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141111eabc0001o

Page88of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.