Goldman Sachs nabs sale mandate for BHP's Nickel West

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Market Wrap - Street Talk
Goldman Sachs nabs sale mandate for BHP's Nickel West

Edited by Sarah Thompson, Anthony Macdonald and Gretchen Friemann
458 words
10 March 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
14
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Goldman Sachs has been hired to sell BHP Billiton 's Nickel West division in Western Australia, as
revealed on Financial Review Sunday.

Nickel West has been a potential deal on every resources bankers' watch list for some time, but
Goldman's appointment shows Australia's biggest company is serious about offloading the assets.

The sale – which could deliver the resources giant as much as $1 billion – is being run out of
Goldman's Melbourne office. And it's gathering pace – first-round bids for Nickel West are due in
about two weeks.

It's understood the investment bank has been reaching out to potential parties since the start of the
year.
Glencore Xstrata , the global commodity trader and metals producer run by billionaireIvan
Glasenberg , has said publicly it would consider a bid if the assets were put up for sale. Nickel West is
located in close proximity to the Murrin Murrin mining and refining project, controlled by Glencore 's
Minara unit.
Others believed to be running an eye over Nickel West – which booked a $151 million loss in the first
half of this year – are Mick Davis's private equity fund X2 Resources; Chinese group Jinchuan;
Minmetals, whose chief executive Andrew Michelmore has previously said he's interested in nickel
assets, and Canada's First Quantum Minerals . First Quantum bought the West Australian nickel
mine, Ravensthorpe, from BHP in 2009.

More locally, Western Areas has been cited, but is not believed to have the balance sheet to support a
big deal.
BHP has struggled with Nickel West for years since acquiring it and Olympic Dam in its $9.2 billion
bid for WMC Resources in 2005. The nickel price fell 19 per cent in 2013 and had dropped by more
than two-thirds since its 2007 high, and BHP has held on.

But since the start of February, nickel has risen strongly on concern that Indonesia, the world's largest
producer of mined nickel, will retain its ban on unprocessed ore exports.

The nickel assets also do not form part of group chief executive Andrew Mackenzie 's "four pillars",
which include iron ore, petroleum, copper and coal, and a potential fifth in potash.

Then there was last December's decision to shut the underground nickel mine at Perseverance in
WA. At the time, BHP said it had started to consider the broader implications of the decision on the
Nickel West business. Nickel West's portfolio includes the large open-cut nickel mine at Mount Keith,
processing facilities and the Rocky's Reward Mine at Leinster, a concentrator and smelter at
Kalgoorlie and a refinery at Kwinana.

Page81of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

march : Glencore PLC | bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | gldmns : The Goldman Sachs Group Incorporated |
bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i814 : Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking |
ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv :
Investing/Securities | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ceffic : Corporate Restructuring | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c11 : Plans/Strategy
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140309ea3a0000k

Page82of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.