Sun rises over new era for dairying

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Sun rises over new era for dairying

Agriculture Tim Binsted
400 words
19 November 2014
Canberra Times
CANBTZ
B008
English
(c) 2014 The Canberra Times

Sun rises over new era for dairying
Dairy producers fared well, with all tariffs on Australian dairy eliminated in four to 11 years.Photo: Kitty
Hill

Agriculture Tim Binsted
Chinese giant New Hope will invest up to $500million in Australian dairy farms and processing plants as
part of a deal with ASX-listed Freedom Foods in what could be the first of many deals fuelled by the
historic China-Australia free trade agreement. Freedom Foods and the Perich Group have signed a
memorandum of understanding with New Hope, China's biggest private company, with interests in
agriculture, financial services and real estate. "With increasing demand from markets in China and
south-east Asia for high-quality, value-added product, Australia through companies such as Freedom
Foods and Perich Group is well placed to play an important role in the development of this supply chain,"
Freedom Foods managing director Rory Macleod said. To secure milk supply, New Hope has set up an
investment fund of up to $500million to invest in dairy farms and processing.
Freedom Foods said it had built on supply arrangements with New Hope for long-life milk and was
considering collaborating in other dairy operations here and overseas to take Freedom Foods products
to China. Perich Group, New Hope and other investors will contribute most of the equity for farm
investment, starting next year. News of the deal comes on the back of the free trade agreement with
China that gave Australia unprecedented access to the Chinese market. Dairy producers fared
particularly well, with all tariffs - up to 20per cent - on Australian dairy eliminated in four to 11 years,
depending on the product. "We couldn't wish for a better deal," Murray Goulburn managing director Gary
Helou said. Murray Goulburn collects almost 40per cent of Australia's 9.1billion litre milk pool and is the
nation's biggest dairy exporter.
The company plans to raise up to $500 million by listing a unit trust on the ASX next year. It comes as
New Zealand-listed a2 Milk Company is seeking a dual listing on the Australian Securities Exchange in a
bid to open up its register to Australian investors and boost the liquidity of its shares. The company said
on Tuesday it expects the application process for an ASX listing to be completed early next year.

RF
IN

RE

62284805
i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming |
ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

PUB Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty Ltd
AN

Document CANBTZ0020141118eabj0001e

Page28of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.