(AE) Ferret's MOVING FACES

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

(AE) Ferret's MOVING FACES

1,179 words
7 March 2014
Ralph Wragg Australian Business News
AAPRAW
English
Copyright 2014 RWE AUSTRALIAN BUSINESS NEWS PTY LTD. All Rights Reserved.

Sydney - Friday - March 7: (RWE Australian Business News) - A list of changes of management within
ASX-listed companies.

Moving in ...

* Westpac Banking Corporation has appointed its present chief financial officer, Phil Coffey, as deputy
chief executive officer and Peter King has been promoted to the role of CFO. In his new role, Mr Coffey
will work directly with CEO Gail Kelly on a range of critical strategic issues. These include overseeing
Westpac's contribution to the Federal Government's Financial System Inquiry and supporting
relationships with key stakeholders including industry groups, regulators, customers and government. Mr
Coffey will also retain his current responsibilities for the strategy, and mergers and acquisitions functions,
and will continue as a director of Westpac New Zealand Ltd. These new appointments will take effect
from April 1.

* Reclaim Industries Ltd welcomed David Scoggin as a director. Bruce Franzen has resigned as director.
Mr Scoggin is an 18-year veteran of the international finance Industry. He began his career as a
proprietary trader for ING Baring and Credit Agricole Idosuez, splitting time between Japan and Hong
Kong from 1996 to 2001. In 2001, Mr Scoggin began working for Susquehanna International Group as a
hedge fund manager and in 2005, he joined Evolution Capital's Global Opportunities fund. He has spent
the past seven years specialising in the Australian natural resource sector and has managed a portfolio of
small/mid cap resource companies and has been involved in early-stage financings in exploration and
development projects.
* The Trust Company (RE Services) Ltd, as responsible entity for PaperlinX SPS Trust, Transpacific SPS
Trust, Alternative Investment Trusts, National Storage Property Trust and Hotel Property Investments
Trust, announced the following changes to its board of directors.

Christopher Green and Gillian Larkins have been appointed as directors. Anna O'Sullivan was appointed
as a standing alternate director for each of Andrew Cannane and Mr Green. Glenn Foster and Joanne
Hawkins were appointed as standing alternate directors for Ms Larkins. Rupert Smoker and David Grbin
resigned as directors.
* Colin Bloomfield has been appointed as a non-executive director of Mastermyne Group Ltd. He brings
to the company 27 years of mining experience in technical, operations, management and corporate
roles. Until recently Mr Bloomfield led BHP Billiton's Illawarra CoalGroup as president Illawarra Coal, a
role he was appointed to in 2004.

* Meyer Gutnick has been appointed as a non-executive director of Queensland Bauxite Ltd. Mr Gutnick
has many years of experience in the investing and finance industry. He has built significant investor
portfolios in the banking, insurance and real estate sectors in New York. He is also a seasoned investor
in the public markets, including many years controlling investments in the mineral exploration industry.
Paul Stephenson has resigned as a non-executive director of the company. Mr Stephenson, who has
served on the board since October 2008, has resigned for personal reasons and to focus on his legal
practice, but will continue working with the company as a legal consultant.
* Margaret Kay Taylor has been appointed as a director of Colonial Holding Company Ltd, issuer of the
Colonial Group Subordinated Notes. Ms Taylor was appointed as company secretary of the

Page27of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Commonwealth Bank of Australia on August 6 2013. Prior to this role, she was the general counsel and
company secretary of Boral Ltd, and prior to that she was the regional counsel Australia/Asia for BHP
Billiton.
* Decmil Group Ltd today announced the appointment of Craig Amos as chief financial officer. Mr Amos,
who has served as the interim CFO since January 13, is a chartered accountant with more than 15 years'
experience in finance, accounting, corporate transactions and commercial projects in both corporate
and professional service environments.

* Medivac Ltd has appointed Peter Elliott as non-executive director. Mr Elliott holds a Bachelor of Laws
degree from the University of Auckland and is an admitted barrister & solicitor, with more than 30 years of
commercial experience including senior executive positions with corporate services and trustee services
providers, and extensive involvement in both corporate structuring and corporate compliance work.

* Ben Loiterton has been appointed as non-executive director of Dampier Gold Ltd. His career spans over
20 years in investment banking, investment management and entrepreneurial activity. Mr Loiterton has
direct experience in a wide array of sectors including junior resources (gold, oil & gas), media, technology
and digital industries, clean tech, financial services, industrial services and commercial real estate.
* Red Sky Energy Ltd today announced the appointment of Adrien Wing to the board as a non-executive
director. Mr Wing is CPA-qualified and has 20 years' experience in the accounting and corporate sector.
He has been serving as company secretary to Red Sky.
* Ralph Stagg has been appointed to the board of Stratum Metals Ltd as a non-executive director. In
recent years, Mr Stagg has mostly been involved in project and operations management, feasibility
studies, project evaluation and development as well as client advice. He has more than 40 years'
experience in economic geology including project generation, exploration planning, managerial
experience in exploration, mining and engineering companies, and preparation of ore reserve
estimations, valuations, experts' reports and technical studies.
* Guinness Peat Group plc reports non-executive director Mike Clasper has been appointed as a
non-executive director of Serco Group plc with effect from March 3.

* EBET Ltd announced the appointment of Robert Fredericks as chief financial officer. He will replace
Eros Tessarolo, who has resigned for family reasons. Mr Fredericks has over 20 years' experience in
finance roles across the property and finance industries. He most recently held the position of financial
controller at Richard Crookes Constructions since 2008, with previous finance and accounting positions
at Colliers International, Aussie Homes Loans and Deloitte Ross Tomatsu.

* Douglas O'Neill, a director of Timpetra Resources Ltd, has appointed Stephen Fitzgerald as his
alternate with immediate effect and until further notice.
* Rongtai International Group Holdings Ltd advises that Ting Jiang has been appointed as the new
company secretary and Minkai Yang as the new joint company secretary.
* Michael Weir has been appointed as an additional company secretary of Gindalbie Metals Ltd. Mr Weir
has worked for Gindalbie since November 2007 as the manager of Corporate and Investor Relations, and
will continue to also serve in that role.

Moving On ...
* Zhan Qingwei will be replaced by Cunliang Lai on the board of Bauxite Resources Ltd as the
representative of the company's substantial shareholder, Yankuang Group Corporation. Mr Lai has more
than 20 years of experience in coalmine management, and holds the position of deputy general manager
of Yanzhou Coal Mining Company Ltd and is a director of Yancoal Australia Ltd.
* Bill Lyne has resigned as company secretary of Galilee Energy Ltd. "Bill has been with Galilee for over
10 years and has provided a timely and professional service to the company," said chairman David King.
Given the current activity levels, the board has determined that the chief financial officer and joint
company secretary can adequately undertake both roles and will now become the sole company
secretary.

CO

IN

reclmi : Reclaim Industries Ltd | wstpac : Westpac Banking Corporation Limited | altrk : Sphere Minerals
Limited
i353 : Motor Vehicle Parts | i4811 : Tires | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | iaut :
Automotive | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services

Page28of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

c411 : Management Moves | c41 : Management Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd
AN

Document AAPRAW0020140307ea37000rt

Page29of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.