Oakajee dumped, heat’s on Padbury

The Australian

Oakajee dumped, heat’s on Padbury

HD
CR
WC 458 words
PD
1 May 2014
ET
00:00
SN
theAustralian.com.au
SC
NLAUSW
LA
English
CY
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.
LP

TD

PADBURY Mining has abandoned its widely ridiculed plan to revive the $6.5 billion Oakajee port and rail
project.

The Perth-based junior explorer said yesterday it had torn up an April 8 funding agreement with
companies connected to colourful Sydney entrepreneur Roland Frank Bleyer, who told The Australian last
week he would find the $6.5bn in the Cayman Islands.

But Padbury has yet to answer a string of concerns raised about its disclosure by the Australian
Securities & Investments Commission and the Australian Securities Exchange.

It is understood that shares in Padbury — which soared when the Oakajee deal was announced to the
market — will remain suspended until it satisfies the ASX that it is complying with its disclosure
obligations.

ASIC is also understood to be conducting an investigation into whether Padbury’s deal with Mr Bleyer
was genuine and whether the market was misled.

Padbury managing director Gary Stokes did not return calls last night.
Sources in the Perth iron ore industry said Mr Stokes’s decision to go into business with a figure such as
Mr Bleyer had destroyed his credibility.
Padbury said that Mr Stokes had withdrawn from a mining conference he was scheduled to attend today.

Mr Stokes said he was “greatly encouraged” by comments by West Australian Premier Colin Barnett
about the renewed interest of Chinese companies in developing the Oakajee project.

Mr Barnett said yesterday it took him “about 30 seconds” to work out that Padbury’s plan was unrealistic
and he was backing cashed-up Chinese companies to fund the infrastructure.
Padbury said on April 11 that it had raised 100 per cent of the equity needed to build Oakajee through an
agreement with an unnamed entity, later revealed to be a company controlled by Mr Bleyer.

But after being quizzed by the ASX and ASIC over the bona fides of the deal, Padbury went into a trading
halt and was never able to disclose the ultimate source of the funding or whether any security
arrangements were in place.

The Padbury announcement sparked scrutiny of Mr Bleyer’s past business dealings amid revelations of a
string of failed business deals as well as civil and criminal cases brought against him in the US.

Padbury said yesterday it had signed a deed of termination agreement with companies linked to Mr
Bleyer.

It said the effect of the deed was to release and discharge the parties from any claims arising under the
agreement or its termination.

“Padbury will continue to actively explore all available opportunities to exploit its existing intellectual
property with respect to the Oakajee project,” it said.

Page43of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Oakajee infrastructure has been promised in vain by various parties over 30 years.

CO
IN

NS
RE

rivgol : Padbury Mining Limited
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South
Wales

PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document NLAUSW0020140430ea4u000mg

Page44of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.