A question Chalice is in no hurry to answer

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
A question Chalice is in no hurry to answer

432 words
26 February 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
Second
2
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

It has been a question swimming around the junior game for almost two years now: what will Chalice
Gold Mines do with its $55 million pile of cash?

According to managing director Bill Bent, a decision is imminent.

The company has four to six targets (whittled down from about 150) and Chalice’s very patient
shareholders should expect a fairly established gold project by the middle of the year.

However, these guarantees have a familiar ring to them.

Spinifex ran a similar story almost a year ago. In March last year, Mr Bent indicated Chalice would
have a project wrapped up by the end of the year.

It sort of came to fruition.
In October, Chalice Gold Mines added a new Canadian project to its gold portfolio through a friendly
all-scrip bid for Australian and Toronto-listed Coventry Resources.
Coventry had the Cameron gold project, which Chalice plans to turn into a $75 million project
through an aggressive $3 million to $5 million exploration plan this year.
The resource for an open-pit mine — which the company is focusing on compared to Coventry’s
underground focus — contains a 500,000 ounce resource. Chalice wants to bring that to one million
ounces. Interestingly, Chalice also has a 10 per cent stake in unlisted GeoCrystal, which is exploring
at the remote Webb diamond project in the Great Sandy Dessert.
Chalice is expected to eventually divest the stake but described it as an “exciting” project in a hot
diamond market.

With an experienced board including Tony Kiernan, major shareholder and chairman Tim Goyder and
Stephen Quin, the company appears to be comfortable playing the waiting game (though it was
beaten to the punch by Northern Star in the purchase of Plutonic).
Chalice is valued at $49 million, well below the $55 million it had in the bank after the $80 million
sale of its Zara project to China’s SFECO Group back in April 2012.
Investors, too, are obviously playing the waiting game in the hope that the acquisition will press the
go button on its ticker.
• Orinoco Gold was yesterday hoping for some market traction after finding some rock chips of up to
20.1 grams of gold at its Tinteiro project, 20km from its Cascavel gold project in central Brazil.

It said recent mapping and detailed rock chip sampling at Tinteiro outlined two previously unknown
mineralised trends.

Page48of60©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Of course, rock chips are still, essentially, blue sky, and the market did not see the bright side,
keeping Orinoco shares unchanged at 10.5¢.

CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

postch : Coventry Resources Limited | itrsv : Coventry Resources Inc.
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140225ea2q0001u

Page49of60©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.