ANZ Banking Group has lifted its exposure to agricult

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
ANZ Banking Group has lifted its exposure to agricult

MATTHEW CRANSTON
327 words
8 May 2014
Queensland Country Life
FQLCOL
7
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

ANZ Banking Group has lifted its exposure to agriculture by $3 billion in the past 12 months to $32.1
billion.

The bank has participated in some of 2014's biggest agriculture deals, including the Harris family's
buyout of Clyde Agriculture's remaining rural properties and advising on the Chinese purchase of
prized farms in western Victoria.

ANZ chief executive Mike Smith said while there were challenges in the economy, agriculture was one
sector which still shone.

"The top end of the agri-sector is going extremely well," Mr Smith said.

The bank, which reported its half-year results last week, has championed the agriculture sector and
built an exposure to it almost twice the size of its credit exposure to the resources sector. In 2012 ANZ
commissioned Port Jackson Partners to write a report on the agriculture sector that estimated $400
billion would be needed to support farm turnover in Australia

by 2050.

"The size of the prize to agriculture calls for timely, transformational actions," it said.

ANZ's half-year results showed the bank had marginally reduced its non-performing loans in the
agriculture sector where property made up most of lending. These non-performing loans stand at $1.12
billion or about 3.5 per cent of the bank's agricultural exposure.

According to Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics and Sciences (ABARES), the
debt to fund land purchases accounted for the largest share of debt on broadacre and dairy farms,
accounting for 44 and 47pc respectively.

The value of such non-performing loans was the largest of all ANZ's banking categories, from transport
and storage to consumer lending.

In the past year, the bank had to deal with troublesome agricultural loans such as Casterton and
Burslem stations in central Queensland, which were sold off for $4.8 million.

CO
IN
RE
PUB
AN

aanzb : Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited
ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking
nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FQLCOL0020140507ea5800019

Page47of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.