J.P. Morgan Raises AP Eagers FY14 Dividend Forecast -- Market Talk

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

J.P. Morgan Raises AP Eagers FY14 Dividend Forecast -- Market Talk

1,348 words
16 October 2014
09:25
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

2225 GMT - J.P. Morgan increases its full-year dividend forecast for AP Eagers (APE.AU) by 12.5%,
after the Australian car dealership said it expects FY14 pretax profit of between A$100 million and
A$104 million. AP Eagers's guidance includes a A$3 million gain on the sale of property and a A$6
million profit on the sale of its 20.65% stake in MTAI Insurance. "While AP Eagers does not have a
stated dividend policy, historically it has distributed 60-65% of reported net profit after tax, weighted to
the final dividend," J.P. Morgan says. It now has penciled in a A$0.27/share dividend, up from its earlier
expectations of a A$0.24 payout. J.P. Morgan rates AP Eagers at neutral and lifts its price target by 1.4%
to A$5.63/share. APE last traded at A$5.42. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

2224 GMT [Dow Jones]--Trading updates by Australian media companies at their upcoming annual
meetings may lead to consensus downgrades, says J.P. Morgan, after the latest advertising revenue
data showed bookings remain subdued in the first half of the financial year to date. The Standard Media
Index shows the underlying 1H15 advertising market is down by low single digits in percentage terms,
although September recorded the strongest growth in calendar 2014 to date, notes J.P. Morgan.
"September's increase may be explained by uncertainty created around last year's federal election; we
await October's data as well as commentary at upcoming AGMs to determine underlying ad market
conditions. If September's momentum is not maintained for the rest of 1H15, consensus risk remains in
traditional media." (rebecca.thurlow@wsj.com; @beckthurlow)

2224 GMT [Dow Jones] Asian stock markets are likely to be weighed by offshore leads after the Dow
Jones Industrial Average finished a wild night sharply lower, says Forsyth Barr broker Dave Schaper in
Nelson, New Zealand. While stocks fared better Wednesday after Chinese inflation data gave investors
hope for fresh stimulus in the world's second-largest economy "it won't be enough in the face of the fall
overnight," he says. In New Zealand the NZX-50 is down 0.8% at 5122.90. Air New Zealand (AIR.NZ) is
down 2.5% at NZ$1.765 while Fletcher Building (FBU.NZ) is down 1.4% at NZ$8.57.
(rebecca.howard@wsj.com; Twitter: @FarroHoward)

18:22 EDT - Digital is the name of the game at regional banks, which are reporting 3Q earnings. Some
47% of Pittsburgh-based PNC Financial's (PNC) clients are predominantly non-branch customers,
executives say today. Some 36% of deposits are now non-teller, which means they are conducted via
the ATM or through the mobile phone application. The bank is hoping to get that number upwards of
50%, CEO William Demchak says. The bank is "playing a little bit of catch-up" against some of the bigger
banks in that space, even if it's ahead of smaller competitors, he says. (julie.steinberg@wsj.com)

18:20 EDT - Growth in true automobile consumer loans has been slowing at PNC Financial (PNC), CFO
Robert Reilly says during a 3Q earnings call with analysts today. It's an example of "maybe where we're
backing off a little bit because of credit quality," he says. The auto growth has been in the 1% range for
3Q, he says, and he expects it to remain there. (julie.steinberg@wsj.com)
18:12 EDT - Private equity is finding ways to increase its presence in the industrial manufacturing
sector. New York firm Uni-World Capital takes a majority stake in Drake Manufacturing Services, a
maker of gear grinders and rack and thread milling machines. Drake's senior management will also be
significant equity owners. M&A deals in the industrial manufacturing sector surged to $60.1B in value in
2Q 2014, and the number of transactions of $50M or more increased by 72% from the prior quarter,
according to data from PricewaterhouseCoopers. While strategic investors were active during 2Q and

Page163of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.represented 65% of transactions, financial sponsors also increased activity and were involved in
numerous mega-deals, according to PwC. (lillian.rizzo@wsj.com)

18:09 EDT - Mobile banking continues to be a focus for Cleveland lender KeyCorp (KEY), executives say
today. Dennis Devine, co-president of Key Community Bank, consumer & small business, says there's
been a 30% year-over-year increase in the number of customers using the bank's mobile application.
The bank is investing more into digital as clients make clear their preferences to have mobile options for
banking. "There's no doubt it's the most explosive source of client activity in our business over the past
year," Devine says. "We expect that to continue." (julie.steinberg@wsj.com)

18:07 EDT - Cleveland-based lender KeyCorp (KEY) has closed 30 of its branches year-to-date, CEO
Beth Mooney says in an interview today after the bank reported 3Q earnings. Over the past two years,
the bank has shed between 80 to 90 of its branches as it seeks to retool its branch network, Mooney
says. Other regional lenders have also rejiggered their branch strategy as the industry adapts to client
preferences. (julie.steinberg@wsj.com)
18:05 EDT - Mergers and acquisition activity is up at Cleveland-based lender KeyCorp (KEY),
executives say today during a 3Q earnings release call with analysts. The business is up 70%
year-over-year, corporate bank head Christopher Gorman says. Part of the reason is due to "the
availability of financing vehicles such as the high-yield market," he says. Recent inflows into the
high-yield market are driving transactions at the bank, he says. (julie.steinberg@wsj.com)

17:59 EDT - With the 10-year Treasury hitting 2%, executives at Ohio lender KeyCorp (KEY) says the
bank wouldn't be affected too heavily because the bank's loans typically have an average life of just
three years, says CFO Don Kimble on an earnings call. The long end of the curve "doesn't have as much
of an impact" and shouldn't be meaningful away from what their guidance would suggest, he says.
Another bank executive says there will be a "significant pick-up" in transactions in which Key acts as
agent, not principal, such as longer-term fixed deals. (julie.steinberg@wsj.com)

17:55 EDT - Sears Holdings (SHLD) and Amazon.com (AMZN) both pulled men's rings featuring a Nazi
swastika from their websites after a social media outcry. Sears apologized, saying the item was posted
for sale by one of its independent third-party vendors in violation of its product guidelines. Amazon has
not issued any public statements about the ring. Showcasing rings with swastikas is definitely not a good
thing for their respective brands, says Jennifer Vickery, a social media communications expert. "Do they
really need a lesson in both branding and the holocaust simultaneously?" she asks.
(ben.dipietro@wsj.com; bendipietro1)

17:43 EDT - Building out its private bank is a priority for KeyCorp (KEY), Chief Executive Beth Mooney
says in an interview today. The Cleveland-based lender has been adding products to its platform, moved
to open architecture and created a Delaware trust capacity, she says. "It's an area that we see as
growth." As well, Key has hired people to fill specialized roles in investment management, she adds.
Competitor PNC Financial (PNC) has been similarly investing in its wealth and asset management
businesses. (julie.steinberg@wsj.com)

To contact the Market Talk Editors,
Kevin Kingsbury, 212 416-2354, kevin.kingsbury@wsj.com
Cynthia Lin, 212 416-4403, Cynthia.lin@wsj.com
John Shipman, 212 416-2181, john.shipman@wsj.com
Patrick Sullivan, 212 416-2326, Patrick.sullivan@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

October 15, 2014 18:25 ET (22:25 GMT)

NS

c1512 : Dividends | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market
Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | c15 : Performance |
c151 : Earnings | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E
Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020141015eaaf004bm

Page164of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.