$26m for Ocean Plaza

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
$26m for Ocean Plaza

Marissa Lague
293 words
23 July 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
First
19
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

Mainland Chinese investors paid $26.18 million in an off-market deal to buy the Ocean Plaza site in
Scarborough where a redevelopment is likely to start next year.
Vincent Siciliano, principal of LJ Hooker Commercial Perth, said the 7701sqm freehold site, which
has frontages to Scarborough Beach Road, Filburn Street and West Coast Highway, attracted
national and international interest.

The Ocean Plaza came on the market in 2012 for the first time in 30 years but failed to sell.

Since the State Government intervened in the future planning of Scarborough, Mr Siciliano said the
development industry had been looking for opportunities throughout the suburb.
“The property is only 250m from the foreshore and the site is capable of accommodating up to 12
storeys in a mixed-use development under the current plan,” he said.
Previously owned by a company tied to the Lombardo family, the site sits across three lots and is
within a key area of Scarborough’s masterplan, which has recently transitioned to the Metropolitan
Redevelopment Authority.

The authority is developing a masterplan for the area and has already hinted at introducing
amenities to foster community activity, including foreshore improvements, new pedestrian
promenades, kids play and shade areas, barbecue facilities, public art, pop-up kiosks and
landscaping.

“Most people would appreciate that Scarborough would benefit from a public injection of funds which
would reinvigorate the area,” Mr Siciliano said.
“We’re already seeing other business commit to the area with the redevelopment of the Hotel
Rendezvous and CeVue residential apartments.”
Mr Siciliano said tenants at the property, which was partially leased, had been notified that a
redevelopment was scheduled.

“In roughly 12 months time, it will be ready to be redeveloped,” he said.

RE
PUB
AN

waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140722ea7n0001o

Page115of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.