BREAKINGVIEWS-One U.S. coal miner could be a canary

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

BREAKINGVIEWS-One U.S. coal miner could be a canary

589 words
11 June 2014
05:38
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2014 Reuters Limited

(The author is a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)

By Kevin Allison

CHICAGO, June 10 (Reuters Breakingviews) - Consol Energy is shaping up to be a survivor. When the
$11 billion coal miner bet big on shale, investors bailed for rivals focused exclusively on the black rock.
Consol's hedge turned out to be prescient, however, and could be a telltale sign for the energy industry.
Though Consol already had a small operation selling gas formed as a byproduct of its coal production,
and owned a subsidiary with some shale assets, the market was nevertheless surprised when the
company in March 2010 announced a $3.5 billion deal to buy some prime gas acreage. The
acquisition repositioned Consol as a serious gas driller.

The decision didn't go down well among investors. Consol's shares tumbled 10 percent on the day, and
underperformed those of larger Peabody Energy for months to come. Building an exploration and
production business looked like a distraction. Gas prices were already falling quickly from post-crisis
highs. Meanwhile, globally traded coal rates nearly doubled in the ensuing nine months, thanks to
rampant Chinese demand and flooding in Australia's major coal-producing region.
By 2012, however, fortunes had reversed. Gas prices started moving higher, Chinese growth slowed
and U.S. power plants ditched coal for cleaner-burning natural gas.
Suddenly, deals like Peabody's $5 billion hostile takeover of Australian coking coal producer Macarthur
Coal in 2011 didn't look so good. The Obama administration's new emissions rules for power plants
announced earlier this month will further hit demand. As a result, Consol's market value has gained
nearly $2 billion since its shale foray. Peabody's has more than halved.
It calls into question some of the focus fetish by energy investors. Oil majors such as BP and Eni might
have a better shot at adding value by carving themselves up. ConocoPhillips, for one, did it to great
effect.

Consol's experience, however, suggests diversification can work, too. It's probably the better choice
when a different form of energy can be readily substituted, such as gas for coal, or more aggressive
government action on global warming is a threat. Companies that are working on risky technologies like
oil sands and Arctic offshore drilling should also study Consol. It's a coal miner that could be a canary.

CONTEXT NEWS

- The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency on June 2 proposed new rules that would require the
country's existing power plants to cut their carbon dioxide emissions to 30 percent below 2005 levels by
2030.

Page261of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.- Consol Energy's market value was $10.8 billion on June 10, an increase of $1.9 billion since it
announced a $3.5 billion deal to buy natural gas assets from gas driller Dominion in March 2010. Over
the same span, Peabody Energy's market capitalization fell from $12.7 billion to $4.5 billion,
according to Thomson Reuters data.
- The price of imported coal in Europe, the main export market for U.S. coal miners, has declined by
about 35 percent since Peabody completed a $5.1 billion hostile takeover of Australian metallurgical
coal producer Macarthur Coal in December 2011.

- Reuters: U.S. unveils sweeping plan to slash power plant pollution

RELATED COLUMNS

Carbon dated

Consolation prize

- For previous columns by the author, Reuters customers can click on (Editing by Jeffrey Goldfarb and
Martin Langfield)

RF
CO
IN
NS

RE
IPD
IPC
PUB
AN

Released: 2014-6-10T20:38:08.000Z
concol : CONSOL Energy Inc | pbdy : Peabody Energy Corp
i111 : Coal Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i1 : Energy | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
gclimt : Climate Change | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | genv :
Environmental News | gglobe : Global/World Issues | gwea : Weather | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Business
SERVICE:C
Thomson Reuters (Markets) LLC
Document LBA0000020140610ea6a00bon

Page262of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.