AUSTRALIA: Dairy co-op to export fresh milk to China in "few weeks".

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
AUSTRALIA: Dairy co-op to export fresh milk to China in "few weeks".

Hannah Abdulla
276 words
14 May 2014
Just-Food
JUFOO
English
© 2014 Aroq Limited. All rights reserved

Australian dairy co-operative Norco is preparing to ship its full range of fresh milk products to China
"within the next few weeks" after completing a six-month export trial.
Together with PGS, an international export consulting firm, and dairy industry representative body,
Dairy Connect, Norco has established an export pipeline which reduces export lead time to eight days,
explained CEO Brett Kelly to just-food. Normal lead time is 14-21 days said the firm.

Dairy Connect chairman, George Davey said the "commercially viable cold chain pipeline will open the
door for millions of litres of fresh milk exports to China each year.

Kelly told just-food the biggest challenge had been the quality assurance testing times whose clearance
could delay when the products were available for sale.
The "breakthrough" has come after 12 months of collaboration between PGS and Chinese officials to
develop "rigorous quality assurance protocols that have now been fully tested and officially sanctioned
by the relevant Chinese agencies".

Norco chairman Greg McNamara explained that the pipeline "has the capacity to deliver more than 20
million litres of fresh milk to consumers in China within the first 12 months."
Kelly said there would be an extension on the type of products exported to China but did not specify
what these would be.
"China is a market that has huge opportunity for Norco in terms of potential volume requirement," he
added.

This article was originally published on just-food.com on 14 May 2014. For authoritative and timely food
business information visit http://www.just-food.com.

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy Products | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
c312 : External Markets | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types |
nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Aroq Limited
Document JUFOO00020140514ea5e000dx

Page252of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.