Global Ferronickel plans to expand overseas

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business News
Global Ferronickel plans to expand overseas

424 words
11 December 2014
Manila Bulletin
MABULL
English
(c) 2014 Manila Bulletin Publishing Corp. All rights reserved.

Global Ferronickel Holdings Inc., formerly known as Southeast Asia Cement Holdings (Seacem), is
preparing itself for an overseas expansion with plans to grow its customer base in China and Australia
as well as locate new countries where it can potentially establish its presence.

Seacem is the backdoor listing vehicle of Platinum Group Metals Corporation (PGMC). Once all the
pending regulatory requirements for the said backdoor listing have been settled, Seacem's listed
corporate name will be officially changed to Global Ferronickel.

A filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) specified the company's intention to
expand into other countries as well as strengthen its customer base in China and Australia as part of its
key growth strategies.
“We intend to further develop the existing relationships in our key markets such as China and Australia,
and also explore new opportunities in other regions and countries,” Global Ferronickel said.
The company said it believes there is still currently favorable economic and business climate for
mining companies and it aims to take full advantage of its “flexible and large” nickel ore supply and its
proximity to other key markets outside the country.
“We also intend to increase our proportion of direct sales to end users, most notably smelters in China,
as we believe this will generate consistent demand for our products while minimizing our overall credit
risk,” Global Ferronickel added.
A former cement company, Global Ferronickel is now slowly transforming itself as a mining company
with the upcoming takeover of PGMC within the group.
PGMC is a mining company that develops nickel ore deposits and smelting plants across the country.

As part of its transformation, Global Ferronickel recently got its board approval to enter into a
Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) to purchase 126.5 million common shares or 100 percent of
Ferrochrome Resources, Inc., formerly Golden Harvest Global Corporation.
The company is also set to purchase a total of 500,000 common shares and 6.25 billion preferred
shares of Southeast Palawan Nickel Ventures, Inc. representing 100 percent of its outstanding capital
stock.
A few days ago, Global Ferronickel had sought regulatory approval to sell more than seven billion
company shares the public to raise as much as P31 billion.

In a recent filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Global Ferronickel said it intends
to sell up to 6.16 billion shares with an overallotment option of up to 924.72 million shares next year.
The offer price is temporarily set at P4.38 per share.

CO

seacem : South East Asia Cement Holdings Inc

Page164of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS
RE
IPD
PUB
AN

i2114 : Copper Ore/Nickel Ore Mining | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources |
imet : Mining/Quarrying | i242 : Cement/Ready-mix Concrete | ibuildpr : Building Materials/Products |
icre : Real Estate/Construction
c11 : Plans/Strategy | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Business News
Manila Bulletin Publishing Corp
Document MABULL0020141210eacb0000z

Page165of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.