Esposito backs Canada bid

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Esposito backs Canada bid

Tim Binsted and Jake Mitchell
702 words
13 January 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
13
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Australia's largest privately owned milk processor, United Dairy Power, has backed Canadian dairy
giant Saputo's bid for control of Warrnambool Cheese & Butter in a fierce $500 million-plus
takeover battle with Victorian farmer co-operative Murray Goulburn.

United chief executive Tony Esposito said foreign ownership had been positive for the Australian
dairy industry and dismissed Murray Goulburn's claims that the co-operative structure is the best
thing for dairy farmers.

Mr Esposito said the battle for WCB will have a big impact on Australian dairy.

"We have to be mindful here of what's happening. We've been watching retirements out of the
industry and watching co-ops go broke or sell out like Bonlac, Tatura and Dairy Farmers," Mr
Esposito said.
United collects about 350 million litres of milk directly a year and processes about 500 million litres.

Murray Goulburn may still increase its $9.50 a share bid for WCB. However, one source said this was
unlikely given Saputo is offering just $9, which would rise to $9.20 if it can secure 50 per cent of the
target by January 22, when the offer will close.
Bega Cheese, which holds about 19 per cent of WCB, may ultimately decide the fate of the Saputo
offer. Saputo has been pressuring Bega and 10 per cent shareholder Lion into selling their stakes.
Bega's shareholders may be frustrated if it does not take the near-$70 million in profits it would bank
by selling to Saputo.
Once a major force in Australian dairy, Bonlac collapsed under poor management and the weight of
too much debt almost a decade ago. Its assets were bought by New Zealand's Fonterra.
Tatura Milk Industries was snapped up by ASX-listed Bega Cheese in two chunks in 2007 and 2011;
Dairy Farmers was acquired by National Foods – owned by Japan's Kirin – in 2008.
"The consistency there is farmer-owned co-operatives. They're not focused and have bad business
plans; corporate companies grow," Mr Esposito says.
UDP is wholly owned by Mr Esposito, who founded the group in 1999. The company has annual
sales in excess of $200 million and profits of more than $15 million, and is on the brink of being
sold to a Chinesebuyer.Australian Competition Tribunal must be persuaded

For its bid to proceed, Murray Goulburn must persuade the Australian Competition Tribunal the public
benefits of its proposed merger with WCB outweigh anti-competitive concerns.

The co-operative structure is one of the key pillars in Murray Goulburn's argument before the tribunal.

Page69of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Farmer co-operatives are owned by their farmer suppliers, and Murray Goulburn is mandated to
maximise the milk price it pays to its farmers.

Murray Goulburn is arguing that its structure means reduced competition from its takeover will not be
a problem because it will pay the maximum milk price possible anyway.

It is also pointing to the success and scale of New Zealand's giant co-operative Fonterra. Created by
an act of Parliament, Fonterra is the world's biggest dairy exporter and a virtual monopoly in New
Zealand, collecting more than 95 per cent of the nation's milk.

But sources close to Bega said Murray Goulburn may face an uphill battle at the tribunal. Farmers
have a broad range of opinion about whether competition or a large-scale farmer co-operative is best
for the industry.
Mr Esposito says rather than maximising the farmgate milk price, Murray Goulburn – which collects
one-third of Australia's annual 9 billion-litre milk pool – is hampering it.

"The whole industry follows the leader, and the leader is called Murray Goulburn, and it is inefficient.
[The industry is] just adding 1¢ more [to the milk price] than Murray Goulburn – not because that's all
they can afford, but because it's all they have to do." Rather than consolidating and having one large
player like Fonterra, Mr Esposito says the sector needs more competition.

"The highest-paying companies in Australia have been foreigners, whether it be Kirin [through its
subsidiary Lion] or Parmalat. Saputo would be a positive thing."

mryglb : Murray Goulburn Co-operative Company Limited
i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i413 : Dairy Products | i0 :
Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c18 :
Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin
: FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | cana : Canada | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North
America
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140112ea1d00009

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page70of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.