CITY BEAT

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
CITY BEAT

ANTHONY MARX
445 words
22 November 2014
Courier Mail
COUMAI
CourierMail
68
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

DEVINE WINS BRISBANE developer David Devine (illustrated) not only defeated a challenge in court
this week to kill one of his planned unit towers but now he’s considering going after opponents for his
$400,000 legal bill.
You might think that would have a residents group in Kangaroo Point a tad nervous after the Planning
and Environment Court dismissed their bid to halt the $122 million Riverview Towers project. But you
would be wrong. Area architect David Murray said yesterday the appeal against the 20-storey building
on Lambert St was not vexatious so he was not concerned about having to dig deep to pay Devine’s
lawyers.

And the story might not be over. Although an appeal is considered unlikely, residents will be meeting
next week to consider what options are left to fight the project, which is twice the height allowed by the
local area plan.
Residents raised $120,000 for their fighting fund but Devine – who has already sold the property and
another site to Chinese developers for $65 million – warned they would need very deep pockets to
keep the battle going.

Murray said the court’s decision set a “shocking precedent’’ for the city even though an earlier court
ruling had allowed an even bigger project on the site.

“It means local area plans are worth nothing. You might as well throw them in the bin,’’ Murray said.

“It’s an absolute town planning disgrace. You won’t know what the hell is happening at the end of your
street.’’ ELTON’S GASP FRESH from his spirited sparring with Malcolm Turnbull over climate change
this week on ABC’s Q&A, comedian/writer Ben Elton turned up in Brisbane on Thursday night for the
opening night of his new play Gasp!

The thrust of the fast-paced black comedy – how rapacious Australian miners turn to selling designer
air with the help of “suck and blow’’ machines – seemed to neatly bookend Elton’s spray on climate
change.

Spied among those sipping drinks after the show were Queensland Governor Paul de Jersey,
Brisbane Airport Corporation boss Julieanne Alroe, spin doctor Kath Rose and bizzoids Greg Rudd
and Chris Freeman.

BAGGY GREEN THE incoming boss of Australia’s biggest credit union, Brisbane-based CUA, is one
Rob Goudswaard.The gent, who enjoys a bit of hobby farming on the side, until recently ran the Rural
Finance Corporation of Victoria, which was bought by Bendigo Bank this year. Anyway, he’s got lots of
banking experience. City Beat was intrigued that his Twitter name is @baggygreencap. Let’s hope he
fares better than the Aussies against Pakistan!

Page235of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document COUMAI0020141121eabm000bg

Page236of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.