Free-trade deal brings New Hope

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Free-trade deal brings New Hope

Tim Binsted
486 words
19 November 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
38
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Agriculture - $500 million boost for Australian dairy
Chinese giant New Hope will invest up to $500 million in Australian dairy farms and processing
plants as part of a deal with ASX-listed Freedom Foods in what could be the first of many deals fuelled
by the historic China-Australia free-trade agreement.

Freedom Foods and the Perich Group said yesterday they had signed a memorandum of
understanding with New Hope, China's biggest private company with interests in agriculture, financial
services and real estate.
"With increasing demand from markets in China and south-east Asia for high-quality, value-added
product, Australia - through companies such as Freedom Foods and Perich Group - is well placed to
play an important role in the development of this supply chain," Freedom Foods managing director
Rory Macleod said.
To secure milk supply, New Hope has established a fund of up to $500 million to invest in dairy
farms and dairy processing.
Freedom Foods said it had built on its supply arrangements with New Hope for long-life milk and it
was considering collaboration in other strategic branded dairy operations in Australia and overseas to
take Freedom Foods products to China.
Perich Group, New Hope and other investors will contribute most of the equity for farm investment,
which will start next year.
News of the deal comes on the back of the free-trade agreement with China that gave Australia
unprecedented access to the Chinese market.
Dairy producers fared particularly well, with all tariffs - up to 20 per cent - on Australian dairy
eliminated in four to 11 years, depending on the product.

"We couldn't wish for a better deal. The agreement will do for us what it did for New Zealand. New
Zealand [dairy] trade with China exploded after they signed their deal [in 2008]," Murray Goulburn
managing director Gary Helou said.
Murray Goulburn collects almost 40 per cent of Australia's 9.1 billion litre milk pool and is the nation's
biggest dairy exporter. The company plans to raise up to $500 million by listing a unit trust on the
ASX next year. Mr Helou said he could buy a stake in a Chinese player or invest in distribution
channels.
Ten years ago China imported about $200 million in dairy product. Today it imports about $6 billion
annually and growth is not slowing.

Page31of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Barry Irvin, the chairman of ASX-listed Bega Cheese, said conversations were ongoing with Chinese
partners and the free-trade deal had accelerated those talks. "It's the start of another phase in dairy...
There is great interest from Chinese dairy companies in Australia," he said.
In September, Bega signed a $100 million UHT milk deal with China's Chongqing General Trading
Group.
"You will see more announcements come [in dairy]. There is a ramp-up of inquiry [from China]," Mr
Irvin said.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

e512 : Physical Trade | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News
china : China | austr : Australia | nz : New Zealand | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020141118eabj0001g

Page32of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.