From crop to cup (Australia's Di Bella Coffee ties up with Cravings Group )

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

From crop to cup (Australia's Di Bella Coffee ties up with Cravings Group)

Joseph Emmanuel L. Garcia
538 words
30 October 2014
BusinessWorld
BSWRLD
S2/8
English
(c) 2014 Business World Publishing Corporation.

FOR SOME people, coffee is something they drink in the morning, a caffeine fix to wake up. For others,
however, it is an integral element of life. These people use coffee as a prelude to building connections,
to finishing work, or to start the day right.
"People are emotionally attached to coffee. You think of wine, of scotch. coffee is comfort for people,"
said Phillip Di Bella, founder of Di Bella Coffee, and hailed as "Australia's Coffee King."

Di Bella is a coffee bean manufacturer, roasting and releasing beans sourced from different areas of the
world to the market. Mr. Di Bella arrived in the Philippines yesterday to formally announce a partnership
between Di Bella Coffee and The Cravings Group - the company behind ventures such as Cravings,
Epicurious, Lucia Ristorante, Lombardi's, C2 Classic Cuisine, and the Coffee Beanery. From now on, Di
Bella Coffee will be served at all these restaurants.

At the Coffee Academy at the Center for Culinary Arts, where students learn how to make espresso and
related drinks, Mr. Di Bella served coffee he made himself to a gathered audience. Di Bella operates
with a program called Crop to Cup. "When I started in the coffee industry, people didn't know anything
about the farmers, where coffee came from, and they didn't understand the education process. The
philosophy behind Crop to Cup is to buy the world's best coffee from around the world, roast it, and
allow people to try the best coffee," he said. The Crop to Cup philosophy also tries to make the coffee
farmers to enjoy their own product, to encourage them to grow better beans.

Mr. Di Bella explained how Di Bella Cofee arrived in the Philippines. "Cravings, every year, brings
hospitality students to Melbourne, and they came across our brand at a tradeshow, and they loved our
philosophy of Crop to Cup. and that we care about the farmer. We actually have all our coffee traceable
back to the farm," he said.
"I prefer expansion in the Asian countries, because they're emerging markets, because I'm young; I'm
39. I like emerging markets," he said when explaining why he willingly entered the Philippine market. He
cited the strong European influences in Filipino culture, a strong hospitality culture, and an emerging
middle class. The company has a presence in India and China, and next week, the company will
expand its operations to Singapore.

He also cited similarities between the way Australians and Filipinos drink their coffee - "Most of the
coffee is consumed [is] white, [and] most people put sugar in their coffee."

The Philippines has a long history with coffee, having been a major coffee producer during the Spanish
colonial era, and more recently, numerous international coffee chains have found their place here. As
such, Di Bella has to differentiate itself from these coffee providers.

"What makes us different is the way we design our coffee. A lot of the coffees that are here already are
American-based. They work off drip-coffee filter, black coffee drinkers. Our coffee is tailored to
milk-coffee drinkers," he said.

CO

diblcf : Di Bella Coffee Company

Page15of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

RE

PUB
AN

i0100137 : Coffee Growing | icoffee : Coffee Products | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i41 :
Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods | inonal : Non-alcoholic
Beverages/Drinks
phlns : Philippines | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
BusinessWorld Publishing Corporation
Document BSWRLD0020141030eaau0000l

Page16of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.