Gold Rangebound Early in Asia -- Market Talk

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Gold Rangebound Early in Asia -- Market Talk

1,515 words
25 June 2014
10:45
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

Contact us in Singapore. 65 64154 140; MarketTalk@dowjones.com

0045 GMT [Dow Jones] Gold prices are rangebound in early Asian trading, but rising crude oil prices
could provide a floor amid worries about inflation ticking higher--gold is considered a tool to fight inflation.
Spot gold prices rose to $1,325.96/oz overnight--its highest since April 15. "The rally in both gold and
silver was largely due to speculators closing out short positions rather than stronger physical demand,"
ANZ says in a report. Dovish comments by U.S. Federal Reserve Chairwoman Janet Yellen about the
pace of economic growth last week boosted gold prices above the psychological $1,300/oz level.
Escalating violence in Iraq has also helped to support gold prices. Spot gold is at $1,318.77/oz, down 23
cents from its previous close, and silver is at $20.91/oz, down 2 cents. (arpan.mukherjee@wsj.com;
Twitter: @ArpanMukherjee)

0006 GMT [Dow Jones] The diamond market appears to be showing some sparkle. J.P. Morgan analyst
Lyndon Fagan, on a U.S. site visit with Rio Tinto PLC (RIO), says the Anglo Australian miner expects the
market to be in significant deficit for the foreseeable future, which should help drive prices higher. "Rio
currently sees diamond demand running at roughly double mined supply," Fagan says in a note. "Little
detail was given on how this shortfall is expected to be met, although it would imply material upside to
current prices given our belief that stockpiles at De Beers and Alrosa are relatively modest," he says.
The RapNet diamond index for one carat stones is up 1% year to date, according to data provider
Rapaport. (rhiannon.hoyle@wsj.com; Twitter: @RhiannonHoyle)

2257 GMT [Dow Jones] Credit Suisse lowers its 12-month target price on Kathmandu (KMD.NZ) to
NZ$3.60 from NZ$3.90 after the company says sales through June, and in particular since the start of
the company's winter sales promotion, have been significantly below expectations in both Australia and
New Zealand. However, it retains its outperform rating as it believes "KMD remains a long-term
sustainable growth story." It notes that "certainly KMD has proved in the past it can recover from
short-term weather events." The stock is trading at NZ$3.15. (rebecca.howard@wsj.com; Twitter:
@FarroHoward)

18:45 EDT - Oversupply in the thermal coal market isn't likely to lift for the foreseeable future, prompting
Credit Suisse to cut its forecasts for Australian thermal coal sold from the Port of Newcastle. The broker
now expects thermal coal ex-Newcastle to average US$76/ton this year, down from a previous estimate
of US$80. Credit Suisse also thinks thermal coal will average US$80 in 2015, compared to an earlier
forecast if US$83. "Recent price declines have been insufficient to generate meaningful supply
rationalization, making it extremely difficult to forecast anything but an anaemic recovery for thermal
coal," Credit Suisse says. Compounding the problems caused by oversupply, electricity generation in
China is offering very little in the way of a demand pull for seaborne coal. (david.winning@wsj.com;
@dwinningWSJ)

17:50 EDT - The Obama administration has quietly granted permission to two companies to begin
exporting minimally processed American crude, in the first softening of the US's four-decade ban on
shipping domestic oil supplies overseas, according to a WSJ scoop. Traders have been betting the US
would eventually allow exports, and that the spread between the US and global benchmarks would

Page212of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.converge. Not much doing there yet; spread stands at $8.19. As for shares of the two companies,
Enterprise Products Partners (EPD) shares inactive after-hours and Pioneer Natural Resources (PXD)
up 0.2%. (christian.berthelsen@wsj.com)

17:36 EDT - An "unexpected bout of risk aversion" has caused short-term damage to AUD/USD and
NZD/USD, says Westpac currency strategist Imre Speizer. He says initial optimism fueled by some
strong US data were reversed later in the session on geopolitical concerns after over Iraq hit nerves.
Speizer notes the only thing on the local calendar is Australia's RBA Deputy Governor Lowe's speech in
Melbourne and China's consumer confidence survey. AUD/USD last at 0.9369 from 0.9412 late Tuesday
in Sydney. NZD/USD at 0.8676 from 0.8720 late Tuesday in Wellington. (lucy.craymer@wsj.com;
@lucy_craymer)

17:23 EDT - The New Zealand Debt Management Office's plan to issue a new 2027 government bond
helps steepen the yield curve, says BNZ strategist Kymberly Martin. The yield on New Zealand 2023
bonds push up 2 bps to 4.46%. Ten-year swap push 4 bps higher to 4.90%. Martin says the increase in
interest rate swaps may also have been "assisted by a lull in the recent flurry of Kauri sovereign,
supranational and agency issuance." Martin adds the firm continues to see hedging value in 2- to 4-year
swaps. "We see current 'fair value' on 2-year swap around 4.40%, some 20 bps above current levels."
Five-year swap sits at 4.58%. (lucy.craymer@wsj.com; @lucy_craymer)

17:05 EDT - NZD/USD is lower as the greenback performs well overnight following upbeat consumer
confidence and new home sales report, says ANZ. "The US data trend remains broadly strong, and
some USD strength should be expected." ANZ adds, however, that despite the trend, the third reading
on 1Q US GDP and May durable goods orders due later in the global day are both expected to remain
subdued. Pair is at 0.8673 from 0.8720 late Tuesday in New Zealand. ANZ expects the pair to trade in a
short-term range of 0.8660 to 0.8725. (lucy.craymer@wsj.com; @lucy_craymer)

16:53 EDT - There were some eye-popping numbers in the May new-home sales: the biggest
single-month jump in sales since January 1992 (18.6%), the highest level for sales since May 2008 (a
seasonally adjusted annual rate of 504k). But the most important number may be 0.8%. That's how
much new-home sales were up in the first five months of 2014 compared with the same period a year
earlier. A lot of the excitement fades when that month-to-month volatility is filtered out. "Future months
will tell us whether new-home sales really are closer to flat, or on a big upward climb," says Jed Kolko,
chief economist at the real-estate website Trulia. (ben.leubsdorf@wsj.com)

16:23 EDT - Many economists believe two months of strengthening inflation in Canada suggest a
sustained recovery in price pressures, but Capital Economics, long a bear on the Canadian economy,
takes a contrarian view. Firm says the pick-up in inflation mainly reflects volatility in energy and food
prices, and believes it won't change the Bank of Canada's neutral view on rates. "With exports and
investment still underperforming and housing slowing, the disinflationary effects from the excess slack in
the economy are likely to intensify, leaving the downside risks to the inflation outlook essentially as
important as before," CapEcon says. That will be masked for the time being by the pass-through effects
on inflation from the lower Canadian dollar, but that will prove temporary, it adds. (don.curren@wsj.com;
@dbcurren)

15:47 EDT - NY Fed chief Bill Dudley's speech today almost exclusively focuses on troubling economic
and financial issues in Puerto Rico, but nestled in audience Q&A comes the good stuff. Asked about the
monetary policy outlook, Dudley says it appears financial markets largely agree the Fed will first increase
interest rates from near zero around the middle of 2015. "That sounds to me like a reasonable forecast,
but forecasts often go astray," so it's hard to say with certainty when the Fed will begin to raise interest
rates. It's not surprising stuff from the FOMC vice chair, but it's a bit of confirmation where this influential
policymaker has penciled in the move off of near-zero short-term rates. (michael.derby@wsj.com)

14:55 EDT - Citi first recommended breakeven positions (buying inflation-protected Treasurys against
nominal Treasurys) at the 5-year TIPS auction on Dec. 19. The trade has profited with the yield gap
expanding to 2.11 percentage points today from 1.74 on the back of rising inflation data in recent
months. While 2-year breakevens may have room to gain if energy prices keep climbing, Citi sees a
pause in the expansion of the 5-year yield gap, but looks to re-enter the trade if the gap shrinks again.
Unwinding the trade in their model portfolio by selling the $100M in April 2018 TIPS bought in December
reaps a $1.58M profit. (cynthia.lin@wsj.com; @cynthialin_dj)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

June 24, 2014 20:45 ET (00:45 GMT)

CO

fed : Federal Reserve Board

Page213of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS

RE

i22472 : Precious Metals | i22 : Primary Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources
m1421 : Gold Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | namt : All Market Talk | ncmac :
Commodities Asset Class News | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News |
nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mpcsmt :
Precious Metals Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | usa : United States | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America

PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020140625ea6p00069

Page214of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.