Benchmark in riverside living

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Lifestyle
Benchmark in riverside living

Catherine Nikas-Boulos, catherine.nikas@news.com.au
648 words
17 May 2014
The Courier-Mail
COUMAI
HomeNSW
22
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

A newcomer is investing in the future of Western Sydney’s star performer, writes Catherine
Nikas-Boulos
Parramatta is already a mega hub of activity on the business and residential front, but the western
suburbs’ hero is on track to be a city larger than Adelaide.

Billions are being pumped into Parramatta, with a wealth of apartments taking shape.

The plush V by Crown on Macquarie St has so far been one of the landmark developments on the
greater Western Sydney landscape, but many more developers are keen to cash in on what the ABS
ranks as one of the fastest growing populations in Australia.
In terms of movers and shakers, China’s 23rd largest publicly listed company is investing $550
million in Parramatta’s future, which can only inspire confidence.
Fuxing Huiyu Real Estate Co Ltd has established a local division, Starryland Australia, to create a
resort-style residential estate on the banks of the Parramatta River.
This company develops more than one million square metres of property a year, and this is its first
foray into Sydney.
The 5ha estate, called Promenade, will have 774 apartments in 11 towers, ranging from three to 12
storeys.

Surrounding Promenade will be 1.2ha of landscaped foreshore open space, a pedestrian bridge
across the river, and a walking and cycling network.

Promenade is the latest development that the council believes will transform this riverside city into a
destination.

Local council has approved a new civic centre called Parramatta Square and the redevelopment of
two carpark sites into major residential and commercial towers.

A further 33 major projects worth some $8 billion are in the planning stages, which could see
Parramatta overtake Adelaide as Australia’s fifth largest CBD.

Why the West Starryland Australia director Hao Liu says Parramatta was targeted for their plans
because it was a cosmopolitan city well served by public transport and motorways, and “had the
potential to become even better”.

Promenade will dramatically signal the northern entry into Parramatta. Architect William Smart
designed two types of building for Promenade, wharf and courtyard.

Page6of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“The wharf buildings have horizontal slab edges in white with a pattern of vertical timber cladding;
courtyard buildings appear solid and grounded with panels of dark masonry stepping along the
facade,” William says.
“At the heart of the estate will be a new square, connecting a bridge which soars over the floodplain
and river to link Promenade with Parramatta’s town centre.

“A new cycle path will run along the river and provide access to a platform over the water, adjacent
to the mangroves and potentially serving as a future stop for the Rivercat.” Nearly half the 277
apartments in Promenade’s first stage sold off the plan as soon as it was released; a second
release will go on sale in June.

Work is scheduled to start by late June and be completed within two years. A further two stages will
be released as determined by demand.

Interiors Quality finishes include porcelain tiles for living area floors which extend onto the balconies,
complemented by joinery with timber tones, reconstituted stone benchtops and crisp metal trims.

All apartments, except four one-bedroom units, have one or two security car spaces, and there also
are 70 visitor parking spaces.

“Apartments in the upper floors will have spectacular multi-directional views,” says Irene Lau, project
director for Savills Residential Projects.

For investors, Savills forecasts weekly rents at Promenade of $450- $540 for the one-bedroom units,
and $550-$700 for the two-bedroom apartments.

Apartments Promenade Address 2 Moreton St, Parramatta Developer Starryland Australia Price
One-bedroom apartment(44-62sq m) from $399,000;two-bedroom (62-99sq m) from $520,000, and
three-bedroom(99-112sq m) from $830,000 View Inspections through Savillson 1800 788 895Web
promenadeliving.com.au

NS

RE

PUB
AN

gplan : Urban Planning/Development | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International
Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
News Ltd.
Document COUMAI0020140513ea5h00003

Page7of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.