Deal sets course for growth

SE
HD
BY

WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Money
Deal sets course for growth

MARK BOURIS - Mark Bouris is executive chairman of wealth-management company Yellow Brick
Road, which sells financial advice and home loans. ybr.com.au. Twitter: @markbouris
512 words
23 November 2014
Sunday Age
SAGE
First
10
English
(c) 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

The China-Australia Free Trade Agreement should see us benefit from China's expanding economy for
years to come.

We're used to reading about national measures that are so large we don't feel involved in them:
inflation, the cash rate, unemployment, economic growth. They can feel too big to worry about.

But last week came a large announcement that will be relevant to most Australians. The
China-Australia Free Trade Agreement will make 93 per cent of Australian export goods into China
tariff-free in four years. It will have a noticeable impact on the direction of our economy, the growth
areas for jobs and the inflow of investment capital.
For Australia it means more exports to China's 1.35 billion people and to an economy which this year,
for the first time, outpaced the United States in GDP.
The ChAFTA removes tariffs up to 20 per cent on beef, seafood, sheep meat, dairy, hides and skins,
processed foods, wine, live animal exports, barley and wool. Our horticulture exports will see tariffs
removed up to 30 per cent. This is significant for our agriculture. When any product or commodity has
20 or 30 per cent removed from its price, the demand for it increases, especially important when you
consider that of the world's increased demand for agricultural output to 2050, China will account for 43
per cent of it.

The tariffs will be dropped on our coal exports and many regulatory hurdles will be dropped so
Australian services firms - financial services, law, accounting, engineering, architectural and health
services - will have access to China.

The biggest positive for us is going to be in economic growth. Credit Suisse forecasts that when the
ChAFTA comes into effect, we can expect it to add between 0.25 and 0.5 per cent to our GDP,
annually.

Considering our current economic growth is running at 3.1 per cent, the forecast effect of ChAFTA is
enormous.

And where will we feel it? More economic activity, higher growth, a higher standard of living and strong
employment. China will have easier access to making large-scale investments in Australia, and Sydney
will become the latest Yuan Hub - a place where local currency can be converted directly to the
Chinese currency without having to first buy US dollars.
Perhaps most important is ChAFTA's emphasis on our non-mining sectors: China has spent two
decades building out its infrastructure, which means buying coal, iron ore, copper ore and bauxite. Now
it turns to the things a middle class needs: medical centres, architects, old folks' homes, beef, dairy
products, lawyers, insurance companies and the quality education that is already a large export to
China.

Page198of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The ChAFTA will provide many opportunities for Australians willing to align with the growth industries
and make their education and employment choices accordingly. Good luck.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

e1101 : Economic Growth | gpersf : Personal Finance | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat :
Economic News | gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | china : China | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SAGE000020141123eabn0002y

Page199of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.