Australia,Korea Republic of : Roy Hill Mining Project in Australia Succeeds in Project Financing of $7.2 Billion

HD

Australia,Korea Republic of : Roy HillMining Project in Australia Succeeds in Project Financing of
$7.2 Billion
WC 385 words
PD
22 April 2014
SN Mena Report
SC MENREP
LA
CY
LP

English
© 2014 Al Bawaba (Albawaba.com). Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com Company

TD

The Roy Hill project, in which POSCO is participating, has succeeded in winning project financing (PF) of
$7.2 billion (7.6 trillion KRW). On April 15, Hancock Prospecting Executive Chairman Gina Rinehart,
POSCO Stainless Steel Raw Materials Department Senior Vice President Ki-mok Yun and other relevant
officials from shareholding companies and PF organizations gathered together in Singapore to celebrate
the successful project financing. In total, 19 commercial banks from Korea, Japan, Europe and Singapore
participated in the project financing, including 5 export credit institutions in Korea, the U.S. and Japan, as
well as 4 leading banks based in Australia, such as Westpac, National Australia Bank, Commonwealth
Bank and ANZ. Ultimately, the project has now secured financing for investment totaling $7.2 billion,
excluding the cash investment of shareholders. This is the largest amount in the history of mining project
financing.

Last December, the Export-Import Bank of Korea, Korea Trade Insurance Corporation, and the
Export-Import Bank of the United States announced that they had decided to provide financial support
totaling $2.9 billion. The Roy Hill project is an iron ore mining project in the Pilbara region of
Northwestern Australia. The mine has high-quality iron ore reserves of approximately 2.3 billion tons,
and it has been a popular investment for Asian steel companies thanks to its short distance from Asian
countries. POSCO formed a consortium with Marubeni and China Steel in 2012. The consortium acquired
a 30% of stake in the project, with POSCO holding 12.5% of the total stake. From the point at which iron
ore is first produced in Roy Hill, POSCO will be provided with at least 11 million tons of high-quality iron
ore every year for the following 27 years. Showing a process rate of 35% until March this year, Roy Hill
will begin producing 55 million tons of iron ore annually starting September 2015. Iron ore from Roy Hill
has the excellent quality required to help it secure a dominant position in the market, particularly given the
strengthened environmental regulations in recent years. It is also considered to be able to maintain
profitability, even given the potential for a fall in iron ore prices.

CO expimp : Export-Import Bank of Korea | hkpros : Hancock Prospecting Pty. Ltd. | pohn : Posco Co
IN

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i22 : Primary Metals |
ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150110
: Export-import Financing | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | isteel : Steel Production
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
IPD Industry - Mining
PUB Al Bawaba.com, Inc.
AN

Document MENREP0020140422ea4m0000r

Page82of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.