ROULETTE WHEEL SPINNERS ROLL IN

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
ROULETTE WHEEL SPINNERS ROLL IN

AROUND THE TRAPS WITH PETER CAMERON
829 words
24 August 2014
Courier Mail
COUMAI
CourierMail
21
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

CYCLONE Packer is bearing down on Queensland with the gambling mogul meeting the Newman
Government within weeks to finetune his Brisbane casino offer.

The lavish Queen’s Wharf casino project will be the city’s first international integrated resort and
construction is expected from 2017.

James Packer’s (pictured) Crown group and Asian partner Greenland will pitch for a decades-long
licence to operate the Queen’s Wharf casino over five blocks in George St.

Packer/Greenland are locked in the Queen’s Wharf licence tussle with Treasury casino operator
Echo and its Hong Kong partners. Packer’s casino expansion plans in Japan, Las Vegas, Macau, Sri
Lanka and Sydney has not gone unnoticed in George St.
Nor the Packer cash splash to acquire three luxury 15-seater long-range jets to ferry gamblers
between Asia and his Australian casinos.

Premier Campbell Newman will announce the successful Queen’s Wharf operator in plenty of time to
soak up voter positives in time for the March election.
Bet-happy Chinese account for 12 per cent of total tourists to Queensland. But the George St
underground railway station opposite the casino front door should reinforce casino taskforce figures
that 70 per cent of Queen’s Wharf visitors will be locals.

The “zillion-dollar’’ plans to redevelop the Alice-Queen street stretch will eventually deliver hundreds
of millions in government taxes as well as offering the CBD much-needed “bread and circuses’’
north of Riverside.

WHAT THE EKKA?

LATEST suggestion to boost Ekka attendances is Muslim prayer mat areas and worship rooms. That
should go down a treat with the old National Party-moleskin mob.

And not all readers agreed the Ekka Wednesday should be one of the public holidays to be axed.
“Bosses have 365 days to organise their businesses,’’ cursed one public holidays fan.

ECHO OF VOTES AT JUPITERS ECHO has taken out insurance against Packer success in
Brisbane with the plan for the new $350 million hotel at Jupiters at Broadbeach, in time for the 2018
Commonwealth Games.

The Echo extravaganza is a safe bet with political pressure certain to scuttle the Wavebreak Island
(pictured) casino/cruise ship terminal in the Broadwater.

Page214of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Newman Government argument is cruise companies prefer to refuel and provision in Brisbane amid
speculation about a new terminal at the mouth of the Brisbane River. Environmental and fuel
concerns have shark-circled the Wavebreak proposal since February.

The real reason for George Street jitters is nearby LNP seats such as Broadwater and Southport
would face voter angst over the project. Wavebreak project support was split in a recent Gold Coast
Bulletin poll.

SHOUTING NOT OVER ON LONG DRINKING HOURS LABOR has a chance for a pub brawl in
Parliament with the Newman Government over extended drinking hours.

The moratorium on new post-midnight licences ends any day. Labor’s grog policy is for 1am lockouts
and bans on high alcohol drinks after midnight. The drinking age remains a sacred cow. Pity. Labor’s
new Stafford MP Dr Anthony Lynham (left) was outspoken on grog violence before recent tongue
surgery.

POLL TRAPS’ spy says no chance to an early election, but upheaval from the ALP conference this
weekend may change things. If PUP remains yellow-carded with China syndrome, the temptation for
Premier Newman to call a pre-G20 election will start to bite.

FAIR CHALLENGE BRISBANE bookies were stirred into a Packer challenge with reports confirmed
the casino king had won control of wagering exchange Betfair. Brisbane rails bookies want minimum
losing Saturday bets raised to $5000 to confront the muscled-up Betfair and back the increases in
state prizemoney. Punters can back fancies to win OR LOSE with Betfair.

“I already bet $5000 in a single wager on Saturdays,’’ said wily rails fielder Ray Karangis who
supports a Brisbane bookmaking revival. Bookies such as Karangis laugh at the $500 minimum for
Doomben.

“The betting limit was reduced to counter price rorting,’’ said RQ Integrity Chief Wade Birch.
But our rails bookies no longer turn over half a million bucks in Saturday phone bets.

Unpopular bookies prices in the Brisbane ring led to a commission of inquiry in 2005.

Former Victorian premier Jeff Kennett weighed to the betting debate blasting Darwin-based corporate
bookies as “a cancer’’.

READY TO ROCK ROCKHAMPTON interest in the NRL future of the Gold Coast Titans is keener
than ever. Despite lukewarm signals from Channel 9 over more Queensland teams, Central
Queensland NRL-bid CEO Denis Keeffe also was quick to pick up on proposals for a new Cowboys
stadium in Townsville.

“The Rocky region is dinkum rugby league heartland,” he said.

ON MESSAGEROB Messenger is a Tasmanian convert to Tassie PUP Senator Jacqui Lambie. The
former National Party MP is the chief of staff for livewire Lambie. She is likely to feature on ABC’s
Australian Story on September 8. “We’re getting on just fine,’’ Messenger said.

IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

i97912 : Gambling Industries | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality
gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document COUMAI0020140824ea8o0000f

Page215of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.