Spike in approvals for foreign investment in housing

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Spike in approvals for foreign investment in housing

Su-Lin Tan
435 words
12 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
36
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The Foreign Investment Review Board has approved a big jump in applications to buy Australian
housing.

In its submission to the House of Representatives economics committee inquiry into foreign
investment in residential real estate, Treasury reported that 10,244 applications had been approved
in the nine months to March.

That compares with 6567 in the whole 2012-13 year. In dollar terms, the investment approved is up
67 per cent. Treasury cautioned that not all approvals result in purchases.

NSW Premier Mike Baird, who made his submission to the inquiry as NSW Treasurer, expressed
concern about the lack of concrete information on foreign purchases, which made it difficult for the
government to determine the effects of foreign investment.

One of his concerns is whether temporary foreign investors sell their properties when they leave the
country – a condition required by law.
Other industry groups, such as the Property Council of Australia and the Real Estate Institute of
Australia (REIA), echo Mr Baird's concerns, saying it is the enforcement of the investment rules that
require review, not the rules themselves.Chinese investors prominent

"A significant point made also is that Australia's foreign investment rules are amongst the toughest in
the world," said Nicholas Proud, executive director of the Property Council. "Consequently, these
rules do not need to be changed, but their application could be considered as part of the review."

The REIA says while there have been few fines levied on investors since 2010, the lack of information
means it is difficult to tell whether this is due to investor compliance or lack of enforcement.

Treasury also says a large proportion of the growth in foreign investments approvals is from
non-resident Chinese investors, but that Australia is not the only country targeted by the Chinese.

Foreign investment also supplied additional housing, as evidenced by large projects around the
country undertaken by Asian property giants such as Greenland, Country Garden and Frasers
Property. The main discussion for the committee is whether foreign investment increases new
housing and brings benefits to the local housing industry, amid claims that foreign investors are
instead driving up prices.

The University of Technology Sydney submitted research showing there is no evidence that increased
Chinese investment in a suburb drives up prices.
Researchers Adrian Lee and Lorenzo Casavecchia concluded that while Chinese investments have
increased over an 11-year period, the prices the investors pay are, in fact, less than average prices.

Page173of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Both researchers, however, said they needed to support this finding with more recent data.

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

prpcna : Property Council of Australia | reioa : Real Estate Institute of Australia
ireest : Real Estate | irreal : Residential Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real
Estate/Construction
efdi : Foreign Direct Investment | e51 : Trade/External Payments | e511 : Capital Movements/Invisible
Trade | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140611ea6c0001y

Page174of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.