Rugby club and offices bought before interest rise

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Commercial realestate
Rugby club and offices bought before interest rise

Carolyn Cummins
247 words
16 April 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
25
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE

Investors have snapped up two key assets in Sydney as the competition heats up to get properties
before any increases in interest rates later in the year.

One was the Northern Suburbs Rugby Club at 80 Christie Street, St Leonards, to an education
services provider, for a suggested $10 million.
The selling agents, Andrew Jolliffe and Jeff Moxham from the Ray White Group, declined to
comment on the price but said demand was strong for the development site.

"The significant development interest in the broader area provided the club with an opportunity to
meet its objective of furthering its rugby program," Mr Jolliffe said.

A spokesman for the Northern Suburbs Rugby Club, Michael Callanan, said the members of North
Sydney Rugby Club Ltd unanimously approved the sale of the Cabana Bar to the successful
purchaser so as to redirect its focus to the establishment of a rugby foundation.

A private investor paid about $11.6 million for an office tower at 63 York Street, on the corner of
Barrack Street. It is seven storeys and fully leased.
The sales come amid the deal completed by the US Blackstone Group for a half share in the
Westpac headquarters for about $420 million. No confirmation has been given, but agents say the
group was keen to use the asset to seed an Asian fund, targeted to Korean and Chinese investors.

NS

RE
PUB
AN

gplan : Urban Planning/Development | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International
Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics
nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140415ea4g0004m

Page90of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.