High rollers' lucky streak 'killing us', says Packer

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
High rollers' lucky streak 'killing us', says Packer

Jessica Gardner and Jonathan Barrett
779 words
17 October 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
26
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

James Packer's Melbourne and Perth casinos have failed to shrug off poor consumer sentiment, while
a lucky streak among VIP gamblers has seen them take more money than expected off the casino
billionaire.

Mr Packer, who controls just over 50 per cent of Crown Resorts, told his fellow shareholders at the
casino operator's annual meeting trading in the first 15 weeks of the year had been "mixed at best".

Mr Packer said consumer sentiment at the Melbourne and Perth properties has been soft. But
high-roller punters have had a lucky start to the year, with win rates at both casinos described by the
chairman as "poor".
"Our VIP businesses are almost $100 million below the theoretical result less than four months into
the financial year due to an adverse win rate or put simply, bad luck," he said.

"The punters are killing us."
Mr Packer defended Crown's $US1.9 billion ($2.2 billion) foray into Las Vegas, telling a shareholder
he was offended by any assertion that he had pushed through the decision. Australian Shareholders
Association representative John Campbell had asked about the decision-making process that had
lead Crown to return to Vegas. Crown's initial, ill-timed play into Vegas before the global financial
crisis, led to $2 billion in write-downs.

"I have made a lot of mistakes in my life but one thing I try not to do is make the same mistake twice,"
Mr Packer said. "We've got an absolute world-class management team in Las Vegas this time."
The Crown chairman said the total project would cost between $US1.6 billion and $US1.9 billion.
The casino will sit on a 35-hectare site that Crown bought in a joint venture for $US280 million in
August. Crown's total equity investment will be between $US400 million and $US500 million.

The venture is with former Wynn Las Vegas senior executive Andrew Pascal, who will run the group,
and hedge fund, Oaktree Capital Management, although Crown will own a majority stake.

Crown chief executive Rowen Craigie said so far this year from July 1 to October 12, "local trading
continues to be impacted by the general softness in consumer sentiment".

The sluggish consumer spending kept revenue growth from main gaming floor tables and poker
machines to 2 per cent, compared with the same period last year. Non-gaming revenue, from areas
such as food, beverage and accommodation, also rose 2 per cent.

Mr Craigie also acknowledged that times have been tough in Macau, where Crown owns 33.6 per
cent of joint venture Melco Crown alongside Chinese gaming heir, Lawrence Ho.

"Market conditions across Macau did weaken during the fourth quarter of F14," he told the meeting.

Page207of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Domestic revenue rose marginally in the period, but the amount bet by Crown's domestic high-roller
punters was flat compared with the previous corresponding period, Mr Craigie said.

Crown shares rose 1 per cent to $13.64 on Thursday, but are down from January's 12-month high of
$18.00. Slow growth in Macau weighed on the share price, which has fallen 18 per cent in the past
year.
Mr Packer defended the company's dividend policy to a shareholder question in Crown Perth's Astral
Ballroom. Crown paid out total dividends of 37¢ a share in the 2014 financial year. Mr Packer's
50.1 per cent stake delivered a $135 million payday. "I'd like the dividend to be higher as well," he
said in response to the question. "The reality is we are re-investing in our business."
Crown began receiving dividends from Melco Crown this year. It took in $68.6 million as a special
dividend in respect of 2013 and $25.8 million for the quarter ending on March 31.

As a result of the new cash stream, Crown recently revised its own dividend policy. In future it will pay
out the higher of 37¢ or 65 per cent of net profit after tax, excluding profits, but including dividends
from associates.

All resolutions passed at the meeting, although the re-election of director Rowena Danziger was not
without protest. About 14 per cent of votes cast were against Ms Danziger's re-election. The former
principal of elite Sydney girls' school, Ascham, has been a Crown director since 2007.

One of Mr Packer's long-time advisers and deputy chairman, John Alexander, was also re-elected,
with a much smaller vote of 3 per cent against.

The remuneration report passed with 7 per cent of votes cast going against it.

CO
IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

crncas : Crown Resorts Limited
i97912 : Gambling Industries | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | perth : Perth | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141016eaah0001s

Page208of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.