Nathan Tinkler's coal - mining comeback crumbles

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY

LP

TD

Nathan Tinkler's coal-mining comeback crumbles

By Jeremy Grant in Singapore
502 words
28 August 2014
19:51
Financial Times (FT.Com)
FTCOM
English
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles
and redistribute by email or post to the web.

Nathan Tinkler's hopes for a comeback in the coal industry have been dealt a serious blow by the
collapse of the Australian entrepreneur's deal with Peabody to buy the US coal producer's Wilkie Creek
coal mine in Australia.

Mr Tinkler's Singapore-based Bentley Resources made a non-refundable payment for the mine when it
agreed to the deal in May. But it had failed to follow up with further instalments, Peabody said.

Bentley was "unable to meet its subsequent obligations for closing", Peabody said in a statement on
Thursday. As a result the US company had terminated the sale agreement and was "evaluating its
alternatives" for the Wilkie Creek mine.

Two people familiar with Mr Tinkler's business dealings confirmed that he had failed to make a so-called
"milestone" payment agreed in a contract with Peabody.

The development comes only three months after Peabody and the 38-year-old Mr Tinkler inked the
$150m Wilkie Creek deal. Benchmark Australian thermal coal prices have sunk 5 per cent since then
and are down 18 per cent to date this year.
The Australian coal sector is enduring its biggest shakeout in years amid a two-year slump in the coal
price, a plethora of relatively high-cost mines and a strong Australian dollar.

Australian miners have shed thousands of jobs as they mothball high-cost mines, sell non-core assets
and drive efficiencies across their operations. Peabody closed Wilkie Creek, in Queensland, in
December 2013 after failing to find a buyer.
Mr Tinkler had hoped to use Wilkie Creek to spearhead his re-entry into the coal business. The former
billionaire crashed out of the industry in 2012 after a sharp drop in coal prices left him heavily exposed
to creditors.

Mr Tinkler, who now lives primarily in Singapore, told the Financial Times in May that he was investing
in Wilkie Creek because he believed there would be demand for higher quality, low-emission coal as a
result of government pressure - especially in China - for greater use of more environmentally friendly
grades of the fuel.
"While the market is oversupplied, we are still in a market where I believe high-quality thermal coal is
hard to secure, so now is the time to buy it," he said at the time.

Mr Tinkler was for several years listed as the richest man in Australia under 40, after he amassed a
huge paper fortune based on a series of deals in the coal business, starting with a A$30m investment in
a Queensland coal licence.
That culminated in the sale of assets to Whitehaven Coal for A$2.7bn three years ago. Mr Tinkler then
made a A$5.3bn bid for Whitehaven in 2012, which collapsed after coal prices fell.

Page340of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.That sparked lawsuits in Australia against Mr Tinkler to recover unpaid debts - put at a reported
A$500m last year.

Additional reporting by Jamie Smyth and Xan Rice

CO
IN

RE

IPD
IPC
PUB
AN

brgol : FYI Resources Ltd | pbdy : Peabody Energy Corp
imet : Mining/Quarrying | i111 : Coal Mining | i1 : Energy | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i951 :
Health Care/Life Sciences
austr : Australia | namz : North America | singp : Singapore | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Company News
CN
The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)
Document FTCOM00020140828ea8s001e1

Page341of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.