The world's biggest men's skincare market might not be where you think

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
LA
CY
LP

TD

Entrepreneurs
The world's biggest men's skincare market might not be where you think

Caitlin Fitzsimmons
990 words
7 August 2014
BRW
BRW
First
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Did you know that South Korea is the world's biggest men's skincare market?

Or that the Asia-Pacific region accounts for 60 per cent of the men's skincare market, a rapidly growing
part of the $US33 billion male grooming industry?

These are facts that have not escaped the attention of the Australian founders of Liquid Skin Care,
Anthony McDonough and Chris Glebatsas.

"When we started to think about which markets we wanted to play in, we weren't in a hurry to get into the
Australian market because it's a very crowded market and there are only really two potential retailers,
David Jones and Myer, and having spent most of my life in retail I know that's not the way to make
money," McDonough says.

"We looked at where the biggest men's skincare market is and a lot of people don't realise but Asia is
actually 60 per cent of the men's skincare market and South Korea is actually the biggest men's skincare
market in the world, so we decided to focus on Asia."

The co-founders spent two years developing the Lqd product range and then launched the product online
in Australia in 2012 to test the market, with growth coming through word of mouth and social media.
McDonough says the experience with online retail in Australia showed that people prefer to try a new
product in store, and Lqd is competing with brands like Clinique, Clarins and Dermalogica that all have
retail distribution.
Now the company is set to make a serious push into Asia, after securing a distribution deal with
SG Cosmetics to chase a premium retail strategy.

Through that partnership, Singapore-based Luxola, the largest online skincare and cosmetics retailer in
South East Asia, is already selling the complete product range. Harvey Nichols is set to stock it in four
stores in Hong Kong from next month. Further deals are in the pipeline with Lane Crawford and Joyce
in Hong Kong and Robinsons in Singapore.
Mainland China is out of bounds for the time being, because of the legal requirement in China for
cosmetics brands to do animal testing. "We don't test our products on animals; we don't believe in it,"
McDonough says. "At the moment we don't intend to sell outside Hong Kong but the Chinese are
reviewing that criteria at the moment and it looks like that might be changing."

McDonough says revenue had grown 50 per cent compared with last year and he expects Liquid Skin
Care to be achieving $1 million in sales by the end of this year, with the Luxola and Harvey Nichols
distribution. He has just quit his job as marketing director of Fitness First to work in the business full time
with Glebatsas.

The couple, who are life partners as well as business co-founders, have funded the start-up themselves,
to avoid diluting their shareholdings. McDonough owns a majority stake, reflecting the fact it was his
original concept and research.

Page238of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.McDonough did an organic chemistry degree and then spent most of his life in marketing and retail, while
Glebatsas has a background in investment banking.

McDonough has sensitive skin and he was motivated to create the "perfect product" that he would use
and recommend to his friends – which is why the product development took so long.

"Men's skin is actually a little bit different to women's: there's a different chemical layer on the outside of
the skin, it's a little bit tougher, most men shave daily and most women use make-up, which traps the
moisture in, so men's skin tends to be drier," he says.

"The reality is most men's skincare products are actually women's skincare products that are
repackaged, recoloured and refragranced. There are very few skincare products on the market that do
anything and there are a number that do more damage than good because of the ingredients they have
in them."

For example, many face washes use sulphates, which can dry out skin. The Lqd range doesn't include
any irritants and uses ingredients like aloe vera and almond oil, that are more expensive but better for
skin. The products are manufactured in Victoria and McDonough says this will continue as "it's part of the
brand".

McDonough believes the men's skincare market in Western countries will eventually catch up to Asia.

"I quite often refer people to the development life cycle of deodorant," he says. "It was used initially by
women, then by gay men, then women bought it for their sons and it skipped a generation of men but
then became the norm and everybody used it.
"Skincare is very much like that. When I was growing up, and I'm a 46-year-old male, nobody used
skincare. Now a 14-year-old boy when he starts shaving, their mum will buy them moisturiser. What you'll
see is within the next 10 years, the market will continue to develop and it is already the fastest growing
sector in the beauty and grooming category."

McDonough concedes that men's skincare has not met the expectations of big brands like Niveal or
Loreal. "I think that's because they misread the life cycle – they thought every 35-year-old man would
suddenly rush out and buy moisturiser, but that's not how it works."

However, McDonough says US department store Bloomingdales got in touch with the request to stock
Lqd in several stores. He notes that it is "very unusual" for a retailer like Bloomingdales to contact the
supplier rather than the supplier spending a decade trying to get a foot in the door, so it is a good
opportunity and Liquid Skin Care is currently looking for a distributor to manage North America.

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
AN

Document BRW0000020140807ea8700002

Page239of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.