Shell Exits Wheatstone, Slices Arrow

SE
HD
WC 640 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Features
Shell Exits Wheatstone, Slices Arrow

22 January 2014
LNG Intelligence
LNGI
English
©2014 Energy Intelligence Group. All rights reserved

TD

Royal Dutch Shell has kicked off its 2014 divestment program, netting $1.14 billion (A$1.3 billion) by
exiting Australia's $29 billion Wheatstone LNG project in a sale to Kuwait Foreign Petroleum Exploration
Co. (Kufpec), the company announced Monday (LNGI Jan.16'14).
Meanwhile, the supermajor axed around half the jobs at its proposed $20 billion Arrow LNG development
Monday, one Shell source said, putting another Australian project in doubt as new Chief Executive Ben
van Beurden looks to cut Shell's losses on a number of high-margin projects following a disastrous 2013.

Europe's top oil company agreed to sell a 6.4% holding in the 8.9 million ton per year Wheatstone
project in northwest Australia and an 8% equity interest in two offshore gas fields which will feed the
facility. Kufpec, the international arm of Kuwait's national oil company, KPC, already has a 7% stake in
the Chevron-led project and will increase its equity interest by 570,000 tons per annum alongside the US
major, which has a 64.14% holding, Houston-based independent Apache with 13% and utility Kyushu
Electric with 1.46%. The remaining 8% is owned by joint venture PE Wheatstone, comprised of Japanese
quartet Mitsubishi, Tepco, NYK Line and Jogpec.
Since the Kuwait firm is an existing partner, Shell says the sale to Kufpec "ensures there will be no
impact on existing commercial agreements."

Wheatstone, which is expected to achieve first production by 2016, has already agreed deals for almost its
entire capacity with the world's top market in Northeast Asia. Japanese and South Korean buyers,
including the countries' largest, Tepco and Kogas, have agreed 20-year offtake deals totaling 8.4 million
tons annually (LNGI Oct.2'13).
In a crowded LNG environment in Australia's northeast, Arrow -- an 8 million ton/yr 50-50 joint venture
with Chinese state-owned PetroChina -- has yet to be sanctioned and industry watchers have suggested
it could be scrapped. Such rumblings received greater weight following reports that up to 600 jobs were
cut there on Monday. Gladstone, where the development is based, already has four other projects either
planned or under construction (LNGI Nov.13'13).
"Shell will remain a major player in Australia's energy industry," said van Beurden. "However, we are
refocusing our investment to where we can add the most value. We are making hard choices in our
world-wide portfolio to improve Shell's capital efficiency," he added. 
Last year Shell indicated it had set a 2014 divestment target of some $15 billion.

In an unprecedented profit warning last week, Shell put the blame for poor results last year on
"high-margin production including LNG" (IOD Jan.20'14). One analyst told LNGI sister publication
International Oil Daily that Shell's latest divestment decision made sense.
"Following a path of least resistance, the sale to a project partner reduces any headaches, while [the
supermajor] is able to concentrate on LNG projects in which it has an operating capacity," the analyst
said.

In a separate statement on Monday, Shell also announced its upstream boss, Andy Brown, had stepped
down with immediate effect while he "recuperates from a recent medical procedure." The supermajor's
head of integrated gas, Maarten Wetselaar, formerly upstream finance head, will take over his
responsibilities. Brown's absence follows the sudden departure of the company's legal director, Peter
Rees, on Jan. 10.

Page65of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In other disappointing news for Shell, production from the giant onshore Groningen field, which accounts
for around 50% of Dutch output, will be cut by more than a quarter over the next three years, the country's
economics ministry said on Friday, following concern over earthquakes resulting from production. Shell
operates the field in a 50-50 joint venture with Exxon Mobil.
Energy Intelligence

CO kfpeck : Kuwait Foreign Petroleum Exploration Company | rnlp : Royal Dutch Shell PLC | kpc : Kuwait

Petroleum Corp
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | i1300005 : Support
Activities for Oil/Gas | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
c184 : Joint Ventures | c411 : Management Moves | c18 : Ownership Changes | c41 : Management Issues
| cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

IN

NS

RE
PUB Energy Intelligence Group Inc.
AN

Document LNGI000020140129ea1m00004

Page66of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.