LHG woos local Chinese market

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Features
LHG woos local Chinese market

FLORENCE CHONG, STRATEGY
709 words
13 February 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
28
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

The Singapore-based group plans to list on the Australian bourse
THE Singapore-based Lian Huat Group plans to list a Chinese industrial property development
company on the Australian bourse as it targets Australia's growing Chinese population.

Mr Kho Choon Keng, Lian Huat Group's executive chairman told The Australian his company was
working with the Australian Securities Exchange on documentation and a prospectus for the initial
public offering of the company, LionHub Group. This listing is aimed for next month.
Lian Huat, which has a Sydney property portfolio of about $45 million, has invested in an electronic
company, Arasor International Limited suspended from trading on the ASX, and is using this for a
backdoor listing. Ararsor International has been renamed as LionHub Group Limited.
Lian Huat intends to seek shareholder approval to transform it into a property development and
investment group.
Through its subsidiary Lian Keng Enterprises, Lian Huat Group holds a substantial stake in the new
company, which has already attracted investor interest in Singapore.
Mr Kho said LionHub hoped to tap into the large reservoir of Chinese Australians and permanent
residents from China in Australia for its capital raising.

But he hopes that LionHub will also appeal to the wider Australian investor base. ``We chose to list in
Australia because we see a niche for a developer of industrial properties in China on the ASX,'' said
Mr Kho, adding that Arasor provided LionHub with an investor base of 4000.
Australia was experiencing a strong influx of Chinese investment and Chinese immigrants making it
an appropriate location to list, he said.
Australia stood out as a nation with a strong commercial relationship with China, forged on the back
of China's reliance on Australian resources. ``Even though the resource boom is waning, we
anticipate there will be a new wave of business opportunities,'' said Mr Kho.
Subject to shareholders' approval, its first project will be a business park on a 2.2sq km site in
Xuancheng, a major city in the southeast of Anhui province in central China.
Mr Kho said the business park, Xuancheng Singapore Technology Park, would include
warehouses/distribution centres, industrial buildings and campus-style offices.

``We do have a pipeline of development land, totalling 8sq km, which could provide LionHub with
future projects,'' Mr Kho said.

The project had the backing of the Anhui provincial government, which was keen to develop logistics
infrastructure to capture a slice of China's burgeoning e-commerce business.

Page27of29©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Lian Huat first entered the Australian market in the early 1990s, developing the 32-level Hyde Park
Tower apartment block in Elizabeth Street in central Sydney.
It acquired what was then the Southern Cross Hotel in Sydney, which was subsequently sold to the
Toga Group, and renamed Vibe Hotel.
Other residential projects included a serviced apartment block on a site adjacent to the Southern
Cross Hotel and 1 Dixon Street in Chinatown.
Mr Kho said the apartments were sold on completion, but that Lian Huat had retained a portfolio of
strata-titled offices and retail space in various buildings in the central business district and
Chinatown.

After more than a decade as a passive investor in Australia, during which the ownership of the parent
company was restructured, Lian Huat was actively looking for sites on the Gold Coast and Brisbane
for development.

``The competition for good sites has made it very difficult for us to secure the right land,'' he said.
Lian Huat Group has its core business in property and hotels, and is building a hotel with retail
space and an upmarket residential block in Singapore. It is developing industrial properties in the
northern Chinese city of Tianjin.
``We have been in China for many years now, developing in Tianjin (south-east of Beijing), and only
recently went to Anhui Province,'' said Mr Kho. The group works with joint-venture partners in all
projects in Singapore and China.
The total completed value of its current projects in Singapore and China is close to $S1 billion ($880
million).
Lian Huat is one of Singapore's largest and oldest privately held property groups. The Kho patriarch,
Kho Beng Kang, founded the company as a nutmeg and mace trader in 1957.

arinna : Lionhub Group Ltd.
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i34531 : Semiconductors | ielec : Consumer Electronics | iindele :
Industrial Electronics | iindstrls : Industrial Goods | itech : Technology
c1711 : Initial Public Offerings | gdip : International Relations | c02 : Corporate Changes | c14 : Stock
Listings | c17 : Funding/Capital | c171 : Share Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat
: Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | singp : Singapore | sydney : Sydney | anhui : Anhui | apacz : Asia
Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia |
nswals : New South Wales | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140212ea2d00030

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Search Summary

Text

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or entitys) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street

Page28of29©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
01/01/2014 to 30/04/2014
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
2,564
29 August 2018 1:31

Page29of29©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.