‘Little control’ over foreign funding

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
‘Little control’ over foreign funding

KYLAR LOUSSIKIAN
419 words
12 August 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
21
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

AUSTRALIAN banks have little oversight about the financing of residential purchases by overseas
buyers, although they have considered legal options about pursuing failed settlements on apartment
development pre-sales.

The admission comes in responses prepared by ANZ, the Australian Bankers Association and
Macquarie Group to questions posed to them at the parliamentary inquiry into foreign investment in
residential real estate, amid concerns that offshore financing, including the use of non-official
“shadow banking” in China, was cheaper and was not up to Australian regulatory standards.

Tom Westcott, ANZ’s senior manager of public policy, wrote that the bank would sample pre-sales “to
check postcodes and local demographics to give validity to the claim (of the sale)”, but it would not
source the origin of the capital.

Steven Munchenberg, the chief executive of the Australian Bankers Association, wrote that in reality
“the bank does not have a contract with the relevant purchaser and therefore does not have the
authority to request personal financial information to verify the source of funds”.
James Laurenceson, the deputy director of the Australian-China Relations Institute at the University of
Technology in Sydney, said there was nothing sinister about China’s “shadow banking” sector and it
was often a way to circumvent official restrictions on capital being sent abroad.
“We don’t get a lot of Chinese investment, relatively speaking, and this could be a positive if it leads to
an expansion in (apartment) supply,” Dr Laurenceson said.
The ABA’s submission went on to note that “where a very high level foreign pre-sale was being
considered by a bank, the bank may seek a legal opinion on the ability of the developer to pursue
failed settlements” in the purchaser’s domestic market.

Banks often cap the level of pre-sales allowed to foreign buyers at 30 per cent. Mr Munchenberg told
The Australian that this was rare, and often a “matter of prudence”.

Both the ABA and ANZ said they were not aware of any significant concerns with failed settlements by
overseas buyers.
In response to a query on oversight of Significant Investor Visa holders, Macquarie Group said
overseas applicants had to sign loan proceedings to ensure money would not be used for residential
property, although it did not monitor the use of borrowed funds.However, The Australian understands
the complexity of drawing such loans and the repercussions of breaking the agreement was believed
to be enough to make such an investment unpalatable.

CO
IN

aubaao : Australian Bankers' Association | mcqbnk : Macquarie Group Limited
i814 : Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit |
ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities

Page163of239©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS
RE
PUB
AN

ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140811ea8c0006b

Page164of239©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.