Cheap Aluminum From Xinjiang May Cut Metal's Cost Support: CBA -- Market Talk

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Cheap Aluminum From Xinjiang May Cut Metal's Cost Support: CBA -- Market Talk

1,501 words
30 July 2014
11:02
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

Contact us in Singapore. 65 64154 140; MarketTalk@dowjones.com

0102 GMT [Dow Jones] A fall in Chinese aluminum production costs could pull the proverbial rug out
from under market prices. Commonwealth Bank of Australia says new large scale and cheap capacity in
Xinjiang "is likely to reduce average costs in China's aluminium sector, thereby reducing marginal cost
support for global aluminum prices, even as western world aluminium markets tighten." It says Xinjiang in
April accounted for 19% of total Chinese aluminum production, "consolidating the province's position as
China's largest aluminium producer." It expects the province to continue to take market share as a result
of lower power costs, as smelters take advantage of cheap local thermal coal. (rhiannon.hoyle@wsj.com;
Twitter: @RhiannonHoyle)

0052 GMT [Dow Jones] The overnight rise of the U.S. dollar index ought to result in a higher PBOC daily
USD/CNY parity rate, which could in turn push spot USD/CNY higher. Spot USD/CNY continues to show
a bearish technical bias unless it closes Wednesday above 6.1941 and thus negates the daily Bollinger
downtrend channel's influence. Spot USD/CNY's consecutive 5-day descent has now extended past the
confines of the lower Bollinger band (standard deviation 2) suggesting that its recent movement has
overshot the short-term average statistical fluctuation and could thus be due for a pullback. The U.S.
FOMC meeting later today could steer the U.S. dollar higher if the U.S. Federal Reserve hints at raising
interest rates sooner. Fresh U.S. sanctions announced overnight could also cast a mild risk aversion in
Asia and lead to U.S. dollar strength. (ewen.chew@wsj.com)

0047 GMT [Dow Jones] Moody's Investors Service says that a severe mining downturn in Australia
would trigger only a "relatively minor" increase in delinquencies for the Australian Residential Mortgage
Backed Securities. "Australian RMBS would prove resilient in the event of a mining downturn because
they are geographically diversified, limiting the exposure of individual transactions to regions that would
be severely affected," said Alena Chen, a Moody's analyst. Chen said Moody's conducted this analysis
because Australia's mining sector has seen significant job losses over the last two years, shedding close
to 11,000 employees. (james.glynn@wsj.com)

0034 GMT [Dow Jones] Moody's has retained it stable outlook on New Zealand's banking system
"reflecting our expectation of sustained economic growth and stable asset quality in the coming 12-18
months," the investor service says in a note. "While the banks could face mild pressure on their loan
margins as monetary policy gradually tightens, low credit costs will help preserve profits and allow the
banks to maintain their strong capital buffers." It says funding conditions will remain favorable. "Deposit
growth will continue to exceed loan growth, although we expect the gap to narrow. Consequently, the
banks will not have to increase the proportion of their funding from wholesale sources."
(lucy.craymer@wsj.com;Twitter: @lucy_craymer)

0029 GMT [Dow Jones] South Korea's stronger-than-expected June factory output is unlikely to ease
pressure on the Bank of Korea to cut its policy rate to support growth, says Tongyang Securities
economist Lee Chul-hee. "It should be viewed as a technical rebound, not a sign of full-fledged recovery,
after fewer working days of the previous month," Lee says. "The BOK, still under growing government
pressure to ease its monetary policy, is likely to give in." He expects a quarter percentage-point cut in the

Page33of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.policy rate at the BOK meeting on Aug. 14. Output in June expands 2.9% from a month earlier, the
fastest pace in 57 months and beating market expectations of a 0.9% gain. On a year-on-year basis, it
grows 0.6% in June, compared with market expectations of a 0.9% expansion. (kwanwoo.jun@wsj.com)

0027 GMT [Dow Jones] Australia's Domino's Pizza Enterprises (DMP.AU) should keep growing sales
volumes in Japan, although macro headwinds will probably slow same-store sales growth there to a
more modest rate than the 5%-7% expected in FY14, says Macquarie. Its European business,
meanwhile, still needs work after underperforming over the past 18 months, while price competition in
Australia--Dominoes is offering some large takeaway pizzas for A$4.50 each--will put pressure on
margins. "Domino's deserves to trade at a premium given its growth track record, strong management
team, attractive business model, online dominance, and positive earnings outlook including international
growth in Europe and Japan," Macquarie says. The stock, however, is trading at around 34 times
forecast FY15 earnings, justifying a "neutral" recommendation, the broker says. Domino's is down 0.5%
at A$21.65, compared with Macquarie's A$21.54 price target.(Ross.Kelly@wsj.com)

0024 GMT [Dow Jones] NZ building consents have more than recovered from April's weakness and
excluding the volatile apartment category are at their highest level since late 2007, says Westpac senior
economist Michael Gordon in a note; "Not surprisingly, the rise in consents was driven by the Auckland
and Canterbury regions, with both reaching new cycle highs." Statistics New Zealand said earlier that
June residential building consents were up 3.5% on month, and up 26.7% on year, while excluding the
apartment sector, consents were up 2.9% on month and rose 27.1% on year.
(lucy.craymer@wsj.com;Twitter: @lucy_craymer)

2302 GMT [Dow Jones] -- The USD/JPY may trade in a 101.80-102.30 range during Asian trading
Wednesday with bias on the upside as investors await the U.S. preliminary estimate on second-quarter
gross domestic product, followed by the conclusion of the Federal Open Market Committee meeting later
in the day, says Junichi Ishikawa, market analyst at IG Securities in Tokyo. "The dollar has gained on
speculation of a more hawkish tone from the Fed," he says. A stronger U.S. consumer confidence figure
is also behind the dollar's strength, he says. He tips the EUR/USD in a 1.3400-1.3450 range. The
USD/JPY is at 102.12, and the EUR/USD is at 1.3410. (alexander.martin@wsj.com)

18:32 EDT - The contribution that favorable demographics have made to emerging market economic
growth over the past couple of decades is often overplayed, says Capital Economics' Neil Shearing.
More than baby booms, what matters for economic growth is the ability to raise productivity, he says. So
while several emerging countries are likely to run into demographic headwinds over the next decade,
Shearing argues that "this may not necessarily be the disaster that some seem to expect." The United
Nations predicts that working age populations in Latin America will expand only modestly over the next
couple of decades. (amy.guthrie@wsj.com)

17:49 EDT - It's been more than a year since the city of Detroit filed its historic municipal bankruptcy
case, the largest for a city in US history. But the presiding judge said today a trial on the city's
debt-cutting plan should wait a bit. It was originally scheduled to start Aug. 14, but federal bankruptcy
Judge Steven Rhodes says today "the record does establish extraordinary cause" for moving the start of
the trial back a week to Aug. 21. Holdout creditors are expected at trial to challenge the viability of the
city's plan and its fairness to city debtholders. (matthew.dolan@wsj.com; @matthewsdolan)
17:14 EDT - Supplies of beef, pork and poultry are trailing volumes sold in the US last year, and retail
prices have climbed to reflect production constraints, with beef typically the priciest protein of the three.
"Is the US consumer starting to show signs of weariness in the face of high beef prices?" asks Societe
Generale head of agricultural commodities research Chris Narayanan. He says "not yet," but notes the
"bull market is likely to continue over the next few years," based on recent federal inventory reports of the
nation's cattle herd. (kelsey.gee@wsj.com; @kelseykgee)

16:54 EDT - A dearth of qualified professionals in areas such as engineering is forcing companies in
Mexico to search for talent abroad, says recruiting firm Hays. The gap between the know-how that
employers seek and the capabilities of job candidates widens by the day, Hays warns, citing its recent
study of employment trends in the country. Hays urges the Mexican government, educational institutions
and companies to strategize together on how to improve the country's talent pool. Mexico received a
record $35.2B in foreign direct investment in 2013, although a third of that amount stemmed from a
single M&A deal. (amy.guthrie@wsj.com)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

July 29, 2014 21:02 ET (01:02 GMT)

CO

ctb : Commonwealth Bank of Australia

Page34of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS

RE

i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | i22 : Primary Metals | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i814 : Banking |
i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | namt : All Market Talk | ncmac : Commodities Asset Class
News | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset
Class News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | xinji : Xinjiang | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries
| dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020140730ea7u0006j

Page35of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.