Developers circle Airlie Beach

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Developers circle Airlie Beach

Samantha Hutchinson
365 words
30 January 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
36
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

A tourist town in the Whitsundays could become home to Queensland's newest casino, with a
number of offshore developers scouting sites in and around Airlie Beach.

The Whitsunday Regional Council confirmed it is working alongside Macau-based gaming outfit the
Zelong Group and developer China-Australia Entrepreneurs Association Incorporated to advance
plans for a casino, Buddhist temple and Chinatown development in the Airlie Beach and Shute
Harbour area.

During a meeting with Mayor Jennifer Whitney last week, senior executives from Zelong Group and
CAEAI agreed to mount a bid for a regional casino licence.
Zelong Group holds six casino licences in Macau while CAEAI holds a number of food and
hospitality interests across South Australia and China.
It is not the first time Chinese and south-east Asian developers have shown interest in the area
which is popular for tourism and access to the Whitsunday islands.
Nanjing-based developer Fullshare Group paid $56 million in 2011 for the Whisper Bay resort at
Airlie Beach, while China-based group White Horse Australia purchased Lindeman Island in April
2012 for around $12 million.
Closer to Airlie Beach, an undisclosed Chinese developer paid $1.6 million for a 19-acre site near
the city centre with development approval for 250 apartments.

Zelong and CAEAI must now submit an official bid for a casino licence with the Queensland
government, which last year hinted at the possibility of approving more casino licences, including
two in regional Queensland.

The Mayor declined to put a figure on the value of the proposed investment, but said the project will
be "the biggest investment in the Whitsunday region in 20 years".

The talks come at the same time as the council considers an expansion of the Whitsunday Coast
Airport to accommodate larger aircraft which can fly direct from China.

Ms Whitney said the council was looking at a number of partnerships to help finance upgrades, while
retaining the airport as a council-owned asset.
"The council is building relationships with a number of international investors from China, India,
Thailand and South Africa across industries such as resources, transport and logistics, energy and
tourism," Ms Whitney said.

IN

ireest : Real Estate | i97912 : Gambling Industries | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ilea :
Leisure/Arts/Hospitality

Page62of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

PUB
AN

china : China | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
| austr : Australia | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140129ea1u0002q

Page63of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.