Illegal but allowed, foreign deals push housing over top

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Inquirer
Illegal but allowed, foreign deals push housing over top

RICK WALLACE, SCOTT MURDOCH
2,116 words
14 June 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
18
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

A huge increase in China-based vendors offering Australian property shows the bubble’s source

THE timing could hardly have been better — just as The Australian was lifting the lid on a wave of
unlawful foreign property investment in Australia, the latest IMF report on the country’s high housing
prices landed with a thud.

The International Monetary Fund’s research found property prices here are the third-highest in the
world in relation to income, and the fifth highest in the world in relation to rents received.

Despite the cramped returns, foreign capital from overseas — including a large swag from among
China’s throng of 2.4 million millionaires — is pouring into Australian fixed property through the
leaky sieve that is the Foreign Investment Review Board’s regulatory regime.
For former investment banker Bill Moss, who spearheaded the Macquarie Group’s move into
apartment development in China in the mid-1990s, everything he warned about more than a year ago
has come to pass.
“It is totally as predicted. The time to have had this debate was 18 months ago,’’ he says. “China is
such a large population, and it’s got so many wealthy people, and there’s a desire in the upper- middle
class to move their money offshore.

“Australia is in the time zone and it’s a logical place to move the money. Their whole society is based
on real estate going up every year and producing capital gains, and that’s just starting to unleash into
Australia.” Foreign investment in fixed housing has more than doubled within a year with the most
recent figures showing offshore investors buying more than 5000 properties worth more than $5 billion
in the previous financial year.
A federal parliamentary committee established to examine the property purchase loopholes has
heard buyers are using children studying in Australia or law firms to purchase luxury properties, and
investors regard the theoretically applicable $85,000 penalty as the “cost of doing business”.

As The Australian has pointed out this week, this investment is essentially illegal in all but the
narrowest of circumstances — yet, remarkably, it goes on all the time and has spawned a new
business model for real estate agencies selling this real estate to foreigners.

At the same time, it has fed into the growing debate on housing affordability and — in the eyes of Moss
and others — heightened the prospects of an eventual crash in Australian real estate prices when the
tide turns.
“I think while interest rates are low, and as long as you have got more investors from China, I would
have thought it’s not going to collapse. (But) what happens to this market when the global recovery
starts to take hold and the Australian dollar is dropping and people want to move money out?’’ Moss
says.

Page23of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“We saw Dubai collapse — everyone said Dubai couldn’t collapse, well it did collapse.
“People who have scraped and saved to buy their first home are suddenly left with no equity in it.”
Australia has legislated to curtail foreign investment to off-the-plan property only, with limited
exceptions for temporary residents, who can buy an established home but have to sell it when they
leave.

Through evidence given to a parliamentary inquiry examining foreign investment in Australian housing,
it is now abundantly clear that on the inattentive watch of the FIRB this is being systematically abused,
literally without sanction.

There are fines of $85,000, and even jail terms, for those investors caught out, but the regulator
essentially conceded before the inquiry that there had been no prosecutions since 2010.

“Our preference (to prosecution) if non-compliance is detected is that we will seek to remedy that in
consultation with the individuals and bring them back into a territory of compliance,’’ Treasury official
John Hill told the first public hearing of the house economics committee hearing into foreign investment
in Australian real estate.

As the May 30 hearing wore on, FIRB chairman Brian Wilson sought to downplay the issue by batting
away concerns about foreign investment in housing by suggesting they were simplistic or had a racist
overtone.
“I think a lot of the commentary is around ‘I turned up at an auction and a Chinese person bought it. It
was an illegal transaction that has stopped my buying that property’,’’ he said.

“I think we do need to put the activity in context. I am not saying that such a view is necessarily
malevolent, but it is a popular view. We don’t have concerns about people of Greek extraction buying
properties or people of Italian extraction buying properties, because they are not so easily identifiable, I
suppose.” As much as Wilson may like to dismiss concerns as the angry thought bubbles of a bunch of
envious racists, the reality is that Australians actually have legitimate concerns about a regulatory
regime, which he is running, that appears to have more holes than a Swiss cheese.

The regulator has already been accused of smug indifference by one MP over its performance before
the committee and Moss, who now chairs the advisory firm Moss Capital, says it is no surprise that
savvy speculators, investors and agents were four or five steps ahead of the FIRB response.

In the days since the revelations of regulatory failure emerged in the hearing, The Australian has found
numerous examples of essentially unfettered trade in Australian fixed housing to foreign investors.
The latest revelation is a fivefold increase in vendors in China offering Australian housing in recent
years. Already, more than 100 agencies exist in mainland China offering Australian property to
Chinese investors, much of it fixed or established housing.
Back in Australia, at the top end of the market, Mark Manners, director of Sydney prestige property
agency Simeon Manners, explained his company ran a foreigners-only website offering Sydney
mansions to foreign millionaires that is not even accessible if you have an Australian IP address.
Either for reasons of price, privacy or expediency, vendors and developers are opting to sell houses or
units directly to foreign investors without offering them to Australians in a move that does nothing to
boost supply, but arguably drives up prices for the remaining stock here.
The typical stance from agents who sell high-end property to foreigners in this way is that it is a
different market and doesn’t affect affordability for first-home buyers or buyers on the middle or lower
rungs. But the case of Adelaide’s DG Real Estate provides a counter to these claims. Run by a former
mainland Chinese man, DG has a sales team who are almost entirely ethnically Chinese, and sells
property in the South Australian capital to wealthy mainland Chinese investors.
Although principal Simon Hou boasts of selling an Unley mansion to a Chinese investor for $4.2m
recently, the bulk of DG’s available stock on the multilingual website is about $400,000 to $500,000.
You would hardly think that Adelaide would be high on the list of cashed-up Chinese looking for a
place to park their surplus capital away from the prying eyes of the Beijing government, but the
success of DG proves otherwise.
DG principal Hou says there is rarely an issue with obtaining FIRB approval with his mainland Chinese
clients and he had not had an application rejected in recent years.

Page24of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.One problem is that it seems that often the person buying may be a relative of the true purchaser, who
remains overseas. There is no rigorous enforcement of the obligation to sell the acquired property
within three months when the registered purchaser, often a student, leaves Australia.

FIRB has been labelled “naive” and unwilling to regulate these illegal practices and try to contain
competition for fixed property from foreign buyers, but Moss says he believes it is almost impossible to
police.
“I hear of people in China putting together syndicates to invest in property here — I am not sure how it
can be fixed,” Moss says.
“When you have people buying property offshore through accountants based in Sydney, I am not sure:
how you do regulate it?” The inquiry, chaired by Victorian Liberal MP Kelly O’Dwyer, has probed the
failings of the FIRB regime, leaving some of the MPs on the committee — which reports in October —
convinced that changes are needed.

But Moss says he doubts that the political will — or maturity — exists across the body politic in
Australia to adequately deal with this issue.

“Does the government really want to police it or not? Or are (state) governments just more interested in
getting stamp duty to balance state budgets?’’ he says.

“Federally, it is very hard to say we don’t want foreign investment. (Prime Minister Tony) Abbott has
just made a big point saying we want foreign investment, so it’s very hard to turn around and say we do
want it, but just not here and here (in particular areas of the economy).

“Where governments have to stand up here is in making housing affordable for the next generation.

“My whole fear is very simple — I don’t mind people investing in this country, but I do believe we do
need to keep in balance relative rent and mortgage levels on residential houses. A lot of countries
don’t leave their housing markets open to foreign trading. We need to have a debate about this.” The
recent wave of “hot” money flooding into Australian residential property stems from wealthy Chinese
investors’ desire to park wealth in jurisdictions that are outside the reach of the Communist Party,
particularly in the wake of recent crackdowns on graft and corruption.
It also stems from a desire to milk the kind of double-digit returns from property investors have had in
China until the market there began to cool in recent years.
China’s government-directed devaluation of the Chinese currency is also stimulating an outflow of
capital into property markets in Australia and elsewhere. And it looks set to continue for now.
China-based KPMG partner Peter Fung, the chair of the firm’s global China practice, is among
commentators flagging that Beijing’s moves to boost the amount of foreign currency citizens can hold
will unleash a new wave of Chinese capital into the Australian property market.
In Shanghai, the Sydney Harbour Luxury Property Exhibition is on next week. The exhibition is being
sponsored by Australian constructor Lend Lease and its Mandarin-only website features panoramic
shots of Sydney Harbour and advertising for apartments at 888 Collins Street in Melbourne.
As well as fixed homes, agents in China say that off-the-plan developments were well and truly on the
radar screen of cashed-up Chinese buyers.
But Monash University demographer Bob Birrell says Chinese investors buying units here and chasing
returns would be in for a nasty surprise, as the market in Melbourne, and to a lesser extent Sydney, is
heading towards oversupply.

“The biggest losers in the long run are going to be the investors in these apartments because there are
far too many of them,’’ he says.
Moss says even if there is a sensible debate in Australia on foreign investment in property, it may be
too late and we should have considered following Hong Kong’s lead in recent years and imposed
extra stamp duty on foreign investors to cool overheating.
“Hong Kong brought in regulation around stamp duty to stop capital flows — that was the time for us to
have the debate. It worked in Hong Kong, why not here? Stamp duty is a good way to do it — it’s got
to slow down the number of people who want to buy,” he says.

As politicians from both major parties pay lip service to issues of affordability, ALP MP Kelvin Thomson
is perhaps the only member openly advocating that property prices need to drop in Australia.

Page25of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.He supports tighter enforcement on foreign investment in fixed housing and an end to laws giving
temporary residents the right to buy homes here.

Mr Thomson says the view was starting to gain traction among younger people. “There could be shift
coming. Parents and the older generation have to realise it is a better outcome to have their children
being able to afford a home than them (the parents) owning many homes and handing one over to their
children.”Monash’s Bob Birrell thinks attitudes and policy will be slow to change. “From a political point
of view, there are far more voters interested in keeping prices high than there are people wanting to
keep them affordable,’’ he says.

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

mcqbnk : Macquarie Group Limited
i814 : Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit |
ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140613ea6e000b4

Page26of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.