Funds seek set-and-forget rural assets

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Funds seek set-and-forget rural assets

Larry Schlesinger
599 words
30 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
40
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Appetite is growing among fund managers for large, rural assets they can lease back to
institutional-grade operators in a high-yielding "set-and-forget" investment approach.
Dave Bryant, managing director of Rural Funds Management, which has about $320 million worth of
rural assets under management, told The Australian Financial Review there were large pools of
investment capital – ultimately retirement savings – seeking assets with reliable cash flows and where
assumptions could be made about future capital growth.

"This fits perfectly with agriculture assets leased to counter-parties," he said.
RFM, which has about $320 million worth of agricultural assets under management, spun off
$250 million worth of vineyards, almond groves and chicken farms into the Rural Funds Group (RFF)
in February, establishing the only listed agricultural property trust on the ASX.

RFF's almond groves are leased to almond grower, Select Harvests, its seven vineyards properties
are leased to Treasury Wines and its 17 chicken farms are leased to chicken broiler RFM Poultry
which grows chickens for large private producer Baiada. The average lease term is 13 years.
Mr Bryant said RFF would pursue other investments on the back of future equity raisings and would
widen its investment profile once there was further yield compression.

"We can balance our portfolio, to generate the income the market expects. Our vineyards and poultry
assets are both returning around 10 per cent" he said.
Colliers International agribusiness valuer Tim Jelbart said there was an appetite for commercial-grade
assets returning between eight and 10 per cent.Passive investment

"The large funds are buying a passive type of investment, which they then lease back to an
established operator.

"Most of these deals are struck on a triple net leases (meaning all operational costs are borne by the
tenant) Lease terms range from five to 10 or even as long as 20 years," he said.

Mr Jelbart said this type of investment had been happening in vineyards for quite a while. Examples
include Belvino Investments, the former Challenger Wine Trust, now majority owned by Hong
Kong-listed CK Life Sciences. The trust manages 7300 hectares of vineyards spread across Australia
and New Zealand and recently acquired another vineyard in New Zealand. "Before they buy anything,
they structure an agreement with the future tenant," Mr Jelbart said.
The sale of poultry producer Ingham Enterprises to private equity group TPG in a sale and lease
back deal was another example of the passive investment strategy, Mr Jelbart said.

Page292of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.But, veteran agribusiness valuer Sam Paton questioned the long-term viability of these investment
schemes, which he said had failed in the past and were propped up by "unrealistic rental
arrangements".

"The best custodians of land are the cashed-up owner-occupiers who have been in the game for long
time and who acquire land as they make more money. Owner-occupiers wait for counter- cyclical
opportunities and buy under-pressure assets at good prices."

Mr Paton said some funds were paying "rock star prices" and then selling the assets at heavy losses
once lease terms expired.
Herron Todd White rural valuer Tim Lane said in the firm's June report there was an emerging
investor profile seeking long-term returns of between seven and nine per cent prepared to "lease
country on a long-term basis to operators that wish to deploy their capital in the enterprise and not the
land".

Key points Fund managers after long-term returns are looking at agricultural operations. Critics say
owner-occupiers do better with assets than long-term passive investors.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

ocbhjv : Rural Funds Group
i4123 : Poultry Processing | i0100121 : Poultry Farming | ireest : Real Estate | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 :
Farming | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i412 : Animal Slaughtering/Processing | icnp : Consumer
Goods | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ifood : Food Products | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming | i81502 :
Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150206 : Investment Trusts/Funds | i815020602 : Real Estate
Investment Trusts | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140629ea6u0001w

Page293of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.