Coombes group raises curtain on cinema development

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PrimeSpace
Coombes group raises curtain on cinema development

KYLAR LOUSSIKIAN, APARTMENTS
409 words
15 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
33
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

EXCLUSIVE THE private Coombes Property Group is poised to develop its George Street cinema
site, joining a slew of high-rise residential developments in central Sydney.
The company is in talks with City of Sydney planners with a view to launching one of the city’s tallest
towers, with reports that the proposal could rival the nearby 66-storey Greenland Centre.

Coombes bought the George Street cinema site from the listed Challenger Financial Services Group
in 2009 for $85 million and the area has since surged as apartment developers target the southern
end of the central business district. Industry sources speculated that the proposed building could be
up to 235m tall, with 600 apartments, putting it in the same ballpark as the Greenland Centre on
nearby Bathurst Street.
China’s state-owned Greenland tower on the old Sydney Water Board building will be 235m high with
470 apartments when complete in 2017.

Greenland has had two releases, selling out the 370 apartments offered to date, and will soon release
the top units for sale.

More than 5000 apartments are proposed in Sydney’s CBD, according to Deep End Services principal
Kevin Stanley, although only 500 are under construction. “What we’re finding about this cycle is that
there is a lot more proposed than are being built, and it remains to be seen if they will be built,” he
said.

Mr Stanley said the bulk of the proposed apartments were in the middle to upper price range of the
market. “That’s pretty safe territory, but it’s important that developers’ price expectations don’t rise too
high. That was the issue that cropped up in the Gold Coast, and there wasn’t the market for it.” Other
high-rise developments in Sydney include the $400m conversion of the Sir Stamford at Circular Quay
into apartments.
A nearby development by AMP Capital and Mirvac Group, 71 Macquarie Street, is already taking
registrations for apartments.
Even the city’s best office towers are being targeted. Dexus and Perron Group have fielded interest
from developers wanting to convert the landmark 201 Elizabeth Street.
However, interest in GDI Property Group’s 233 Castlereagh Street from a Chinese investment
group is thought to have cooled.Singapore’s GIC Real Estate is also cashing in with plans to sell 175
Liverpool Street, considered one of the city’s best residential conversion plays.

CO
IN
NS

fxftru : Challenger Ltd.
i831 : Financial Investments | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News

Page170of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

PUB
AN

greenl : Greenland | austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | namz : North America | nswals : New South Wales
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140514ea5f00098

Page171of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.