Qantas coy on frequent flyer float

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Qantas coy on frequent flyer float

Jamie Freed
570 words
22 August 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
15
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Qantas Airways has not yet made a final decision on whether to shelve a partial float of its $2.5
billion frequent flyer division, the airline said.

The Australian Financial Review on Thursday reported the management team would next week tell
the board it did not want to pursue the sale of a minority stake in the business and that the decision
was expected to be supported by the board.

In a statement to the ASX in response to the article, Qantas said it was "often the subject of
speculation" – particularly in the lead-up to its results, which are due out on August 28.

"We have an established position of not commenting on that speculation," Qantas said. "A decision
on Qantas Loyalty has not been made."

Qantas, advised by Macquarie Capital and Citi, has been considering a spin-off of its valuable loyalty
division for the past nine months.
The frequent flyer program, which has more than 10 million members, was expected to be the
airline's highest-earning division in the 2013-14 financial year. Qantas has bolstered the program's
offering over the past year with its Qantas Cash multicurrency debit card, the new Aquire program for
small and medium enterprises and a new golf program and online shopping mall.
UBS estimated Qantas Loyalty will report earnings before interest and tax of $272 million for the
2013-14 financial year, which compares with a $533 million EBIT loss for Qantas International, a
$60 million loss for Qantas Domestic and a $60 million profit for Jetstar.Analysts sceptical

Most analysts have been sceptical that a float of about 30 to 40 per cent of the loyalty division would
be positive for the airline in the longer term, even if it led to a near-term share price bump.

CIMB analyst Mark Williams said he continued to advocate for the retention of the business, given its
importance to Qantas's overall customer proposition.

Qantas Loyalty also represents a more predictable earnings stream than the other divisions. Using
the proceeds of a sale to reduce debt would be unlikely to cut the airline's interest bill by an amount
equal or more than the hit to earnings from the sale.
Qantas is forecast to report a full-year pre-tax loss of $750 million, but the bottom line figure could
exceed $1 billion due to write-downs and one-off charges associated with its transformation
program.
The company is due to update the market on its transformation program, which involves cutting
$2 billion of costs and 5000 jobs over three years, alongside its results release. Of the total cost
cuts, about $1 billion is expected to come from its ailing international division, but only about
$200 million of those cuts have been detailed to date.

Page387of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Qantas will also provide an update on its structural review, which has canvassed the sale of a stake
in Qantas Loyalty, a split of its domestic and international divisions and the sale of part of Jetstar.

A split of the domestic and international divisions might allow Qantas to attract investment from a
foreign airline, such as Emirates or China Southern.

Qantas chief financial officer Gareth Evans this month said the airline was a "fan of consolidation" but
said it might take a long time for an actual deal to eventuate.

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

qntas : Qantas Airways Ltd
i75 : Airlines | i7501 : Scheduled Passenger Airlines | iairtr : Air Transport | itsp :
Transportation/Shipping
c3141 : Sales Promotions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c31 : Marketing | c314 : Pricing | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140821ea8m00001

Page388of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.