Hazelwood Continues to Increase Tungsten Resource

HD
WC 851 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Hazelwood Continues to Increase Tungsten Resource

6 November 2014
ENP Newswire
ENPNEW
English
(c) 2014, Electronic News Publishing. All Rights Reserved.

TD

Release date - 04112014

The directors of Hazelwood Resources (ASX: HAZ) are pleased to provide an updated Mineral Resource
estimate that boosts the Company’s tungsten Resource inventory.

The Mt Mulgine Tungsten Project hosts a world-class tungsten Resource that is compatible with
Hazelwood’s established downstream tungsten refining business.
This update of the Mulgine Trench Resource is as a result of gold exploration drilling by Minjar Gold, in
the north-east of the existing Mulgine Trench Resource. Additionally, as a part of the gold mining
operation Minjar has completed close-spaced grade control drilling in the north-eastern Mulgine Trench in
an area called Bobby McGee. This small area of close-spaced drilling has been classed as an Indicated
Resource. The rest of the Resource has been categorised as Inferred.

A focused tungsten drilling campaign is expected to improve the Resource categorisation and potentially
increase Resource size at Mulgine Trench.

The Mineral Resource for Mulgine Trench extends from surface, and 56% of the Resource sits within 100
metres of the surface. Mineralized envelopes extend to the surface in the northeast of the Trench and this
increases the potential for more near-surface Resources to be located across the remainder of the Trench
area in future exploration.

Hazelwood’s estimate, based upon drilling results, is that 202,000t @ 0.14% WO3 and 0.042% Mo (at a
0.1% WO cut-off) has been mined from the Bobby McGee pit. Minjar has been stockpiling non-gold
bearing material for Hazelwood. Hazelwood is currently working with Minjar to access the stockpiles,
verify the grade and determine the tonnage of tungsten-bearing ore present.

Substantial historical evaluation studies have been performed at the tungsten deposits of Mt Mulgine,
including shaft sinking at several locations to extract bulk samples that were used in pilot scale
processing tests.

The Trench Deposit is a tungsten-molybdenum vein-hosted exoskarn, formed near the intrusive contact of
an Archaean S-type granite and a sequence of metavolcanics, metasediments and banded-iron
formations. Exploration is focused on the highly-altered strata containing the alteration minerals sericite,
phlogopite and epidote. Drill core and cross-sections show a general northeast-strike and northwest-dip in
the geology and Mineralization. Most of the mineralized horizons are significant in scale, up to 50m wide
and continuous across the deposit.

Mineralization at Mulgine Trench remains open at depth and along strike.

The Mt Mulgine Tungsten Project, located in the mid-west region of Western Australia, also hosts an
advanced stage Mineral Resource at the Mulgine Hill Deposit, situated approximately 1 kilometre from the
Trench Resource. A recently completed engineering pre-feasibility study for Mt Mulgine envisaged a
concentrator that would exploit higher grade parts of Mt Mulgine for a Capital outlay of $A31.5 million.

Hazelwood’s 100% interest in the Mt Mulgine Tungsten Project and 100% interest in the Big Hill Tungsten
Project in the Pilbara of Western Australia together represent a tungsten Resource inventory of more than
15.3 million MTU (metric tonne units), equivalent to approximately 121,700 tonnes of contained tungsten

Page112of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.metal. Hazelwood’s established downstream refining business has a production capacity of 4,000 tonnes
per annum ferrotungsten (3,000 tonnes per annum contained tungsten metal).

This new result confirms Hazelwood’s significant position as a major holder of both tungsten Resources
and a producer of ferrotungsten.

Hazelwood’s Executive Chairman, Mark Warren, stated that ‘Hazelwood is unique in the landscape of
ASX-listed Tungsten focused companies, being the only company with downstream processing that also
boasts the third largest Resource base in a conveniently located mine with near surface Resource. I am
glad to have recently joined Hazelwood as I see great development opportunities ahead in our upstream
and downstream assets’

Contact:

Mark Warren Tel: +61 89320 5220 Email: info@hazelwood.com.au

ABOUT HAZELWOOD
Hazelwood Resources Ltd is a new specialty metals producer with a majority stake in the ATC
Ferrotungsten Project in Vietnam. Ferrotungsten is used in the production of high speed steels, tool steel
and temperature resistant alloys.
The ATC Ferrotungsten plant is the largest capacity facility of its type outside of China and its design is
believed to be the most advanced in the world. High quality product from ATC meets the specifications of
the Japanese and European markets and can be produced from a range of different feedstock sources.

With an established specialty metals production base, Hazelwood has the ability to expand into other
capital-efficient opportunities in downstream processing. There is potential for future vertical integration
with Hazelwood’s 100% owned primary tungsten projects in Western Australia. The Big Hill Tungsten
Deposit and Mt Mulgine Tungsten Project host near surface Resources and are being evaluated as
potential future sources of feedstock for Hazelwood’s downstream refining business.

Hazelwood has significant exposure to nickel sulphides and base metals exploration through its 100%
owned Cookes Creek and Copper Gorge (HAZ 70%, Atlas Iron 30%) areas in the East Pilbara of
Western Australia.

[Editorial queries for this story should be sent to newswire@enpublishing.co.uk]

CO
IN

NS

hwrsau : Hazelwood Resources Limited
itttm : Tin/Tantalum/Tungsten Ore Mining | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources |
imet : Mining/Quarrying
cnatrd : Natural Reserves/Resources Discovery | npress : Press Releases | c24 : Capacity/Facilities | ccat
: Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types
waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia

RE
PUB Electronic News Publishing Ltd.
AN

Document ENPNEW0020141106eab60001g

Page113of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.