Kiwi approach goes down well in other cultures

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Kiwi approach goes down well in other cultures

335 words
18 July 2014
The New Zealand Herald
NZHLD
C015
English
(c) 2014 The New Zealand Herald

NEW Zealanders have a natural cultural advantage over Australians when doing business in China,
says BNZ chief executive Anthony Healy.

Australian-born Healy became chief executive and managing director in May, after joining the bank in
2009. He says the collaborative work being done by the BNZ and parent bank NAB is proving valuable
to Australian and New Zealand exporters. “I don’t see it as a competitive situation. There’s no real
overlap there. New Zealand has a big global presence in dairy, whereas Australia doesn’t really have
the water supply to sustain a competitive dairy industry. Their focus is domestic, ours is export.

“So it tends to be co-development [in China]. We locate people up there and make sure there is a
better focus on the New Zealand story and supporting New Zealand clients. They have had a physical
presence in China for 30 years. They have an outstanding network there which we take advantage of
when supporting our clients. “I think New Zealanders have a natural advantage in working well with
other cultures.

“New Zealanders perhaps come across as more culturally aware whereas Australians maybe tend to
be more strongly perceived as Australians.

“I am not damning Australians but it is different; Australia is a bigger country and the commodity profile
is different. Hard commodities are a different game and the trade negotiations and politics tend to be
harder, more aggressive, if you like.

“The food industry is different too, more entwined with people, and I think New Zealand businesses
have sought to understand the end consumer in China better.”

Healy says the opportunity for New Zealand exporters is growing daily. A New Zealand client
airfreighted 2-litre bottles of fresh milk, which sold for $23 each, he says. “That shows the significant
premium the emerging Chinese middle classes are prepared to pay for produce from a safe, clean
environment. And that middle class is growing by 30 million every year.”

RF
RE
PUB
AN

LewisChinaside
austr : Australia | nz : New Zealand | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
W & H Newspapers Limited
Document NZHLD00020140717ea7i0003f

Page95of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.