Bignell rejects GM-food “bias” claim after rally

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Early General News
Bignell rejects GM-food “bias” claim after rally

MALCOLM SUTTON
562 words
29 May 2014
Stock Journal
FSTOCJ
9
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

THE worldwide March Against Monsanto rally last weekend may have drawn a crowd of up to 300
people in Adelaide, but the attendance of state Agriculture Minister Leon Bignell is stirring controversy
among SA graingrowers.

Grain Producers SA chief executive Darren Arney said Mr Bignell's participation in the rally was proof
he was "biased" against genetically modified crops in SA.

He said the government was not listening to the needs of the grain industry as one of the biggest
export-earning industries in this state.

"The march is also a rally against the legal use of crop-protection products to deliver clean, fresh food,"
Mr Arney said.

"So it is not clear as to whether the state government is suggesting that we shouldn't be using
chemicals in primary production at all, even though their departments use them for weed control, such
as in forests."

He said Mr Bignell's concerns that there could be long-term health ramifications that were not yet
known about GM crops contradicted statements by Food Standards Australia New Zealand, which said
it had never identified any safety concerns with any of the GM foods it had assessed, nor had national
regulators assessing the same food independently.

"GPSA is also calling on the state government to publicly disclose the figures that prove by being
GM-free, the SA economy is receiving an economic benefit," Mr Arney said.
"Last harvest, SA canola was sold for $15 a tonne less than Vic canola where GMs are grown,
showing there was no financial benefit to grain producers being GM free."

But Mr Bignell said if GPSA wanted to accuse him of bias against GM foods, then he should also be
called biased against fruit fly and phylloxera.
"I'm biased against anything that could harm our reputation for having premium food and wine from a
clean environment," he said.

Kangaroo Island Pure Grain was "a great example" of how farmers had reached premium prices by
banding together to market their GM-free produce together.

"I've actually asked PIRSA to get a discussion going with people right around the state, including
Viterra and the GPSA, to talk about why we can't band together under a common SA GM-free brand."
He recently returned from Shanghai where Chinese officials and food buyers were "adamant" they
wanted non-GM foods, as were Japanese and European Union delegations.

He was certainly not against the use of chemicals on-farm, nor specialised breeding and similar
research being undertaken at the Waite Institute. But GM food was "completely different".

Page95of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."This is about putting different species together and modifying the genes as they are, and I think where
I'm coming from is where the consumer is at the moment," Mr Bignell said.

"I've never had a consumer come to me and say 'we want to eat more GM food'.

"As a government we have to listen to consumers as well."

Mr Bignell said that while he could accept that Food Standards had tested successfully and found no
safety concerns with the GM food it had assessed, so far as he was aware there had never been any
conclusive multi-generation research released on the long-term impacts of GM food.

IN
RE
PUB
AN

i0100132 : Oilseed/Grain Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming
saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FSTOCJ0020140528ea5t0001l

Page96of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.