STRANGE DAYS WHEN ALL THAT SHINES FAILS TO SPARKLE

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
STRANGE DAYS WHEN ALL THAT SHINES FAILS TO SPARKLE

ROBIN BROMBY, PURE SPECULATION
1,148 words
21 April 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
19
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

But other sections of the market are looking better

IT’S hard to know what to make of this market, what with all the conflicting shreds of evidence.

Gold has lost all its April gains with futures closing at $US1293 an ounce, and there’s a general feeling
that the yellow one will struggle this week. Silver is facing heavy weather, back under $US20 and ounce.
Analysts try to be cheerful about copper, down 5 per cent since February, but Thursday’s close at
$US6649 a tonne is not the sort of news red-metal producers want to hear.

Some sectors are somewhat more encouraging — fertiliser minerals, for example (of which, more
below). And then there’s nickel, thanks to Indonesia’s export ban, ending the week at the London Metal
Exchange on a relatively hearty $US17,925/tonne — “relatively”, that is, compared with the
$US50,000/tonne nickel fetched pre-GFC.

Nickel is up 20 per cent since February and Copenhagen-based Danske Bank says the rally is not yet
over. Analyst Jens Naervig Pedersen believes Jakarta will stick to its export ban unless the Indonesian
economy suffers a significant setback. Russia supplies 10 per cent of world nickel and Pedersen says
the world will continue to worry for some months whether those nickel exports might be hit by Ukraine
sanctions. US and European recoveries will add demand pressure for the metal. And then China might
put up its hand for more.

A few months ago it seemed the window was closing for juniors refreshing their cash supplies but now
tin-rattling is back. Argentina Mining (AVK) is seeking $1.18 million for gold exploration which,
notwithstanding the company name, is in Tanzania. Gunson Resources (GUN), its Coburn
mineral-sands project having remained in the “promising” category for a very long time (in 2004 they
were promising mineral samples from test work for customers by the end of that year), wants $1.23m to
keep the place running. Orion Gold (ORN) has commitments totalling $1.5m, which indicates the Fraser
Range remains appealing to investors as a new nickel province thanks to the big 2012 discovery by
Sirius Resources (SIR). And Regal Resources (RER) will bank $2m towards its Congolese copper
project.

Tony Locantro, editor of the speculative newsletter Locantro’s Life and regularly looking for bright news
in the junior sector (but not always finding it), says there are bargains. While “momentum” stocks have
corrected recently, there are still juniors trading below their intrinsic value. One such is Victorian gold
producer Octagonal Resources (ORS) which, says Locantro, you can buy for half the replacement value
of its gold plant.
He sees the $100m raising by Acorn Capital for a new small-company fund as possibly providing some
much-needed support to the junior sector. He was also greatly cheered by the market reaction this
month to the news that Cassini Resources (CZI) was buying nickel tenements from BHP Billiton (BHP)
— news that sent the junior’s stock from 4.5c to a intra-day high of 26c. Locantro says this suggests
greed is alive and kicking.

Page131of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Peter Strachan, who runs StockAnalysis out of Perth, has also been following the resurgence of nickel
stocks. He notes it is often the case in a beaten-down market that prices can recover by 30 per cent
before the general public realises a new bull market is evolving. He argues we may be seeing some
rotation out of tech stocks and into the battered resources sector, initially into the larger companies but
then filtering down to the developers, explorers and — eventually — new floats.

Over at Canaccord Genuity, Warwick Grigor is on the same wavelength. He thinks a stumble by
industrial and e-commerce stocks may be a prerequisite for funds to flow back into resources. The
e-commerce stocks have lured punters away from mining shares. “Parallels can be drawn with the early
2000s, when smokestack industries were pariahs as everyone sought internet stocks,” he told clients.

Punt on potash BHP Billiton (BHP) might be treading more cautiously over its Jansen potash project in
Saskatchewan, aiming at somewhere in the mid-2020s rather than later this decade for a ramp-up, but
others are pressing ahead with fertiliser minerals. Potash prices seem to have stabilised (around
$US300/tonne for three successive months) while diammonium phosphate being shipped out of Florida
has seen a price spurt and is now fetching $US500/tonne.

Foster Stockbroking has deemed Highfield Resources (HFR) a spec buy, seeing the explorer’s Spanish
potash ground as “getting set to run with the bulls”. HFR’s largest shareholder is private equity
specialist EMR Capital, which is very supportive of the company. Foster sees Highfield as one of the
cheapest producers delivering potash into the Brazilian powerhouse agricultural market, a country which
still needs to import 90 per cent of this fertiliser mineral. Thailand is another global agriculture major with
the need to import most of its potash. FYI Resources (FYI) has already staked out a project there and
has now added more ground. Thailand is thought by some to have huge potash resources, possibly the
third largest in the world (after Russia and Canada). That should be seen against the country’s position:
it is the world’s No 1 exporter of rice, and 49 per cent of Thai workers earn their living from agriculture.
From west to east THE latest gold survey by London-based Thomson Reuters GFMS notes that last
year the rise of Eastern demand and the withdrawal of Western institutional investors witnessed a large
increase in the amount of bullion shipped around the world. Those transfers rose 25 per cent over 2012
to a new record in value terms of $US234 billion. It might have been greater but for the fact Swiss and
other refineries were hard-pressed to meet all the orders because this involved melting down 400-ounce
London Good Delivery Bars and producing smaller investment ones.
Chinese investors last year bought 45 per cent more gold in bar form (360 tonnes in all) than in 2012.
As GFMS summed up: “China snapped up all the material that the Western investment fraternity could
throw at it”.
Local gold companies are, rightly, pressing on and sounding bullish. Leyshon Resources (LRL) is
looking to dust off the old Mt Leyshon mine; Commissioners Gold (CGU), with Peru under control, is
looking at historic mining areas at Grenfell, NSW; Alchemy Resources (ALY) has reported grades up to
14.46 grams/tonne north of Meekatharra, while Millennium Minerals (MOY) is celebrating a record gold
pour in the March quarter.

robin.bromby@news.com.auThe writer implies no investment recommendation and does not own
shares in the companies mentioned. This report contains material speculative in nature and investors
should seek professional investment advice.

IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
mnonfr : Non-ferrous Metals | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 :
Metals Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters
| nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140420ea4l0006f

Page132of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.