End of the boom; Australia

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY

LP

TD

ANALYSIS
End of the boom; Australia

By Jamie Smyth
2,244 words
3 June 2014
Financial Times
FTFT
London Ed1
11
English
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and
redistribute by email or post to the web.

A cooling Chinese economy has hurt the mining sector, threatening a quarter century of uninterrupted
growth and prompting protests over the prime minister's tough new budget. By Jamie Smyth

The small coal mining town of Singleton was so over-run by contractors seeking jobs during Australia 's
decade-long mining boom that some had to join waiting lists for apartments. Unemployment was virtually
non-existent and businesses thrived as an army of workers arrived to work in the dozen mines that ring
the town.

"It was so vibrant here it was impossible to keep good staff. Most went to highly paid jobs in the mines,"
says Danny Gresham, director of the Singleton Tyre and Battery Centre, a local industry supplier.

But in 2011 the world began to change for Singleton, a small town of 22,000 people in the Hunter Valley,
about two hours' drive from Sydney. "There have been so many job losses people are coming in and
asking us for work now," Mr Gresham says.

Thermal coal prices have halved over the past three years, forcing companies to close unprofitable
mines, reduce staff and squeeze suppliers. Brazilian miner Vale said last month it would cut 500 staff as
it closes two mines in the area. Glencore Xstrata is mothballing a nearby mine and Rio Tinto has warned
the future is uncertain for its Mount Thorley Warkworth mine, which employs 1,300 people, as the coal
sector struggles with its worst crisis since the mid-1980s.

The local troubles are emblematic of wider challenges facing the Australian economy in the wake of the
biggest boom in capital investment since the gold rush of the 1850s.

For 23 consecutive years, the country was the only developed state in the world to avoid recession.
Driven by China's rapacious demand for coal, iron ore and liquefied natural gas, companies committed
to investing A$394bn between 2003-2012, says the Australian Bureau of Resources and Energy
Economics. This investment boom helped Australia to escape the worst of the global financial crisis and
boosted average incomes to a level 25 per cent above those in the US. For a time the Australian dollar
was more valuable than the US greenback.
But as investment from resource projects dries up and concerns about the Chinese economy have
caused a sharp fall in the price of Australia's key exports, iron ore and coal, observers warn a correction
is coming. In February unemployment briefly touched 6 per cent - the highest in a decade. The ruling
Liberal-National coalition, which was elected in September, is warning that fast-rising government
spending has created a " budget emergency ", which threatens Australia's hard-won prosperity.

Last month Prime Minister Tony Abbott unveiled the toughest Australian budget in almost 20 years,
which proposes slashing planned spending on welfare, health and education, and raising income taxes
for high earners.

Page51of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."If these necessary measures don't pass the Senate, our triple A rating is at risk and if we lose our triple
A credit rating we pay higher rates of interest on our debt," he said.

But Mr Abbott faces resistance this month from opposition parties, which hold the balance of power in the
upper house of parliament. Many young Australians, who have no experience of tough economic times,
oppose the spending cuts, which have sparked a spate of student protests.

"There is increasing polarisation in politics," says Ian McAllister, professor of politics at Australian
National University. "This first budget is very important for Abbott. He has never been a popular party
leader and his government has lost support quicker than any other for decades. He faces a challenge
getting it passed."

Many economists dispute the government's claim that it faces a "budget emergency" given Australia's
2.75 per cent growth rate, low public debt of 12 per cent of gross domestic product and a modest budget
deficit forecast at 3.1 per cent for 2014. But the slowdown in mining investment, weakness in other
sectors such as manufacturing and the potential for political gridlock in the Senate point to turbulent
times ahead Down Under.

"The problem arose because we spent the benefits of the resources boom as they came in, as if it was
going to be with us forever," says Ross Garnaut, economics professor at Melbourne university, and
author of Dog Days: Australia After the Boom .

Successive governments under former prime ministers John Howard and Kevin Rudd cut taxes during
the boom years of the noughties. OECD figures show Australia reduced income tax rates from 31 per
cent in 2000 to 27.4 per cent in 2013 - one of the lowest in the industrialised world. Government
spending has increased over the past seven years from 24.8 per cent to 26.2 per cent of GDP, prompting
the coalition to propose cuts and tax raises aimed at restoring a budget surplus by 2018-19.

Mr Garnaut argues that Australia is internationally competitive in too few sectors and the country faces
lower average incomes and higher unemployment unless radical action is taken. "There is a risk of
recession when Australia hits the mining investment cliff, although this is not a certainty," he says.

The resources boom has driven up wages, the price of goods and services and the value of the
Australian dollar, making it difficult for exporters to sell their products overseas. General Motors' Holden
subsidiary, Toyota and Ford blame this phenomenon, often called the Dutch disease, for the decisions to
close all their plants and end a century of car making in the country by 2017.

Australia's National Institute for Economic and Industry Research estimates that up to 200,000 direct and
indirect jobs could be lost in the states of South Australia and Victoria as a result of these closures.

"Manufacturing is imploding here in Edwardstown," says Rod Rebbeck, managing director of Multi Slide
Industries, a company in South Australia that supplies parts to the carmaker Holden. "A few years ago
we employed 160 people and now we employ 38. Further jobs will go when car-making ends. A lot of
other suppliers here have already closed. It is really traumatic."

Aware of the challenges facing the economy, the Reserve Bank of Australia slashed interest rates to a
record low of 2.5 per cent in August last year and has left them unchanged ever since. It is seeking to
rebalance the economy, shifting away from resource-driven growth to stimulating other activities such as
construction, housing, tourism and agriculture.

The bank says its policy is working, although insiders admit it is not yet clear if resurgent growth from
other sectors of the economy will coincide with the sharp drop in mining investment expected later this
year.

"Australia's rebalancing act is under way and monetary policy is working," says Paul Bloxham, economist
with HSBC. He points to the drop in the Australian dollar from an all-time high of A$1.10 against the US
dollar in September 2012 to A$0.92, which is helping boost inward- bound tourism and exports to Asia.
The number of Chinese tourists has more than tripled over the past decade to 747,000 in 2013.
International student enrolments, which had fallen steadily from a peak in 2009, increased 2 per cent last
year to 410,925 as the dollar weakened.
As China becomes an increasingly important destination for food and drink exports, leading
commentators talk of Australia's transition from the "mining to dining boom". "China and Asia are shifting
their growth model towards boosting domestic demand, which is not such a bad story for Australia," says
Mr Bloxham.

Page52of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Beef exports to China from Australia surged to 155,000 tonnes in 2013, up from 30,000 a year earlier.
This represented almost half of China's total beef imports. Farmers also see opportunities in the dairy
sector, particularly if Canberra can ink a free trade deal with China later this year.

Cheap credit is revitalising the housing market, with prices jumping 11 per cent nationally and 16 per
cent in Sydney in the past 12 months. There were 188,000 home building approvals in the 12 months to
the end of March, which is the highest level recorded since 1995.
The property boom is illustrated by the growing number of high-rise residential towers along the
Sydney and Melbourne skylines. Many are being built by Asian developers including Singapore's Frasers
Centrepoint, Malaysia's SP Setia and China's Fuxing Huiyu Real Estate.
Greenland Group, one of China's biggest developers, is investing A$1.5bn in Melbourne and Sydney,
where it is building the city's highest residential tower and a hotel. It says the first phase of 250
apartments of its 66-floor Greenland centre sold in three hours, raising about A$275m.

"We are contributing important investment, employment and taxes into the Australian market because we
feel it is a stable economic and political environment with clear market regulations," says Sherwood Luo,
Greenland's managing director.
He argues the country's long history of immigration is a draw for the company. More than 50 per cent of
its apartments have been purchased by overseas buyers, mostly from Asia. Every year Australia
welcomes 200,000 permanent immigrants, providing a significant boost to the local housing market and
wider economy.

Colm Harmon, economics professor at Sydney University, says the RBA's rebalancing strategy is
showing initial signs of success with low inflation and a drop in value of the Australian dollar. But he
cautions against reliance on a housing boom to fuel growth. "The economy does need to find the long
run track," he says. "Manufacturing is not going to be that source, so services, agriculture, education are
all areas where the government should be looking."

The coalition is pinning its hopes on growth through enhanced trade with Asia and investment in
infrastructure at home. In April, it agreed free trade deals with Japan and South Korea, and is confident
of finalising a bilateral deal with China later this year.

Its budget prioritises spending on motorways, ports and airports that should boost employment. There is
also a commitment to create the world's biggest medical research fund, a A$20bn investment vehicle
funded by an A$7 charge each time a patient consults a doctor. But this measure is one of several
expected to be blocked by opposition parties in the Senate following a surge of protests.

Some observers warn the botched presentation of the budget by the coalition has damaged consumer
sentiment at a sensitive time and could undermine Australian's two-decade long commitment to prudent
economics. A failure by the coalition to get its budget passed in the Senate could pose an even bigger
risk as it signals a period of political instability ahead.

"The danger with the negative sentiment surrounding the budget is that it is knocking consumer
confidence and could dampen retail sales," says Simon Cox, head of equity capital markets at UBS.
"What would be worse is if a political impasse is reached in the Senate and some budgetary measures
cannot be passed. This would create uncertainty for companies and investors about the policy framework
and business environment in Australia."

Iron ore

Source of heated dinner-party debates

If in the UK people obsess over house prices and the weather, in Australia there are heated dinner-party
debates over iron ore and the health of the Chinese economy.

Last year exports of the reddish- brown mineral - the key ingredient for steel - from the Pilbara region in
Western Australia surged to A$57bn, making it the most valuable commodity in the country.
Resources are the largest contributor to trade with China, which reached a record A$127bn last year.
A cooling Chinese economy and a surge in iron ore supply have caused prices to slump by a quarter to
$92 per metric tonne since January. Goldman Sachs estimates it could fall to $80 in 2015.

"For every $1 drop in the iron ore price there is roughly a A$800m hit to national income and A$300m hit
to the tax take," warns Chris Richardson at Deloitte Access Economics. "If China goes bad and the price
of iron ore drops sharply, it is possible Australia could have a recession."

Page53of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The drop in prices coincides with the end of a decade-long boom in mining that has boosted employment
and national income, leading some observers to fear a mining bust.

Optimists say a surge in supply from Australia's big miners - BHP Billiton, Rio Tinto and Fortescue - will
support the economy regardless of a dip in prices.

Robert Rennie, Westpac Bank's global head of commodity strategy, predicts production will increase
from 460mt to 680mt in the next fiscal year.

"The lift in exports will add to growth, it will reduce Australia's reliance on foreign capital, it changes
offshore perception of the Australian economy and it will change our status within Asia," he says,
forecasting growth of 3 per cent in 2015.
Most economists agree on the vital importance of China to Australia's fortunes, and stress the need to
insulate its economy against a downturn by diversifying and fixing its budget deficit. "China's economy is
becoming more of a market economy and will become more volatile in five years or so when further
reforms are introduced," says Marco Annunziata, chief economist with GE.

IN
NS
RE

imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
nanl : Analyses | ncat : Content Types
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales
Company News
CN

IPD
IPC
PUB The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)
AN

Document FTFT000020140603ea630000e

Page54of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.