JLL acquires international residential project sales business of leading Malaysian real estate advisor Henry Butcher

HD

WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

JLL acquires international residential project sales business of leading Malaysian real estate
advisor Henry Butcher
858 words
3 December 2014
00:59
ACN Newswire
ACNENG
English
(c) Copyright 2014 ACN Newswire All Rights Reserved.

SINGAPORE, Dec 2, 2014 - (ACN Newswire) - JLL (NYSE: JLL) has today confirmed the acquisition of
the international residential project sales business of Henry Butcher, a leading Malaysian-based real
estate advisory firm. The 13-strong team, headed by Jazmine Goh is widely recognised as one of the
leaders in sales of overseas residential properties to Malaysian investors.
The Henry Butcher team joins JLL's international residential sales team. Based in London, Dubai,
Singapore, Hong Kong, Shanghai, Beijing, Tokyo, Sydney and Melbourne, the team provides
best-in-class services to developer clients and offers investors access to the highest quality
opportunities globally.

Chris Fossick, Head of Southeast Asia at JLL said: "Our decision to strengthen our offering to Malaysian
investors reflects the demand that we are seeing in the country. Investors in Malaysia are increasingly
looking further afield for investment opportunities and we are able to offer exactly this kind of opportunity
in a wide range of markets, from the ever popular and established London market to newer locations
such as Tokyo, New York and Sydney."
He continued: "Jazmine and her team were the obvious international residential expert for JLL to team
up with in Malaysia. We have already been working in close cooperation with Henry Butcher for several
years and are delighted that the team is joining JLL. We pride ourselves in our global connectivity
combined with on the ground, local knowledge and expertise and the Henry Butcher team is a great fit
with JLL. We are also grateful to Henry Butcher for the many years of cooperation and a very smooth
transition."

Jazmine Goh said: "My team and I are excited to be joining JLL, having built a strong and successful
relationship with the firm over the past six years, in particular with the team in London. I believe that our
combined capability will further enhance the scale and depth of expertise we can offer to our clients.
Joining JLL means that we will be able to provide our clients with access to more global investment
locations, as well as provide them with market leading intelligence. This is the beginning of a wonderful
and exciting chapter and we look forward to sharing it with all our clients."

High levels of wealth and savings in Malaysia are driving investor interest in investment in overseas real
estate, both in the residential and commercial sectors. Malaysian investors have long been buyers of
Singapore residential property, but as cooling measures in Singapore have taken hold over recent
years and opportunities have opened up elsewhere, Malaysian investors have become increasingly
interested in assets globally in locations such as the UK, Japan and Australia. JLL expects this trend to
continue, as wealth across Asia continues to increase, and investors become more comfortable
investing overseas therefore seeking opportunities outside of their domestic markets.

The Henry Butcher team joins the 17-strong JLL Malaysian business, headed by Country Head YY Lau,
and will be moving into to JLL's new offices in the KL Sentral area.

Notes to Editors:

1. JLL established its presence in Malaysia in June 2014 with the acquisition of a leading and highly
respected transaction business, YY Property Solutions led by YY Lau. The acquisition formed JLL
Property Services (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd, specialised in capital markets, consulting, office leasing,

Page71of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.industrial and logistics, hotels and hospitality, retail and residential, servicing clients in Malaysia and
internationally.

2. Jazmine Goh joined Henry Butcher Malaysia in 2004 and was Director of International Marketing.
Jazmine pioneered international residential project marketing in Malaysia, specialising in international
properties in Australia, London, Singapore and New York.

3. Please contact Lois Avery with requests for interviews with Chris Fossick or Jazmine Goh

About Jones Lang LaSalle
JLL (NYSE:JLL) is a professional services and investment management firm offering specialized real
estate services to clients seeking increased value by owning, occupying and investing in real estate.
With annual fee revenue of $4 billion and gross revenue of $4.5 billion, JLL has more than 200
corporate offices, operates in 75 countries and has a global workforce of approximately 53,000. On
behalf of its clients, the firm provides management and real estate outsourcing services for a property
portfolio of 3.0 billion square feet, or 280.0 million square meters, and completed $99.0 billion in sales,
acquisitions and finance transactions in 2013. Its investment management business, LaSalle
Investment Management, has $53.0 billion of real estate assets under management. JLL is the brand
name, and a registered trademark, of Jones Lang LaSalle incorporated. For further information, visit
www.jll.com

JLL has over 50 years of experience in Asia Pacific, with over 28,000 employees operating in 80 offices
in 16 countries across the region. The firm was named 'Best Property Consultancy' in seven Asia
Pacific countries at the International Property Awards Asia Pacific 2014, and won nine Asia Pacific
awards in the Euromoney Real Estate Awards 2013. www.jll.com/asiapacific

Source: Jones Lang LaSalle

Contact:
Lois Avery
Phone: +65 6494 3582
Email: lois.avery@ap.jll.com
lasp : JLL
ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i85 : Real Estate Transactions
c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c312 : External Markets | cacqu :
Acquisitions | npress : Press Releases | c31 : Marketing/Markets | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
malay : Malaysia | singp : Singapore | austr : Australia | jap : Japan | london : London (UK) | sydney :
Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries |
eland : England | eurz : Europe | nswals : New South Wales | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | uk : United
Kingdom | weurz : Western Europe
Japan Corporate News Network K.K.
Document ACNENG0020141202eac2000jh

CO
IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page72of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.