Capital Gain

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business - Commercial Property
Capital Gain

Marc Pallisco
1,064 words
25 October 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
12
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Yates reveals shrewd deals in South Yarra

When shrewd developer Michael Yates last month unveiled two South Yarra buildings he had recently
received ministerial approval to develop, he was quietly formalising a plan to sell the project to a
Chinese developer.

In an off-market deal, Yates is speculated to be banking about $30million from the sale of 663 Chapel
Street - a 2100-square-metre portion of a 3537-square-metre block he bought for $19 million in 2011, a
depressed time in Melbourne's development site sector.
Yates bought the property from owner-occupier CR Kennedy 11 months after a $25 million sale to
another developer had fallen through. Eight months ago, Yates lobbied Planning Minister Matthew Guy
to replace part of the site with 321 units in two buildings - the tallest rising 29 storeys. The South Yarra
stalwart will develop an education academy on another part of the block he sold at cost price to the
Melbourne High School Foundation.
Four years ago Yates made headlines when he bought an apartment within a low-rise complex at 19
Yarra Street - a purchase which gave him rights to block other owners developing or selling airspace in
future. Yates was proposing an apartment building next door and wanted to price in view security that
occupants would enjoy over 19 Yarra's rooftop.

On the up and up
The owners of a development site abutting the West Gate Freeway have reapplied to Mr Guy to make
an approved project bigger.

It is now hoped 57 Haig Street will make way for a 52-level building, which is up 13 levels on an earlier
proposal. The new complex would include 248 flats and 171 car-park bays and a small commercial
area. It is one of several new skyscrapers earmarked for sites abutting the West Gate at Southbank.

Box Hill boost
An open-air Budget car-hire complex in central Box Hill is speculated to have been sold for well over $6
million after hitting the market last month with price expectations of about $5 million.

Offered for the first time in 60 years, the 1241-square-metre block at 997-1003 Whitehorse Road is
expected to make way for a medium-density, mixed-use complex with ground floor commercial and
upper level flats. The site is near the Box Hill train station about 14 kilometres east of town.

It's hard to miss Box Hill from most eastern suburbs - with the Australian Taxation Office building,
currently under construction and set to rise 19 levels, already dominating the skyline from several
kilometres away. A 35-level residential building has also been approved in the area.

Page39of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Gorman Commercial's Stephen Gorman and Stephen Speck declined to comment about any part of
the Budget property, which sold before a scheduled auction.

Chirnside Choice
An offshore investor has paid $7.2 million for an as yet unbuilt retail complex in Chirnside Park. The 30
Old Melbourne Road asset is the first of a six-stage site redevelopment. It has been leased to the Coles
liquor chain First Choice and a chemist. Jones Lang LaSalle's Stuart Taylor said the deal reflected a 7
per cent yield.

Historic pub sells
The prominent Brooklyn Hotel in Melbourne's west has sold before a scheduled auction.

The 3135-square-metre triangle block at the junction of the Princes Highway and Old Geelong Road
includes a 20-suite motel as well as the historic pub, drive-through bottle shop and a TAB facility.

Leased with options until 2044, the asset currently returns annual rent of $130,000. Based on the $1.6
million sale price, the hospitality investment sold on a yield of about 8.1 per cent.

Selling agent Jamie Perlinger was offering 700 Geelong Road, Brooklyn, as part of the 92nd Burgess
Rawson portfolio auction at Crown Casino next week.

In the shade

While history might reveal 2014 as a period in Melbourne planning when high-density was centralised to
the CBD area - it has also had its fair share of permit approvals that have defied what were once
restrictive shade protections.
The City of Melbourne council is behind one of the latest approvals - a 33-level residential building on
a site adjacent to the gardens of the State Library of Victoria.

The proposed tower will be the tallest in the immediate vicinity and will replace a 1926 low-rise building
that for years was part-leased to Hungry Jack's.
The 615-square-metre site sold to an offshore developer in 2015. It is known as both 188-196 La
Trobe Street and 389 Swanston Street.

In the past few months Mr Guy has received several applications for skyscrapers that would cast a
shadow over the Yarra River's north bank.

Moveable feast

Dining institution The Spaghetti Tree can celebrate its 26th year in peace at 59-63 Bourke Street - but if
it renews a four-year option in 2015 it may find itself amid a construction zone.
That's the message from the new landlord - high-rise builder AXF Group - which has quietly paid $8
million for the four-level building on a 500-square-metre block - and is now said to want the restaurant
out so as to redevelop the space.

The Italian eatery and other tenants, including Madame Brussels and Japanese karaoke bar Asuka,
have leases at 59-63 Bourke Street with options expiring at various stages up to 2019.
In response to questions about whether it will wait until 2019 to develop, AXF Group only said it "won't
start the [59-63 Bourke Street] project next year".

"The project" that AXF is planning is unknown. The developer's Melbourne head office is built into
airspace of an older (cinema) building - and was acquired because it had further airspace
redevelopment potential.

The Spaghetti Tree manager responded to questions about whether it will renew until 2019, saying, "It
is up to the new owners to decide when we leave.
"We don't know what's going on; all we want to say is the building sold with a long lease and the
business is not closing down."
Local industry sources say the burgeoning AXF Group would consider building around tenants, if the
owners of Spaghetti Tree decided to stay.

marcpallisco@gmail.com

Page40of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Twitter: @marcpallisco

IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020141024eaap0006j

Page41of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.