Rush already on

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Rush already on

OLGA GALACHO
296 words
19 November 2014
Herald-Sun
HERSUN
HeraldSun
56
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

COMMERCIAL PROPERTY COMMERCIAL property experts are divided on whether investment
concessions to private Chinese companies under the free-trade agreement will spark a rush for
Australian property assets.
The new deal recommends that only purchases greater than $1.08 billion will require Foreign
Investment Review Board approval, up from a present threshold of $248 million. Chinese
state-owned enterprises are yet to be included under the terms.

Jones Lang Lasalle’s James Kaufman said interest among Chinese investors was already high and
that, even when the “red tape blocking some deals” was removed, it was unlikely to spur greater
activity.

“Of the 20 or 30 sales that I have seen over the past few years apply for FIRB, not one of them has
been knocked back, so I cannot see that the new thresholds will affect the market one way or the
other,” Mr Kaufman said.
CBRE’s Mark Wizel said direct Chinese investment in Melbourne’s CBD and immediate surrounds
will exceed $3 billion this year, up from $2.41 billion last year and just $300 million five years ago.
Savills’ Clinton Baxter said the deal sent a powerful signal to Chinese investors.

“Coupled with the Aussie dollar weakening, a reduced scrutiny of investments suggests to all
investors, not just those spending more than $248 million, that they should feel confident and
welcome in buying Australian assets,” Mr Baxter said.
Mr Kaufman said Jones Lang Lasalle’s China division employs 8000 Chinese nationals, with a new
office opening every few weeks to service what is already a booming demand for Australian
commercial property.The Property Council of Australia welcomed the new threshold, saying
Chinese investors would now have the same level of access enjoyed by South Korea and Japan.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document HERSUN0020141118eabj00032

Page13of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.