State candidate calls for tax on overseas farm buyers

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

vicelection-warrnambool
State candidate calls for tax on overseas farm buyers

ALEX SINNOTT
418 words
20 October 2014
The Warrnambool Standard
FWARST
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

RAISING stamp duty on foreign investors to counteract a growing young farmer shortage has
been championed by Vote 1 Local Jobs party founder James Purcell.

The Moyne Shire mayor has proposed a "First Farm Owners Grant" which would be bankrolled
by increasing stamp duty paid by foreign investors to 50 per cent.

Cr Purcell said there were many aspiring young farmers in the region but they faced a number
of obstacles in acquiring a foothold in the property market.

"There are plenty of young people wanting to make a go at running their own farm but they
face many roadblocks," he said.
"If foreign investment continues to grow, then property prices will rise as a result. This means
the goal of buying your own farm is even tougher.

"The way I see it, there's two competing issues here that are pretty problematic for the future
of the south-west. We need a strong structure in place and this is a way to achieve it."
Cr Purcell's comments follow moves by Tasmanian-based company Linear Capital to secure
a major dairy farm network in the south-west on behalf of a Chinese company.

Linear Capital is seeking between 40 and 50 farms to be part of a dairy master-plan which
would also result in the construction of two processing plants within the region.

Victorian Farmers Federation has tentatively backed the plan with lobby groups Farmer Power
and AusBuy largely opposed.
"The Chinese and other foreign investors can see the economic potential in our region but
government doesn't seem to," said Cr Purcell, who is running in next month's state election.

"Charging 50 per cent stamp duty on all foreign investment in Victoria, whether it's agricultural
or residential, would be pretty lucrative for the state given current trends.

"Historically, foreign companies pay less tax than Australian-based counterparts, so this is a
way of addressing that imbalance."

Stamp duty differs in Victoria by the price paid by the aspiring landholder and whether the
property being acquired is the principal place of residence.

For example, the stamp duty for a principal place of residence valued between $130,000 and
$440,000 is $2870 plus five per cent of the dutiable value in excess of $130,000.
Stamp duty is generally higher for property that is not considered the main property of the
purchaser.

Page60of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE
PUB
AN

e2111 : Direct Taxation | e21 : Government Finance | e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue |
ecat : Economic News
victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FWARST0020141021eaak0002y

Page61of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.