Ore price pessimism overdone as miners dig in for long game

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Wealth
Ore price pessimism overdone as miners dig in for long game

DAVID WALKER
564 words
10 June 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
21
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

DON’T get too gloomy about the falling iron ore price.

While economists and politicians fret, the sliding spot price, now at 20-month lows after falling 30 per
cent this year, has had no discernible effect on the confidence and intentions of the iron ore majors in
most resource stock portfolios.

BHP Billiton, Rio Tinto and Fortescue Metals Group aim for production records of, respectively, 217,
295 and 127 million tonnes this financial year and Fortescue targets capacity of 155mt next year.
Brazil’s Vale is forecasting 360mt.
The majors are playing a long game of increasing their control of the seaborne iron ore trade and
transitioning Chinese steel producers from low-grade ore to the higher-quality blends exported from
the Pilbara and Vale’s Carajas mine. The majors might not like the near-term pressure on their
margins from the weak price, but their huge capacity upgrades make them responsible for it and are
deliberately targeted at the small high-cost producers that account for a quarter of global production.
We would not be surprised to see further capital commitments to iron ore by BHP and Rio Tinto when
they announce their full-year results. Tellingly, Rio Tinto chief executive Sam Walsh recently boasted
his firm was a “price-maker”.

The chart (right) shows the majors’ advantageous position on the global cost curve.
The multi-year surge in iron ore prices, which peaked in 2011, attracted a variety of chancers hoping
to cash in on a once-in-a-century opportunity.
China itself launched several high-cost, uncompetitive domestic producers to fill a seaborne supply
gap. Poor grades and lack of scale make many of these junior miners uneconomic at prices below
$US100 a tonne.

In contrast, the majors can afford to run their mines at nameplate capacity even at today’s subdued
prices while they wait for marginal producers to go out of business.

Gloom about price has a secondary benefit for the majors when sell-side analysts and bankers
become pessimistic. Lower forward prices in company models make it harder for existing and new
juniors to raise equity and debt capital. The majors can also threaten to hike supply, but then roll out
only enough capacity to suit themselves, with damage to the juniors done.
Value investors hunt for opportunities created but hidden by popular pessimism. The iron ore majors’
strategic endgame to dominate the seaborne market — and increase their volumes and pricing power
— means their shares should be on these investors’ watchlists.
There is plenty of growth left in Chinese iron ore consumption as the nation urbanises, and it is not
hard to see the majors scaling back their capacity upgrades to match Chinese demand growth once
the iron ore bit players have been sent packing.

Page26of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In the near term, there is potential downside to our respective 2015 valuations for BHP, Rio and
Fortescue of $US42.75, $US76 and $US8.40 if the iron ore price falls further, but these stocks are
already trading at discounts to value of 15 per cent, 22 per cent and 46 per cent, respectively.
The iron ore majors are only becoming more interesting.

David Walker is senior equities analyst at StocksInValue, a joint venture between Clime Asset
Management and Eureka Report. He owns shares in BHP and Rio.

ambol : Fortescue Metals Group Ltd | bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
mirono : Iron Ore Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mcat :
Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E
Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140609ea6a0003l

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page27of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.