AGL Energy paves way for $1.2b cash call

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Market Wrap - Street Talk
AGL Energy paves way for $1.2b cash call

Edited by Sarah Thompson, Anthony Macdonald and Gretchen Friemann
382 words
18 July 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
14
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Few things excite equities desks like an unexpected profit update from an equity raising candidate.
So the alarm bells rang when AGL Energy, which has flagged a $1.2 billion cash call, pre-released
its 2014 financial year profit on Thursday morning.

It turned out to be a false alarm. But hedge funds and bankers expect next time will be a different
story, with the groundwork laid for an equity offer.

Sources said AGL, which has signalled the $1.2 billion raising to fund its Macquarie
Generationpurchase, is unlikely to hit the button until the release of its full-year accounts on August
20.

But now the disappointing headline number is in the market, it should make the deal an easier sell
come raising day. It also took out the short-term share price reaction, with AGL dropping 5.5 per cent
yesterday.
The energy giant will find out next Thursday whether the Australian Competition and Consumer
Commission has given up trying to block the MacGen acquisition.Deal initially rejected

The ACCC initially rejected the deal, before the decision was overturned at the Australian
Competition Tribunal last month. The regulator has 28-days to appeal the decision, which falls
next week.

Even if AGL gets the green light next week, sources said it would make more sense to raise at the
results. Citi, Deutsche Bank and Bank of America Merrill Lynch are on hand to manage the offer.
Rival Origin Energy is sitting on a $1 billion cash call of its own which could come with its results on
August 21. Elsewhere, the Chinese bid for $1.4 billion copper-gold miner PanAust has thrown the
spotlight on other Laos hopefuls and ASX-aspirant Zomia Resources.
Zomia, led by Axiom Mining founder Jake Gray, is seeking equity to restart a 30,000-ounce-a-year
gold operation in the Asian nation, which it then hopes to increase to 100,000 ounces a year. If the
pre-IPO funding round is successful and Zomia gets into production, it could list with a
$50 million-odd market capitalisation next year.
Paradigm Securities is advising the company through the pre-IPO stage.

CO
IN

NS
RE

agkega : AGL Energy Limited | macgen : Macquarie Generation
i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16101 : Electric Power Generation | ieutil : Electric Utilities | iutil :
Utilities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

Page109of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140717ea7i0002y

Page110of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.