It's party time in real estate

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
It's party time in real estate

Samantha Hutchinson and Rebecca Thistleton
2,588 words
11 October 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
20
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Property boom Those enjoying the fruits don't know when it will end – or care, write Samantha
Hutchinson and Rebecca Thistleton.
Diners at the Chatswood Chinese restaurant on a Saturday night in 2011 would have hardly given the
table a second glance. Elated as the group sitting around the lazy susan were, David Milton and his
team from CBRE's project marketing division were tired. It had been a long day.

But after generating more than $300 million in just one day's work, it was time to celebrate. The
group had sold 292 apartments, 90 per cent of the project's two buildings, in just eight hours.

"It was the first time in 15 years anything like that had happened," Milton says.

"I remember thinking at the time it was like the bell had rung."
Fast-forward three years and the property activity Milton reckons began that day is in full swing and
gathering pace.

Former US Reserve Bank chair William McChesney Martin once described good monetary policy as
knowing when to take the punch bowl of low rates away just as the spending party gets swinging. In
Australia, the throngs of real estate agents and a raft of hangers-on are enjoying that delightful
moment when the warmth of the booze has got feet dancing, yet the punchbowl isn't going  anywhere.

House prices are soaring, the value of loans to investors is at record highs, but Reserve Bank of
Australia governor Glenn Stevens is keeping rates pegged low. The only potential party-pooper is the
threat of macroprudential rules to trim back bank lending to property investors.

Until that happens, realtors, developers, house photographers, feng shui consultants, furniture stylists
and gardeners can barely believe their luck. They are at the right place at the right time, doing the
right thing. And in real estate, location is everything.Persistence pays

In a prime spot is Jeremy Allsop.
The Sydney real estate agent, who just turned 30, drove a 1995 Chevrolet Corvette halfway across
Australia last Sunday. It was a gift to himself; the same model he lusted over as a child peeking into
his uncle's garage. Its first owner shipped it from the United States and never drove it in the rain. And
when Allsop bought it, there were just 49,000 kilometres on the clock and condoms in the glovebox.

He added another 1400km bringing his dream car home. Personalised licence plates are on the way.
"I drive it daily; anything I buy I use," he tells AFR Weekend, alluding to the good wine, shoes and
Mont Blanc pens he buys himself as rewards for strong sales.
"I like to do things that other people can't. Anyone can buy a BMW. This is a little bit special."

Page162of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Hunting for the right car took months, but his persistence is why Allsop is confident he will still be in
the game for the long run, and if the market was to turn. Allsop's hunger for success was evident early
in his career.
Recalling his first home sale, Allsop says a couple interested in buying the home offered to give him
their own home to sell, if he accepted their bid on the other property. His response took them back.

"I said no, that they would pay the amount I told them, and then they would give me their listing," he
says. "I told them the truth: I work for my vendors, isn't that what they'd want from an agent, the best
price?"
Boldness and honesty meant the buyers agreed to pay the asking price. Allsop sold their home, and
sold it again a few years later. And after more than a decade of sharp-eyed determination, he has
stuck with LJ Hooker and is now a sales manager.Ups and downs

Allsop illustrates his change in fortunes with a simple equation: for every five homes he lists today,
there are at least 10 buyers.

When at the start of the century and aged in his late teens, he became an agent, it was 10 homes to
five buyers. Homes languished on the market for six months.

Those were the dark days of discontent, when mortgage rates were at 7 per cent and the effects of
the mining boom were only in their infancy.
CBRE's David Milton remembers in 2005 when he sold just 84 properties in one year. The following
year he sold 120. This year, his team is expecting to sell more than 3500.

The agent, known for his knock-about country manner, cuts a sharp figure at residential projects
wearing an Hermes belt and elegant Italian leather shoes.

When asked what car he drives, he sheepishly admits it's a Ferrari. Before that, it was a Porsche. "It
hasn't happened overnight, you know," Milton says. "It's been a gradual change. Buyers are making
decisions more quickly, but it's a high level of activity coming off a seriously low base."

Milton jokes that times are good and he's spending while he can, but memories of tougher times aren't
far away. "The introduction of the GST nearly killed me," he says.

"Three clients went into receivership. It was very tight, extremely tight.

"And in 2004, the market was completely unsustainable. There was an oversupply, we lost a huge
amount of money, but it's made me stay focused, you reduce your expenses, you work on your
marketing systems and your IT, and when the market comes back, you're in a position to make things
work."

Milton has earned notoriety leading CBRE's project marketing division, a 130-man team charged with
finding buyers for hundreds of off-the-plan apartments.
Under Milton's watch, Chinese developer Greenland earned $275 million in one day, when he
launched the first tranche of 250 apartments at Greenland Centre, its 66-floor residential skyscraper
which, upon completion, will be the tallest in Sydney's CBD.

Greenland's latest project, Leichhardt Green, within a former hosiery factory in Sydney's inner west,
will yield 240 apartments with prices starting at $480,000.

It launches later this month, and in a marker of the madness, interested buyers have been told to
arrive before 7.30am to get a decent spot in the queue when sales open at 9am.Indulgences
Sitting behind Milton, another cog in the property machine is Mark Wizel. He's a Melbourne-based
agent who sells blocks of land, upon which high-rise fortunes are built.

Like Allsop, Wizel's foundation days coincided with the financial crisis, in which cutting a path
demanded no small level of entrepreneurship.

"We had to find new ways. We'd be selling a building, so I'd find a restaurant tenant for the ground
floor first – it's about finding solutions," he tells AFR Weekend.

Wizel was born to an enterprising couple who owned an Ugg boot stall at Melbourne's Queen Victoria
Markets. In the '90s, clip-on koalas and plastic kangaroo road signs sold well to European tourists.

Page163of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Higher-end products sold better to the few Chinese tourists.

Wizel's father started stocking Akubra hats, Ugg boots, sheepskins and shark cartilage, and courting
tourist guides who brought busloads of Chinese tourists to his stall. "We were selling out by midday."

Working in the store, Wizel honed his sales skills from a young age.

It was an invaluable experience which would placed him on an enviable footing when a wave of
Chinese investment filtered into Melbourne from 2010 onwards.

Now 31, Wizel is known as The Wiz and heads CBRE's Melbourne City Sales team, which has
successfully positioned itself as a link for landowners to Asian developers.
He was best man to Richard Gu, whose AXF Group is building apartments and hotels in Melbourne
and Sydney.

His Chanel tie, Louis Vuitton case and sharp suit are more about personal branding than indulgences.
Wizel is targeting a market big on labels and image, he says.

It's a formula that works. His 17-strong sales team, which targets new investors to Australia with an
eye to gain their repeat business, has sold more than $1.6 billion of property around the Melbourne
CBD and city fringe since mid-2011.
Wizel recently sold a $60 million site on behalf of Grocon to a new offshore group, represented by
lawyer Jenny Wang of Berrigan Doube Lawyers.
She has always specialised in property but her client list has swelled, particularly in the past year.
She says she is used to long hours but has been surprised at the hours her clients work.

Wizel knows it all too well, but says it's not just the offshore developers demanding that deals get
done at a faster pace.All-hours negotiation
Last Valentines Day, he nailed a $21 million St Kilda Road site at 2am, having pulled the vendor and
a local buyer into the Rialto Tower boardroom at 9pm. The five-hour negotiation began with Wizel
grabbing roses and a juice bottle to honour the date, February 14, and break the ice between the two
parties, one locked at buying for $20 million, the other selling at $21.5 million.

The prospective buyer was Caydon Properties director Joe Russo, whose wife and school-aged
daughter followed him into the negotiating room. Stuck in a deadlock, it was his daughter who broke
the impasse. "My dad's not going to give you any more money," the 13-year old chimed in from a
corner of the boardroom table. "You might as well take it."
They got the tower for $20.9 million.

Wizel's ascent may not surprise pundits who have watched the number of off-the-plan apartments
filling weekend property pages. Nor will it surprise the families who live in central locations fielding
multiple knocks at the door each week from developers with their eyes on their site.

But other, more tangential sectors of the market also report they are feeling the same warm flow of the
wealth effect trickling out from the housing market.
More than a decade ago, Lizette Akouri spent $2000 to have a Chinese grand master of feng shui
tour her home. His advice on how she could improve her wealth, health and general fortune had such
an explosive impact on her life, Akouri switched careers to become a feng shui consultant herself. It
would prove to be a fortuitous move.

Nowadays, the Macau-born resident of Sydney's North Ryde has built a steady client book of potential
home buyers, existing home owners and retailers asking advice on how to manipulate energy flow
and magnetic fields in their dwellings to harness positivity and avoid bad fortune.Homeware hot

Akouri chairs the local chapter of the international Association of Feng Shui Consultants, and says
demand for feng shui consultants is likely to be the highest it has ever been in Australia.
"Business is very good at the moment; the majority of us are doing very well," she says.
"It's because of the property boom. There's so much movement in the sector and people moving
house, buying a house, thinking about buying a new house, which means a lot of us are doing more
assessments, but of course we always want more."

Page164of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It's the same story for Coco Republic. The upscale furniture group sells a raft of coastal-chic and
Scandinavian-influenced furniture and homeware designs in showrooms around the country.

It also rents luxury couches and neatly sized furniture to make properties on the market appear more
stylish, in addition to an interior decorating service for residents and a growing number of developers.
The group has had to take on new staff at every level of its business, from administrators to
management and stylists, to cope with demand in the past 12 months.

Chief executive Jeremy Byrne says he's doubled the size of his Brisbane warehouse and has beefed
up inventory levels of furniture for loan by 30 per cent in the past six months. Staff have been burning
the midnight oil to keep up with demand.
"We're the sort of company that will never turn down a job – if we ever had to say to client that we
couldn't help them, it would be a complete failure of what we're trying to do," Byrne says.

It a sentiment that echoes with David Milton's rule of thumb for an industry known for wild highs and
white-knuckled lows: fast times can pay off, but only if you've made the effort during the slow times to
get prepared for when the sun shines.

And here is the rub. As the skin pulls thin across a sector ballooning with new buyers, there are
smaller players for whom the property boom is becoming a little unbearable.
Agents complain to AFR Weekend that real estate photographers, gardeners and creative agencies
who splice together shots of homes for glossy promotional videos are booked out for weeks at a
time.'Structural shift'

One agent tells of a home in Coogee that launched to market a week late, after they couldn't secure
the photographer they wanted. "[The photographer] actually told us a couple of weeks ago that we
needed to book in early to get her on the job, and we didn't believe her. It was a really bad decision,"
the agent said.

Feng shui consultant Akouri says some of her peers are complaining they are losing work to grand
masters from China who are flown in by wealthy families for a private consultation. "Chinese buyers
usually use the feng shui masters who only speak Chinese, and they fly them in from overseas," she
says, her voice carrying a note of frustration. "It happens very often."

Lizette charges a minimum of $298 to visit and write a six-page report on a two- to three- bedroom
home. Chinese grand masters, by comparison, are unlikely to charge any less than $4000 for a single
consultation, which might only contain verbal advice, before airfares and accommodation is added.
"We would like more buyers to come to local consultants like us, because we are cheaper but we are
also very good," Akouri says.
All booms must come to an end. Real estate agents like Wizel, who recently commissioned a painting
of the Ugg boot stall at Queen Victoria Markets to remind him of his past, disagrees with the sentiment
that he needs to rake the money in quickly as the sun might set soon. The market is strong and
investment levels are picking up, he reasons. Besides, what use is there speculating about a dip?

"I don't think about it. You can't think like that. We're seeing a structural shift – there will be 160,000
new Chinese millionaires every year until 2020."

Meanwhile, Milton is adamant the market still has a fair way to go before demand for apartments near
Sydney's CBD softens. But he always has an eye on the future.

"You need that training and development and to have those good systems in place if you want to
future-proof yourself," he says.

The statement dovetails with Allsop's easy-come, easy-go view. Allsop isn't worried about how long
the boom can grow before it dives, he says, because "the cycle" is what separates successful agents
from the fair-weathered.

IN
NS

RE

i834 : Real Estate Agents/Brokers | ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia
Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales

Page165of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141010eaab0000v

Page166of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.