Outbound deals lift commercial realty

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Outbound deals lift commercial realty

620 words
23 October 2014
Industry Updates
BDU
English
Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Company. All Rights Reserved.

Outbound investment in commercial property rose more than 200-fold from 2008 to June 2014,
reaching a total of $33.7 billion during the period, a report said on Oct 22.
The United States was the top destination for investment from the Chinese mainland, followed by the
United Kingdom, Hong Kong, Singapore, Australia and Malaysia, according to the research by
Cushman & Wakefield, the world's largest private commercial real estate services firm.

"Chinese investors prefer developed and mature markets in Asia, North America and Europe," said Ted
Li, national director of capital markets, China at Cushman & Wakefield.
Most of China's investments in US property are concentrated in the "gateway cities" in the eastern and
western coastal areas as well as the Great Lakes region.
Xinyuan Real Estate Co Ltd, a Nasdaq-listed Chinese property developer, for instance, just opened
the sale of its first residential project in New York, with a total investment of $250 million.
"Two-thirds of our apartment will be sold to local customers while the remaining one-third will be for
Chinese customers," said John Liang, executive vice-president of Xinyuan Real Estate.

Snapping up high-quality land parcels in New York, according to Liang, will be a major challenge for the
company to develop further projects in the city.

Going forward, investors are increasingly diversifying their asset choices and spreading their
investments across the US, Li from Cushman & Weikfield said.
The UK is the first choice for Chinese real estate investors in Europe, with London alone accounting for
62.7 percent of the European total.
"Southeast Asia is a favorite destination as well, due to its proximity to China and the strong presence
of ethnic Chinese communities," Li said.
"In Singapore, Chinese investors prefer to invest in offices, whereas in Malaysia, land development is
the preferred vehicle. Many Chinese developers view the Iskandar Malaysia development zone as
having huge potential for growth given its close proximity to Singapore," Li said.
Mark Suchy, director of investment and capital markets, east China, Cushman & Wakefield said New
York City, Los Angeles, San Francisco, London and Sydney are the top investment destinations for
Chinese outbound investment in the West, while cities like Seattle, Dallas, and Melbourne will become
more relevant as Chinese capital increasingly taps these "second-tier" destinations. "We see a variety
of fundamental forces driving China's outbound investment trends," said Suchy.
Domestic restrictions on home purchases as well as the cooling property market conditions at home
are pushing many investors to diversify to developed countries, where signs of economic recovery and
prospects of asset appreciation promise more attractive returns.

"Supportive government policies for enterprises to expand overseas, the strengthening of the renminbi,
and the desire of Chinese firms to internationalize are fueling the capital outflows," said Suchy.

Meanwhile, private enterprises and individual investors are the key driving force, with office buildings by
far the most preferred property type, the research said.

Page146of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Cushman & Wakefield's analysis showed that while State-owned enterprises and private firms each
contributed around 50 percent of the total value of outbound real estate investment from 2008 to June
2014, private enterprises and individual investors accounted for a larger share of the number of deals.

A variety of investors - including large private developers, State-owned banks and insurance firms,
sovereign wealth funds and high-net-worth individuals - are jumping into foreign property markets.
Between 2008 and June 2014, office buildings were by far the most preferred property type,
accounting for over 48 percent of aggregate investment. Office investments experienced a spike in
2013, reaching $8.4 billion - greater than the total for all other asset classes of $7.4 billion that year.

CO
IN
NS
RE

IPC
PUB
AN

xinyan : Xinyuan Real Estate Co., Ltd.
icre : Real Estate/Construction | i501 : Building Construction | iconst : Construction
ereal : Real Estate Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
usa : United States | china : China | austr : Australia | malay : Malaysia | uk : United Kingdom | apacz :
Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz :
European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | weurz :
Western Europe
con
China Daily Information Company
Document BDU0000020141023eaan0000f

Page147of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.