How to sell more hats to China

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News - Opinion
How to sell more hats to China

932 words
13 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
2
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Jennifer Hewett

Roy Wilkinson from Akubra recalls a Tibetan businessman wandering into the Akubra retail store in
Sydney several years ago and buying 20 hats. He then sold them in Tibet and China.

"We'd never really thought about selling to the China market before," Wilkinson says. These days,
Akubra is selling about 10,000 hats a year there via its one original customer and several other
Chinese distributors who happened to contact Akubra. But the business wants to sell a lot more hats
in China – and it wants help to do so.
"We may have an iconic name but we are still a small family-owned company of 90 people and we are
not very sophisticated in export markets,'' says Wilkinson. "A lot of our business is done on a
handshake but it's not easy to find the right distributors."
That lack of expertise about China – whether in legal, cultural or language differences – is common
among small and medium-sized businesses daunted by the complexity and commercial risks of
trading there.
Unlike large companies, it's not as if small operators can afford to employ a lot of China experts to
assist them. Or risk the wrong partners. Or bet big on products which may not suit Chinese consumers
– but could have worked with adjustments if they had realised what was necessary.

Overcoming such barriers will be key to Australia's capacity to take advantage of the free trade
agreement and a huge market as well as much-needed growth for so many small and medium-sized
businesses.
Yet for all the talk and possibilities of Brand Australia, there's little attempt to sell that national image in
any coherent way.

So the NSW Chamber of Commerce will announce next week a radical new program designed to meet
the gap confronting many Australian small businesses and guide them through the challenges and
opportunities of selling in China.Organised effort
Export Growth China will set up a showroom in Shanghai next year to feature Australian product
samples designed to appeal to Chinese wholesale buyers. Behind that is a much more organised effort
to assist smaller Australian would-be exporters negotiate their into the market in a more considered
way.

That includes providing everything from legal and contract services to market research to translation to
cultural training to marketing advice and protecting intellectual property.
NSW Business Chamber CEO Stephen Cartwright says the idea is to help companies avoid the
time-consuming, costly and often frustrating process of getting products on shelves in Chinese stores.

Page39of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Instead, if particular products are chosen for the Shanghai showroom, the chamber will work with the
owners to assess the interest from Chinese buyers and how best to meet possible demand.

"What this does is substantially reduce the risks and costs to SME exporters by offering them a
low-cost export entry point, as well as end to end assistance – from identification of an opportunity to
the ultimate export sale," he says.
"Our intelligence on the ground in China will be able to provide real-time advice. It might be that the
labelling or packaging may need to be redesigned for the local market. Or the size or ingredients might
need to be better tailored for the specific market."

About 200 samples will be on display in the showroom, rotated every six months. An enthusiastic
Akubra is hoping its hats will be there.

The idea developed from Cartwright's frustration at seeing the opportunities squandered because of the
difficulties for small business in getting the right advice and assistance as well as the fragmentation of
Australian marketing efforts.
Most of the Austrade offices in China, for example, seem to focus far more on helping Chinese
business sell or invest in the Australian market rather than the other way around.
Cartwright received the strong backing of his NSW board. This included a $2.5 million financial
commitment, along with a small grants from Austrade. The program will be open to any member of a
chamber of commerce throughout Australia – around 300,000 nationally – at a cost of around $5000 to
$7000.Green tea ice cream
Greg McNamara is a chamber director as well as chairman of Norco, the north coast dairy co-operative
selling fresh milk to China. That experience has not been without problems – everything from leaking
foil bottle tops en route to fake Chinese replicas of the brand within 48 hours of its arrival. Adaptation
of bottle tops and downloading a new Australian app that identifies the farm, date and origins of the
milk has taken care of that. And McNamara belatedly realised providing 2 litre bottles doesn't work
given the size of most Chinese fridges. It only makes him more enthusiastic about the chamber's
initiative.

"It helps people to understand the opportunities and manage the risks," he says. "We don't have the
understanding of the culture we need to have. Just drawing up a contract is a real challenge.
"We have just muddled our way through. We now realise if there is a problem, the Chinese just go
quiet and don't respond to emails."
Beyond steadily expanding milk exports, McNamara's new dream is for Norco to provide high-quality
ice cream to China. That will require testing the market for the right flavours. Green tea, anyone? Chai?

"Australia can't be a cheap commodity player,'' he says. "We need to pay at the higher end. And that
means constant innovation and knowing how to respond to Chinese tastes."
See you in China . . .

NS

RE

PUB
AN

nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive
News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141112eabd00016

Page40of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.