UEM Sunrise mulls Australian expansion

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

UEM Sunrise mulls Australian expansion

470 words
25 November 2014
Business Times
BTMAL
3
English
(c) 2014

KUALA LUMPUR: UEM Sunrise Bhd, which has two property projects in Melbourne, Australia
worth an estimated A$1.1 billion (RM3.19 billion), is eyeing new landmark sites in the country for
expansion purposes.
Managing director/chief executive officer Anwar Syahrin Abdul Ajib said, the company is also
studying several offers from Australian companies to help develop projects in the suburbs.

UEM Sunrise made its entry into the Australian property market in October last year when it
acquired a 0.4ha site on La Trobe Street and a 0.4ha site on Mackenzie Street for A$65 million
(RM189 million).
The company unveiled the first project, the A$770 million Aurora Melbourne Centre on La Trobe
Street, earlier this month.

The project on Mackenzie Street known as The Conservatory worth about A$300 million will be
unveiled by June next year.

Anwar said UEM Sunrise is not resting on its laurels with just the two projects in hand.
He said the company wants to build more properties in Australia to ride on the expanding economy
and population growth in Melbourne and Sydney.
"As a company, we will continue to introduce new products that people want to buy and invest in.
We are zooming in on a few sites. We are not just looking at high-rise developments in Melbourne's
central business district.
"If the numbers are good (elsewhere) and we think there is no risk, we will bring it to the board to
decide," he said at a media briefing, here, yesterday.

On Aurora Melbourne Central, Anwar said UEM Sunrise is proud of the project not only because the
land value has doubled since the acquisition a year ago and it offers good margins, it has achieved
sales of more than 95 per cent in two weeks, a record for the company.

He also said the project opens the doors to investors to know more about UEM Sunrise and its
developments in Malaysia, especially in Greater Kuala Lumpur and Johor.

Aurora Melbourne Central has 941 apartments, priced between A$395,000 and A$1.1 million and
22 per cent of the units were bought by Malaysians, said UEM Sunrise chief operating officer,
commercial, Raymond Cheah.
Cheah said, 25 per cent were purchased by Australians, 15 per cent by Singaporeans, and the rest
by Hong Kong and Chinese investors.
The project also comprises retail, commercial office and serviced apartment/hotels and it is slated
to be completed by 2019.

Cheah said, the ground breaking for the project, which is set to be Melbourne's largest integrated
mixed-use development, will start in March or April next year.

Page39of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Melbourne project is expected to drive the firm's sales for the current fiscal year.
The company will be announcing its third-quarter results tomorrow.

( END )

CO
IN
RE

IPC
PUB
AN

uemlhb : UEM Sunrise Berhad
icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest : Real Estate
austr : Australia | malay : Malaysia | kuala : Kuala Lumpur | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria
(Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Company
New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad
Document BTMAL00020141125eabp00006

Page40of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.