Tragedy strikes twice

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Perspective
Tragedy strikes twice

Jamie Freed
1,307 words
19 July 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
15
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Aviation Malaysia Airlines' future is in question after two disasters tarnish its brand and perceived
safety record, writes Jamie Freed.

Lightning never strikes twice, right? The old saying was no doubt a comfort to travellers who had
booked on Malaysia Airlines in the wake of the mysterious disappearance of MH370 in March.

"A lot of people think it happened to them once, it can't happen again," says Penny Spencer, the
managing director of Sydney-based corporate travel agency Spencer Travel. "That's human nature.
You think it couldn't strike twice."

But it did for Malaysia Airlines. Tragically, it had the mysterious disappearance of flight MH370 in the
Indian Ocean on March 7, with the loss of 239 lives. The plane has never been found. Now, less than
four months later, a second Malaysia Airlines aircraft has dropped out of the sky. It was shot down by
a surface-to-air missile over the Ukraine. All 298 passengers and crew were killed.

The odds of two crashes in four months – both Boeing 777-200s flown by the same airline – are no
doubt infinitesimal.

But many are now wondering what it means for the fate of Malaysia Airlines, which had long enjoyed a
strong safety record. Indeed, many passengers were willing to write off the MH370 disappearance as
a one-off as they sought discounted fares to Asia and Europe after the incident.

"I think the travelling public's response after the disappearance of MH370 was fairly typical of what we
have seen in the past," Flight Centre spokesman Hadyn Long says.

"Generally, passenger numbers fell as the uncertainty continued and we then started to see a gradual
recovery."

MH17, the Malaysia Airlines flight from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur which ended in disaster over
eastern Ukraine early on Friday morning, was reportedly overbooked to the point where some
passengers were shifted onto other flights.

Once the news of the tragedy sunk in, Australian customers were ringing travel agents on Friday to
cancel their reservations.

"We probably had six or seven phone calls to cancel tickets already issued," Spencer says. "I think
[Malaysia Airlines] are in for a difficult time."

This is despite the fact that air safety has improved to the point where commercial jet crashes are
extremely rare.
In 2013, there was the equivalent of just one accident for every 2.4 million flights in Western-built
jets.Against the ropes

Page29of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Malaysia Airlines was struggling financially long before the disappearance of MH370 in March. The
government-backed legacy carrier has faced fierce competition in its home market from upstart budget
airline AirAsia. In February, it reported an annual loss of 1.17 billion ringgit ($392 million), which was
nearly triple the 432.5 million ringgit loss a year earlier.

The losses look set to deepen following this latest accident.

After the disappearance of MH370, the airline has allowed its customers to cancel even
non-refundable tickets without charge for travel until December 31 if they feel uncomfortable taking the
airline.

Now some are wondering if Malaysia Airlines will go the way of Pan Am after the deadly bombing of
flight 103 in 1998.

Pan Am had been struggling financially before the crash and the loss of confidence from customers
was the final nail its coffin.

"We know what happened to Pan Am after Lockerbie," says Ron Bartsch, the chairman of
international safety consultancy AvLaw International and a former head of safety at Qantas.

"In that case it was no fault of the airline, as is the case here, but the travelling public doesn't make
that determination. I think Pan Am, the Lockerbie flight, that was the beginning of the end for Pan Am.
I think there may be some similar ramifications for Malaysia Airlines."

But Richard Aboulafia, an aviation consultant at Teal Group, says that is unlikely to be the case given
Malaysia Airlines, unlike Pan Am, had government backing.

"If the powers that be want to back you, you're fine," Aboulafia told USA Today. "Given the way things
are shaping up, this is an airline that is the victim of nothing more than very bad luck."

Malaysia Airlines shares fell by as much as 18 per cent on Friday and are trading around 34 per
cent lower than the same time last year. The question for investors is whether passengers will be
willing to book on such an unlucky airline.How to survive as a company

Korean Air survived after a 747 carrying 269 people was shot down by Soviet fighter jets in 1983 but
that incident wasn't preceded by another major event, as happened in this case.

"They have really got to handle this well if they are going to survive," says Monash University
Department of Management professor Greg Bamber. He says he has flown on the airline to Europe
but now, "I would think twice about it, where I didn't in the past."

Travel agent Spencer says customers had been forgiving after the MH370 disappearance, in part
because Malaysia Airlines offered lower-cost business and first class fares to Europe than some of its
rivals.

"It is unfortunate and sad this has happened to them because they are a good airline," she says. "I
think it is going to take a long time [to restore confidence]."

But in a market where consumers are constantly seeking out bargains, Flight Centre is not willing to
write off Malaysia Airlines just yet.

"I think it's too early to tell what impact this will have on Malaysia Airlines passenger numbers moving
forward," Long says.

"It will probably take some time to understand exactly what happened and why. Some people will
naturally be cautious but, as we have also seen in the past, others will be more than willing to fly with
the airline, particularly if it was a random and tragic act and Malaysia Airlines wasn't specifically
targeted."

The MH370 incident, which caused it to suspend marketing activities for two months and led to a
60 per cent fall in bookings from Chinese customers in March, hastened the need for the airline to
restructure.

"We believe that the best way forward for Malaysia Airlines is bankruptcy and court protection for a
deep reorganisation of the business, à la Japan Airlines, including a renegotiation of supplier contracts
and the terms of employment for crew and pilots," CIMB analyst Raymond Yap told clients after the
airline reported a large first-quarter loss in May.

Page30of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."But the possibility of this move depends entirely on whether the strategic shareholder in Malaysia
Airlines and its management have what it takes to repel the powerful vested interests that are against
change."

Etihad Airways, which is a substantial shareholder in Virgin Australia Holdings, has invested in
struggling airlines around the world – most recently Italy's Alitalia.

It's believed the Abu Dhabi-based carrier held talks with Malaysia Airlines about deepening their
codeshare relationship, but Etihad has denied any plans to buy equity in the ailing carrier.

Earlier this month, there were reports Malaysian state-owned investor Khazanah Nasional Bhd plans
to take Malaysia Airlines private to help it restructure, in a move that might lead to it selling off its
profitable engineering, airport services or budget airline units. Malaysia Airlines said any such
decisions would be up to Khazanah and the Malaysian government.

In Australia, Malaysia Airlines was the fifth-largest foreign carrier in the 12 months to April, with its
4.3 per cent market share of international passengers sitting just behind Cathay Pacific. The number
of passengers flying Malaysia Airlines to and from Australia rose by 28 per cent in the month of April
from a year earlier, as the airline expanded capacity. Before the MH17 crash, there were signs
Malaysia Airlines was returning to a more normal state.

masys : Malaysia Airline Systems Bhd | khzinv : Khazanah Nasional Berhad
i7501 : Scheduled Passenger Airlines | i75 : Airlines | iairtr : Air Transport | itsp :
Transportation/Shipping
gaira : Airplane Accidents | nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat :
Political/General News | gdis : Disasters/Accidents | gmmdis : Accidents/Man-made Disasters | grisk :
Risk News | gtacc : Transport Accidents | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E
Executive News Filter
malay : Malaysia | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140718ea7j00002

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page31of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.