Packer's CPH to consolidate with profits on the rise

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Finance
Packer's CPH to consolidate with profits on the rise

EXCLUSIVE, DAMON KITNEY
1,013 words
31 January 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
N - Canberra
17
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE Packer family's private investment company is poised for a period of consolidation after posting
another strong annual financial performance, underpinned by share price growth across its listed
investments and reduced losses in its fashion business.
The annual accounts of James Packer's private companyConsolidated Press Holdings, obtained by
The Australian, show CPH posted a net profit last year of $181.4 million, up from the previous year's
result of $179.3m. Its major listed investments were in casino group Crown, jobs group Seek and
fund manager Magellan Financial Group.

Crown's market capitalisation grew by $3 billion last year.

CPH paid dividends of $119.5m, down from the $143.1m paid a year earlier. The dividends are the
only means for Mr Packer to realise the value of his investments, given he does not draw a salary
from his position as chairman of Crown.

Forbes Asia this week increased its estimate of Mr Packer's wealth by 10 per cent to $6.6bn,
retaining his position as Australia's third-richest person.

CPH executive director Michael Johnston said CPH had entered a period of relative stability after a
major restructuring that had seen it shed non-core assets in a range of industries, including beef
processing and beef production, cosmetics, leisure and entertainment, financial services and media.

It is unlikely to make fresh investments or sell more assets in the year ahead.

``In the year ahead it will be steady as she goes,'' Mr Johnston said.

``We have gone through the process of reconfiguring the asset portfolio and we are very comfortable
where it is at right now.''
Its biggest headache remains its wholly owned Pretty Girl Fashion Group, the owner of the 425-store
Rockmans womenswear chain as well as the Table Eight corporate uniforms business and W Lane
brand.

According to accounts lodged with the Australian Securities & Investments Commission, Pretty Girl
reported a net loss last year of $11.8m.
Current liabilities exceeded current assets by $3.7m. At June 30 the group was in a net liability
position of $21.1m. The accounts show CPH has provided a letter of support for Pretty Girl for at least
another 12 months.

However, the level of losses almost halved last year, as did the deficiency in net assets.

Following its June 30 balance date, CPH netted a profit of an estimated $150m on selling its stakes in
Seek and Magellan Financial Group.

Page229of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.All of the proceeds of those sales were invested in booming real estate website Zillow, the so-called
REA Group of the US, and RatPac Entertainment, a Hollywood film development and production
finance company.

``Both Zillow and RatPac are early-phase businesses that we believe have significant potential for
growth. James has a very good track record in picking early-stage internet investments,'' Mr Johnston
said.

Entities controlled by CPH have a 9.3 per cent stake in Zillow. Mr Johnston confirmed that CPH took
its initial stake early last year before buying more shares with the proceeds of the Seek and Magellan
sales.

``Zillow is currently the market leader in the US. We came in at a time when that was starting to be

the case and since then it has only become clearer,'' Mr Johnston said.

``We think it has great potential for future growth.''

On the RatPac investment with filmmaker Brett Ratner, Mr Johnston said: ``James sees an
opportunity to leverage RatPac's Western technology in filmmaking into other markets.''

Continued on Page 23

Continued from Page 17

In an interview with Forbes Asia published yesterday, Mr Packer went further, saying RatPac was
looking at opportunities in China tailored specifically for the Chinese consumer, as well as India and
throughout Asia.

``RatPac is a chance to bring together Western and Eastern culture,'' Mr Packer said. But CPH was
unlikely to buy more shares in RatPac.

In addition to its 50.1 per cent stake in Crown, CPH retains a small media investment of just 9 per
cent in the Ten Network, whose shares have risen almost 30 per cent this month.
CPH's other remaining assets are in online jobs in China and ski resorts. It has a 15 per cent stake in
Chinese online job site Zhaopin, which is earmarked for a sharemarket float, and 75 per cent of ski
resort Perisher Blue, an asset it inherited in 1972, when CPH acquired Perisher Smiggins and the
Perisher Hotel through its purchase of Murray Publishers.

Mr Johnston said CPH had ``quite a low level of debt overall'' despite the accounts recording billions
of dollars of borrowings from controlled entities within the group, and he said it remained optimistic
about the outlook for the Chinese economy. We are still comfortable with the thematic of growth in
the Macau market given the ongoing growth in China,'' Mr Johnston said.

Crown has a 34 per cent stake in Melco Crown, a pan-Asian gaming joint venture with Lawrence Ho
with casinos in Macau.

The investment has grown to represent half of Crown's total value, is now almost debt-free at the
holding-company level, and it has independent financing in place for new developments in Macau
and The Philippines.

Mr Packer said late last year that Crown's investment in Melco Crown cost $US600m and was now
worth $US6.2bn ($7.1bn).
``We uphold our optimistic view on China's economy, as well as Macau's,'' he told Forbes Asia. ``The
increasingly affluent PRC population has led to a greater demand for quality entertainment. I don't
pretend to be an economist, but China's growth rate is still the envy of most of the world. Half a billion
people have moved from poverty to the middle class.''
While CPH's accounts lodged with ASIC are indicative of its financial performance, the company is
ultimately owned by Bahamas-based entities and posts unconsolidated accounts, so they do not give
a full picture of the Packer family's private investment empire.

CO
IN

peamag : Magellan Financial Group | nphlau : New Privateer Holdings Ltd
i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | ialtinv : Alternative Investments | ifinal : Financial Services
| ihedge : Hedge Funds | iinv : Investing/Securities

Page230of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE
PUB
AN

c151 : Earnings | c18 : Ownership Changes | c15 : Performance | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140130ea1v0008g

Page231of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.