Offshore appetite for Australian real estate falling: CBRE

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Offshore appetite for Australian real estate falling: CBRE

Larry Schlesinger
491 words
19 March 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
37
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Foreign investment in Australian commercial real estate is expected to taper in 2014 as the
improving global economy creates more cross-border competition for offshore capital, according to
real estate group CBRE.

Australia ranked as the No. 1 country in the Asia Pacific for cross-border investment in 2013,
attracting more than a third (35 per cent) of all investment into the region.

In terms of current investor intentions, Australia (18 per cent) ranked second, behind China (28 per
cent), a CBRE survey of investor intentions found. Sydney and Melbourne ranking third and fourth
respectively in relation to city investor preference, behind Tokyo and Shanghai.

CBRE Australia head of research Stephen McNabb said the high proportion of investment that flowed
into Australian real estate last year suggested foreign capital inflows to the Australian market could
slow in 2014 "as we began to compete with China and other growth regions for global capital".

"We expect a slowing – not an exodus – in capital inflows. This is consistent with our view demand for
Australian assets falls relative to improving growth stories globally, the outcome of which has been
reflected in a lower Australian dollar over the past six months of so," Mr McNabb said.
Andrew Cannane of Trust Company, which helps facilitate cross-border transactions said: "We
continue to experience strong interest from our clients wanting to invest into Australian real estate.
However, there is no doubt the market is proving more competitive when it comes to buying quality
assets".Demand still strong
Ken Atchison of advisory firm Atchison Consultants said high yields and capitalisation rates relative
to other countries made Australia attractive to overseas investors, but the gap was closing. Mr
Atchison said the biggest challenge to the relative attractiveness of property was long term bond
rates in the developed world. "They're rising, so the yield margin offered from property is
contracting," he said.

The attractiveness of higher yielding assets was revealed in the CBRE investor survey, which found a
shift in preference from office assets to industrial and logistics assets.

Mr McNabb said this was consistent with local expectations the cyclical economic recovery would
assist industrial assets, which are starting with a higher yield and have potential for improved rent
compared to office assets in the short term. CBRE forecasts up to $5 billion of industrial assets to
change hands in 2014, up from $3 billion last year.

CBRE also noted signs investor interest was broadening to secondary markets outside the main
business districts.
"Australia is still witnessing very strong demand for core real estate across all sectors," said Michael
Andrew, CBRE's director of international investments.

Page222of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."However we have seen the emergence of an appetite for assets in what has often been seen as
secondary "non-core" markets, where investors understand they can still get high quality assets,
strong covenants and at better yields than in the CBD's."

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

coldb : CBRE Group, Inc.
ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | i8500021 :
Office Real Estate | icireal : Commercial/Industrial Real Estate
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140318ea3j00005

Page223of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.