BC Iron go-slow on Buckland

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
BC Iron go-slow on Buckland

Peter Klinger
431 words
6 October 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
Second
1
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

BC Iron has flagged a go-slow approach to Iron Ore Holdings’ $744 million Buckland project as it
tries to win back investor support amid the worst iron ore market in more than a decade.

In his first comments on plans for IOH since launching the takeover two months ago, BC managing
director Morgan Ball said yesterday he would review all options for Buckland.

In the meantime minimal cash would be spent on Buckland.
It suggests IOH’s erstwhile target, to ship first Buckland ore by 2016, may not be met.

Mr Ball said he retained faith in Buckland and BC’s logic for taking over IOH but conceded the falling
iron ore price meant all development scenarios, including the potential to join Baosteel-Aurizon’s
West Pilbara proposal, needed to be examined.
BC’s share price has halved since it announced the IOH bid, suffering more than Atlas Iron (off 42 per
cent), Mount Gibson Iron (off 34 per cent) and Fortescue Metals Group (off 24 per cent). In addition to
the dilutionary effect of the scrip-and-cash takeover, analysts said BC shareholders were worried
Buckland’s acquisition would trigger a big expenditure program at a time when profit margins at BC’s
Nullagine mine were under pressure.
Compounding BC’s woes have been operational problems at Nullagine, where clay in the ore body
has slowed production and increased cash costs. BC hopes to make up the three delayed shipments
over the course of the year.
Mr Ball said yesterday some BC investors had quit because of the company’s perceived shift from
low-risk dividend payer to a more growth-focused, traditional mining company.

“We believe with Buckland that we have picked up a long-life asset with optionality,” he said. “It is an
asset with reasonable (ore) quality and a port solution (at Cape Preston East). We will look at all
options for Buckland (and) it will take six to 12 months.”

When IOH released the outcome of Buckland’s feasibility study in June, it flagged a construction start
this year and first ore in 2016. At the time 62 per cent iron ore delivered to the Chinese port of
Qingdao was worth $US93.70 a tonne, compared with $US79.60/t last night.

BC declared its IOH takeover unconditional late on Friday, having secured acceptances of 83 per cent
— including Kerry Stokes’ 52.7 per cent holding that will convert into a 19 per cent stake in BC. The
offer is due to close on October 14.

CO
IN

ironoa : Iron Ore Holdings Ltd.
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining

Page111of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS
RE
PUB
AN

ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020141005eaa600008

Page112of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.