Australia signs China deal

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Australia signs China deal

475 words
21 November 2014
ForeignAffairs.co.nz
PARALL
English
Copyright 2014. Multimedia Investments Ltd. All rights reserved.

MIL OSI -

Source: HSBC - Press Release/Statement:

Headline: Australia signs China deal
After almost a decade of trade rounds, Australia has finally signed a free-trade agreement with China,
its largest trading partner. Although Australia’s trade ties to China are already strong, mostly involve
minerals and energy. The free-trade agreement should encourage exports of agricultural products and
services to China’s rapidly growing middle classes.
The agreement lowers tariffs on Australian agricultural products and increases thresholds on Chinese
private-company investment in Australia. More surprisingly, Australian services providers have been
given priority access to the Chinese market. This includes allowing tourism operators to buy hotels and
restaurants and insurers to access the third-party insurance market in China.
Over time, up to 95 per cent of Australia’s exports will enter China tariff-free
Over time, up to 95 per cent of Australia’s exports will enter China tariff-free as a result of the
agreement, which could boost the Australian economy by AUD18 billion over 10 years (about USD16
billion) adding 1.1 per cent to GDP, according to some reports.
Australian dairy producers will have tariff-free access to the Chinese infant formula market (current
tariffs are 15 per cent) by 2018, matching New Zealand’s free-trade deal, with broader dairy tariffs to
be phased out over nine years.

Tariffs on beef (currently 12 per cent to 25 per cent) will be phased out over nine years too while the 23
per cent sheep-meat tariff will go over eight years. Tariffs on Australian wine exports to China will also
fall to zero (from 14 per cent to 30 per cent) by 2018 and other goods, including barley, seafood, leather
and horticultural products, will also see tariffs eliminated.
Tariffs on alumina, zinc, nickel, copper and uranium are to be removed along with coal tariffs. Chinese
workers may also gain greater access to the Australian labour market.
Chinese private companies will be able to invest up to AUD1.087 billion in Australia, up from AUD248
million, without approval from the Foreign Investment Review Board, although access for Chinese
state-owned enterprises will not change.
Besides hotels, Australian services businesses will get greater access to Chinese private hospitals and
nursing homes. Australian services exports to China are currently around AUD7 billion - 4 per cent of
total exports to China - and there is significant scope for that to increase, given that the highly
productive services sector accounts for the bulk of Australia’s output.
The agreement on services is being billed by the Australian government as the best deal China has
given on its free-trade agreements. It should help bolster Australia’s already strong links to Asia and the
ongoing ‘rebalancing’ of its growth towards non-mining sectors.

This research was first published on 17 November 2014.

Page9of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Disclaimer

NS
RE

IPD
PUB
AN

gpol : Domestic Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Economics
Multimedia Investments Ltd
Document PARALL0020141122eabl000f3

Page10of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.