Leighton Sells Half of Services Arm to Apollo Global; Deal Cuts Leighton’s Gearing by About Ten Percentage Points

SE
HD

BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Leighton Sells Half of Services Arm to Apollo Global; Deal Cuts Leighton’s Gearing
by About Ten Percentage Points
By Rebecca Thurlow And Daniel Stacey
473 words
17 December 2014
19:48
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

SYDNEY—Australia’s biggest construction company, Leighton Holdings Ltd., has agreed
to sell half of its services arm to private-equity firmApollo Global Management for 700
million Australian dollars (US$570 million) in cash.

Leighton said Wednesday it will form a 50:50 joint venture partnership with Apollo
comprising the combined operations of its Thiess Services and Leighton Contractors
Services units, which build and manage communications, energy and infrastructure
projects across Australia.
Apollo’s purchase will help it further expand its focus on construction and engineering
services firms, branching out beyond its traditional focus on real estate and debt. In May
Apollo invested US$500 million in CSV Midstream Solutions Corp., a Canadian
engineering and construction firm servicing oil and gas projects.

Leighton, controlled by Germany’s Hochtief AG, which is run by Spain’s Actividades de
Construcción y Servicios SA, has been selling off assets this year as it looks to shore up its
balance sheet following years of financial losses and steep write-downs.
The company had previously been a large beneficiary of Australia’s mining-fueled
economic boom, which saw a raft of spending by firms and government on new mines,
infrastructure and property. Though Leighton has a market capitalization of A$7.1 billion,
its shares have lost about two-thirds of their value since 2007, when shares briefly topped
A$60.
The deal gives the services business an enterprise value of A$1.075 billion and will reduce
Leighton’s gearing by about 10 percentage points, the company said in a statement to the
Australian Securities Exchange.
The sale of Leighton’s services business comes just days after it offloaded its John Holland
building divisionto China Communications Construction Co. for about A$1.15 billion. The
company is also looking to sell its property division, and has been chasing money it is
owed for construction work, particularly in a Dubai-based joint venture Habtoor Leighton
Group, which has suffered significant write-downs.

Page4of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Leighton Chief Executive Marcelino Fernandez Verdes announced the asset sales in June,
saying he wanted to streamline the business and restructure its sprawling group of
companies to avoid overlaps and bring similar operations together. The strategic review
came soon after owner Hochtief upped its stake in the business to 70%, and then swiftly
moved to oust the company’s chairman and chief executive in an attempt to stem losses.

The deal with Apollo is subject to regulatory approvals including from the Foreign
Investment Review Board and the New Zealand Overseas Investment Office.

Write to Rebecca Thurlow at rebecca.thurlow@wsj.com and Daniel Stacey at
daniel.stacey@wsj.com

| Bloomberg News | Leighton Holdings headquarters in Sydney.
apolmn : Apollo Global Management LLC | hocht : Hochtief AG | leiho : Leighton Holdings
Ltd | ocisa : ACS Actividades de Construcciones y Servicios SA
iconst : Construction | iinv : Investing/Securities | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ifinal :
Financial Services | i502 : Heavy Construction | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles |
i8150203 : Private Equity | ialtinv : Alternative Investments
c182 : Asset Transactions | c333 : Non-governmental Contracts | ccat : Corporate/Industrial
News | nimage : Images | c18 : Ownership Changes | c33 : Contracts/Orders | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Marcelino Fernandez Verdes
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document WSJO000020141217each002e6

ART
CO

IN

NS

RE
IPD
PUB
AN

Page5of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.