Just 17 foreigners told to sell

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

TheNation
Just 17 foreigners told to sell

Rick Wallace
497 words
11 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
2
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

EXCLUSIVE NEW statistics unearthed by a parliamentary committee reveal the extent of the gaping
holes in Australia’s attempts to regulate soaring levels of foreign investment in established property
amid a raging debate over the effect of Chinese buyers.
The Foreign Investment Review Board has been forced to reveal it has issued just 17 orders for
foreign investors to divest illegally acquired property in Australia since 2003, during which time it
allowed offshore investors to purchase almost 30,000 homes.

The data shows that, despite a rising tide of foreign investment in Australian housing that has left local
would-be buyers reeling, authorities have asked — on average — less than two foreign investors a
year to sell illegally acquired homes. It comes on top of revelations in The Australian this year that the
FIRB had failed to prosecute a single investor since 2006 for illegally acquiring property in Australia
amid a wave of Chinese-led offshore buying. Australia allows foreign investment in new housing to
stimulate supply, but prohibits foreigners from buying fixed homes in all but a narrow range of
circumstances.
Temporary residents must dispose of property they have bought within three months of departing
Australia. However, the house economics committee’s inquiry has heard evidence that the rules are
being flouted, with foreigners buying more than 5100 established homes last financial year worth a total
of $5.4 billion.
A recent NAB survey found one in 12 established homes sold in the past three months had been
bought by foreign buyers.

FIRB officials appearing before the committee had sought to avoid providing data on the number of
times they had forced buyers to sell illegally acquired homes but, under heavy pressure from committee
chair and Liberal MP Kelly O’Dwyer, the board disclosed there had been just 17 divestment orders
issued since 2003-04.
During that period, foreign investors have been allowed to buy almost 29,208 established homes in
Australia — despite the prohibition on this — for a total investment of more than $23bn.

Answers provided to questions asked by MPs on the committee also revealed that FIRB had fewer than
20 staff dedicated to enforcing compliance, and four of them had taken voluntary redundancies in the
past year.

“There’s a clear need for greater resourcing for the FIRB to ensure that rules are being enforced so that
people can have confidence in the system,’’ Labor MP Pat Conroy said.

As revealed by The Australian, the committee is poised to recommend that foreign investors pay a fee
to apply for permission to purchase real estate in Australia.

It is also likely to recommend changes to data-collection policies to ensure the nationality of buyers is
recorded.Ms O’Dwyer has also flagged considering stamp duties to be imposed on foreign buyers in

Page178of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.the way that Hong Kong and Singapore have moved to cool a flood of hot money from China pouring
into their residential property markets.

NS

RE
PUB
AN

c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141110eabb0003y

Page179of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.