Ellis: merger was right

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Ellis: merger was right

Consolidation Simon Evans
870 words
21 August 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
23
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Former BHP chairman Jerry Ellis, who led the miner during one of its darkest periods in the late
1990s before it pursued a merger with South Africa's Billiton, says the company is performing well
and maintains the 2001 merger was a good move.

Mr Ellis says BHP needed its cash flows strengthened at the time, but the situation had now
changed and the "cycle has moved on".

He was chairman of BHP from 1997 to 1999 after joing the board in 1991. He was also a former
boss of the BHP Minerals division and an active promoter of a decision by BHP to pay $3.2 billion
for Magma Copper in the United States in 1996.
It ultimately proved to be a disastrous purchase when copper prices slumped dramatically and
heavy writedowns were needed. Many analysts blame that acquisition for weakening the
company to a point where it needed to pursue a merger.
"I'm a shareholder and very pleased with the way the company is travelling,'' he said on
Wednesday.
BHP Billiton on Tuesday officially confirmed a $14 billion demerger plan where it is spinning off
many of the assets Billiton brought to the table in the 2001 merger.

"I think [former chairman]Don Argus summed it up very well. At the time BHP needed the cash flow
from the Billiton assets,'' Mr Ellis said.

Mr Ellis was referring to the rationale previously outlined by Mr Argus, who was chairman of BHP
Billiton from 1999 to 2010 and who oversaw the merger between BHP and Billiton. "The cycle has
moved on,'' Mr Ellis said.
In the past few years the BHP Billiton assets at the core of the company had grown much faster
and were strong producers with lower costs and had outpaced some of the Billiton assets.

"So some of the Billiton assets are less attractive,'' he said. But he emphasised that he doesn't
keep in close contact with the current BHP Billiton management or board.

"I don't believe old-timers should hang around,'' he said.

John Prescott, the former chief executive of BHP from 1991 to 1998, said on Wednesday he didn't
want to talk about BHP Billiton's spin-off proposal for non-core assets.
"It's been 16 years and I'm not going to answer questions about them. I've made a practice of not
talking about them since I left and that continues,'' he said referring to a strict policy of steering
clear of commenting on BHP Billiton matters.

Page80of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Prescott's seven years at the helm were marred by a difficult time after the company splashed
out $3.2 billion to buy Magma Copper and hit strife with a hot briquetted iron plant in Western
Australia, which caused a sharp share price plunge.

Mr Prescott is currently the chairman of Australia's largest rail freight operator, Aurizon.
Mr Ellis is a director of Iron Road, an ASX-listed company with ambitious plans to develop a
$4 billion iron ore project near Wudinna on South Australia's Eyre Peninsula. Mr Ellis is also a
former Chancellor of Monash University in Victoria.

Former federal resources minister Martin Ferguson said on Wednesday he still believed that BHP
Billiton did the right thing in making a merger approach in 2007 to rival Rio Tinto, to make itself
even larger. But circumstances had now changed.

Mr Ferguson was Federal Resources Minister from December, 2007 until March 2013 and in the
early part of that stint the merger proposal was pursued vigorously until it was scrapped in
November, 2008 in the wake of the global financial crisis.

He said: "It was absolutely appropriate for BHP to make the approach."

He said it would have been good for Australia if BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto had joined forces, given
the enormous appetite for iron ore and other minerals from China and other Asian countries.

But he understood the decision officially announced by BHP Billiton on Tuesday that it is spinning
off a range of assets and shrinking, because market conditions had shifted.

"It's happening right across the sector. From time to time companies have to make decisions about
demergers and selling assets as the cycle changes."

He said BHP Billiton's strong growth through the last decade had brought substantial benefits.

"BHP Billiton has been good for Australia, but Australia's been very good to BHP Billiton
shareholders," Mr Ferguson said.

Mr Ferguson, who is the current chairman of University College London's Australian campus and a
director of British Gas, said the Australian resources industry still needed to make improvements to
lift productivity but was an attractive investment destination.

"The challenge to us is improving our competitiveness," he said.

Don Argus told Fairfax Media last Friday, when BHP Billiton announced to the ASX it was likely to
pursue a demerger, that the original merger of BHP and Billiton happened 13 years ago "and all the
comments made then have been validated".

Those comments by Mr Argus implied that the original reasons for the 2001 merger, the need for
greater size and critical mass because customers were also consolidating, had all come to fruition.

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | ccat : Corporate/Industrial
News | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E
Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140820ea8l00033

Page81of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.