Google’s smart-home strategy starts with smoke alarms

Ronald Klingebiel, Assistant Professor of Strategy at Warwick Business School

HD Google’s smart-home strategy starts with smoke alarms
BY
WC 852 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

17 January 2014
The Conversation
CONVAU
English
Copyright 2014. The Conservation Media Group.

TD

Google is set to pay £1.9 billion (US$3.2 billion) for Nest, a manufacturer of “smart” thermostats and
smoke alarms. Though Nest is still relatively unknown, the buzz around smart homes – where all manner
of devices are automated and controlled remotely – is growing.

A thermostat maker might not be the most obvious choice for a conglomerate built around web services,
but Google is not the only firm diversifying into seemingly unrelated territory. Rumour has it that Apple
was also interested, not least because Nest’s leadership used to work there, and telecom operators,
phone makers, electronics firms, utilities, and a plethora of new upstarts are all trying to join the market
too.

Though the sector is set to grow strongly, no one is quite sure yet how to make money from it. But the
various competitors seem to agree that selling individual pieces isn’t enough: control of an overall
ecosystem is required.

Such control might be established through the central hub connecting your smart burglar alarm, your
smart thermostat, your smart baby monitor, and, perhaps, your smart egg minder. That’s why at the
moment you will find it hard to buy many gadgets without having an entire hub system foisted upon you
from the likes of Honeywell (electronic goods), RWE (utilities), or Gigaset (phone maker).

Over time, however, unbundling increases and common standards emerge, freeing you from proprietary
systems and allowing you to mix and match more easily. For example, you could then connect a Nest
smoke detector, a smart plug from Belkin, and smart bulbs from Philips to a device-agnostic hub such as
that from SmartThings. Such flexibility of course reduces the profit opportunities for Honeywell and co.

That’s why a second strategy might be more attractive in the long run: establishing dominance through the
software that links up devices. As the internet of things is becoming a reality, with many everyday objects
connecting to the internet, it is reasonable to assume that people will prefer to control them via an
integrated multi-purpose app rather than bothering with different programmes for each device. This is
where Google can help Nest and vice versa.
If you used Google to organise your smart home, the company might be able to steer you towards other
suitable smart devices and offer a host of complimentary services over the net. Early service propositions
included PowerMeter, intended to monitor power consumption, visualise usage, and highlight options to
save energy, and Android@Home, an attempt to create a communication interface for alarm clocks,
dishwashers and so on.

Google often struggles to monetise its web services directly, having to rely on advertising revenue instead.
For each service, there is a free alternative, and switching costs are low. Hardware, on the other hand,
elicits greater loyalty and can draw people into a company’s ecosystem; the most notorious example is
the iPhone.

Although the markets for many tech devices are commoditising, leaving less room for substantive
differentiation and thus profits, devices are still a useful way for manufacturers to make money from
add-on services.
Chinese handset maker Xiaomi has learned this lesson, selling great devices cheaply and then promoting
services on top. The same logic is behind Microsoft’s takeover of Nokia, and Google’s acquisition of
Motorola, even if results are still to show. Similarly, Google recently decided to make its own laptop, the

Page106of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Pixel, to steer users towards its web services. Buying a Pixel gets you a high-end laptop but also a
subscription to Google’s cloud storage service.

It is not only Google going all this way to provide discounted hardware to get people hooked to its service
portfolio; Amazon does the same with its Kindle, and HTC is rumoured to become its smartphone maker.
Tesco sells its Hulu pad to further other products such as video-on-demand service Blinkbox. Devices
enable commerce and guide the consumer’s perception of value, which then extends to the service
ecosystem behind.

Something similar might be happening in smart homes. Samsung not only sells fridges that can tweet and
video-call your friends, it also aims to provide the software backend for all your smart-home appliances.
Google’s magnificent IT capabilities might lead to something similar, using Nest devices as an entry point.
Expect Apple to come up with its own smart-home devices too – in anticipation, Haier, a home appliances
manufacturer released an air conditioner certified with the “made for iPhone/iPod/iPad” seal.

The smart-home market is still wide open and chances are that lessons learned in other consumer
technology sectors will apply there too. Control of the ecosystem is a route to profits. Hardware can be
used as bait for software and services. Nest furnishes Google with a key to your smart home, with which it
hopes to steal a march on its rivals.

Ronald Klingebiel researches and advises companies in the telecommunications industries. His work
attracts support from both corporate and government funding sources.

CO goog : Google Inc.
IN

i3433 : Alarms/Signaling Equipment | i32 : Machinery | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | ielec : Consumer
Electronics | iindstrls : Industrial Goods | itech : Technology | i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint :
Internet/Online
gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

NS
RE
PUB The Conversation Media Group Limited
AN

Document CONVAU0020140118ea1h0000f

Page107of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.