Fung pushes $8b Aquis resort

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Fung pushes $8b Aquis resort

DANIEL BATEMAN
544 words
17 July 2014
Cairns Post
CAIRPO
Cairns
12
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE Fung family has defended the employment of a fallen Gold Coast businessman as its Aquis
project manager.
Michael King has been employed by Hong Kong billionaire Tony Fung as his project manager for the
proposed $8.15 billion resort-casino at Yorkeys Knob.

Mr King is the co-founder of the MFS tourism and finance group, which collapsed in early 2008 owing
about $2.5 billion.
The former Gold Coast lawyer is among five former executives at MFS (later renamed Octavian)
defending allegations of corporate wrongdoing brought by the Australian Securities and Investments
Commission.
Mr King, however, has disputed he was the top man with the power to control the company’s finances.
The Supreme Court trial for the matter has been ongoing, to be heard again next month in Brisbane.

Mr King has represented Aquis twice this week at business forums, speaking about the benefits of the
development to the Far North and the rest of the state.

Mr Fung’s son Justin told the Cairns Post yesterday he stood by Mr King’s business dealings.

“Michael is a project manager who has helped us gain access to networks in Australia,’’ he said.
“We’ve found him to be extremely effective and a good character.” Yesterday’s forum, organised by the
Cairns Chamber of Commerce and Advance Cairns, attracted about 150 representatives from the local
business community.

The forum was hosted at the Reef Hotel Casino, which Mr Fung has proposed to take over. The
acquisition is the subject of an Australian Competition and Consumer Com-mission review, following
concerns that one person could control two casinos in one city.

Mr King told the forum, that for his employer, the Reef Casino takeover was about preparation and
training for Aquis.

“Imagine opening up your business absolutely cold in five years’ time, without having any start-up,
without having any training facility, without having any business development facility,’’ he said.
“Imagine that the capital you had invested in your new business was $4 billion and you had to start to
get an adequate return ... from day one.
“The acquisition of Reef is about Mr Fung being in a position to train staff to develop appropriate
service standards, to start to bring VIP customers to Cairns, to start to market the name of the brand in
China and elsewhere ... to ensure when Aquis opens, it hits the ground running.” Cairns Chamber of

Page181of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Commerce CEO Deb Hancock said Aquis would attract an entirely different demographic to Yorkeys
Knob compared to the Reef Casino.

“When we’re looking at the scale of the beds, the minimum bets are going to be those that go on in
Macau – this is the calibre of the operation we’re going to see at Aquis,’’ she said.

The forum also heard from Flanagan Consulting Group’s Pat Flanagan, who provided an in-depth
rundown of the Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) for the development.

Mr Flanagan assured the gathering extra steps would be taken to protect resort guests from crocodiles
and biting insects, which have been identified as major health hazards.“The edges of the lake will be
vertical, one – to stop any particularly gymnastic crocodiles leaping out of the place,’’ he said.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document CAIRPO0020140716ea7h0005c

Page182of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.