Fortescue execs jostle for role

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Fortescue execs jostle for role

1,037 words
15 February 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
First
4
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

It’s two months since Fortescue Metals Group suddenly parted company with chief operating officer
David Woodall .

So it was with interest that the Bull picked up a suggestion while grazing on the Terrace this week
that Fortescue’s well-regarded chief beancounter, Stephen Pearce , may be the surprise choice as
new COO.

Pearce has forged a strong reputation for his financial acumen and it is no secret he harbours chief
executive ambitions — a role he once held when in charge of Southern Cross Electrical Engineering .
Could a stint with hands-on oversight of Fortescue’s 127-million-tonne-a-year operation therefore
prove tempting to Pearce? Or would Fortescue’s development director, Peter Meurs , be a more
natural fit?

Neither Pearce nor Fortescue would comment and it could just be ridiculous mutterings by one of the
company’s rivals.

With Fortescue preparing to publish its half-yearly profit report on Wednesday, the COO question
may well be asked.

ALINTA MAN EXITS
Alinta Energy , where Pearce made his name, is parting ways with Nenad Ninkov , its well-regarded
general manager of government relations and wholesale energy.

Alinta confirmed Ninkov, a former chief financial officer of Western Power , will finish up on February
28, but had little else to say about his departure.
Asked whether he was leaving as part of wider changes at the private equity-owned company,
Alinta’s Sydney-based flack was as fulsome as others of her ilk: “No comment.”

COLEMAN CROONS

The forecast is mostly sunny at this weekend’s Leeuwin concerts in Margaret River.

The Bull is pleased to report relations between Woodside Petroleum and its biggest shareholder,
Royal Dutch Shell , are also mostly sunny, which explains why Woodside chief bowser Peter
Coleman is due to attend the Diana Krall singalong as a guest of Shell Australia boss Andrew Smith .

No doubt the chatter will be mainly about Krall’s contralto vocals and maybe even Costello. That is
Elvis Costello , Krall’s husband, not Peter Costello , the one-time Federal Treasurer who blocked
Shell’s hostile takeover of Woodside.

Business is business, and this weekend ain’t, so talk between Coleman and Smith is unlikely to
focus on Shell’s timing of its sale of the 24.3 per cent of Woodside it still owns.

Page163of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.GAS GRIPES

One of Coleman’s longer-term LNG ideas is to participate in the emerging Canadian shale
revolution. Woodside has its eyes on a port at Grassy Point, near Prince Rupert in British Columbia,
where it would build an LNG plant to process gas from an as-yet unnamed upstream partner.

Little reported was an announcement this week that Canada LNG , a consortium led by Shell, had
signed an option with Rio Tinto to buy wharf and port land at Kitimat, also in BC, for its own gas
export ambitions. Financial details were not disclosed.

The Rio land in question is part of the Sam Walsh -led miner’s struggling aluminium division, which
battles to make money, as opposed to Rio’s Pilbara-led iron ore division which makes up 84 per
cent of the company’s underlying profit.

“This is an excellent example of how we can generate meaningful value from our existing assets,”
Walsh said.

Just how excellent Woodside feels about fellow Pilbara heavyweight Rio helping a consortium intent
on gatecrashing Australia’s dominance of Asian LNG supplies remains to be seen.

But, as has been said before, business is business.

DORAY DELIGHTS
Doray Minerals boss Allan Kelly was cock-a-hop after securing a bigger-than-expected $17 million
from this week’s share placement, which will give his gold miner enough moolah to further explore
around the Andy Well mine with the hope of shoring up resources and extending the operation’s life.

Drilling will focus on target zones Judy, Suzie, Margaret and Kirsty, with the hope of replicating the
success of the Wilber lode which underpinned Andy Well’s development.

It’s not unusual for geologists to name targets and discoveries after grape varieties, planets or gods
and goddesses from ancient Greek times.

The Doray targets sound suspiciously like the names of wait staff at the Palace Hotel in Kalgoorlie
during the annual Diggers & Dealers drinkathon.

Not so, says Kelly.

Judy is named after Doray exploration director Heath Hellewell’s mum; Suzie is business
development manager Mark Cossom’s mum; Margaret gave birth to senior resource geologist Toby
Wellman ; and Kirsty lays claim to project geologist Joe Gendall .

No one at Doray is claiming Wilber as their mum, with Kelly deferring to WMC geos who originally
identified (and named) the prospect before Doray confirmed it as a high-grade deposit.

Not that Kelly’s late mother Doreen or dad Ray missed out when it came to naming tributes at Doray.
Geddit?

REMEMBER JAPAN
China may be the end destination for much of what is mined and grown in WA but it is oft forgotten
this State and Japan have a trading relationship dating to 1957.

Concerned that the strong trading ties to the Land of the Rising Sun may have been overshadowed
by the emergence of the Middle Kingdom, the inaugural Japan Festival in Perth kicks off next week
with a series of seminars and gala functions in the city.

Rio, Woodside and the State Government have lent their support to the festival, which is being
arranged by KPMG’s Nobu Suzuki , and will feature WA Agriculture and Food Department supremo
Rob Delane , Browne’s boss Ben Purcell, Rio’s iron ore head Andrew Harding and former premier
Richard Court .

MINRES PAYS OUT
Happy days for Mineral Resources shareholders, with a booming iron ore business prompting the
company on Thursday to bump its interim dividend from 16¢ a share fully franked to 30¢.

Page164of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It means MinRes boss and co-founder Chris Ellison will receive an $8.1 million cheque on March
20, key executives Steve Wyatt and Bob Gavranich $2.4 million and $1.2 million respectively,
chairman Peter Wade about $420,000 and non-executive director Joe Ricciardo $350,000-odd.

MinRes has a dividend reinvestment plan, so the aforementioned may yet use the opportunity to top
up their shareholdings.

With Nick Evans

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

ambol : Fortescue Metals Group Ltd | scroee : Southern Cross Electrical Engineering Limited
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i342 : Electrical Components/Equipment | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | iindele : Industrial Electronics | iindstrls : Industrial Goods | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140214ea2f00006

Page165of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.