Secret path revealed for transfer of China 's billions; Bank denies money-laundering charges levelled against it by government broadcaster

SE
HD

15 July 2014
Vancouver Sun
VNCS
Final

CR
WC 904 words
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG C6
LA
CY
LP

Business
Secret path revealed for transfer of China's billions; Bank denies money-laundering charges
levelled against it by government broadcaster
Bloomberg News

English
Copyright © 2014 Vancouver Sun

TD

For years, wealthy Chinese have been transferring billions worth of their money overseas, snapping up
pricey real estate in markets including Vancouver, New York and Sydney despite their country's currency
restrictions. Now, one way they could be doing it is clearer. Last week, when China Central Television
levelled money-laundering allegations against the Bank of China, the state-run broadcaster's report
prompted the revelation of a previously unannounced government program that enables individuals to
transfer their yuan and convert it into dollars or other currencies overseas.
Offered by some banks in the southern province of Guangdong, across the border from Hong Kong, the
trial program was introduced in 2011 for overseas property purchases and emigration and doesn't
constitute money laundering, Bank of China said in a statement. The transfers were allowed by regulators
and reported to them, the bank said.

"What it shows is the government has been trying to internationalize the renminbi for a lot longer than we
thought," said Jim Antos, a Hong Kongbased analyst at Mizuho Securities, referring to policy-makers'
long-stated goal of allowing the yuan to become freely convertible with other currencies. China's
foreign-exchange rules cap the maximum amount of yuan that individuals are allowed to convert at about
$50,000 US each year and ban them from transferring the currency abroad directly.

Policy-makers have taken steps in recent years, including allowing freer movements of capital in and out
of China, as they seek to boost the global stature of the not-yet-fully convertible yuan.

"There's a silver lining in this incident as it may force the regulators to address the issue in a more open
and transparent way," said Zhou Hao, a Shanghai-based economist at Australia New Zealand Banking
Group. "This is an irreversible trend."
The issue came to light after CCTV said Bank of China helped customers transfer unlimited amounts of
yuan abroad through a product called Youhuitong, which means "superior foreign-exchange channel."
The program is another sign that China is testing methods to allow outward yuan flows before full
convertibility, said May Yan, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Barclays. The goal has been announced by
policymakers since the 1990s, and is a step toward stated plans to make Shanghai a global financial
capital by 2020.

The central bank in February unveiled rules to make it easier for companies with operations in Shanghai's
free-trade zone to move yuan in and out of the country, a further loosening of controls on currency flows.

The yuan surpassed the euro as the world's second most-popular currency in trade finance in 2013,
according to the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication.
The Guangdong branch of China's currency regulator, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange,
picked Bank of China, China Citic Bank and a foreign lender to let individuals transfer yuan abroad in a

Page25of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.trial the banks were told not to promote, Time Weekly reported in April 2013. A Beijing-based Citic Bank
media officer declined to comment on the program.
While the Bank of China didn't provide figures, the 21st Century Business Herald estimated the lender
has moved about 20 billion yuan ($3.2 billion US) abroad through Youhuitong, citing people with
knowledge of the trial program. "Many commercial banks" in Guangdong offer a similar service, Bank of
China said in its statement, without naming them.
On CCTV's website, the report on Bank of China hasn't been viewable since at least July 12.

Today, the story link led only to a series of advertisements. A spokeswoman for CCTV's international
relations department, which handles foreign media inquiries, didn't immediately respond to an emailed
request for comment on why the story wasn't available.
The People's Bank of China and SAFE didn't reply to requests for comment. The central bank is
"verifying" facts related to media reports of bank money-laundering, the official Xinhua News Agency
reported, citing a PBOC spokesman.
A delegation from Bank of China which was due to visit Frankfurt this week to discuss issues including a
planned yuan clearing service in the city has cancelled the trip amid the controversy over the CCTV
report, the newspaper Handelsblatt reported.

Youhuitong has been suspended while the PBOC and its anti-money laundering bureau request records
of all previous transactions, according to a person familiar with the product.

"We know the demand to move abroad is there," said ANZ's Zhou.

"Even if you impose various restrictions, the money will find its way out of the country, via underground
banks and other means."

ART Greg Baker, AFP, Getty Images / China's foreign exchange rules cap the amount of yuan that individuals
are allowed to convert at about $50,000 US a year, but the country's state broadcaster has charged that
the Bank of China is helping wealthy Chinese skirt the rules to buy property overseas.; Greg Baker,
AFP, Getty Images / China's foreign exchange rules cap the amount of yuan that individuals are allowed
to convert at about $50,000 US a year, but the country's state broadcaster has charged that the Bank of
China is helping wealthy Chinese skirt the rules to buy property overseas.
[VASN_20140715_Final_C6_01_I001.jpg];
i81402 : Commercial Banking | imed : Media/Entertainment | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal :
Financial Services
c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | gdtcsh : Money Laundering | c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal Action |
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gcrim : Crime/Courts | gfinc : Financial
Crime | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E
Industry News Filter
china : China | sydney : Sydney | guang : Guangdong | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales

NS

IN

RE

IPD News
PUB Vancouver Sun
AN

Document VNCS000020140715ea7f00023

Page26of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.