Families wait for President to end silence over flight MH370

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Asia
Families wait for President to end silence over flight MH370

Leo Lewis, Beijing
845 words
22 March 2014
13:24
thetimes.co.uk
TIMEUK
English
© 2014 Times Newspapers Ltd. All rights reserved

A few hours after possible debris was sighted in the Indian Ocean, President Xi of China phoned the
Prime Minister of Australia and explained how “devastated” he was by the disappearance of Malaysia
Airlines flight MH370.
More than 150 Chinese citizens disappeared on that flight. Yet, two weeks on, Mr Xi has still not
mentioned to China that he has been shattered by their loss.

For families encamped in the stale and suffocating Grand Ballroom of the Lido Hotel in Beijing, praying
for a miracle, the silence of their President is just one wound of hundreds.

Most painful, of course, has been the 14-day torture of grief postponed and loss prolonged. Among the
450 gathered here some want the plane to be found so that the mourning can start properly; others
have found a wretched comfort in not knowing.

Hardest to bear, say the families, has been running over and over the last conversations they had
before their relatives boarded MH370. One woman said that her fiancé, Xing Fengtao, was a regular on
MH370 as his work took him to Malaysia more than ten times a year.

“On a previous visit, he bought me a watch with a metal strap. I loved the watch, but not the strap. Just
before the flight, he called to tell me he had just been to the duty free shop to buy a leather strap for
the watch. I told him anything was fine if he had bought it,” she said.

In the ballroom, the cruel daily rhythm of conflicting information, of frenetic rumour-mongering, of false
dawns and of press conferences where little is divulged has divided the families into factions. Leaders
have emerged, as have arch-inquisitors who take it upon themselves to publicly interrogate the
representatives of Malaysia Airlines or the Malaysian officials. There have been scuffles and howls and
arguments over whether the international press should see their pain or not.
A huge board has appeared at the back of the room that families have used – in a strangely
un-Chinese way – for prayer. “I am waiting for you to come back and have dinner. I call you three times
a day, and you have broken your dinner date every day for 13 days. I am waiting for you to come back
and see me in my wedding dress,” read one.

Every type of family relationship is represented in the ballroom. And as the mothers, sons, wives and
grandchildren have described their loved ones to The Times - many in tears, many in whispers, some
in fury – Mr Xi’s silence seems all the more flinty. The lives that vanished into limbo in the small hours
of March 8 were the pulsing souls of Mr Xi’s 21st Century China – a nation of itchy-footed tourists, of
student adventurers, of entrepreneurial chancers, of the financially ambitious and the business failures,
of the newly-engaged and the recently retired.
The passenger manifest of MH370 is glorious testament to China on the move. There was Zhao Qiwei,
the head of his company’s environmental materials department taking a well-earned holiday with and
his wife and child. There was Wang Rui taking his wife and three other family members on a dream trip
abroad. There was a young PhD from Peking University, and another studying for his PhD in

Page132of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Cambridge. There was a Beijing student travelling abroad for the first time and a young man returning,
shattered after being conned into taking a job on a dodgy building site. And there was Weng Meiling,
the young woman who had lived her life with the misery of having both parents killed in a plane crash.

They include Bian Liangjing, the eldest son of a family from Hebei province who once studied medicine
and worked for a few years as an intern in a small clinic. The salary of a junior medic was so poor that
he ditched it for the £4,000-per-year job as a construction worker in Singapore.

Some 18 months ago, he kissed goodbye to his eight month old son, and has only ever spoken to him
since through the internet. On every call, said his family, he would insist that his son called him “daddy”
so the boy would grow up knowing who the man on the computer screen was. Bian had finally saved
enough for a visit home to Hebei, and the cheapest flight was MH370.

Elsewhere on the plane was Luo Wei, a truck driver from Zhengzhou. He had worked himself to the
bone and scraped together enough money to escape the pollution and take his wife, Li Yan, on a trip
that mattered more than anything to them. She had just resigned from a punishing job. “They went to
Malaysia for five days. The purpose of this trip was for Li Yan to finally relax a little bit so she could get
pregnant,” said Luo’s father, gripping his brother’s arm for support in grief.

CO
IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

masys : Malaysia Airline Systems Bhd | khzinv : Khazanah Nasional Berhad
i75 : Airlines | iairtr : Air Transport | itsp : Transportation/Shipping
gaira : Airplane Accidents | gcat : Political/General News | gdis : Disasters/Accidents | gmmdis :
Accidents/Man-made Disasters | grisk : Risk News | gtacc : Transport Accidents
china : China | austr : Australia | malay : Malaysia | beijin : Beijing | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
News UK & Ireland Limited
Document TIMEUK0020140322ea3m0007e

Page133of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.