Neighbours resent Chinese buy -ups

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

OpEd
Neighbours resent Chinese buy-ups

SUSIE O’BRIEN
594 words
28 March 2014
The Advertiser
ADVTSR
Advertiser
24
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

IS it racist – or merely realistic – to talk about the influx of Chinese property buyers in Australia?
There is no doubt that Chinese property buyers are flocking to Adelaide suburbs such as Linden Park,
Auldana, Toorak Gardens, Kensington, St Peters and Rose Park. There is plenty of evidence to show
the tree-lined streets, large blocks, older houses and good schools in such areas are a huge drawcard
for cashed-up foreigners.

It’s no surprise that the number of foreigners buying established residential properties nationally has
gone from 647 to 5091 in the last three years. In the last financial year alone foreigners spent $17
billion on more than 11,000 residential dwellings. So why are so many people trying to deny this is
happening? And why are those who bring up the race issue being accused of xenophobia or racism?

Surely these days we should be able to talk about race where it’s relevant. The wider issue for me is
the impact this influx of Chinese-born purchasers is having on our suburbs. I worry that our
streetscapes are changing in profound ways that will affect not only the amenity or the area, but the
ability of our kids to be able to afford to buy a house where they grew up.

At the moment many residents in areas with a high concentration of foreign buyers are feeling crowded
out, overtaken and somewhat resentful.

No doubt in time there will be acceptance of those who choose to live and raise their children here,
which is to be welcomed.
But not all of these property buyers want to reside here; for many, our suburbs are little more than
investment opportunities, not a place to live.
I live in one of the most affected areas, and I see Chinese buyers with unlimited cheque books
trumping locals at auctions time after time. What also concerns me is that many of the foreign buyers
don’t seem to care about neighbourhood character, or protecting the heritage feel of an area.
They want to build, or buy, new houses that are as big as the council will allow – and in my area this is
substantial. In order to fit so much house on the block, most of the trees are torn down.

It’s all very well for some commentators to suggest those who object to such developments are racist.
But when you live in streets where all the nice old houses and trees have been ripped out, you have
every right to feel aggrieved.
It is against the rules for temporary residents or foreigners to buy existing houses that are habitable,
knock them down, and build new homes. However, this is what is happening in many suburbs in cities
around Australia – including Adelaide.

Page239of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.I spoke to a number of real estate agents this week and all confirmed they do not see it as their role to
perform checks on foreign purchasers. This is fair enough. Surely it’s up to the Foreign Investment
Review Board to ensure compliance with its own rules.
The Federal Government has announced it will review the board’s rules. This is clearly long overdue.

I know foreign investment is essential to our economy and creates jobs, but we must make sure this is
not at the expense of the cities we love and the suburbs we live in. And I don’t think it’s racist to say
so.DEBATE WITH SUSIE VIA TWITTER, FACEBOOK AND BLOG AT SUSIEOBRIEN.COM.AU

NS

RE

PUB
AN

gracm : Racism | gcat : Political/General News | gcom : Society/Community/Work | gdcri :
Discrimination | ghum : Human Rights/Civil Liberties | gsoc : Social Issues
austr : Australia | china : China | saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document ADVTSR0020140327ea3s0004l

Page240of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.