Qantas split not a political problem

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Qantas split not a political problem

Jamie Freed
563 words
24 July 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
6
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

A decision by Qantas Airways to split its domestic and international business to attract more foreign
investment could avoid any major political opposition.

"These are commercial matters for Qantas to consider," shadow transport minister Anthony
Albanese said in a statement from Washington, DC in response to The Australian Financial Review's
report that the airline was considering the split.

"Labor is pleased that the Abbott government last week accepted our move to amend legislation to
allow Qantas to lift restrictions on foreign investment without scrapping current requirements that the
airline remain in majority Australian ownership.''

Industry sources said the comments appeared to leave the door open for Qantas to sell a minority
stake in its domestic business to a foreign investor while retaining a 49 per cent foreign ownership
cap on the listed company.

However, Mr Albanese would want to see the full details of a split plan before deciding to support
such a move.

Domestic airlines can be wholly foreign owned. International carriers must have majority local
ownership to retain international air traffic rights.No comment on 'hypothetical' changes

Qantas's domestic business reports financial results separately from its international business but
does not have an independent board or different shareholders.

A spokesman for Infrastructure and Regional Development Minister Warren Truss declined to
comment on "hypothetical" changes to Qantas's business structure.

"It is a matter for Qantas and its shareholders to determine how it responds to the amendments to
the QantasSale Act 1992," the spokesman said. "The government would examine any changes to
Qantas's business structure to ensure compliance with Australia's aviation regulatory framework."

Virgin Australia Holdings has split its domestic and international businesses into two entities with
separate ownership structure and directors. The publicly listed company is nearly 80 per cent
foreign owned while the unlisted international division's foreign ownership is frozen below 49 per
cent.Hard to attract large investor

If Qantas copied that structure but wanted to meet Mr Albanese's requirement of majority foreign
ownership, it might find it harder to attract a large investor, because about 38 per cent of its shares
are already foreign owned.
That means for an investor to acquire more than an 11 per cent stake, it would need to buy shares
from foreign holders on the sharemarket or Qantas would need to issue new shares to the investor.

Page65of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.To date, potential investors Emirates and China Southern have ruled out any interest in buying a
stake in Qantas, but CAPA Centre for Aviation said it expected that would change if an appropriate
structure allowed the carriers to do so.

Qantas is due to update shareholders on its structural review next month. Other options include the
partial sale of its frequent flyer business or Jetstar or the sale of its Sydney and Melbourne airport
terminal leases.
Analysts expect the airline will report a full-year pre-tax loss of $747 million, but there is speculation
that one-off costs and write-downs could lead to a net loss of more than $1 billion.

Earlier this year, the government declined to provide any financial support to the carrier.

Key points The national carrier may divide its domestic and international businesses. The Coalition
accepted a move to amend legislation to allow Qantas leeway on foreign investment.

qntas : Qantas Airways Ltd
i75 : Airlines | i7501 : Scheduled Passenger Airlines | iairtr : Air Transport | itsp :
Transportation/Shipping
cstksp : Stock Splits | gpol : Domestic Politics | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c17 :
Funding/Capital | c171 : Share Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | gcat : Political/General News |
gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E
Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140723ea7o00017

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page66of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.