Goodman rejects bid

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Goodman rejects bid

JANE HARPER
447 words
29 April 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
19
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

SHARES in food groupGoodman Fielder have soared more than 15 per cent as investors hope a
rejected $1.27 billion takeover bid will spark further offers.

The breads and spreads maker, whose brands include Helga’s, MeadowLea and Vogel’s, yesterday
spurned the bid from Singapore-based agribusiness Wilmar International and Hong Kong investment
firm First Pacific Company.

Goodman branded the conditional 65¢-a-share bid as “opportunistic” and too low, despite representing
an 18 per cent premium on the group’s closing price last week of 55¢.
The company’s shares reached an intraday high of 65.5¢ before closing at 63.5¢. But suitors First
Pacific and Wilmar – which already owns a 10.1 per cent stake in Goodman – remained keen to strike
a deal, yesterday urging Goodman to open its books for inspection.
“First Pacific and Wilmar will continue to seek engagement with the board about entering into due
diligence aimed at bringing forward a binding proposal to Goodman Fielder shareholders,” the
companies said in a joint statement.

“This is a compelling all-cash offer for Goodman Fielder shareholders.” The suitors said the bid offered
a 27 per cent premium on the average share price since Goodman Fielder issued a profit warning this
month.

Goodman Fielder shares tumbled a record 22 per cent on April 2 after chief executive Chris Delaney
warned pre-tax earnings for the year to June were likely to be 10 per cent to 15 per cent below
analysts’ expectations of $180 million.
It came in the wake of a first-half loss of $64.8 million announced in February. Goodman Fielder
yesterday said the group had considered the takeover bid on the weekend and met representatives
from Wilmar and First Pacific.
“The board believes the current proposal materially undervalues Goodman Fielder and is
opportunistic,” the breads maker said.
The group said it would continue with its previously flagged strategic plan, which includes cutting 300
jobs.

Analysts said while Goodman Fielder’s prospects may not be strong enough to flush out a string of
other suitors, Wilmar and First Pacific remained serious contenders.
Wilmar already has a foothold in Australia after buying CSR’s sugar business – now known as
Sucrogen – in 2010.

Page176of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The group, which paid an average 58¢ a share to boost its stake in Goodman to 10.1 per cent in 2012,
is believed to have made an unsuccessful takeover approach to the breads maker the same year.Citi
retail analyst Gino Rossi said a takeover also had strategic appeal for First Pacific, which could
potentially realise cost savings by aligning Goodman with its existing Indonesian food and dairy
interests, IndoFood.

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

fdgl : Goodman Fielder Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020140428ea4t00059

Page177of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.