Virgin to keep majority stake in Velocity

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Virgin to keep majority stake in Velocity

Jamie Freed
589 words
18 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
17
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Virgin Australia Holdings will maintain a majority stake in its Velocity loyalty business even if
part-owner Affinity Equity Partners chooses to exit its 35 per cent stake via a float or trade sale three
years from now, says Velocity chief executive Neil Thompson.

Virgin last week revealed to new bondholders that Affinity could choose to exit three years after the
$336 million purchase closed last month, although Virgin would have the first right of refusal in
certain circumstances and would also have the right to participate in Affinity's exit mechanisms.

Mr Thompson said it was too early to say whether a float or trade sale of part of Velocity was likely.

"It is very, very early days to say what might or might not happen," he told The Australian Financial
Review on Monday after Velocity unveiled a new partnership with petrol retailer BP. "I think in these
types of deals, you always build in options. As for what happens, who knows? It is a volatile industry.
Virgin will retain a majority stake."

Mr Thompson exited the Velocity board in the wake of the Affinity deal but Virgin CEO John Borghetti
is the chairman. The other members include Virgin chief financial officer Sankar Narayan,
Sydney-based Affinity partner Brett Sutton and Hong Kong-based Affinity chairman Kok-Yew Tang.

Rival Qantas Airways in August announced it would keep full control of its frequent flyer program after
investigating a potential float of a minority stake. But Virgin believes having a partner could help it
grow its program from 4.5 million members to 7 million by 2017. Qantas has 10.3 million members
in its loyalty program, which is much older than Velocity.Rewards for filling up

The new partnership with BP will allow Velocity members to earn points when buying petrol and retail
items at the oil company's 1400 service stations across Australia. It will be Virgin's first
points-earning partnership for everyday spending, along the lines of the deal Qantas has with retailer
Woolworths , although Velocity members can also earn points on purchases through linked credit
cards.

Details of how Velocity members will earn points with BP will be announced before the program
begins in the first quarter of next year. Mr Thompson said options included basing it on dollar
spending or on the number of litres of petrol purchased.

"We did customer research ahead of this that confirmed certainly that this would be an attractive offer
– not only for their customers but also for our members," Mr Thompson said.

"For our members, the key things were it was a category that is of a lot of interest to people, not
surprisingly. The unique feature of airline programs versus other programs is that accumulation effect,
where you can earn points at multiple channels. And if you use your credit card you can be
double-dipping across all of it as well."

Page158of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Thompson said Velocity would continue to unveil new partnerships to make the program more
attractive. It will also consider raising debt financing to help it further invest in technology, marketing
and more employees.

He said the Velocity website would also add more features, such as being able to redeem points
through bookings from all of the program's airline partners.

"There is a program of work that is going to be delivering things progressively through the coming
months," he said.

The reporter travelled to Melbourne as a guest of Virgin Australia.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

vrbair : Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd | afipp : Affinity Equity Partners Pte Ltd
ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | i75 : Airlines | i7501 : Scheduled Passenger Airlines
| i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150203 : Private Equity | iairtr : Air Transport | ialtinv :
Alternative Investments | iinv : Investing/Securities | ilowair : Low Cost Airlines | itsp :
Transportation/Shipping
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141117eabi0000v

Page159of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.