Lion seeks growth as product range slashed

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Lion seeks growth as product range slashed

BLAIR SPEEDY, Food
566 words
23 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
21
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE boss of Lion’s dairy and drinks division is banking on iced coffee and gourmet cheese to drive
the company’s expansion into Asia as he cuts hundreds of products from underperforming product
categories.
Peter West, who joined the company in January, noted that sales of iced coffee such as Lion’s Dare
and Farmers Union brands now outpace cola sales in the Australian convenience store market, but
said even more growth was available by targeting Asian consumers — either with UHT products that
could be shipped from Australia or by partnering with Asian manufacturers.

Mr West said he planned to almost halve the company’s product range as he sought to refocus on
faster-growing parts of the market.
“We make over 1000 items in the business today — in my sixth week here we deleted 20 per cent of
the items we make, and there’s another 20 per cent on notice,” he said.
Mr West said the business drew 80 per cent of revenue from just 200 different products, while many
of the remainder moved so slowly that they often spoiled before they could be sold.
Mr West said Japanese parent company Kirin was committed to the business, which was created
via the acquisitions of National Foods and Dairy Farmers in 2007 and 2008 respectively — a
combined $3.9 billion expenditure that former Lion chief Rob Murray described as “frankly suicidal”
prior to stepping down in 2012.
“Kirin are very supportive, very enthusiastic, and very impatient ... but they see a business that over
time will add value to the entire group,” Mr West said.
The company was also determined to hang on to its 10 per cent stake in Victorian dairy processor
Warrnambool Cheese and Butter, which prevented Canadian dairy giant Saputo’s $400 million-plus
takeover of WCB from reaching full ownership.
Mr West said that by preventing a full change of control at WCB, Lion had preserved cheese supply
contracts with WCB for the Coon and Cracker Barrel brands that would otherwise have been
cancelled under change-of-control clauses.

“These are contracts that can’t be replaced easily, so we needed to protect the ongoing supply.”
However “everyday’’ cheese brands were not a strategic focus for the company, which was also
moving away from private label milk following the loss of supply contracts to Coles and Woolworths,
and unlike WCB would not be pursuing the booming export market for powdered milk.

While those categories did provide scale that allowed for economic production, Mr West said Lion
would dedicate increasing levels of resources to faster-growing and higher-margin areas such as
specialty cheese, yoghurt and dairy-based drinks, which were seeing increasing demand in both the
domestic and offshore markets.

Page118of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“I’d rather face into a future without private label and cut my volumes and overheads than holding on
to private label where I don’t make money,” he said.

Export sales are currently less than 5 per cent of Lion’s revenue, but Mr West said 80 per cent of
demand growth for packaged groceries was coming from emerging markets.

“We’re not trying to set lofty targets at the moment, but we’ll be pushing our best and most
differentiated brands into the export market, and we’re talking to partners in Indonesia and
China.’’JOHN DURIE P28

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming |
ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140522ea5n00031

Page119of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.