Fosun International acquires Australia's Roc Oil

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

CO
IN

NS

RE
IPC
PUB
AN

Fosun International acquires Australia's Roc Oil

238 words
18 November 2014
Industry Updates
BDU
English
Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Company. All Rights Reserved.

Chinese conglomerate Fosun International's wholly owned subsidiary Transcendent Resources has
closed acquisition of Australia's leading independent upstream oil and gas companyRoc Oil Co Ltd
with 2.36 billion yuan ($385million).
The takeover of Sydney-listed Roc Oil will entitle Fosun 92.6 percent of its shares, and oil assets in
Australia, Malaysia and the UK's North Sea. Chinese production account for 72 percent of Roc Oil's
total output.

Roc Oil produced 7,263 barrels of oil equivalent per day on average, with annual revenues of $250
million and gross profit of $96 million last year.
As a Hong Kong-listed Chinese private company, Fosun's business involves real estate
development, mining, pharmaceutical and retail. This is the first time that Fosun is attempting to
develop business in overseas energy sector.
The company is willing to enter Chinese and global oil and gas market in a bid to raise its capability
in oil and gas field management, as well as its investment ability. The company's management team
will closely oversee this business after the deal, and continue to expand its footprint in domestic
market.

Guo Guangchang, chief executive of Fosun International, said Fosun will optimize its expertise in
industrial operation, and integrate its upstream oil production resources with the whole energy
production chain, to help Roc Oil to maximize its effect in the whole value chain.

fosuni : Fosun International Limited | rocoil : Roc Oil Company Ltd
i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1 : Energy | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs :
Business/Consumer Services
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
oil
China Daily Information Company
Document BDU0000020141118eabi0000x

Page83of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.