Grafton Laurel Club

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Grafton Laurel Club

1,875 words
24 October 2014
Coastal Views
APNCOV
Main
14
English
Copyright 2014 APN Newspapers Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

Grafton Laurel Club

PRESIDENT Margaret Bailey welcomed 29 members to the September meeting and a very warm
welcome was expressed to our new member Elsie McFarlane and to our new Legatee John Griffith.

Some more of our lovely ladies had milestone plus birthdays again this month these being Kath Mitchell
and Mavis Robertson. We also celebrated birthdays for Evelyn Milen, Phyllis Law and Jan Hutchings who
haven’t quite yet made the milestone and Lynn Griffith secretary who is nowhere near it yet.
Vines Restaurant made and served the deliciously light scones with jam, cream and butter for our
morning tea and our ladies voted that this was definitely a must have each month.
Thank you to The Suicide Bereavement Support Group of Maclean who were our guest speakers for this
month. Two delightful ladies attended our meeting and Barbara Rigg from the group gave a very
informative and in depth talk to our members on the various aspects of suicide and how it affects the
loved ones and families left behind and the stigma of trying to cope. She spoke of the support available
from this group. Barbara said if anyone has had to deal with this type of crisis and needed help or just
someone to talk to the group meets at the CWA Hall River St, Maclean 12.30pm to 2.30pm. The dates of
the meetings will be advertised on the front door at the CWA Hall in Maclean or you can phone Barbara
on 0417 1136 856 or Julie 6645 8232. The ladies spoke afterwards to members from our group whose
lives had also been touched by this traumatic type of event.

Next meeting is on November 5 at 10am.

Quota News

BUOYED with the success of Quota’s 11th Annual Craft Fair, members are happy to donate $2000 to
Light Up the Darkness – a local group doing positive things to raise greater awareness of mental health
and the support that is available for people in the Lower Clarence – lobby to bring core services to the
Lower Clarence and promote the services that are available in the Lower Clarence. LUD also want to
de-stigmatise mental health in our community by standing up for mental health and showing support to
those who are affected.

Quota will also be sponsoring the “Shine” program for young women at Maclean High School during
activities week at the end of the term. This very popular personal development program has been
sponsored by Quota for a few years.
Recently Quota of Lower Clarence donated $500 to the Buy a Bale charity, specifically to support women
in drought-affected areas to purchase essential items and fuel for transport of themselves and their
children.

At our recent meeting, our newest member, Jo Enslow was inducted by Sharman Naylor who introduced
Jo to Quota. Jo, from Melt in Yamba, saw Quota as a way of meeting people and becoming involved in
her new community. Welcome Jo, you have already made a difference.

Page99of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.If you are interested in the work of Quota and want to join a group that counts fellowship, friendship and
fun as its goals, we meet at 5.30pm on the second Tuesday each month in the boardroom of Yamba
Bowling Club. If you would like to join us at a meeting or at one of our social functions, ring Suzanne
Monin 6645 1270.

Grafton Art Club

EVERYONE’S invited to our Jacaranda Art Exhibition and Youth Art Exhibition to be held at the Grafton
Community Centre Saturday October 25 to Saturday November 1, 9am to 5pm daily. Includes the
Bendigo Bank Open Art Prize, sponsored by The Bendigo Bank, South Grafton Branch and the
Jacaranda Portrait Prize. There will be a fine display of artwork by local artists on display and for sale.
The cafe will be open daily for light refreshments. During January/February we will also be holding an
exhibition at Grafton Regional Gallery – Summer in the Clarence. All members are encouraged to enter
one or two artworks for display. Further details will be available shortly from the club centre and at
www.graftonartclub.net.

Clarence Head Longboarders

THE Clarence Head Longboarders are holding their monthly surf contest this Sunday at Turners Beach.
The day will be run as usual with those wishing to compete asked to be signed in by 8.30am for a 9am
start. The barbecue will be up and running and club t-shirts and stickers are for sale. The Al Richards
Memorial surf contest has been run and won and the club is holding a presentation dinner on Saturday at
the Yamba Bowling Club from 6.30pm. All members are encouraged to attend. For more info on the club
you can find us on Facebook.

Grafton Senior Citz

GRAFTON Senior Citizens recently held their October meeting with an attendance of 49 members, 16
apologies. Birthday wishes to those celebrating during month and best wishes to anyone on sick list
including Mary Randall and Kay Lawson who have both just had knee operations. Sincere sympathy to
family of member Mary Solomon who recently passed away, also to Zeta Want whose husband has just
passed away. Welcome to following two new members approved; Sheila Stenhouse; and Vorna Cooper.
Standing orders then suspended while guest speaker solicitor Chris Wheelahan spoke about wills.
Although people can make a will in favour of anyone, if they overlook immediate family court can overrule
the will. As well as the will. people should talk to family and executors about their wishes. Probate
necessary for grant of legal authority when over $25,000 in bank. Gifts before death can be up to $10,000
but be aware of Centrelink implications. A joint account operated by both can still be accessed by
surviving person. Power of attorney involves money and property while guardianship involves medical
treatment. Correspondence in; bank statements; invitation from Salvation Army for Jacaranda Women’s
Rally, Wed October 29, 10am, $8 entry includes meals. The treasurer’s financial report was read and
accounts for payment approved. General business included; musical singalong morning very successful.
Christmas raffle now on sale and donated grocery items are being accepted for hampers. The annual
Christmas luncheon on Friday December 5 has just gone on sale. It is subsidised and cost is just $5. For
catering, bookings will close in late November so book early to beat the deadline. Again members are
reminded to be alert for scams with one claiming to be Australia Post. A couple of jokes were read to
conclude the meeting. Next bus trip final for the year to Evans Head for annual picnic on November 14
has gone on sale and there are still about 12 spare seats. If interested in any trips make your bookings
and payments any Thursday at Seniors rooms Community Centre or with Sandra, 6642 7720 or Dot 6642
7279. Anyone interested in a three-day tour to Tamworth for Country Music Festival in January contact
Sandra on above number. Initial discussions have been made on plans for an open day during Senior
Citizens week next year. Further details will be advised as plans are finalised. Regular meeting
competition winners were J. Blanchard; L. McFarlane; D. Bailey; B. Jukes; J. Ireland; H. Smith.

Next general meeting November 11.

Maclean Senior Citz

PRESIDENT Margaret welcomed 44 members at the October meeting. We recapped the day out on
Monday September 22 where 35 members travelled to the House with No Steps for morning tea and
lunch. All who went enjoyed the day immensely. Thirty members plan to attend the seniors get together at
Evans Head on Tuesday October 14.
A trip has been planned for Monday, October 27 to Our Daily Bread for morning tea and then to the
museum at Pimlico for lunch. The bus will leave Maclean Bowling Club at 8.30am and secretary Bev
Thompson requires final names by Thursday October 23. The cost is $35 per person.

Page100of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Christmas party will be held on Wednesday December 10 at Maclean Bowling Club. Names will be
taken at the Wednesday November 5 meeting. The meal will be Chinese smorgasbord and entertainment
will be provided by Double Trouble who also played our Seniors Week function.

Congratulations to our raffle winners Robyn Apps, Sandra Keighran, Merrell Cotton and Jean Everson.

Yamba Day VIEW Club

WHAT a day we had when Yamba Day VIEW Club celebrated their 21st birthday garden party at the
Yamba Bowling Club, October 20, among an amazing array of flowers and butterflies. Thanks to
president Lyn, Dianne, Pat and Pat’s daughter, Kath who spent so much time in making the restaurant a
kaleidoscope of colour. Your efforts were rewarded with comments from everyone present.

To help celebrate, there were visitors from Maclean, Grafton and Evening VIEW clubs. The morning
began with welcome drinks and nibblies. Everyone was asked to check their tables to find “odd items”
which didn’t belong. This proved very challenging as there was so much decoration of flowers etc. on the
tables in which to hide small objects. Congratulations to the executive table who finished up winning with
no help from the president, who hid everything.

Audrey Robinson, an original member, told us about how Yamba Day VIEW became a reality. Rose
Muscatt, with her melodic voice, entertained us with three beautiful songs and again at the end of the
meeting. Many thanks Rose.

The frivolity began with Jan Ainslie who went around the guests and members and asked some of them
to recall what memories they had of their 21st birthdays. We heard great jokes from Joy and Jan. Judy
Turnbull won lucky placemat, Pat DeBomford the best decorated hat and raffles won by Joy, Betty Scott
and Lyn.

National councillor Laura O’Brien presented Jean Cook with her 20-year membership badge and along
with president Lyn and Audrey Robinson, she assisted with the cutting of the lovely 21st birthday cake.
There were only two ladies celebrating birthdays in October and they were Dianne Want and Judy Brown.
A lovely lunch was served followed by sweets which wound up the wonderful celebration.

Meetings are held third Monday of the month, commencing 10.30am at Yamba Bowling Club, where
visitors and new members are always welcome. Please phone Lyn 6646 3164 with bookings and
apologies by Friday prior to luncheon.

Maclean VIEW Club

GUEST speaker for our October meeting was Judy Thomas from Maclean Community Health. Judy
spoke about all the services they provide to the public. It was an important and very informative talk.
Members were enlightened and surprised, the number of services provided. For our November meeting, it
will be a trip down memory lane with some of the history and photos of Maclean. Bus trip to Tweed Art
Gallery Friday November 14 leaving Maclean Bowling Club 8am. Art Gallery gold coin donation entry.
Bus and morning tea cost $30. Lunch at Tumbulgum Tavern (purchase own lunch) afterwards to The
Grainery. Don’t forget candle party, morning tea on Friday October 31 at 10am. Cost gold coin donation.
This will be held at Denise Hope’s residence, 5 Riverwood Terrace Maclean. Raffle donation: Helen
McCarthy.

NS
RE

gart : Art | gcat : Political/General News | gent : Arts/Entertainment
nswals : New South Wales | tasman : Tasmania | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr :
Australia

PUB APN Newspapers Pty Ltd
AN

Document APNCOV0020141022eaao000b5

Page101of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.