| Friday, October 17

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

news
| Friday, October 17

3,388 words
16 October 2014
Southern Highland News
FSHIGN
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

9.00AM

That's a wrap! Thanks for joining us for your Friday morning. We'll be back on Monday for all your
latest local, national and international news.

8.57AM

NATIONAL: A bump in the take-up of smoking among women in the early 1980s is now being echoed
in lung cancer rates, which are rising for women while falling for men. Read more here.

8.54AM

NATIONAL: It is one year since a devastating bushfire that claimed almost 200 properties in the lower
Blue Mountains region in New South Wales. See more here.

8.51AM

LOCAL: AN "ECLECTIC" art exhibition has opened in Bowral.

Mudlarks features hand-built ceramics by Highlands artists Norma Hamilton, Johanne Santry, Libby
Hobbs, Sheila Lyne and Mark Sadler. Read more here.

8.48AM

HEWSON'S VIEW: FOR some reason, some of the political developments of this week caused me to
recall the writings of Solomon, and in particular Proverbs 16:18 - "Pride goeth before destruction, and
an haughty spirit before a fall" - King James version. Read more here.

8.45AM

SPORT: CLUB Gymnastics members travelled to Queensland recently to compete at the Wet 'N' Wild
Gymnastic Carnival held at the Queensland Gymnastic Academy in Miami. Read more here.

8.42AM

8.39AM

NATIONAL: The only thing more dangerous than bad laws enacted openly, are hastily drafted ones
which are then passed without adequate scrutiny or resistance resulting in unintended consequences.
Read more here.

8.36AM

8.33AM

SPORT: MICHAELA Casson has proved to be a natural darts player and has enjoyed plenty of
success recently. Read more here.

Page23of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.8.30AM

NATIONAL: Bunbury man Dylan Thomas may have been through an ordeal which has horrified a lot of
people " but he's keen to commemorate the experience so it can never be forgotten. Read more here.

8.27AM

SPORT: BUNDANOON finished with a three wicket victory over Robertson to start the season on
Saturday. Read more here.

8.24AM

NATIONAL: She was once a darling of the Howard government for winning the prized Western
Sydney seat of Lindsay but Jackie Kelly has quit the Liberal Party and slammed it on the way out
saying "lobbyists are running the Liberal Party". Read more here.

8.21AM

POLL: Do you believe sports stars and celebrities make appropriate role models for children? Vote
here.

8.18AM

SPORT: MITTAGONG got its season off to a good start in third grade with a 77 run win over East
Bowral on Saturday. Read more here.

8.15AM

NATIONAL: A University of Sydney academic involved in the national curriculum review, Barry Spurr,
has reportedly described Prime Minister Tony Abbott as an "abo-lover" in an exchange of emails.
Read more here.

8.12AM

LOCAL:

IT CAN be difficult to break into the dance industry, particularly in regional Australia.

Two siblings have returned to the Highlands to help give young dancers a much-needed leg up. Read
more here.

8.09AM

SPORT: The inshore reefs continue to produce nice reds up to 3.5kg, morwong, sand flathead, trevally
and a few kingfish have started to show up of Port Kembla Islands. Read more here.

8.06AM

LOCAL: AN ultimate one-stop-shop for the bride and groom-to-be is on again. Read more here.

8.03AM

LOCAL: Yesterday we asked if you agree with NSW Police's new strategy for dealing with traffic
crashes and 70 per cent of you said you didn't. Only 30 per cent of you said the changes were
positive.

8.00AM

7.49AM

NOVEMBER will be a busy month for Highlands MMA with plenty of fights on the cards. More here.

7.47AM

A partly cloudy day with a medium (40 per cent) chance of showers during the morning and afternoon,
winds S 15 to 20 km/h turning SE in the afternoon can be expected in the Highlands today. The
forecast is also for a top temperature or 14.

7.37AM

Page24of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Check out what is headlining on Fairfax newspapers around the nation here.

7.33AM

THERE'S a new team in theatre town and they're taking on Oscar Wilde's most famous play, The
Importance of Being Earnest.

Pigs Fly Productions was formed 18 months ago by Lou Vella, Fiona Jowett and Greg Oehm who
have decades of experience between them and a deep love of theatre. More here.

7.30AM

AN ultimate one-stop-shop for the bride and groom-to-be is on again.

The annual Camden Wedding Expo will be on from 10am to 2pm on Sunday and will bring more than
50 of the Macarthur region's wedding specialists under one roof. More here.

7.27AM

IF you missed out on Tulip Time this year, don't worry, you can take home a piece of the festival.
Wingecarribee Shire Council and Welby Garden Centre will give residents the opportunity to buy a
sample of the bulbs which featured in this year's floral festival. More here.

7.24AM

ENGAGE in the interplays between analogue and digital technologies shown through photography.

Join Mittagong artist Mim Stirling as she launches her first solo exhibition titled Screen Work in the
Southern Highlands this weekend. More here.

7.21AM

7.18AM
AN exhibition of four well-known painters, including local artist Peter Hickey, is on display at the Milk
Factory Gallery in Bowral until November 4. More here.

7.12AM

THE rare sight of not one, but two koalas crossing the Hume Highway near Church Avenue at Colo
Vale was reported on Monday night.

The mischievous pair of marsupials was noticed crossing the busy highway at 4am on Monday
morning, with an RTA inspector making the decision to close one lane to allow them safe passage.
More here.

7.10AM

ONE long table will stretch the length of Bong Bong Street for the second annual Bowral Long Lunch
on Sunday. More here.

7.08AM
THE Picnic in Your Park celebration planned for October 26 by the Hill Top Community Association
Inc (HTCA) is the result of 18 months of planning, co-operation and hard work. More here.

TRAFFIC: All Southern Highlands roads are open and clear.

TRAINS: Commuters can expect delays on the Southern Highlands line this morning.

Here's a look at what the local weather is doing right now.

7.00AM: Good morning and welcome to the Southern Highlands Rise and Shine. Over the next few
hours we will be bringing you as much information as possible from across the Southern Highlands
and nationally.

Weather, road conditions, breaking news, we will have it all - and we'd love to have your help! If
there's anything happening in your part of the world, drop us a line! Email
jackie.meyers@fairfaxmedia.com.au

Page25of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Good morning. Need a national news snapshot first thing? Well, we have you covered.

For all those TV buffs out there, the furore stirred up by Network Ten's ill-advised and sexist questions
on Wednesday night's Family Feud is just the latest chapter in the rich history of infamous,
embarrassing and just plain dumb moments produced by game shows over the past 60 or so years.

There seems something uniquely calculated about the genre to produce these talked-about incidents
in super-abundance.

Click here for our pick of some of the classics of the genre from more than 60 years.
6.55am: WARRNAMBOOL: A consortium hoping to buy dozens of south-west dairy farms aims to
operate "on a scale not considered in Australia before," a spokesman says.
Linear Capital managing director Troy Harper said the consortium, which has links to Chinese
investors, aimed to be a major new player in the regional dairy industry and be "vertically integated"
with its own dairy processing plants and training facility.

Mr Harper said Warrnambool, Colac and Mount Gambier were among locations being considered for
processing plants. Read more.

6.50am: DUBBO: New NSW Deputy Premier Troy Grant has vowed to continue fighting for the Dubbo
electorate despite a significant increase in his workload now that he has been elected as leader of the
NSW National party.

Mr Grant could also retain his current portfolios of Hospitality, Gaming and Racing, and the Arts or
take on a new role but said he would continue to give his all for those who gave him his start in
politics.
"I'm more than confident that I have demonstrated I can represent the people of Dubbo while handling
other duties," Mr Grant said. Read more.
6.45am: ILLAWARRA: The NSW government is considering a new residential development on the
shores of Lake Illawarra.

When the government scrapped the Lake Illawarra Authority last year, it outlined plans to take control
of 32 hectares of waterfront land at Warrawong, along King Street and Northcliffe Drive.
The prime development site, known as Kully Bay, was transferred in May and was the only land
retained by the government.

A long list of other, more costly, former LIA lands was to be transferred to Wollongong City Council,
even though councillors have said they will not accept these assets unless the government guarantees
future lake funding. More here.

6.40am: TASMANIA: Beekeepers have tapped into a new market of live bee exports to countries
where pests have destroyed hives.

Earlier this year Tasmanian beekeepers, including Australian Honey Products at Sheffield, sent 14
palettes of bees - 9.8 tonnes of live insects - to Canada.

Tasmania's season finished in February before Canada's season started, and many of the bees
exported from Tasmania would have died anyway.

Each palette shipped this year had 500 1.4-kilogram packets, each with drones, workers and a queen.
Read more.

6.35am: GRIFFITH: A family has been left shaken and distraught after their house was destroyed by
fire.

Fire crews were called to the two-bedroom home on Cutler Avenue at around 3am Tuesday, but upon
arrival the house was fully alight and could not be saved.

The owners said three generations of their family had lived at the house. More here.

6.30am: PORT MACQUARIE: The body of Sydney man William Lam has been recovered in Wallis
Lake.
Mr Lam's body was located near Regatta Island two kilometres from where he disappeared.

Page26of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The 32-year-old from Berala got into difficulty when he entered the water at Wallis Lakes to retrieve his
child's shoes just before 2pm Wednesday.

Emergency services were alerted when he failed to surface. Read more.

6.25am: NEWCASTLE: Her Australian speaking tour included how to train a service submissive and
how nice guys learn to spank strong women.

But when former dominatrix Kali Williams spoke in Newcastle, there was neither whips nor leather.
Drawing on her experience working with bondage, discipline, dominance, submission and sadism, she
discussed professional communication in the male-dominated tech industry.

Communication, negotiations, gender and power dynamics happen everywhere, not not just in the
dungeons I have worked in, Ms Williams said, in a keynote address at Newcastle's DiG " Design
Innovation, Green Tech " festival. Read more.

6.20am: BLUE MOUNTAINS: It is one year since a devastating bushfire that claimed almost 200
properties in the lower Blue Mountains region in New South Wales.

It is unknown what sparked the blaze, which tore through Springwood and Winmalee on October 17,
destroying 193 homes and partially damaging about 200 more. Photos and video here.

6.15am: BUNBURY: Dylan Thomas may have been through an ordeal which has horrified a lot of
people " but he's keen to commemorate the experience so it can never be forgotten.

Dylan is hoping his mates will chip in for a spider tattoo which will cover his chest similar to
Spiderman's famous suit.

He may be joking about whether he'll develop "superpowers" but on the weekend he was experiencing
a "searing sensation" as a spider that had made its way into his abdomen through an old appendix
scar, crawled underneath his skin, all the way up to his sternum. Read more.

6.10am: MURRAY BRIDGE: Jockey Caitlin Forrest has died after a four-horse fall at the Murray
Bridge Racecourse.

The 19-year-old crashed to the turf and was collected by the pack of horses behind her when riding in
the race before the Murray Bridge Gold Cup.

Forrest was semi-conscious and responsive when airlifted to hospital, but her condition deteriorated
and she died from her injuries

Her boyfriend, Scott Westover, paid tribute to the former Strathalbyn High School student on
Facebook.

"Today has been the worst day of my life. I lost the love of my life Caitlin Forrest," his post read. "I
know there will be an angel up there watching me everyday and riding with me." Full story here.

6.05am: NOWRA: A paramedic on the Ambulance Helicopter that rescued the pilot of a crashed plane
west of Nowra has told of the man's miraculous escape.

Paramedic David Zids was part of the rescue team that located the 22-year-old at the wreckage of a
1970s Cessna 206 in bushland near Touga in the Morton National Park around 1pm.

The man was treated at the scene and was airlifted to Wollongong Hospital with minor injuries
including a cut above his eye. More here.

6.00am: REGIONAL: Let's start your day with a spin around Fairfax newspaper front pages today.
Click here.

" A University of Sydney academic involved in the national curriculum review, Barry Spurr, has
reportedly described Prime Minister Tony Abbott an "abo-lover" in an exchange of emails.

"Abo Lover Abbott and [Australian of the Year] Adam Goodes are Siamese Twins and will have to be
surgically separated," Professor Spurr wrote in an email published on the New Matilda website.

The university said an investigation into the report was underway.

Page27of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In a series of different email exchanges, he used the terms "Mussies, Chinky-Poos, bogans and
fatsoes," labelled Archbishop Desmond Tutu a "witch doctor," and Nelson Mandela a "Darkie,"
according to the website.

Professor Spurr was employed by the independent review into the national curriculum, commissioned
by the federal government, as a specialist consultant to review the English curriculum. Read more.

" Medibank Private managing director George Savvides has said Australians overpay for common
surgeries such as hip replacements and caesarean sections, as the health insurer ramps up its
campaign to put a lid on private hospital costs before its $4 billion-plus float. Read more.

" Public servants want isolation units set up in Canberra to quarantine government officials returning
from Ebola-stricken regions of Africa.

The demand comes as the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade confirmed its top doctor had
visited Australian diplomatic posts in African nations hit by the epidemic to "discuss key issues arising
from the outbreak."

The departmental staffers accuse their bosses of "dereliction of duty and failing to show respect to
employees and the Australian public" by not being upfront about plans to cope if an Australian official
contracts the disease. More here.

" A bump in the take-up of smoking among women in the early 1980s is now being echoed in lung
cancer rates, which are rising for women while falling for men.

The state's first comprehensive report on lung cancer, released by the Cancer Institute of NSW on
Friday, shows that it is the number one killer among cancers. Only 18 of every 100 people diagnosed
survive beyond five years.

Chief Cancer Officer and Cancer Institute chief executive David Currow said tobacco consumption had
dramatically decreased since the 1970s, when 70 per cent of the adult population smoked. Details
here.

" A day of Caulfield Cup carnage has seen two horses scratched and another two facing vet
inspections on Friday.

Racing Victoria veterinary stewards will examine two of the main hopes in Gai Waterhouse's The Offer
and star Japanese stayer Bande ahead of Saturday's $3 million race.

Gris Caro and last year's second placegetter Dandino were scratched on Thursday, with Dandino's
racing career now in jeopardy. Read more.

" Dan Lee watched his two daughters grow from curly-haired little girls to young women in the time
Canberra's famous lake went from a trickle of water to a large expanse.

The changes have been captured in three precious family portraits of the trio, each snapped by Mr
Lee's wife Nancye, over 50 years.

They have made a point of posing for the same photograph every 25 years to document their
changing faces and also the transformation of Lake Burley Griffin. Read more.

" The Texas hospital where two nurses were infected with the Ebola virus said it followed federal
guidelines to protect against the spread of the deadly pathogen, as Dallas County officials called an
emergency meeting to consider asking Governor Rick Perry to declare a local emergency.

The move comes after two registered nurses, Nina Pham and Amber Vinson, were diagnosed with
Ebola infections after treating Liberian Thomas Eric Duncan, who died October 8 at Texas Health
Presbyterian Hospital.
Controversy continued to swirl over why Ms Vinson flew on commercial flights to Cleveland and back
to Dallas while she was among dozens of healthcare workers who had been asked to monitor and
report potential Ebola infection signs and symptoms. More here.

" Australian Speaker Bronwyn Bishop has lost her bid for the presidency of an international democracy
group, with a string of recent political scandals contributing to the defeat.

The Speaker was in the running to lead the Inter-Parliamentary Union, an organisation of parliaments
that promotes democracy.

Page28of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Ms Bishop came second to Bangladesh's Saber Chowdhury in the second and final round of voting at
the IPU's assembly in Geneva. There were also candidates from Indonesia and the Maldives "
meaning Australia was competing against a trio of Muslim states. More here.

" Apple has unveiled a thinner iPad with a faster processor and better camera as it tries to drive
excitement for tablets amid slowing demand.

The iPad Air 2, at 6.1mm "thin", also adds many of the features previously available on iPhones.

That includes the ability to take burst shots and slow-motion video and the inclusion of a fingerprint ID
sensor for use instead of a passcode. More here.

" Investors rushed into the safe haven of US bonds overnight on a wave of disappointing economic
data only to exit it just as fast, causing a massive intra-day swing in the yield on 10-year US treasuries,
which at one point dived as much as 14 per cent.

Overnight, US 10-year treasury yields dropped from a high of 2.17 per cent to a low of 1.86 per cent in
just over an hour, only to recover back to 2.15 per cent late in the trading session as investors took
profit and sold off bonds. Bond yields move inversely to prices.

"It was out and out carnage on the bond market," said National Australia Bank global co-head of FX
strategy Ray Attrill. Details here.

" Mystery surrounds the whereabouts of 176 people, including three women, who were on a people
trafficker's boat that left Bangladesh.
There are fears traffickers intend to sell those on board to fishing trawlers or factories as slave labour
in Malaysia and Indonesia.

Bangladesh officials are travelling to southern Thailand to interview 134 suspected victims who say
they were on the boat with the 176 others. Read more.

" Did you see this?

It is a decision 10-year-old Lucy Pierpont is confident about, but has her mother Kate very nervous -
the World's Greatest Shave.

Lucy has been closely affected by cancer. Last year a member of her family was diagnosed, her uncle
also died from the disease in 2011.

"I was in Broken Hill and we were talking about my uncle and I decided it would be a nice thing to
shave my head for my uncle. I thought it would be the right thing to do," Lucy said.

She started researching and found even more people who had been affected.

"I also found out that one of my friend's grandmas had cancer as well and my aunty also had cancer."

Without any hesitation, the Dubbo girl told her mum she wanted to participate in the World's Greatest
Shave. Read more.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gout : Outbreaks/Epidemics | gcat : Political/General News | ghea : Health
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | tasman : Tasmania | victor : Victoria
(Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FSHIGN0020141017eaag00001

Page29of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.