$40m buy signals end to Triguboff’s spree

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PrimeSpace
$40m buy signals end to Triguboff’s spree

TURI CONDON
376 words
22 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
29
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

ACQUISITIONS: Billionaire Harry Triguboff’s Meriton has spent more than $40 million picking up
another site in Sydney’s Mascot, but says his buying spree is coming to an end.
The 7820sq m parcel at 1-5 Kent Street marks the 12th purchase since January last year, with the
group spending more than $600m on sites as it aggressively built its land bank.

The pace of Meriton’s site acquisitions would ease as the tougher economic conditions ahead
dampened the housing market, Mr Triguboff said.

The slowdown in mining as the growth engine of the economy, the tough federal budget and
increasing levels of apartment development would keep a lid on the heady price rises of the past
year, he said.
Meanwhile, China’s housing market had come off the boil, which “is not good for us”, Mr Triguboff
noted. He also expects the next interest rate move to be a cut rather than a rise, though this would be
after a period of unchanged rates.

Minutes from the Reserve Bank’s last meeting, released this week, confirmed expectations that the
central bank was unlikely to move the cash rate from the historic 2.5 per cent low until it better
understood the direction of inflation and employment. Mr Triguboff noted that a quarter of a per cent
rise or fall would have little impact on buying decisions given the low level of rates.

Rent growth for apartments had also eased as more supply came on to the market, with Mr Triguboff
expecting rents to fall by about 5 per cent over the next six months. However, this was unlikely to
affect Chinese purchasers, who were interested more in capital gain, he said.

“We expect interest rates to come down and bring the dollar down, and this will make our properties
more attractive to the Chinese,” he said.
In its latest purchase Meriton expects to start work on a 250-unit project late next year or early 2016.
The property, sold by Knight Frank, has a tenant in place until November 2015.Last month Meriton
purchased a Sydney CBD office building at 234 Sussex Street for about $60m with a likely hotel
conversion in mind.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | nswals : New
South Wales
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140521ea5m0000q

Page219of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.