Green shoots of recovery point to prosperous times for business

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Features
Green shoots of recovery point to prosperous times for business

NATASHA BITA, NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT
2,215 words
8 March 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
16
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

The fortunes of small businesses at Prosperity Place mirror those around the nation
LITTERED with signs screaming ``For Sale'' and ``For Lease'', Prosperity Place is a dead-end street
that leads into a once-buzzing industrial estate.

The global financial crisis struck hard in this working-class suburb of Geebung, decimating businesses
in the Brisbane electorate of long-time Labor treasurer Wayne Swan.

Giblins Motor Bodies, on the junction of Prosperity Place and Fortune Street, went belly up in 2012. A
year later, the estate's biggest tenant, PPI -- a company that had manufactured irrigation equipment
for a quarter of a century -- went into liquidation. Dozens of workers were laid off before rival pipe
manufacturer Damos rescued the business. Another newcomer is the council ``Tip Shop'', where junk
is sold on weekends for charity.

Other businesses bled money and shed staff yet, like thousands of small enterprises across the
country, managed to weather the near-miss recession through ingenuity, brutal cost-cutting and a shot
of ``she'll be right'' optimism. Five years after the start of the crisis, the occupants of Prosperity Place
are starting to sprout the green shoots of Australia's fragile economic revival.

Laurence Svenson bought the space for his German Autos mechanical workshop off the plan when
the estate opened 18 years ago. Despite a loyal base of customers bringing their Volkswagens and
Audis for a service, he has yet to fully recover from the downturn.

``Before the GFC, we were booked up to six weeks ahead,'' he recalls. ``After the GFC it was down to
two or three days ahead, and if you told people they had very little tread on their tyres, they'd still drive
it for another month or two.''

With three employees, Svenson has no intention of expanding (``you can't keep control'') and laments
that he needs to teach remedial science to new apprentices.

``If you don't know how something works, you don't know what went wrong,'' he reasons. ``Kids don't
get practical experience nowadays. Fathers don't have the backyard shed any more, where their dad
fixed the lawnmower; now they go down to Harvey Norman and buy a new one.''

Last year, Svenson took on a new apprentice: his 26-year-old son, a qualified carpenter and builder
who could not find enough work in the building industry during the downturn.

Despite the supposed ``housing-led recovery'', Tait Svenson still watches his mates struggle.
``I've got a mate who was a plasterer working for a big company and he just got let go,'' he says. ``A
lot of the bigger renos have slowed up. I wasn't making any money: there wasn't work around and one
of the companies I worked for has gone under.''

Page202of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Sota Tractors moved into Fortune Street last year, filling the prime space left by Giblins Motor Bodies.
Whereas Giblins manufactured vehicle bodies in-house, Sota imports tractors made in China.

Fifty-year-old Nigel Cheadle, who works at the Geebung warehouse, worries about job security. He is
tipping every spare cent into the mortgage and hopes to pay off the house by year's end. If big
companies such as Qantas, Holden and Telstra are shedding staff en masse, he reasons, how safe
are the smaller ones?

``I don't spend much money as I get older,'' he says. ``It's beer and food and petrol, the daily things.
You hear so much about people being unemployed, especially with Holden and Toyota (shutting down
their factories), and I think, `Gee, are we all going to just be cleaners and bartenders?' ''

Cheadle will need to keep working until he is 67 and is not impressed by Joe Hockey's musing about
raising the retirement age even higher: ``If you can't get work at 50, how are you going to get it at 60
or 65?''

Since the start of the financial crisis, 370,000 Australians have joined the dole queue. Back in January
2008, when 4.1 per cent of the workforce was unemployed, there were 458,500 people looking for
work. Now the unemployment rate has soared to 6 per cent, and 728,600 Australians are jostling for a
job. One in five has been looking for longer than a year.

Youth unemployment has crept from 10 per cent at the start of 2008 to 13.4 per cent of
15-24-year-olds today. Among middle-aged Australians, the jobless rate has jumped from 2.8 per cent
to 4.6 per cent.

GW Fasteners, its retro-red shelves tidily stacked with an obscure collection of hard-to-source screws,
tapes and adhesives for the building and manufacturing industries, had to sack staff when its turnover
shrivelled by 60 per cent during 2009.

``We laid a couple of people off, the delivery drivers,'' says owner Dean Williams. ``It's not as bad now
as it was, and I'm quite confident that this year there'll be a lot of work there.''

Williams still employs four long-serving staff and has no beef with workplace laws: they have been a
team for 15 years and ``get on really well''. What he would like, though, is for the federal government
to put small businesses and contractors at the front of the creditors' queue when big companies go
bust.

``We had a big one fail two years ago that hurt us pretty bad,'' he recalls. ``It's all right to give Ford $20
million but, for small business, they just make it harder and harder for us.''

At Oscar's Cafe, new owner Jimmy (who does not want his surname in the paper) is cleaning up after
the lunchtime rush for hot chips and hamburgers. He complains about the red tape involved in
transferring the business from his brother's name.

``It's time-consuming and expensive,'' he frowns as he wipes down the stainless-steel counter. ``It is
such a waste of money -- I am spending $3000 just for my lawyer and, after six months, I still don't
have the final papers. The government puts so much red tape, they make it so difficult, and then
wonder why business isn't doing so well.''
The industrial park borders a sleepy slice of suburbia 11km north of the Brisbane CBD. Geebung is a
postwar housing estate where the original owners, now octogenarians tending to neat lawns and
old-fashioned flower beds, are gradually selling out to a new generation of working families with young
children. A coffee shop has sprung up next to the Salvation Army store, a sure sign of Geebung's
gradual gentrification.

At the railway station, a fluorescent colony of construction workers toils on a $199m overpass, which
the Newman government funded to unclog one of Brisbane's worst traffic bottlenecks at the
dangerous level crossing.
Even the discovery of prehistoric crocodile fossils, unearthed during pile-driving at the site last year,
failed to halt the day-and-night construction. Around the corner, along Robinson Road East, is another
relic: an Australian furniture manufacturer.

Feldman's Factory Direct Furniture had to whittle its workforce from 95 to 45 when one of Australia's
biggest furniture retailers replaced its Australian-made furniture with imports eight years ago. Then the
financial crisis hit.

Page203of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.``Fifty per cent of Queensland's furniture was sold through Super A-Mart,'' says owner Kevin
Feldman. Super A-Mart's founder, John Van Lieshout, one of Australia's richest men, had championed
home-grown manufacturers.
``Then John sold the business to an investment group and they decided to buy everything from
overseas, and immediately 50 per cent of Queensland's furniture industry went broke,'' says Feldman.
``Companies that had 200 employees just shut the doors.''

The furniture factory sits in the shadow of the Arnott's biscuit plant, where 169 staff lost their jobs in
2011. Five years and $100m later, the 700 remaining workers have learned new skills, using an
automated production line that has increased output by 20 per cent.

``Arnott's is committing to manufacturing in Australia,'' says Craig Funnell, vice-president of supply
chain for Campbell Arnott's. ``To stay competitive, we must be at the cutting edge of innovation and
technology.''

Silvia Austin has worked on the production line for 23 years, and ``really loves'' a job others might
spurn as too tiring or repetitive. ``It's the people who are there, they're good-natured and friendly,'' she
explains. ``It's a great company to work for and we have a strong union.''

Austin uses Facebook to keep in touch with the colleagues who took voluntary redundancy, and says
most found other work. ``Some people have gone to secretarial jobs and some have gone back into
the same field, working for a place that does sandwiches for the service stations,'' she says. ``Some of
them were of retirement age and the older ones have gone into volunteering in the local community.''

Back in the furniture factory, Feldman greets each employee by name as he wanders through the vast
shed, past piles of foam bus seats, colour-coded lounge cushions and stacks of mattresses produced
by the other part of his business, Dyman Foams.

He grieves the loss of local jobs that sustain a strong economy and healthy community. ``The workers
bank here,'' he says. ``They buy from the pie cart. Their kids go to school. It filters down to everyone.''
Feldman competes with cheap Chinese imports with high quality, long warranties and a bespoke
design service, selling direct to the public as well as boutique furniture stores. Australia's high wages
are not a problem, he insists: it's the mindless regulation that inflates his production costs.
``The Chinese buy their raw products the same as me and they have a huge advantage in labour, but
it costs them $500-$600 a container to send something out here so the freight balances out the labour
costs,'' he says. ``But I also have workplace health and safety, Workcover, superannuation, payroll
tax, insurance.''

During the drought, Feldman had to spend $10,000 upgrading his water pipes to meet new fire
brigade requirements after Brisbane City Council lowered the city's water pressure to save precious
water. Recently he paid $1000 to replace his emergency exit signs to comply with a new requirement
that they stay bright for 72 hours in a blackout.

His electricity bill has doubled in eight years, to $50,000 a year -- including a $6000 slug from the
carbon tax. Feldman must pay tariffs as high as 42 per cent on any imported fabrics he uses to
manufacture his furniture, yet an imported lounge with the same cover comes into the country
duty-free.

``We say the government should stop giving incentives to business to be more efficient, and work with
us to increase our sales instead,'' he says. ``I've got trucks going down the coast half-full: I know that's
inefficient.''

His solution?

``Government buildings should be stocked with 80 per cent Australian-made furniture.''

Tucked into a far corner of Prosperity Place is a retailing refugee from a nearby shopping centre. My
Big Event used to sell its party wares and invitations from busy booths at two Westfield shopping
centres in Brisbane, but shut one and moved the other to Geebung when the financial crisis crunched
in 2010. The shop now employs three staff instead of 10.

Co-owner Chris Connors has been in business for nine years, and views the internet as his biggest
threat, yet his greatest opportunity. ``When we first started, our competition was shops close by in the
shopping centre,'' he says.

Page204of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.``Then it was other shops in Brisbane, but we've got global competition now. People aren't afraid to
buy online now, no matter where it is.''

Personal service is the key to his survival: Connors now offers a set-up service for parties, something
he never contemplated in his shopping centre days. The internet amplifies his advertising, through
search engines and word-of-mouth promotion from contented customers on wedding website forums.

``There are other opportunities,'' he says. ``It's how you attack them. I'll go out now and decorate the
sites, be it a hotel or a private venue. It's very much one-on-one service. Wedding invitations are so
personal -- on the best website in the world you can't feel the fabric and the paper.''

Connors works six days a week, 50 hours in the office and 20 more at home, yet he cannot afford to
take on more staff. ``There's more incentive to be on the dole sometimes,'' he admits. ``The average
small-business owner is below the poverty line and when you work out the rate per hour it's well below
the minimum wage.''

So why does he persist? ``My wife wants me to go and get a `real job' and let somebody else have the
problems associated with the business, but I think there's a degree of self-satisfaction,'' he says.
``When the customers come to pick up their invitations, you get to see the delight on their faces. I
enjoy it.''

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | queensl :
Queensland
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140307ea380004e

Page205of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.