Elders, Wellard link dismissed

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Elders, Wellard link dismissed

Brad Thompson
423 words
11 July 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
Second
75
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

Elders has poured cold water on suggestions it and fellow agribusiness Wellard are involved in talks
about a joint future.
The 175-year-old Elders yesterday also revealed it had parted ways with iron ore billionaire Andrew
Forrest on moves to open up live cattle exports to China.

Elders chief executive Mark Allison and Wellard chairman Mauro Balzarini met in Sydney recently,
coinciding with a surge in Elders’ share price, but their discussions centred on the state of Wellard’s
accounts.

“We had a routine account management meeting — I am the Wellard account manager — and talked
about broad industry issues,” Mr Allison said. “Any inference that there are any formal discussions with
Wellard on the future of Elders is not accurate.”

There was speculation about merging the two businesses at the height of Elders’ battle with a
mountain of debt.

Mr Balzarini yesterday said he could not comment on Elders.

Elders and Mr Forrest have opted to walk away from their non-binding agreement to work together on
the live export of feeder and slaughter stock to China. They are pursuing the market breakthrough
independently, with Elders already heavily involved in the export of dairy cattle to China.

Elders shares, beaten down, have doubled in value in the past two months to 23.5¢ yesterday.

“I think it is a combination of doing what we said we were going to do as shown by half-year results,
included our eight-point plan which is a very clear strategy for an agribusinesses developed within
Elders, and the appeal in agriculture with our proximity to China,” he said. “Also, the number of
agribusiness that have been delisted through acquisition has meant it is a favourable spot for us but
we are not being mesmerised by it because we know we have a long way to go.”

Elders has a link to the vast majority of Australia’s farm businesses and is the selling agent for about
two million cattle and 11 million sheep a year.
Elders has cut its debt to about $100 million. The divestment of more assets marked for sale in its
half-year accounts in the next few months could see the remaining debt cut in half. It is understood
Elders is close to a deal on its 50 per cent stake in Australian Wool Handlers.
Mr Allison said the focus remained on turning the business around and there was “no intention of
having any discussions” with private equity groups or others at this stage.

CO

futris : Elders Limited

Page225of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i8396 :
Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140710ea7b0003m

Page226of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.