Lian Huat Group eyes Tatts office

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

Property
Lian Huat Group eyes Tatts office

Matthew Cranston
217 words
11 December 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
30
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Listed gaming companyTatts Group is close to selling its office tower in Brisbane's
inner-northern suburb of Albion for $40 million to a Singapore-backed property company.
Lian Huat Group has been named as the lead party to take the asset.

The group has business interests in Singapore, Australia and China, covering property
development and property investments, as well as the management of hotels and serviced
apartments.

The 10-storey building at 240 Sandgate Road is being quietly marketed by JLL's Seb Turnbull and
Geoff McIntyre, who were unavailable for comment on the potential buyer.
Tatts Group announced last year it had committed to building a new global headquarters for its
900-strong workforce at Newstead on Brisbane's fringe.
Tatts Group chief executive Robbie Cook was unavailable for comment.
However, last year he said the group was spread across five properties and that was "far from
ideal in terms of efficiency and team building".
Lian Huat Group, which is currently building up-scale commercial residential apartments in
Tianjin, China, could join several Asian-backed property groups who have started to buy into the
Brisbane market.
Shayher, R&F Properties and Singapore group Aspial have all made purchases with residential
development plays in mind.

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141210eacb0001b

Page170of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.