Australia shares flat as employment takes a hit, gold stocks support

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Australia shares flat as employment takes a hit, gold stocks support

609 words
7 August 2014
Financial Services Monitor Worldwide
FINSMEN
English
© 2014 Global Data Point. All Rights Reserved. Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company

Australian shares traded flat on Thursday, as an extremely weak employment report hit the confidence of
investors already cautious over increasing tensions in Ukraine, though a gain in bullion prices buoyed
some resource stocks.

Australian employment was unexpectedly feeble in July as the jobless rate jumped to its highest in almost
12 years at 6.4 percent, a disappointing report that could revive speculation about another cut in interest
rates.

"In terms of jobs growth, it's been patchy and soft for a while, we've got stagnant hiring," said Ben
Jarman, economist at JP Morgan.
Banks traded lower as investors sold out of the financial sector. The country's top lender by assets
National Australia Bank declined 0.6 percent, while top bank by market capitalisation Commonwealth
Bank of Australia slipped 0.2 percent.

The S&P/ASX 200 index dipped 2.1 points to 5,509.9 by 0223 GMT.

The benchark index hit a six-year high of 5,644.2 on July 31, but has slumped nearly 150 points as
investors fret that the U.S. Federal Reserve may raise interest rates earlier than expected, and in the face
of the conflicts in Ukraine and Gaza.

Russia said it will ban all imports of food from the United States and all fruit and vegetables from Europe,
the state news agency reported on Wednesday, a sweeping response to Western sanctions imposed over
its support for rebels in Ukraine.

Traders said investors were also focusing on the reporting season, which are "likely to revolve around
dividend income".

"Questions are starting to rise around what can be expected after dividends are priced in," Chay Flack,
equities dealer at CMC Markets Stockbroking said in a note.

World No.2 miner Rio Tinto Ltd is due to report its first-half results after the close on Thursday.

Gold miners also rose after climbing 1.6 percent overnight on safe haven buying and a weak undertone in
global equities. Beadell Resources Ltd soared 8.6 percent, while Australia's top miner Newcrest Mining
Ltd jumped 3.8 percent.

Elsewhere, a survey of Australian construction activity showed the sector expanding at the fastest pace in
eight months thanks to strength in homebuilding and a pick-up in the commercial sector.

This supported stocks in the construction sector, with cement and building products manufacturer James
Hardie Ltd and property group Stockland Ltd both climbing 1.5 percent.

Bookmaker Tabcorp Holdings Ltd jumped 3.5 percent to a 1-1/2 month high of A$3.56 after reporting its
net profit after tax had increased by 2.6 percent to A$129.9 million compared to the prior corresponding
period.
Investors sold out of Integrated Research Ltd which slumped 16.1 percent to four-week lows of A$1.02
after issuing profit after tax guidance in the range of A$8.3 million to A$8.7 million, compared to the prior
year's A$9.1 million.

Page222of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.New Zealand stocks turned flat with support for selected leaders and small-cap stocks helping buoy the
benchmark NZX 50 index at 5,091.7.

There were modest gains for leading stocks, including Fletcher Building and Telecom, which changes its
name on Friday to Spark
The main price action was among smaller stocks, with Chinese-controlled Synlait Milk 3 percent higher
at NZ$3.45, while new entrant Gentrack Group gained 5.6 percent to NZ$2.25, as it clawed back losses
incurred after last week's profit warning.

Investors remain cautious ahead of the reporting season which starts next week.

IN

NS

igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Financial Services

RE
IPD
PUB Global Data Point Ltd.
AN

Document FINSMEN020140807ea870003t

Page223of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.