BUSY BITS

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
BUSY BITS

358 words
20 August 2014
Cairns Post
CAIRPO
Cairns
24
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Billionaire buses in AQUIS developer Tony Fung is one of the most down-to-earth billionaires on the
planet. There are no airs and graces about the Hong Kong tycoon. Last Saturday he flew into Cairns
on a Virgin Australia flight from Brisbane and not in his new Boeing 757 corporate jet. Accompanied by
a small entourage of about six people, he also took his own luggage to an awaiting Toyota minibus, not
a flash luxury limousine.

Club’s charity play THE Northern Beaches Rugby Union Club has held a Ladies Day as part of its
commitment to the community. Club president Nathan Crane said during the A-grade fixture against
Wanderers, the team played in limited edition pink jerseys later auctioned off with $4000 from the
auction and home game gate takings donated to the White Ribbon organisation supporting awareness
and prevention of domestic violence and Ruth’s Women’s Shelter here in Cairns. The club now has 56
players based at its home ground at the Wattle St fields, Yorkeys Knob.

DeLacy tells a tale KEITH DeLacy will take Cairns Chamber of Commerce members on his journey from
being a miner, a tobacco farmer, a newsagency proprietor, college principal and a consultant through to
politics as Member for Cairns and State Treasurer to Queensland president and national director of the
Australian Institute of Company Directors. He is a director of the Reef Hotel Casino and Queensland
Energy Resources and chairman of a consortium developing a $2 billion agricultural project on the
Gilbert River system. He will outline all at the chamber’s lunch next Tuesday.

Holden sales rev upHOLDEN is on a roll with record sales in June and continuing growth last month.
Sales of 12,332 sales were up 17.6 per cent in June, with the VF Commodore leading the sales charge.
Ireland Holden in Cairns was named the number one regional Holden dealer in the country for June with
109 sales. Ireland Holden dealer-principal Richard Ireland says it was a fitting finale to their successful
four day sale and Sale Of Origin campaigns during the Rugby League Origin series.

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

vrbair : Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd
i75 : Airlines | i7501 : Scheduled Passenger Airlines | iairtr : Air Transport | ilowair : Low Cost Airlines |
itsp : Transportation/Shipping
gcha : Charities | gdomv : Domestic Violence | gcat : Political/General News | gcom :
Society/Community/Work | gcrim : Crime/Courts | gsoc : Social Issues
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document CAIRPO0020140819ea8k00014

Search Summary

Text

((chin* or hong kong)) and ( ( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or
island or hotel or apartment or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or
company or board or entitys) and (transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) ) or

Page342of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.