QLD:Joh's cabinet anxious about Labor rise

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

QLD:Joh's cabinet anxious about Labor rise

631 words
1 January 2014
Australian Associated Press General News
AAP
English
(c) 2014 Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

ARCHIVES EDS: This story is not for use before 0001 AEST on Wednesday, January 1, 2014

By Melissa Grant

BRISBANE, Jan 1 AAP - The Bjelke-Petersen era was at its peak in 1983, but the rise of Labor
governments in Canberra and WA put Sir Joh's cabinet on the defensive.

The staunchly conservative government was worried that the rise of Labor would put Queensland and
the High Court on a collision course, cabinet documents from 30 years ago show.

Attorney-General Sam Doumany declared that the "fundamental realignment" meant all Queensland
ministers and officials had to get smarter about protecting the state's interests.

Mr Doumany said the election of the Hawke government had paved the way for the Commonwealth to
start making new sexual and racial discrimination laws.

His warning came in the wake of a 1982 High Court decision which found the Bjelke-Petersen
government was acting discriminatorily by blocking the purchase of land by Aboriginal people in
northern Queensland.

He siad the High Court would "no longer provide any great protection" because the majority of justices
were "opposed to the long-term interests of the states".

But Labor wasn't the only party to cause Sir Joh headaches in 1983.

The Liberal Party elected Terry White as its leader on August 9, triggering a political and constitutional
crisis which resulted in the dissolution of the Liberal-National coalition.

The termination of the long-standing agreement between the parties was far from ideal for
Bjelke-Petersen's Nationals, two months out from the state election.

In the wake of the dissolution and successive ALP victories across the country, many commentators
were predicting a Labor win at the October poll.

However, Sir Joh managed to form a minority government by convincing key Liberal Party members to
defect to the Nationals.

While the Queensland government remained the same in 1983, the state itself was changing.

Brisbane continued its evolution into an international city, landing the 1988 World Expo a year after
hosting the Commonwealth Games.

The government didn't waste any time preparing for the massive bicentennial celebration by rezoning
industrial land in South Brisbane to build a cultural precinct that's now known as South Bank.
Meanwhile, the Gold Coast was preparing to get a tourist attraction of its own - the state's first casino.

Construction of Jupiter's Casino began in July after Conrad Investment Corporation, a subsidiary of
Hilton Hotels, was approved as a partner in the building consortium.

Page197of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Plans were also well under way for a Townsville casino, with a draft agreement for the development
approved in February.

In the mood to attract more tourists to the state, the government allowed the export of 18 koalas to
Japan as a publicity stunt and funded a television program promoting the Sunshine State.

But 1983 wasn't all fun and games for Queenslanders.

Extremely hot and dry conditions wreaked havoc in the state, particularly in the northwest, with more
than 50 shires hit by drought.

Unemployment was on the rise, with cabinet considering community-based employment projects as the
jobless rate hit 11.5 per cent.

But the struggle of ordinary Queenslanders didn't stop MPs voting to give themselves a pay rise.
The disposal of radioactive sand left over from sand mining was also at the fore as the government
grappled with where to dump the substance, which had a half-life of 10,000 million years.
Sand mining may have been controversial, but it was full steam ahead for the coal industry.
Major coal railways were electrified and new coal mining areas were opened at Emerald and
Moranbah in central Queensland.
Trial coal exports to Spain, Malaysia and Hong Kong were also approved.

AAP mjg/peb/mjs/vr

NS

RE

PUB
AN

e1116 : Employment/Unemployment | gpol : Domestic Politics | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators
| ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | queensl :
Queensland
Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd
Document AAP0000020131231ea1100209

Page198of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.