Peters ice cream to be the next Australian brand sold offshore after French company 'tables $450 million bid'

SE
HD

BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Peters ice cream to be the next Australian brand sold offshore after French company 'tables
$450 million bid'
LILLIAN RADULOVA and FREYA NOBLE
673 words
23 May 2014
22:10
Mail Online
DAMONL
English
© 2014 Associated Newspapers. All rights reserved

* Pacific Equity Partners rumoured to have been offered $450 million by French ice cream giant
R&R

* Aussie favorites by Peters include Drumstick, Billabong and Connoisseur

* Comes as Meadow Lea looks set to be bought by Asian investment firm
Peters ice cream could become the latest iconic Australian brand this to be sold off after its parent
company entered talks with a foreign investor.
Unlike many of the other brands which are being snatched up by Asian buyers, Pacific Equity
Partners is in exlcusive negotiations with French ice cream manufacturer, R&R.

As the largest producer of ice cream in Europe - and the second largest in the world - R&R are 
reported to have offered $450 million for Peters, according to The Australian.

Scroll down for video

If the deal goes through, the French ice cream giant, located in the UK but owned by French private
equity firmPAI Partners, will produce some of Australia's favourite treats including Drumstick,
Billabong and Connoisseur.
Pacific Equity Partners could nearly double their profits after they bought Peters for about $250
million from Nestle in 2012.
The deal would also confirm that the company will not be floating Peters on the sharemarket, which
had been expected.
As the market leader in Australia's multi million dollar ice cream industry, Peters' revenue is projected
to rise from $269.3 million in 2014 to $290.3 million in 2015, according to the Sydney Morning
Herald.
More than 100 years old, the brand is no doubt one of Australia's most iconic brands, founded in
1907 by Fred Peters in Manly.

Australian entrepreneur Dick Smith has spoken out for the second time this week about the damage
foreign ownership is doing to Australian brands.

His first statements came on Wednesday when Meadowlea announced it was moving offshore, Smith
saying the move was a blow to Australian customers.
On Friday in light of iconic Australian brand Peters' potential sale, the business owner told the
Sydney Morning Herald that his 'company's days are numbered.'

Page142of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.'I think the days are numbered because basically anyone who is any good as a food producer is pretty
much immediately bought out by the Northern Hemisphere. These companies have to get growth and
the only way they can get growth is by buying out other companies,' he said.

Smith also told of the struggle to source produce from local companies, and the impact this is having
on consumers who want home-grown products.

'This is going to happen more and more where in the end Dick Smith Foods is going to be forced to
close,' he told the publication.
Earlier this week, Australian-made Meadow Lea margarine and bread brands Helgas and Wonder
White, were also announced to be falling into foreign hands after Asian investors bid $1.37 billion.

The companies, owned by Goodman Fielder, could be moved offshore in as little as four months as
the company board paves the way for Singapore oils trader Wilmar International and Hong Kong
investment house First Pacific to enter into a takeover.

Goodman Fielder owns and operates sugar refineries in North Queensland and Victoria, and the
company employs about 6000 people in Australia, NZ and Asia.

A statement from Goodman Fielder released on Thursday said a recommendation had been put to its
board to accept a takeover bid from the two Asian investors at 71 cents a share.

Goodman Fielder has a portfolio of well-known consumer brands in some of Australia's largest
grocery categories, including Meadow Lea, Praise, White Wings, Pampas, Mighty Soft, Helga's,
Wonder White, Meadow Fresh and Irvines.
If the buy-out proceeds, the once proudly-owned Australian food brands will join the long list of former
iconic products Cottees Cordials, milk brands Dairy Farmers and Dare Iced Coffee, Bushells and
Nerada Teas and big biscuit manufacturer Arnott's to fall into foreign hands.

paipar : PAI partners | peprt : Pacific Equity Partners
i4141 : Frozen Food | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i414 : Food Preserving/Speciality Foods | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150203 :
Private Equity | ialtinv : Alternative Investments | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
cbrand : Branding | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Associated Newspapers
Document DAMONL0020140523ea5n003ju

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page143of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.