Chinese Provide Valuable Support to Grange

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
VOL
LA
CY

LP

TD

GRANGE RESOURCES
Chinese Provide Valuable Support to Grange

John Miller
2,703 words
1 February 2014
Engineering & Mining Journal
EMJN
52,54,56,58
Volume 215; Issue 2; ISSN:00958948
English
Copyright (c) 2014 Engineering & Mining Journal. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All
rights Reserved.

Chinese investment has played a major role in the success of Grange Resources at its magnetite
mining and processing operations in northwest Tasmania and will contribute a great deal to the larger
Southdown project in Western Australia. Chinese funding has enabled Grange to maintain and optimize
its Savage River operations while China provides a major market for much of the company's premium
iron ore pellets.
Grange owns and operates Australia's largest integrated iron ore mining and pellet production
business. Savage River magnetite mine is 100 km southwest of Burnie while Grange's pellet plant and
port facility is at Port Latta, 70 km northwest of Burnie, with an 84-km-long pipeline linking mine and
plant.

Shagang International Holdings, based in Jiangsu, holds 46.52% of Grange while Shanghaiand Hong
Kong-based trading company Pacific International owns 8.49% and RGL owns 5.36%. The remainder is
owned by Australian institutions with a block of about 10% being European investors, predominantly
Dutch, who have been involved since Grange began in 2004.

Savage River was established in the mid-1960s and sent its first shipment to Japan in 1967. It has been
continuously producing magnetite and transforming it into hematite pellets originally for the Japanese
market and then China from the early 1990s. In 2007 private Chinese steel manufacturer Shagang
purchased a percentage of the company and in 2009 Grange completed a merger with a consortium
involving Shagang, Pacific Minerals and RGL to form a newer, bigger company that held the Tasmanian
assets as well as 70% of the Southdown magnetite project near Albany, Western Australia.

Grange Managing Director Wayne Bould said when Savage River was developed based on Canadian
magnetite operations it was probably about 40 years ahead of its time. "In transforming magnetite
concentrate into an iron ore pellet, it converts exothermically into hematite," he said. "It starts as
magnetite ore, is crushed and ground into a magnetite concentrate, which goes through a blast furnace
and comes out as a hematite pellet with about 65%-67% iron ore content. The pellets are superior in
quality to many other magnetite products due to the lower level of impurities and are of a higher value."
He said magnetite is generally produced as a concentrate, which is used for coal washing where it helps
float off impurities and any iron content in coal, or as a sinter feed where it is sent to pellet plants and
made into pellets. "The advantage we have is that the whole process is in the one place at the one time,"
Bould said. "It is common for other producers to produce concentrate and then ship it to China or India
where it is converted in their pellet plants.

"Grange was Australia's first major magnetite producer and has more than 45 years of experience. There
are some of our people who have been with Grange since the start in the 1960s and our knowledge of
magnetite production, particularly the conversion processes, is second to none. We often field requests
from other magnetite and pellet producers seeking our knowledge, and regularly host visits from people
wanting to start-up magnetite operations.

Page59of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."Nowadays there is more interest in magnetite, especially from China where it is the dominant source of
domestic iron ore, although grades are lower. It makes sense for Chinese producers to take high-quality
Australian magnetite to blend with their lower grade resource to produce reasonably graded product," he
said.

Merger 'Made Sense'
Chinese investment is very important to Grange, Bould said. "The 2008-2009 merger was predicated on
using the Tasmanian assets to help fund development of Southdown, which is five times larger than
Savage River and has capacity to annually produce about 10 million metric tons (mt) of high-quality
concentrate for 30-35 years.
"In 2008 Grange was struggling and seeking an equity partner, so the merger proposal made sense
because it provided the opportunity to blend the knowledge and experience gained from Savage River
and apply that to development and eventually the mining operation that would become Southdown. Had
the global financial crisis not occurred and had there not been some poorly managed projects in Australia
in intervening years, I'm sure Southdown would be operating. The board and major shareholders are still
committed to Southdown and we are re-positioning it so we can go to market and get some equity.
"We would not be at this point without Chinese involvement but it is also impossible to discount the value
of the experience held at Savage River-it is almost non-quantifiable and probably worth more than the
asset itself in a market where people aren't that experienced at handling this product. It is a hard
operation to run, tight economically and Tasmania isn't the best state in Australia from which to run an
export business to China. Despite this we are very competitive," he said.
Instigating and maintaining Chinese investment is not without its difficult moments, he added.
"Difficulties occur when there are sovereign rules and laws in Australia that are different to those in
China. We have a great deal of support from Chinese shareholders, in fact Shagang is our largest
customer and we have a contract with them to take 1 million mt of our annual production until 2027,
which equates to about 45% of total production.

"Difficulties also arise due to the governance requirements, listing rules and guidance which the ASX
places on listed company activities-for instance if we decide to dispose of or acquire an asset, however
big or small, we need approval from independent directors and sometimes non-related shareholders.
There are also some Australian Taxation Office considerations we need to be very conscious of around
transfer pricing and related party pricing. If our Chinese shareholders get a little testy with us, it is
because the same regulations don't exist in China and they don't understand why we need to operate
like this in Australia. The good thing is we have honest, open dialogue as issues arise and we deal with
them-it's a learning experience for both of us and we have managed to get through the issues well
because of the dialogue," he said.

Savage River is a very good asset, he said, but owing to the pipeline to Port Latta, it is constrained to
annual output of 2.5-2.9 million tons. "The only way to increase output would be to replace the pipeline,
but this would be cost prohibitive in current times so it is a matter of driving the business as hard as we
can. Since the merger, we have taken mine life from 2027 to 2030-2032 and are about to take it to 2035
by redeveloping some old assets, remodeling the way we mine and mining partially mined remnant
deposits. From Shagang's viewpoint this must be a great asset-they bought a reasonably distressed
asset with limited mine life and we have added a lot of life and value.
"In Australia there is a general view that Chinese investment is likely to be a savior for a distressed
business. Chinese are canny investors and understand what they are investing in before they start, so
the notion of a philanthropic Chinese uncle coming along and saving a very distressed business by
putting in a lot of money is not likely to occur. Because they understand what they want, they are willing
to support your endeavors as long as you work the business properly to the standard they expect, and
we have managed to do that. The support we get in keeping Savage River going, even in difficult times,
has been first class," Bould said.

Infrastructure Replacement

As the business is more than 45-years-old but was designed to run for 30-35 years, Bould said a lot of
infrastructure is at the end of its design life. "We are putting capital back into the business to make sure
equipment is capable of running to 2035 and beyond. We have been well supported in this process and
by 2016 just about all of the core processing driveline will have been replaced or upgraded to provide
that capability. Also, as the mine gets older it gets deeper, which potentially adds cost in energy
requirement for fuelling trucks and for converting magnetite into concentrate and pellet. We have to come
up with innovative ways of dealing with this and, again, our major shareholders support us and

Page60of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.encourage us to think outside the box, and we have managed to come up with solutions every time," he
said.

Southdown Plans

He said, "At Southdown we have finished the definitive feasibility study to the point where we could seek
finance based on its level of completion in December 2012. Although the global project market has been
slow, there are signs it is changing, slowly but surely. Prior to 2012 there was opportunity to get funding
support from China but policy changes have made this more difficult. What Grange decided with
Southdown was to keep it on hold-to maintain environmental, mining and government approvals
secured to date, keep our land tenure in place, and do everything needed to keep it at its current state,
but there won't be any development until we can find a way to fund it or find an equity partner who would
be willing to buy up to 50% of our share.

"Ultimately, we may need to change the model slightly to fit changes in global requirements for magnetite
products. We have had the project sitting there for more than 12 months with a small team maintaining it
and the board will review it again in December. There appears to be a desire to start to push it out there
again, go harder at seeking an equity partner, open more discussions with Chinese financial institutions
to get more funding and remodel it in a bid to reduce the capital cost.
"One of the problems is that it's at Albany, is the only mining project in the region and there is no
infrastructure to support mining-no power, insufficient water and the port has not been built to take the
size and number of vessels you see going in and out of the Pilbara region. To develop this infrastructure,
Grange is required to provide funding up front on behalf of the state government and over time the
government resumes ownership. This adds about $800 million to the capital cost so among the
discussions we are having with the government is how to find another way to manage the infrastructure
requirement. It is an excellent project and with our expertise we could make it work very well, so it is
important we find an equity partner," Bould said.

Grange in Good Shape

In 2012 Grange had a wall slip at Savage River and had to effectively move two years' of waste in one
year. Bould said this added a lot of cost but helped reshape the mine for the longer term. "We have about
$135 million cash in the bank and are debt free. By the end of 2013, we will have recovered our
situation to the extent that we have $145-$150 million in the bank and 2014 is looking good. Most
pundits are talking steel and iron ore markets up, and most forward projections are looking better than
when we did our modeling in early 2013.
"We recently had institutional investors have a look at Savage River and their view is that the company
is performing well but very undervalued. They were impressed with what they saw and said that we have
to get on and do something. Another opportunity if Southdown isn't put together in the timeframe we
want, is a merger or acquisition of another operation rather than leaving the money in the bank.
"In 2011, the board adopted a policy of returning annual dividends while the company remains cashflow
positive and based on our share price we are providing about a 10% yield, which makes us pretty
attractive on that basis. We have the attitude that if we want to survive as an operation, we need to be
better and smarter than others. We didn't coast in the easy periods, we ran the business hard and drove
our cost profile hard so that when we knew the bad times were coming, it was business as usual," he
said.

'Looking After Our Own'
"Mining is a difficult business and conditions in Tasmania are rugged, apart from the fact we don't get
snow all the time," Bould said. "It is inherently dangerous and we can't do the job without our people. We
have an absolute obligation to protect them and send them home daily in at least the same condition as
they arrived. It took three years of hard work and strong leadership to change the safety culture we saw
in the business when we did the merger. There's an element of pride in this but we also maintain 'isn't
this what you should do anyway.'" Savage River had a lost time injury free rate of 1,195 days as of
November 20.

Community support is important. "We operate In a region with just about the highest unemployment in
Australia. A regional population profile would show close to 70% of those who are workplace fit have not
obtained any higher than year 12 education. They are great people, they work hard, they're innovative
and very smart without having a piece of paper to prove it, but they rely on having a job in a hands-on
area where they can add some value. It's important for us to give them loyal support to repay the loyalty
shown to us. There is a major flow-on effect of about four, five, or maybe as high as six to one when we
spend a dollar locally-a lot of services are supplied by local contractors, many of which are mum and dad
businesses.

Page61of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."We have a policy of buying locally when It's equitable to what we would pay elsewhere, and it mostly is.
This gives us a lot of support in the community and is reflected by the way the community has gotten
behind mining development in the face of some of the environmentalist activity seen in the past few
years. The local population understands it can't be the silent majority if it wants work and jobs in
companies like Grange; it needs to stand up and demand those jobs and demand that Grange gets the
approvals it needs to develop the business. They've become vocal in the face of statements made by the
Greens and the like, which is encouraging.

"The respect garnered from state and federal governments by moving our head office from Perth to
regional Tasmania was a demonstration of confidence in the region and an indication that business can
be done regionally. The local workforce is dedicated and talented-it's a lifestyle choice for them to live
here, they want to grow with their families, they want their kids to see their grandparents and they want to
be grandparents locally. The loyalty we get in this regard is huge and our turnover is extremely low at
less than 1%. We have a long-term, loyal workforce-you just can't buy that.

"Grange has always been honest and open. Where we see statements made at a high level with
unvalidated data we respond with empirical data. When we intend to do anything with potential to require
environmental approval, we invite people like the Tarkine National Coalition to sit with us, have a look at
what we intend doing, explain why and what the value is. Additionally we have empowered all our people
to speak on the company's behalf with regard to any activity and the value of it. Having an open book,
having nothing to hide, having our workforce engaged and aware of what we are doing and why has
made a huge difference to acceptance of what we do in this region," Bould added.

NS

RE

IN

i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys |
i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | i231 : Non-metallic Mineral Mining/Quarrying | imet : Mining/Quarrying |
ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gjob : General Labor Issues | reqrmm : Suggested Reading
Metals/Mining | gcat : Political/General News | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr :
Suggested Reading Industry News
china : China | austr : Australia | tasman : Tasmania | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
IPD
Scholarly Journals
PUB Mining Media, Inc.
AN

Document EMJN000020170422ea210012n

Page62of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.