Mount Gibson Iron Limited - December Quarterly Activities Report

HD Mount Gibson Iron Limited - December Quarterly Activities Report
WC 2,472 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

30 January 2014
ENP Newswire
ENPNEW
English
(c) 2014, Electronic News Publishing. All Rights Reserved.

Release date - 29012014

‘Mount Gibson has delivered an excellent performance in the first half of the 2014 financial year,
achieving record six monthly sales and a record period-end cash balance of $484 million,’ said Chief
Executive Officer Jim Beyer.

TD

‘We remain on track to achieve our full year sales target of 9.0 to 9.5 million tonnes, notwithstanding
some short term rain-related interruptions at Koolan Island. ‘The first half of the year has proven to be an
excellent one for cash generation, reflecting very strong sales, firm iron ore pricing and our ongoing
efforts to increase productivity and reduce costs.
‘Of equal satisfaction was the increase in our total reported Ore Reserves, which has added mine life and
business value, and the green shoots of growth now emerging from our strategy to expand our
exploration footprint and develop prospective ground around our existing assets in the Mid West and at
Koolan Island. ‘We achieved significant progress in this regard in the Mid West during the December
quarter, undertaking our first exploration drilling programmes at both the Fields Find and Extension Hill
South areas, and agreeing to acquire the advanced Shine hematite project.
‘I am especially pleased to note FIRB’s recent approval of the Shine acquisition in the context of our
desire to continue to grow our business through both exploration and acquisition. ‘We are confident this
disciplined approach to growth will add significant value to the Company’s business in both the short and
long term.’
OPERATIONS

Ore sales in the December quarter totalled 2.5 million tonnes, increasing total sales for the six months
ended 31 December 2013 by 15% to a record 5.1 million tonnes compared with the preceding six month
period. Mount Gibson remains on track to achieve total ore sales of 9.0 to 9.5 million tonnes in the
financial year ending 30 June 2014, consistent with guidance.
Koolan Island
Ore shipments from Koolan Island during the December quarter totalled 931,000 tonnes, including three
shipments of Rizhao Special Product (RSP) totalling 202,000 tonnes. At the end of the quarter, crushed
direct ship ore (DSO) stockpiles totalled approximately 65,000 tonnes, and uncrushed DSO stockpiles
totalled approximately 165,000 tonnes.
Ore sales remained strong during the period, however total material movement declined by 12%, largely
due to reduced fleet availability. To help address this, Mount Gibson brought forward by six months the
replacement of three haul trucks which were mobilised to site in late December. In addition, ore
production was impacted in the short term by heavy rain related to Cyclone Christine in late December.
The cyclone did not directly cross Koolan Island, however the site experienced heavy rain over several
days including approximately 600 millimetres in a two day period. This resulted in temporary flooding of
the Main Pit ore zone.
Access to all mining areas besides Main Pit was regained within 48 hours of the rain stopping. Ore
continues to be mined from Acacia East, with waste mining in Main Pit continuing at elevated rates.
Mining access to ore in Main Pit is expected by the end of January. This weather-related interruption is

Page285of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.not expected to have any material impact on forecast sales and Mount Gibson reaffirms its sales
guidance of 9.0 to 9.5 million tonnes for the 2014 financial year.
Average unit cash mining costs for the quarter remained within guidance of $8-10 per tonne moved but
were higher than in the prior quarter due to the lower fleet availability and wet season impacts as
described above. Notably, average unit cash mining costs remained in the lower half of the guidance
range over the half-year to 31 December.
Mining costs are expected to resume a downward trend in the second half as equipment availability and
volume movement increases. Mount Gibson is maintaining its guidance for Koolan Island’s unit cash
mining costs as mining volumes increase to targeted levels in line with the ramp-up schedule.
Koolan Island’s new vehicle workshop and centralised administration facility, which form part of the new
Mine Operations Centre (MOC), became fully operational in the quarter. Both facilities will deliver time
and efficiency benefits. As a result of the advance of the Acacia East pit, the warehouse and stores
facilities are also planned to be relocated to the MOC in the current half year. This is expected to deliver
further efficiencies.
Mid West Operations
Mount Gibson’s operations in the Mid West delivered another strong performance with combined sales
from Extension Hill and Tallering Peak totalling approximately 1.6 million tonnes, slightly higher than the
preceding quarter. Tonnes railed to Geraldton totalled approximately 1.4 million tonnes, and no
mine-gate sales were made in the period.

Extension Hill Hematite Mine
Consistent with the continued strategy of reducing stockpiles, both ore mining and crushing reduced in
comparison with the preceding quarter. Ore mining for the December quarter totalled 385,000 tonnes, a
planned 30% decrease on the September quarter as mining primarily occurred within the higher
strip-ratio central pit zone. Total material movement was in line with the previous quarter at just over 1
million tonnes.

Total tonnes crushed in the quarter decreased by 20% to 573,000 tonnes, with road haulage steady at
656,000 tonnes. Rail haulage to the Geraldton Port was also similar to the prior quarter at 640,000
tonnes. Shipments totalled 667,000 tonnes in the quarter, comprising 370,000 tonnes of lump and
297,000 tonnes of fines.

At the end of December, approximately 140,000 tonnes of crushed finished product was stockpiled at the
mine, a reduction of 35% from the prior quarter. Uncrushed product stockpiled at the mine totaled
approximately 180,000 tonnes, showing a drawdown of 49% from the previous quarter. Mine-site
stockpiles of uncrushed lower grade material totalled 1.9 million tonnes at the end of the quarter.
Crushed ore stockpiles at the Perenjori rail siding totalled approximately 159,000 tonnes, showing a
decrease of 4% from the previous quarter.

Tallering Peak

Tallering Peak continued to perform very well in the December 2013 quarter. Safety performance was of
special note with the site recording 483 consecutive days without a Lost Time Injury (LTI) by the end of
the period. This outstanding performance has continued, with the site passing 500 days LTI-Free on 17
January. The mine also delivered strong sales during the period. Total shipments for the quarter
increased 17% to 895,000 tonnes compared with the previous quarter.
Development works were completed for the T1 pit, while mining in the main T6 pit approaches
completion in the current March quarter. Ore production of 484,000 tonnes was 20% lower than the
previous quarter reflecting a focus on accelerated waste development in the T1 pit, with total material
movement consistent with the previous quarter at 1.6 million tonnes.

Crusher throughput was optimised to meet shipping requirements with 18% more tonnes crushed than
mined due to the continued planned drawdown of ore stockpiles. At the end of December, approximately
130,000 tonnes of crushed standard product, and 58,000 tonnes of crushed lower grade ore were
stockpiled at the mine, in addition to stockpiles of approximately 92,000 tonnes of uncrushed standard
product.
Uncrushed stocks of low grade ore at the mine totalled approximately 215,000 tonnes. At the Mullewa rail
siding, stockpiles of crushed standard product totalled approximately 96,000 tonnes, while stockpiles of
crushed low grade material totalled approximately 382,000 tonnes.

Page286of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.EXPLORATION AND RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
Annual Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves Statement
During the quarter, Mount Gibson released its annual statement of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves
as at 30 June 2013. As at 30 June 2013, total Group Mineral Resources were estimated at 88.6 million
tonnes grading 61.9% Fe, and total Group Ore Reserves were estimated at 45.2 million tonnes grading
62.1% Fe. This compares with Group Ore Reserves at 30 June 2012 of 44.3 million tonnes grading
62.6% Fe.
Increasing total Ore Reserves in excess of mine depletion was a substantial positive achievement by the
Company. This increase has added mine life and demonstrates the benefits of Mount Gibson’s ongoing
focus on resource optimisation and exploration to grow ore reserves at its existing operations.
Koolan Island

West End

As reported previously, extensive mapping and rock chip sampling was conducted over a number of
iron-prospective targets on the West End of Koolan Island in the September quarter. Significant hematite
mineralization and iron rich sandstone units were mapped and correlated with drill intercepts from a prior
Reverse Circulation (RC) drill programme that was conducted in 2011.

During the December quarter, Mount Gibson completed planning for a RC drill programme comprising 33
holes to test identified extension of hematitic sandstone mineralization identified. A Programme of Work
application was submitted in December with a view to commencing drilling in the June quarter of 2014,
after the conclusion of the wet season.

Mid West

Extension Hill South

Based on detailed reviews of past exploration data from the area immediately south of the Extension Hill
open pit mine, Mount Gibson considers the Extension Hill South area to have the most exciting near-mine
exploration potential for iron ore in the Mid West. Drilling commenced at Iron Hill in early December
2013, with a programme of 68 RC holes totaling 1,701 metres completed by the end of the period. This
represents the first drilling at Iron Hill since 2004.
Mount Gibson will provide an update on progress at Iron Hill once it has received and interpreted all
results from this initial drilling programme. Preliminary planning has commenced for further drilling,
subject to the receipt of necessary approvals.

Fields Find
The Fields Find project area is located 60 kilometres north of the Company’s Extension Hill mine. The
250 sqkm tenement package includes the Plateau iron prospect, an iron-enriched ultramafic laterite
occurrence, where iron intercepts were recorded in very limited drilling by a previous operator.

An initial RC drilling programme comprising 228 holes was completed at Plateau during the December
quarter. A detailed update on the results of this programme were released to the ASX on 21 January
2013.2 A total of 114 significant intersections grading in excess of 50% Fe were returned, with significant
intercepts in 104 individual holes, representing 46% of all holes completed. This represents a high
success rate for a greenfields exploration programme and covers only approximately 5% of the prospect
area.

The results confirmed Mount Gibson’s conceptual geological model for the Plateau target, and have also
indicated better than anticipated continuity of mineralization. The Company considers the results to date
to be encouraging and to support the potential to delineate an iron Mineral Resource at the Plateau
prospect. Pending approvals, further drilling is planned for March and April 2014 to test the lateral extents
of the iron mineralization identified to date.

Agreement to acquire advanced Shine hematite project

On 9 December 2013, Mount Gibson announced an agreement to acquire the advanced Shine hematite
project from Gindalbie Metals Ltd for $12 million up-front plus a price participation royalty of which $3
million will be prepaid upon first ore shipments. Full details of the terms of the acquisition are outlined in
the Company’s ASX release dated 9 December 2013.

Page287of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The proposed acquisition is consistent with Mount Gibson’s strategy to grow its exploration and mining
footprint around its existing Mid West iron ore operations and transport infrastructure. Gindalbie has
previously reported a Hematite Mineral Resource (Measured, Indicated and Inferred categories) for the
Shine deposit comprising 6.1 million tonnes grading 59.8% Fe, located approximately 250km east of
Geraldton, and 85km north-north-west of Mount Gibson’s operating Extension Hill mine.

The project is well advanced in terms of feasibility evaluation, mine planning and permitting. Given
Shine’s advanced state, and proximity to the Company’s existing Mid West operations and
infrastructure, Mount Gibson considers it to have excellent potential for near term low-capex development
that can partly offset the scheduled closure of the Company’s Tallering Peak mine in the second half of
2014.

Subsequent to the end of the quarter, Mount Gibson was notified by the Australian Foreign Investment
Review Board that it has no objections to the acquisition. Settlement is anticipated within the current
March quarter, on satisfaction of outstanding conditions relating to other relevant third party consents.
Mount Gibson expects to be able to provide more detailed information regarding the future development
of Shine, including any indicative timeline, after settlement.

CORPORATE

Mount Gibson achieved an average realised fines price, excluding sales of RSP, of US$108 per dry
metric tonne Free on Board (FOB) during the December quarter. The December quarter average Platts
CFR price (where the iron ore supplier pays freight costs) for 62% Fe fines delivered to China was
US$135/dmt. Cash and term deposits totalled $484 million ($0.44 per share) at 31 December 2013, an
increase of $64 million compared with $420 million at 30 September 2013. This is a record period-end
cash balance for the Company.

The quarter-end cash total was recorded after payments in the December quarter for dividend
distributions of $22 million, corporate tax of $24 million, $13 million for the purchase of three new haul
trucks and ancillary equipment at Koolan Island, and $4 million for the successful resolution of a
historical construction works contract claim.
The Company chose to purchase the new haul trucks outright after assessing the purchase against the
relative cost of lease finance. Similar cash purchases were made of ancillary equipment in order to
replace hired items and further reduce operating expenses. The Company will continue to evaluate
purchases against lease financing as it progressively replaces the Koolan Island mining fleet over the
next three years. This may involve a mix of lease financing and/or outright cash purchases depending on
the comparative financial benefits and other capital demands.

Contact:
Jim Beyer Chief Executive Officer Mount Gibson Iron Limited Tel: +61-8-9426-7500
John Phaceas Manager Mount Gibson Iron Limited Tel: +61-8-9426-7500

Mount Gibson will host an analysts/institutions teleconference at 13:00pm AEDT on 22 January 2014.
Investors will be able to listen in to the teleconference by dialling 1800 857 029 immediately prior to the
scheduled start time and entering the access code 61492002# at the prompts. A recording of the
teleconference will also be available via the Mount Gibson website after completion of the teleconference.
In case of difficulties, operator assistance can be reached by calling 1800 857 079 (Australian callers) or
+613 8788 6028 (overseas callers).

[Editorial queries for this story should be sent to newswire@enpublishing.co.uk]

CO
IN

whitt : Mount Gibson Iron Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i2111 : Iron Ore
Mining
npress : Press Releases | ncat : Content Types
waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia

NS
RE
PUB Electronic News Publishing Ltd.
AN

Document ENPNEW0020140130ea1u000eu

Page288of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.