Deutsche Bank Appointed as Depositary Bank for the Sponsored Level I American Depositary Receipt Program of Liquefied Natural Gas Limited

HD

Deutsche Bank Appointed as Depositary Bank for the Sponsored Level I American Depositary
Receipt Program of Liquefied Natural Gas Limited

WC 701 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

18 January 2014
05:01
Business Wire
BWR
English
(c) 2014 Business Wire. All Rights Reserved.

TD

NEW YORK &
HONG KONG & SYDNEY--(BUSINESS WIRE)--January 17, 2014--
Deutsche Bank today announced its appointment as the depositary bank for the non-capital raising
sponsored Level I American Depositary Receipt (ADR) program of Liquefied Natural Gas Limited (LNG
Ltd).

LNG Ltd (OTC US: LNGLY) is an Australian company listed on the Australian Securities Exchange. LNG
Ltd is primarily engaged in the identification and progression of opportunities for the development of
liquefied natural gas (LNG) projects and the company's vision is to bring a dynamic concept of mid-scale
LNG plants to the international energy market. LNG Ltd's projects include the development of its 100%
owned 8 million metric tons per annum (mtpa) Magnolia LNG Project in the Port of Lake Charles,
Louisiana, and 100% owned 3 mtpa Gladstone LNG Project in the Port of Gladstone, Queensland,
Australia. LNG Ltd is also pursuing other global mid-scale LNG project opportunities, with all projects to
include LNG Ltd's 100% owned OSMR(R) LNG process technology, featuring a lower capital cost, lower
emissions and higher efficiency rating than traditional LNG processes. LNG Ltd is headquartered in Perth,
Western Australia, with an office in Houston, Texas and Lake Charles, Louisiana.*

Naomi Flutter, Head of Global Transaction Banking - Australia & New Zealand at Deutsche Bank said,
"We are delighted to be acting as depositary bank on this ADR transaction with Liquefied Natural Gas
Limited. This demonstrates Deutsche Bank's commitment to ADR issuers in Australia and we look forward
to providing this client with the highest level of service for their newly-launched program."

*Source: Liquefied Natural Gas Limited (January 2014)

About Deutsche Bank Trust & Securities Services

Deutsche Bank's Trust & Securities Services business, part of Global Transaction Banking, is one of the
leading providers of trustee, agent, depositary, registrar, SPV management and related services for a
wide range of financial structures and transactions. It is a leading depositary for American and Global
Depositary Receipts, providing value-added services to companies raising capital in international markets
or listing on the New York, NASDAQ, London, Luxembourg, Singapore or NASDAQ Dubai stock
exchanges by means of depositary receipts. It also offers both mutual and alternative fund administration
and provides securities custody, clearing and agency lending services from a global network spanning
more than 30 markets. Additional details are available on www.adr.db.com or www.tss.db.com.

This announcement appears as a matter of record only. This announcement has been approved and/or
communicated by Deutsche Bank AG New York.

American Depositary Receipts have been registered pursuant to the US Securities Act of 1933 (the "Act").
The investment or investment service which is the subject of this notice is not available to retail clients as
defined by the UK Financial Conduct Authority. This notice has been approved and/or communicated by
Deutsche Bank AG New York. The services described in this notice are provided by Deutsche Bank Trust
Company Americas (Deutsche Bank) or by its subsidiaries and/or affiliates in accordance with
appropriate local registration and regulation. Deutsche Bank is providing the attached notice strictly for
information purposes and makes no claims or statement, nor does it warrant or in any way represent, as

Page128of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.to the accuracy or completeness of the details contained herein or therein. This announcement appears
as a matter of record only. Neither this announcement nor the information contained herein constitutes an
offer or solicitation by Deutsche Bank or any other issuer or entity for the purchase or sale of any
securities nor does it constitute a solicitation to any person in any jurisdiction where solicitation would be
unlawful. No part of this notice may be copied or reproduced in any way without the prior written consent
of Deutsche Bank. Past results are not an indication of future performance. Copyright(c) January 2014
Deutsche Bank AG. All rights reserved.

CT

Deutsche Bank AG | Press & Media Relations | Ari Cohen, +1 212-250-2438 | ari.cohen@db.com | or |
Karène Dufour Lo, +852 2203 7846 | karene.dufour-lo@db.com | SOURCE: Deutsche Bank

CO lngl : Liquefied Natural Gas Limited | deut : Deutsche Bank AG
IN

i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300004 : Liquefied/Compressed Gas | i814 : Banking | i81402
: Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
npress : Press Releases | ncat : Content Types
austr : Australia | usa : United States | usla : Louisiana | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
namz : North America | uss : Southern U.S.

NS
RE

IPC AEQI
PUB Business Wire, Inc.
AN

Document BWR0000020140117ea1h0007v

Page129of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.