Exclusive
Asian property transactions to Oct. 3

Asian property transactions to Oct. 3

SE
HD
BY
Anusha Iyer
WC 2,055 words
PD
SN
SC
VOL Issue: 82444
LA
CY
LP

6 October 2014
SNL Real Estate Daily: Asia-Pacific Edition
REAP

English
Copyright 2014. SNL Financial LC

Australia

* Federation Centres is said to be considering buying the Woolworths-anchored Bentons Square
Shopping Centre on the Mornington Peninsula southeast of Melbourne for around A$75 million, The
Australian reported Oct. 2.

TD

* 360 Capital Office Fund closed the A$80.0 million sale of 52-56 Railway Parade in Burwood, according
to an Oct. 2 news release.
* Sunland Group Ltd. is set to purchase the 42-hectare Lakeview site on Queensland's Gold Coast for
roughly A$70 million, The Australian reported Oct. 2, adding that the house-and-land development site is
one of the properties being sold by the Scheinberg family.
* Growthpoint Properties Australia said Sept. 30 that it agreed to divest its industrial property at 42-44
Garden St. in Kilsyth, Victoria, for A$19.0 million to the current tenant, ARB Corp.
The company will initially use the sale proceeds to repay debt.
* Ascendas Hospitality Trust said Sept. 24 that the company and its joint venture partner Melic Pty. Ltd.
are in discussions on a potential sale of the Pullman Cairns International hotel.
In a Sept. 27 report, The Australian said that billionaire gaming tycoon Tony Fung of Hong Kong is
eyeing the 321-room hotel in a deal worth about A$60 million.
* GPT Group is said to have withdrawn its bid for AMP's more than A$400 million Mount Ommaney
Shopping Centre in Brisbane, The Australian Financial Review reported Sept. 29. Though the reasons are
unknown, the move may pave way for AMP's wholesale shopping center fund to acquire the asset, the
publication noted.

Singapore
* Keppel REIT said Sept. 26 that it completed the sale of its 92.8% stake in Prudential Tower for S$512.0
million.

New Zealand
* Goodman Property Trust's CEO John Dakin said in a Sept. 30 news release that the company is in
discussions with Quattro Asset Management for the sale of two Auckland industrial assets. The assets are
Enterprise Park in Wiri and SuperCheap Auto, part of the Savill Link Estate Otahuhu.
Hong Kong

* Sino Land Co. Ltd. unit Bright Land Development Ltd. paid HK$730 million for a 2,828-square-meter
site in the Fanling area of the New Territories, Hong Kong.
The Lands Department said in a Sept. 29 news release that the building to be developed on the site
should include at least 250 residential units and a public car park.

Page76of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The allowable gross floor area is between 11,701 square meters and 19,501 square meters.
Surveyors have estimated the site to be worth between HK$525 million and HK$693 million, the South
China Morning Post reported Sept. 27.
Other developers in the running for the site included Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd., Cheung Kong
Holdings Ltd., Henderson Land Development Co. Ltd., HKR International Ltd., China Vanke Co. Ltd. and
K. Wah International Holdings Ltd., a joint venture of Paliburg Holdings Ltd. and Regal Hotels International
Holdings Ltd.
Smaller developers such as Far East Consortium International Ltd., Grand Ming Group Holdings, Hon
Kwok Land Investment Co. Ltd., Peterson Group, K&K Property and the consortium of Wang On Group
and Kam Wah Industrial also participated in the bidding, according to SCMP.
* Link Real Estate Investment Trust's manager said Sept. 29 that the company agreed to a HK$1.72
billion sale of five retail properties in Hong Kong, via a private tender process.

The aggregate consideration for the properties offered by the undisclosed winning bidders is about 29%
above their total appraised value as at March 31, with one property sold at an 80% premium on the
appraised value.
The properties offered by Link REIT were the retail and car park facilities within Choi FaiEstate, the retail
and car park facilities within Choi Ha Estate, the Siu Lun Shopping Centre, the Tin Ping Shopping Centre
and the Tsui Lam Shopping Centre.
Proceeds will be used to fund potential investments and unit buy-back opportunities as well as for Link
REIT's general working capital purposes. The disposals are expected to be completed Dec. 1.
China

* SOHO China Ltd. said Sept. 29 that it entered into a pre-sale framework agreement with Ctrip Travel
Network Technology (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. to divest certain premises and auxiliary facilities in the under
construction Sky SOHO project in Shanghai for HK$3.85 billion.
The transaction amount is nearly double of HK$1.97 billion that SOHO China had paid to acquire the
land-use rights of Sky SOHO in 2010.

The premises have an aggregate sellable gross floor area of 100,167 square meters. The project will be
completed and delivered in the fourth quarter.
SOHO China said it will continue to hold the remaining part of Sky SOHO as investment properties.
* Shanghai Industrial Urban Development Group. has joined forces with Nan Fung Development to
acquire the majority owner of Shanghaimart for US$579.3 million, the South China Morning Post
reported Sept. 26.

The trade exhibitions venue is owned by Shanghai World.

Japan

* Japan Retail Fund Investment Corp. said Oct. 1 that except for a certain portion of the land beneath DFS
T GALLERIA OKINAWA in Naha-shi, Okinawa, it has completed the acquisition of the property.
The company also completed the acquisition of G-Bldg Omotesando 02 and Cute Cube Harajuku, both
in Shibuya, Tokyo; as well as m-city Toyonaka in Tokyonaka-shi, Osaka; and mozo wonder city in
Nishi-ku, Nagoya, Aichi.
The total acquisition price for the properties was ¥44.27 billion, excluding the anticipated purchase
price of ¥2.47 billion for the portion of land yet to be acquired.
* City Developments Ltd. said Sept. 30 that it joined forces with a U.S.-based investment firm to buy a
freehold land site in Tokyo for ¥30.5 billion.

Seiko Holdings Corp. is the seller of the 16,815-square-meter land parcel in the Shirokane area of Minato
ward.
City Developments seeks to build luxurious, high-end condominiums on the site, Executive Chairman
Kwek Leng Beng said. It also plans to conserve the existing mansion on the site which was the former
residence of Seiko's founder, Kintaro Hattori.

Page77of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.* Japan Hotel REIT Investment Corp. said Sept. 30 that it completed the acquisition of Mercure Hotel
Sapporo and Mercure Hotel Okinawa Naha for a total price of ¥9 billion.
* Ichigo Real Estate Investment Corp. said Sept. 30 that it sold the Ichigo Kudan-Minami Building in
Chiyoda, Tokyo, for ¥450 million. The sale is a part of the company's strategy to off-load subscale
assets that fall below its minimum investment guidelines.

The buyer's name was not disclosed.
The company will use sale proceeds for loan repayment and to drive the REIT's growth.
* United Urban Investment Corp. said Sept. 30 that it decided to buy the Logistics Higashi-Ohgishima
warehouse property in Kawasaki, Kanagawa, for ¥8.30 billion.
The four-story property has a floor area of 41,949 square meters and is leased to two tenants.
The company will fund the acquisition with borrowing and cash on hand.

* Kenedix Office Investment Corp. said Sept. 30 that it resolved to acquire the Senri Life Science Center
Building in Toyonaka-shi, Osaka, for an anticipated acquisition price of ¥13 billion.
The property is being divested by Toyonaka Property TMK. The office and retail property has a total
building site area of 49,260.78 square meters.
The acquisition is slated for Oct. 15. The company plans to fund the acquisition with debt financing and
cash on hand.
* Nomura Real Estate Master Fund Inc. said Sept. 30 that it completed the acquisition of Universal
CityWalk Osaka in Osaka for ¥15.50 billion.
The 95.9% leased retail property has a total leasable floor space of 9,733.24 square meters.
Following the purchase, the fund's portfolio comprises 56 properties with an acquisition price of ¥253.5
million.
* Kenedix Residential Investment Corp. said Sept. 30 that it agreed to buy two properties, namely
Leopalace Flat Shina-Sakae in Nagoya-shi, Aichi, for ¥3.50 billion and KDX Residence Konan Yamate in
Kobe-shi, Hyogo, for ¥973 million.
The company did not disclose the sellers' names.

Both Leopalace Flat Shin-sakae and KDX Residence Konan Yamate comprise retail facilities and an
apartment building.
* Japan Real Estate Investment Corp. said Sept. 26 that Japan Real Estate Asset Management Co. Ltd.
agreed to buy a 14% stake in Shinjuku Eastside Square in Shinjuku, Tokyo, for ¥23.1 billion.
The office building is being sold by Shinjuku Rokuchome Special Purpose Co.
Upon acquiring the building, Japan Real Estate will lease the entire space in the building to Mitsubishi
Estate Co. Ltd., the property management company, which will sublease the space to tenants.
* MORI TRUST Sogo REIT Inc. said Sept. 26 that it acquired the real estate trust beneficiary right in
Kioicho Building in Chiyoda, Tokyo, for ¥34.3 billion. The seller is Hakuba Capital 3 TMK. The office and
residential building has a land area of 9,291.93 square meters and houses 60 tenants.
* Japan Residential Investment Co. Ltd. said Sept. 26 that it completed the disposal of the 20-unit
Branche Kanamecho IV apartment building in Toshima ward, Tokyo, for ¥550 million, excluding taxes
and sales costs.
The deal is part of the company's ongoing capital rotation strategy aimed at off-loading smaller noncore
assets and reallocating proceeds toward the purchase of high-quality assets.
The sale reflects an initial net yield of 3.6% for the buyer. The price represents a 42.1% premium over the
initial purchase price of ¥387 million.
* Daiwa House Residential Investment Corp. said Sept. 26 that it acquired trust beneficiary rights in 2051
Castalia Meguro Tairamachi for ¥1.17 billion. The company will fund the acquisition with debt financing
and cash on hand.

Page78of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.* Daiwa House said Sept. 26 that it decided to buy the ACROSSPLAZA Miyoshi in Iruma-gun, Saitama,
for a planned acquisition price of ¥3.39 billion.
The 100% occupied residential building has a total leasable area of 24,018 square meters.
The seller is Daiwa Information Service Co. Ltd. Daiwa House plans to fund the acquisition with cash on
hand and proceeds from debt financing.
* Astro Japan Property Trust said Sept. 26 that it sold the Aeon Mukomachi retail property in Kyoto for
¥3.45 billion. The company's interest in the property was held through JPT Scarlett Co. Ltd., a special
purpose, property owning company.
The price represents a 6.8% premium to the most recent 3.23 billion book value of the asset as at June
30.

Philippines

* Megaworld Corp. said Sept. 30 that it is looking to build The Palladium, a 482-unit condominium tower at
the Iloilo Business Park in Iloilo City. The project is poised to be Western Visayas' tallest residential
tower.
* DoubleDragon Properties Corp, secured its 12 shopping mall site in Philippines and is developing a
community shopping mall in Tiaong, Quezon, under its CityMall chain, the Philippine Daily Inquirer
reported Sept 29.
The company's flagship unit CityMall Commercial Centers Ltd. inked a 26-year lease for an
8,000-square-meter prime commercial lot within the Tagpuan sa Villa Escudero complex in Barangay
village in Tiaong.
* Ayala Land Inc. on Sept. 29 confirmed certain news reports that concerned property acquisitions and
project developments. The company confirmed that it scrapped its plans to acquire the Puerto Azul
seaside estate in Ternate, Cavite, from Boulevard Holdings Inc. The company said it decided to cancel
the acquisition because it had "a very specific product in mind for the said property. That product
required more land allocated for the development of residential lots, which would have been workable if
certain amenities were transferred to external parcels."

Additionally, Ayala Land and its unit, Amaia Land Co., are joining forces with Unlad Resources
Development Corp. and BPI Asset Management and Trust Group as trustee for Philippine Plans First Inc.
to expand Jose Abad Santos Memorial School in Quezon City into a 2.2-hectare mixed-use development.
The entire project is estimated to cost around 2 billion Philippine pesos to 3 billion pesos.

Ayala Land also confirmed that it completed the deal to acquire the Jaka Tower along Ayala Avenue in
Makati City.

Some links may require a subscription.

CO ahscet : Ascendas Hospitality Trust | bectof : 360 Capital Office Fund | orcprt : Growthpoint Properties

IN

NS

RE

Australia | snlind : Sunland Group Ltd | growp : Growthpoint Properties Ltd
i815020602 : Real Estate Investment Trusts | i6560011 : Shopping Malls/Superstores | i64 :
Retail/Wholesale | i656 : Mixed Retailing | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150206 :
Investment Trusts/Funds | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv :
Investing/Securities | ireest : Real Estate | iretail : Retail | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | iindreit :
Industrial/Office REITs
c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | hkong : Hong Kong | tokyo : Tokyo | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | china : China | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | jap : Japan

IPD Real Estate Property Transactions & Development
PUB SNL Financial LC
AN

Document REAP000020141009eaa600004

Page79of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.