Baosteel to Invest RMB 21.48 bln on Fixed Assets in ‘14

SE
HD
BY
WC 556 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Special Reports
Baosteel to Invest RMB 21.48 bln on Fixed Assets in ‘14

Xinhua News Agency

12 May 2014
Xinhua China Metals
XHCMET
English
Copyright 2014. Xinhua News Agency. All Rights Reserved

Baosteel plans to put in fixed-asset investment of RMB 21.48 billion this year, which will be used mainly
on its major projects such as the construction of Baosteel Zhanjiang base. Baosteel aims to make
operational income of RMB 195 billion at an operational cost of RMB 176.8 billion this year. It aims to
produce iron of 21.49 mt and crude steel of

22.07 mt in 2014.

TD

Baosteel chairman He Wenbo said the construction of Zhanjiang base is the top priority of Baosteel. It
aims to keep its 50% market share of auto steel sheets in China and increase the trade volume of its
online steel trade platform to 3.2 mt this year. Baosteel will eliminate 6 mt of steel capacity in Shanghai in
the future, He added.
Baosteel reaped a profit of RMB 2.107 billion in the first quarter, up 47.2% quarter on quarter, under
operational revenue of RMB 46.845 billion. Its cold-rolled auto steel sheets sales rose 19.5% year on
year in the first quarter.
Baosteel Resources Australia, a unit of China's largest steel maker Baosteel, and Australian rail freight
operator Aurizon Operations Ltd. on Monday announced a joint all-

cash offer to acquire Aquila Resources Ltd.

The two offered to pay 3.4 Australian dollars (3.2 U.S. dollars) per share in cash, valuing the Australian
development-stage mining company at about 1.4 billion Australian dollars (1.3 billion U.S. dollars),
Baosteel said in a statement.

The cash offer represents a 38.8% premium to the closing price of 2.45 Australian dollars per share on
May 2, the last trading day prior to the announcement.

Baosteel Resources Australia is a wholly owned subsidiary of Baosteel Resources International Co., the
overseas resources development arm of Baosteel Group Corporation.

Aurizon is a wholly owned subsidiary of Aurizon Holdings Limited, Australia's leading bulk rail freight
operator.
Baosteel Resources International Co. currently holds a 19.8% stake in Aquila. If the acquisition goes
smoothly, Baosteel Resources International will own up to 85% of Aquila and Aurizon will own the
remaining 15%, said the statement.
The acquisition is in line with Baosteel Resources International's strategy of building a leading global
resource business through the development of the West Pilbara Iron Ore
Project and the Queensland Eagle Downs Hard Coking Coal Project, it said.

In a related development, Baosteel will consolidate its e-commerce businesses and further introduce
investors to push forward listing of its e-commerce platforms, a senior

Page95of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.manager said at a recent shareholders'meeting.

Baosteel said that it will continue to expand trading on the Shanghai Steel Trading Center and aims at
raising the annual trading volume to 3.2 mt. Meanwhile, it will step up efforts to develop the movable
property financing business with banks.
Currently, the steel company's e-commerce businesses include Shanghai Steel Trading Center, Orient
Steel, Orient Payment and an e-commerce platform serving the chemical

industry.
In the first quarter of this year, Orient Payment achieved online payment of RMB 5 billion, soaring 360%
year on year. Meanwhile, the payment platform is also actively applying to the China Securities
Regulatory Commission for fund sales license. (CMT)

CO baois : Shanghai Baosteel Group Corp | dorval : Aurizon Mines Ltd | hclamn : Hecla Mining Co
IN

i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i22 : Primary Metals | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i211 : Metal Ore
Mining | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying | isteel : Steel Production
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC
Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

RE

PUB N.C.N. Limited of Xinhua News Agency
AN

Document XHCMET0020140512ea5c00004

Page96of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.