Intensify farming to feed the billions and avert hunger wars, says banker GLOBAL FOOD FORUM

SE
HD

BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Finance
Intensify farming to feed the billions and avert hunger wars, says banker GLOBAL FOOD
FORUM
SUE NEALES, RURAL REPORTER
668 words
6 March 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
19
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

AN international banker has warned the next world catastrophe to be as deeply shocking and widely
felt as the Global Financial Crisis will be the looming Global Food Crisis.
Berry Marttin, an executive board member of Dutch-based Rabobank, predicted that only the ability
of the world to respond to steeply escalating food demands practically, democratically and
diplomatically will decide if future world wars can be averted or are fought over access to water, land
and food.

He told the annual Outlook conference of the Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource
Economics and Sciences in Canberra, that the only answer to feeding the world's nine billion people
by 2050 was agricultural intensification.
``We will have to get more crops -- or more meat or milk -- from every drop of water and from every
hectare of arable land,' Mr Marttin said.

``That's not what everyone wants to hear and it won't be popular -- because some people worry that
is not the way to go and would prefer to be all organic and low intensity (farming) -- but my
conscience wouldn't allow that.

``I don't think it is an option to produce less food in the future, not more, and to have hundreds of
millions of people go hungry, so the only way forward is greater intensification of agriculture and to
increase the efficiency and productivity of our farms.''

But, contrary to other futurists, Mr Marttin believes the key factor in how much more food the world
needs to produce by 2050 is not a matter of population growth alone, but more about income and
meat-eating preference.
If China -- which will have most of the 2 billion more people predicted to be living by 2050 -- adopts
American and Australian habits of people eating between 100-120 kilograms of meat a year as their
affluence and purchasing power increases, Mr Marttin warns keeping up with global food demand
will be difficult.
The average mainland Chinese person consumes about 40kg of meat -- mainly pork and chicken --
annually, although their better-off Hong Kong compatriots eat 80kg a year.
``If all mainland Chinese decide to double their meat consumption, the world will have a big
problem,'' Mr Marttin warned.

``We would have to increase agricultural production worldwide by between 1.7 and 2.5 per cent
annually to meet that (doubled) demand by 2050; the big question then is can we do that?''

In the past 50 years, Australia's agricultural productivity increased by 2.5 per cent a year to 2000.
But since 2000, it has slowed to a mere 0.8 per cent growth, worrying farmers and politicians alike.

Page61of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Marttin said a key question was how much arable land remained available to produce such vast
amounts of food.

Significantly, for the first time in history, accelerated global urbanisation combined with population
growth has resulted in less farmland being available per capita to produce food, rather than the
continued expansion of productive agricultural land as has historically been the case.

``This is the game-changer; for the first time we are now losing (farm) land,'' Mr Marttin said. ``In
2000 there was 1.4 hectares of arable land available for food production for every person (the most
in history) but it started to decline from 2003 as urbanisation grew faster.

``If there is just 0.5 hectares for every person available to grow food by 2050 (as trends indicate), the
big question remains can we feed all the world sustainably.''

Mr Marttin said that with no more arable land available in Asia, countries like Australia and Canada
sat in perfect positions to take advantage of the so-called food boom.

``What an opportunity; Australia has more arable land per head of population of all the countries in
the world and you are close to Asia,'' Mr Marttin said.
``I think I will buy a farm in Australia.''

CO
NS
RE
PUB
AN

aubare : Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics and Sciences
gdip : International Relations | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140305ea3600029

Page62of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.