Lazard upbeat on broad-brush 2014 mergers rush

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Lazard upbeat on broad-brush 2014 mergers rush

Joyce Moullakis
455 words
29 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
29
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Lazard Australia's Lachlan Edwards is confident a surge in merger activity across sectors this year will
buoy advisory earnings, after a decline in revenue and an almost doubling in benefits paid to
employees saw the firm swing to a statutory loss for 2013.
Lazard posted a $9.3 million loss in the 12 months to December 31, according to accounts lodged
with the corporate regulator. That compares with a $6.1 million profit in 2012.

Mr Edwards told The Australian Financial Review that though the accounts pointed to a loss, due to
historical obligations, the firm's underlying business was profitable. "It is an inherently profitable
business," said Mr Edwards, the head of Lazard's Sydney office. "Last year was not great but in the
end it is giving advice to do things or, as an independent adviser free of conflicts, to not do things, that
will drive outcomes. This year is already looking much better, for that reason.

"We need to bring in some more senior people, to reflect the volume of deal flow and balance the
business."
Reflecting a sombre year for deals, 2013 revenue slumped 23 per cent to $25 million. Expenses
swelled to $38.2 million, as employee benefits almost doubled to $31.4 million. That jump was
predominantly linked to earn out payments relating to Lazard's 2007 acquisition of Carnegie Wylie &
Co.

The accounts were affected by income from a large transaction being delayed. Lazard worked on
China State Grid's multibillion-dollar acquisition of stakes in Singapore Power's energy distribution
assets, and revenue from that deal will be booked in 2014.

It is difficult to garner a complete view of Lazard Australia from the accounts, as it does not include
some income booked for cross-border transactions, or revenue from Lazard's private equity or asset
management units.
Mr Edwards said an indicator of a more favourable deal environment was that private equity was
again targeting undervalued local companies or companies perceived as vulnerable.
"This time it is across the board. Private equity picking off the weaker companies is probably the
canary in the coal mine. I would be concerned if it was just private equity harvesting assets, but when
they are buying it implies there is upside in buying."
Lazard has been busy. It won the scoping study role for the sale of Medibank Private, and is advising
Ramsay Health Care alongside Crédit Agricole on its takeover of Générale de Santé. After the
departure of Tony O'Sullivan and Garren Cronin last year, Lazard is seeking to replenish its bench. Mr
O'Sullivan is now executive chairman at Bvrlington Investment Advisors.

CO

lazpar : Lazard LLC | lazltd : Lazard Ltd

Page112of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

i814 : Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit |
ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140528ea5t0001p

Page113of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.