All systems go

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

news
All systems go

LEN ASHWORTH
456 words
19 December 2014
Lithgow Mercury
FLITHM
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

MILLIONS of dollars are currently being invested in public and private commercial building projects in
the Lithgow area.

As reported in the Lithgow Mercury recently a major redevelopment is currently under way in the
former three storey Commonwealth Bank building in Lithgow.

Now owned by Westfund the former bank is being transformed into what will literally become Lithgow's
second state office block housing three government departments.

It is due for completion in the second quarter of next year.

A little further along Main Street the former Pricebusters discount store is being renovated for a new
health related role.
And the old Busy Corner milk bar and takeaway together with the adjoining business premises has
had building work under way for some weeks and set to open in the new year as a Vietnamese food
outlet, adding to the variety of overseas food offerings in Lithgow that already include Chinese, Thai
and Indian cuisine.
On the other side of the intersection the Grand Central Hotel is nearing the end of a stylish and
obviously costly upgrade.
In Bells Road at Oakey Park a new home for Access Industries is rapidly taking shape and will be
ready for occupancy in the new year.

Access Industries long term operations base at the Vale of Clwydd was badly damaged by fire last
year.

Since that time Access Industries has been operating from temporary premises but their purpose built
new facility is rapidly nearing completion.

Also rapidly moving towards completion is the construction of the indoor pool facility at the Lithgow
Aquatic Centre.

This is scheduled for completion by the end of the outdoor swimming season.

At Wallerawang the town has acquired a state of the art new two bay fire station.
Located on the site of the old facility it alone has cost the State Government in excess of a million
dollars.

The fire station is due for commissioning very soon and will be officially opened in February.

And further interesting investment is expected in the new year with Lithgow Council currently
considering an application for a major tourism project at Lake Lyell.

Page111of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Work is also due to start on a residential development on the site of the former Lithgow RSL bowling
greens and tennis courts.
The project, which was on-sold during the year to a Central West based company, is already
attracting interest with villas being sold off the plan by L J Hooker.

Finally the community awaits with interest details of what is planned in the new year for the old Mort
Street TAFE complex, sold recently to a Sydney developer and reportedly set to become a
commercial and residential hub.

RE
PUB
AN

nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FLITHM0020141220eacj00005

Page112of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.