Visy Industries in Packaging Industry (Australia)

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Visy Industries in Packaging Industry (Australia)

1,373 words
17 December 2014
Euromonitor Local Company Profiles
EULOCOP
English
Copyright 2014 Euromonitor International Ltd

STRATEGIC DIRECTION
Visy Industries has operations across an array of pack types, many of which are experiencing a
gradual decline. The primary pack type in which Visy has a competitive advantage is rigid plastic, which
has a strong future as one of the fastest-growing pack types across worldwide. It is here that the
company will place most of its efforts during the forecast period.

KEY FACTS

Visy Industries

Summary 1 Visy Industries: Key Facts
Full name of
company:
Level 11, 2 Southbank Boulevard, Southbank, VIC
Address:
3006, Australia
+61 (3) 9247 4747
Tel:
www:
www.visy.co.au
Manufacturer of glass packaging, paper-based
Activities:
containers, HDPE bottles and PET bottles

Source: Euromonitor International from company reports, trade press

Summary 2 Visy Industries: Operational Indicators
Year end June
Net sales
million
Employees
Production Sites (in Australia)

A$4,100.0 million

2012
A$3,900.0
9,600
99

2013

9.500
101

Source: Euromonitor International from company research
COMPANY BACKGROUND

Visy Industries dates back to 1948, and it is the largest privately-owned paper recycling and packaging
company in the world. The company was managed by Richard Pratt from 1969 until his death in 2009.
Since then, ownership has been split evenly between three of his children, with his son, Anthony Pratt,
taking over as Executive Chairman.
The company is attempting to tie its development and growth to the fast-growing food and beverage
industries in Asia. Anthony Pratt has famously called for an end to Australia’s reliance on the mining
boom, encouraging investors to invest instead in a “dining boom”. Visy Industries aims to establish a
number of manufacturing plants in Asia Pacific. These include the doubling in size of a factory in
Rayong, Thailand, from which it supplies packaging for global giants such as Coca-Cola and Heinz, and
exports to markets such as Japan and China. Visy Industries’s goal is for the Asian “dining boom” to
account for 20% of company earnings.

Page249of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The economic slowdown experienced by Australia since 2008 forced Visy Industries to engage in a
surge of acquisitions, most notably the PET bottle and rigid plastic packaging operations of HP Plastics
Pty Ltd in 2012, which included facilities in Sefton and Minto (New South Wales) and Footscray and
Dandenong (Victoria).

In addition to strengthening Visy Industries’s position in the strong growth categories of PET bottles and
rigid plastic packaging, the acquisition also improves its ability to cater to smaller customers. Given its
position as one of the biggest packaging companies in the world, Visy Industries has typically
specialised in large orders for major brands that are of a similar size to itself. The acquisition of HP
Plastics Pty Ltd, on the other hand, allows Visy to focus on smaller runs, of 50 million units or less.

Visy Industries was responsible for a number of packaging innovations in 2013, including the
development of the Tap King for Lion Corp, a 3.2 litre PET bottle similar to a mini-keg that consumers
can keep in their fridge. Much of the packager’s focus, however, has been on light weight packaging,
with its factory in Rayong, Thailand producing rigid plastic jars that are 25% lighter than the packaging
being replaced. Light weight metal beverage cans are also being produced at its Brisbane factory.
Meanwhile, the paper mill in Tumut, New South Wales produces light weight paper that is up to 33%
lighter than the packaging it is replacing.

PRODUCTION
Despite Visy Industries’s rapidly expanding operations in Asia, the bulk of the company’s operations
remain in Australia, with 101 sites out of a total of more than 200. In addition to the 30 recycling depots
and plants across Australia, Visy also manufactures paper-based containers (predominately corrugated
cardboard boxes, which fall outside of Euromonitor International’s definition of packaging), PET bottles,
metal beverage cans, metal food cans and rigid plastic containers.

In 2013, a new factory opened in Stapylton, Queensland, manufacturing metal beverage cans and metal
food cans. This occurred despite a gradual trend away from these pack types, particularly metal food
cans, which experienced a 1% decline in retail unit volume sales in food packaging in 2013. Metal food
cans, however, registered strong growth in Asia Pacific, where Visy Industries intends to focus in the
forecast period.

With 30 recycling centres across Australia, Visy Industries is also the largest recycler in the domestic
market. The company also operates the kerbside collection of recyclable rubbish for a large number of
local councils in Australia. This recycled waste is then used as an input for Visy’s products, making a
“closed loop supply chain”. Such recycled products have not tended to involve packaging for retail
products, but are instead corrugated cardboard boxes used by industry. Visy Industries’s leadership of
recycled paper was challenged in 2013, by the opening of the A$500 million recycling plant by Amcor
Australasia and Packaging Distribution in Botany Bay.

The packager is also improving its recycling capacity, with a new recycling plant in Smithfield, which
aims to grow to the popularity of recycled PET and recycled HPDE (or rPET and rHDPE) for food and
beverage products. Whilst PET and HDPE have long been recycled, concerns that the end product was
not safe for food consumption has held back the utilisation of recycled plastic as packaging for food and
beverages. This situation is beginning to change. As new technology serves to increase the perception
that recycled PET and HDPE bottles are safe to be used for food and beverage packaging, Visy
Industries will be in an ideal position to make the most of this trend.
As a very large company, it predominately deals with similarly large clients, although this has started to
change with the acquisition of HP Plastics Pty Ltd in 2012. Visy provides the packaging for a wide
variety of major brands, ranging from Golden Circle and Berri fruit juices, to Up&Go flavoured milk
drinks and Sanitarium peanut butter.

Summary 3 Major End-use Markets for Visy Industries by Pack Type 2012
Pack type
product
Glass jars
spreads, jam
Liquid brick cartons
drinks
HDPE bottles
Gable top cartons
Liquid brick cartons
Gable top cartons
Liquid brick cartons

Industry
Spreads
Dairy
Fruit juice
Fruit juice
Dairy
Dairy
Sauces, dressings and condiments

Major end-use
Nut-based
Flavoured milk
Fruit nectar
Fruit nectar
Milk
Milk
Stocks

Page250of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Source: Euromonitor International from company research, trade interviews

COMPETITIVE POSITIONING
After Orora Ltd, Visy Industries is the largest supplier of packaging in Australia. The company is
overexposed, however, given that several pack types are experiencing either stagnant or slow unit
volume growth, at least in the domestic market. Metal food cans is a good example of this trend, with a
1% retail unit volume CAGR expected in food packaging over the forecast period, with a distinct
possibility that growth will be slower. Meanwhile, glass jars is tipped to experience a slightly dip in retail
unit volume sales over the forecast period. Gable top cartons, where Visy is one of two major
competitors, has also experienced a steady downturn for a decade, although the rate of decline is
beginning to plateau.

As a result of the lack of opportunities in Australia and far brighter prospects in Asia Pacific, Visy has
opened a factory in Stapylton, between Brisbane and the Gold Coast, catering to Australian food
manufacturers looking to export products to Asia Pacific. While the pace of unit volume growth of metal
food cans is stagnating in Australia, growth opportunities remain promising across Asia Pacific.

Visy’s brightest prospects come from rigid plastic, which is expected to experience a 2% retail unit
volume CAGR in both beauty and personal care and home care over the forecast period, and a 3%
retail unit volume CAGR in both tissue and hygiene and food packaging. The strong growth projected in
food packaging is particularly promising. This is where Visy Industries possesses its greatest strength,
with food and beverages accounting for a 70% share of company revenue. Rigid plastic is becoming
increasingly competitive, particularly given Pact Group’s initial public offering in 2013, and the inevitable
expansion of operations, much of which is likely to be in this packaging type.

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

vsybd : Visy Industries | prth : Pratt Holdings Ltd
iplascp : Plastic Containers/Packaging | i8395412 : Packaging/Labeling Services | iadmin :
Administrative/Support Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | iindstrls : Industrial Goods | ipap
: Packaging | i9211 : Waste Management/Recycling Services | iewm : Environment/Waste Management
c01 : Profiles of Companies | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | queensl :
Queensland
Euromonitor International Ltd
Document EULOCOP020150309each002y4

Page251of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.