Inquiry to probe foreign investors

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Inquiry to probe foreign investors

Ellen Whinnett
442 words
30 May 2014
Daily Telegraph
DAITEL
Telegraph4
2
English
Copyright 2014 News Ltd. All Rights Reserved

A PARLIAMENTARY inquiry will begin today into whether foreign real estate investors are pushing up
Australian house prices.

It come as a submission from the Reserve Bank said data suggested foreign buyers were not forcing
local first homebuyers out of the market.

The Reserve Bank said that foreign investors made up less than 10 per cent of residential sales, with
the level of foreign investment remaining static over about 20 years.

While foreign investors were pushing up prices in some areas, it was generally not affecting first-home
buyers.

The inquiry will examine the high number of foreigners buying up Australia’s housing stock — with
approvals reaching almost $18 billion last year.

Foreign investors were approved to snap up 5091 existing houses last financial year — up from 647
three years earlier. They were among the 12,205 successful applications from foreigners to buy new and
existing houses.
Chinese were the biggest real estate investors, approved for $5.9 billion worth of housing investments,
followed by people from Canada ($4.9b), the US ($4.4b) and Singaporean investors ($2b).
These approvals by the Foreign Investment Review Board have raised community concern that the
increased competition for housing is pushing prices up and making it more difficult for Australians to buy
a home.

The House of Representatives economics committee will today investigate the approvals process, and
examine why the board does not report on actual purchases following their approvals. The committee
will also probe whether the board follow-up to ensure foreign owners who leave Australia sell their house
within three months, as they are required to by law.
Chairwoman Kelly O’Dwyer said the board would appear before the committee in Canberra today, along
with the Real Estate Institute of Australia, the Housing Industry of Australia and Treasury officials.

“There is an issue of broad community concern around the level of foreign investment into existing
dwellings,’’ Ms O’Dwyer said. “Rather than rely on anecdotes, we are going to look at the facts. It is
prudent and timely there be a review to ensure the current arrangements are meeting community
expectations and to ensure transparency and confidence in the system.’’ The board’s annual report for
2012-2013 shows it did not reject one of the 12,025 applications it received for foreign owners to invest in
real estate.Foreign owners are encouraged to purchase real estate in Australia in line with a policy that
encourages the growth of new housing stock. However, the board also allows foreigners to purchase
existing houses in some circumstances, and it is this a causing the most community concern.

Page33of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

efdi : Foreign Direct Investment | e51 : Trade/External Payments | e511 : Capital Movements/Invisible
Trade | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document DAITEL0020140530ea5u0002t

Page34of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.