Western Australia Seeks Billions From Asset Sales

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Western Australia Seeks Billions From Asset Sales

By Stephen Bell
542 words
28 August 2014
17:58
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

PERTH--Debt-laden Australian states are continuing efforts to tempt yield-hungry investors with the
prospect of owning prized infrastructure assets such as ports, as they struggle to fund public programs
and boost their creditworthiness.

Western Australia became the latest to announce a selloff of state-owned infrastructure. In a statement
Thursday, the government there said it was putting two ports, as well as a large fruit-and-vegetable
distributor, up for sale in the hope of raising up to A$2 billion (US$1.87 billion).

The resource-rich state, where most of Australia's iron-ore is mined, is eager to shrink its debt and
recover its triple-A credit rating, which it lost partly because of a sharp slowdown in mining investment.

Earlier this year, New South Wales sold a 99-year lease on Newcastle Port--the world's biggest--to a
clutch of Chinese and local buyers for A$1.75 billion. That followed the sale last year of the state's
Port Botany shipping-container facility.
In November, Queensland state sold the Port of Brisbane for A$2.3 billion to a consortium of pension
and sovereign-wealth funds, followed this year by the sale of toll-road operator Queensland Motorways
for A$7.06 billion. Victoria state is planning to sell the Port of Melbourne.

Premier Colin Barnett said Western Australia would invite expressions of interest for the Utah Point
bulk-handling facility at Port Hedland and the Kwinana terminal a little south of the state capital, Perth.
Both port assets are likely to be sold as a long-term lease, Mr. Barnett said. Food distributor Perth
Market Authority will also go on the block.

The states are seeking to exploit current investor enthusiasm for infrastructure assets, which during
periods of low interest rates can generate higher returns than other conservative asset classes such as
bonds. The recent selloffs have typically attracted bids of well over 20 times the assets' annual
operating earnings.
Mr. Barnett said the three assets in Western Australia were expected to generate between A$1 billion
and A$2 billion for the government.

"These are the first assets we will open up to the market," he said. "They have been identified as
priority assets for sale.".

Western Australia is seeking to reduce debt after Moody's this week downgraded the state's credit
rating from Aaa (negative outlook) to Aa1 (stable outlook). Standard & Poor's made a similar
downgrade in September 2013.

The government acquired a lot of its debt over many years by boosting infrastructure spending to
exploit a decadelong mining boom driven by China's rapid urbanization. As at June 30, Western
Australia had estimated net debt of A$22 billion.

The government there also has plans for more spending in the coming years on electricity generation,
hospitals, a new sports stadium and better transport links.

Page393of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Western Australia's Treasurer Mike Nahan said the first tranche of asset sales would form part of an
"ordered" program, with the hope of generating as much as A$2 billion annually for the government
over the next few years.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

August 28, 2014 03:58 ET (07:58 GMT)

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

i74 : Marine Transport | iindstrls : Industrial Goods | iship : Water Transport/Shipping | itsp :
Transportation/Shipping
c182 : Asset Transactions | c174 : Corporate Credit Ratings | c183 : Privatizations/Nationalization |
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ciprof : Industry Profile | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | c17 :
Funding/Capital | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate
Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document DJDN000020140828ea8s000w9

Page394of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.