Property Chinese investors scan Australia's big cities

Property Chinese investors scan Australia's big cities

Carolyn Cummins

HD
BY
WC 598 words
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

22 December 2014
Canberra Times
CANBTZ
B009
English
(c) 2014 The Canberra Times

Property Chinese investors scan Australia's big cities

$425m for office landmark

TD

Carolyn Cummins Gold Fields House, at 1 Alfred Street, Circular Quay, has been bought by Dalian
Wanda Group for $425 million.

An office block will be turned into apartments with arguably the best views of Sydney Harbour after it was
snapped up by China's Dalian Wanda Group for $425 million. The sale of Gold Fields House, at 1
Alfred Street, Circular Quay, comes as more Chinese investors are tipped to enter the Australian market
in the coming year. They are cashed up and very large insurance and pension funds that like this
country's transparent regulations and ease of doing deals. CBRE head of research Australia Stephen
McNabb said investors are expected to remain risk averse and this will ensure that, in most cases, there
will continue to be a wide spread between the yields that can be achieved for prime versus secondary
assets until there are signs of stronger economic growth. It is expected the Goldfields site will be
redeveloped into upmarket apartments. The harbourside building, controlled by Blackstone and a group
of pension funds, was sold by JLL and CBRE. Another 1960s-era building nearby, 275 George Street, is
understood to be close to being bought by Charter Hall. More large-ticket sales are due to be completed
in the last business week of 2014. Neil Brookes, Knight Frank's head of capital markets Asia Pacific, says
investors are shifting their focus towards sustainable returns in the long term. "The key factors for
Chinese investors are the policy push from the Chinese government to diversify into other countries; a
softening domestic market; and the pull from higher returns achievable in overseas markets. Australia, the
US and the UK are the top three markets most Chinese investors are looking at. "We saw five times as
much capital outflow from China into these three markets in 2013 alone compared to the previous year.
We expect the transaction volumes from Chinese investors into these three markets this year will match
or even exceed that of last year. There has been a tremendous surge of Chinese outward investment in
overseas real estate in recent years. From 2009 to 2014, the total value of Chinese overseas investment
volume has skyrocketed
from $US600 million to hit an estimated US$15 billion ($18.45 billion). "So far the thrust of this
investment has been focused in gateway cities of Australia, the US and the UK. In 2014, Australia has
seen the strongest growth in inbound real estate investment from China at over 60 per cent increase year
on year," Mr Brookes said. In Melbourne, Mirvac Group has entered into an agreement with ISPT, one of
Australia's largest unlisted property fund managers, to sell a 50 per cent interest in its office development
at 2 Riverside Quay, Melbourne, for $106 million. Once completed, the 21-storey,

A-grade office building of 21,000sqm-plus will be the new home of PwC. Under the deal, ISPT will fund 50
per cent of the total development costs throughout the construction period, and Mirvac will provide a
five-year rental guarantee on any unlet office and retail space from the date of practical completion. The
Goldfields house sale comes as Circular Quay is set for a $1 billion revamp after a plan for a striking
angular office building was approved for the site of the AMP building at 50 Bridge Street. 3XN, a Danish
architectural firm, has been appointed to the project.

RF

63292166

Page48of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO dwgrcl : Dalian Wanda Group Company Limited
IN
NS

i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | dalian : Dalian | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | liaon : Liaoning

RE

PUB Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty Ltd
AN

Document CANBTZ0020141221eacm0002l

Page49of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.