Sun rises over new era for dairying

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Sun rises over new era for dairying

Tim Binsted
380 words
19 November 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
23
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Agriculture
Chinese giant New Hope will invest up to $500 million in Australian dairy farms and processing
plants as part of a deal with ASX-listed Freedom Foods in what could be the first of many deals fuelled
by the historic China-Australia free trade agreement.

Freedom Foods and the Perich Group have signed a memorandum of understanding with New Hope,
China's biggest private company, with interests in agriculture, financial services and real estate.
"With increasing demand from markets in China and south-east Asia for high-quality, value-added
product, Australia through companies such as Freedom Foods and Perich Group is well placed to
play an important role in the development of this supply chain," Freedom Foods managing director
Rory Macleod said.
To secure milk supply, New Hope has set up an investment fund of up to $500 million to invest in
dairy farms and processing. Freedom Foods said it had built on supply arrangements with New Hope
for long-life milk and was considering collaborating in other dairy operations here and overseas to
take Freedom Foods products to China. Perich Group, New Hope and other investors will contribute
most of the equity for farm investment, starting next year.
News of the deal comes on the back of the free trade agreement with China that gave Australia
unprecedented access to the Chinese market. Dairy producers fared particularly well, with all tariffs -
up to 20 per cent - on Australian dairy eliminated in four to 11 years, depending on the product.

"We couldn't wish for a better deal," Murray Goulburn managing director Gary Helou said.
Murray Goulburn collects almost 40 per cent of Australia's 9.1 billion litre milk pool and is the nation's
biggest dairy exporter. The company plans to raise up to $500 million by listing a unit trust on the
ASX next year.
It comes as New Zealand-listed a2 Milk Company is seeking a dual listing on the Australian
Securities Exchange in a bid to open up its register to Australian investors and boost the liquidity of its
shares.
The company said on Tuesday it expects the application process for an ASX listing to be completed
early next year.

IN

RE

i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming |
ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

Page33of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020141118eabj00040

Page34of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.