TPG poised to send flyer for Alinta's $4 billion trade sale

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Market Wrap - Street Talk
TPG poised to send flyer for Alinta's $4 billion trade sale

Edited by Sarah Thompson, Anthony Macdonald and Jake Mitchell
486 words
20 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
22
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Private equity player TPG Capital is losing no time pushing ahead with its sale plans for Alinta
Energy, with a flyer due to land in the inboxes of potential bidders as early as next week.

The document, containing an overview of the power supplier's financial performance, will be sent to
multiple domestic and international parties, some of whom have already expressed their interest to
TPG.

Among the key financials are the numbers of earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortisation, which have seen a marked uplift since TPG took control of Alinta through a
debt-for-equity swap in early 2011.
EBITDA is now around $350 million, up from about $220 million at the time of the deal, which was
part of a split of power and pipelines assets after a 2007 takeover by Singapore Power and Babcock
& Brown funds. Analysts have placed a $3.5 billion to $4 billion valuation on the company.

Alinta's WA business is the biggest contributor to profits, although the Flinders venture in South
Australia is now turning a marginal profit rather than the losses of three years ago.
Lazard-advised TPG has its eye fixed firmly on a trade sale, with no energy being wasted on a
dual-track process to consider an IPO as well. An information memorandum would follow the flyer as
the full-blown process gathers steam.
Elsewhere in energy, AMP Capital is said to have brought a third party into its bid consortium for
BG Group 's $US4 billion gas pipeline at its LNG project in Queensland, alongside China Investment
Corporation , which Street Talk revealed last week had joined the group.

CIC would typically hold 20 per cent to 30 per cent, leaving a chunk for a third partner.

As earlier noted, APA Group is already there as a key bidder on its own, as is Cheung Kong Group,
and IFM Investors with QIC Ltd . Final bids are due on November 28.

Finally, Bank of Queensland 's search for a new chief executive is heating up. Former head of
institutional banking at Commonwealth Bank, Ian Saines , was one name under consideration by the
Roger Davis-chaired board, although it is believed he doesn't want to move to Queensland. Saines,
who did not return calls, threw his hat in the ring for the top job at CBA when Ralph Norris left and Ian
Narev was given the nod three years ago.

Since Stuart Grimshaw abruptly took his leave in August, BoQ has run a thorough external and
internal review, but the board is said to be split.

Chief operating officer Jon Sutton has assumed the reins as acting CEO. He's a safe pair of hands but
investors say chief financial officer Anthony Rose can't be ruled out.

Page70of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO

IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

sinpow : Singapore Power Ltd | alnhla : Alinta Energy Limited | tpgpar : TPG Capital Management LP |
chotai : Chow Tai Fook Group | tmasek : Temasek Holdings Pte Ltd
i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | iutil : Utilities
ceffic : Corporate Restructuring | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c11 : Plans/Strategy
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141119eabk0002u

Page71of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.