TNG advances potential Mount Peake iron oxide off-take deal with Gunvor

TNG advances potential Mount Peake iron oxide off-take deal with Gunvor

Angela Kean

HD
BY
WC 267 words
PD
2 December 2014
SN
SNL Metals & Mining Daily: West Edition
SC
SNLMMDW
VOL Issue: 83235
LA
CY
LP

English
Copyright 2014. SNL Financial LC

Australian vanadium-titanium explorer TNG Ltd. has signed a letter of intent with trading house Gunvor
Group Ltd., paving the way for the two companies to negotiate a binding off-take agreement for TNG's
Mount Peake project in Australia's Northern Territory.

Under the terms of the proposed agreement, Gunvor will have the exclusive right to distribute and market
the high purity iron oxide produced from Mount Peake, TNG said Nov. 28.

Gunvor will also agree not to market other similar high purity iron products from other sources without
TNG's approval, as well as assist TNG to optimize its iron oxide production and maximize final sales
price and profit.

TNG is in the process of completing a definitive feasibility study on the Mount Peake project, which will
produce high purity vanadium pentoxide, iron oxide and titanium dioxide.
TNG estimates that the mine will produce about 900,000 tonnes of 99.9% purity iron oxide per annum
over an initial 20-year mine life.
Gunvor has begun studies to identify suitable markets and pricing for the iron oxide product.

The two companies reached an initial memorandum of understanding regarding a potential off-take,
marketing and distribution deal in June.
In mid-November, TNG inked a binding agreement with Chinese supplier Sinometal (Shanghai) Co. Ltd.
for the sale of Mount Peake's magnetite concentrate.
The agreement includes the supply of 500,000 tonnes to 1 million tonnes per annum of magnetite
concentrate that TNG plans to produce during the first phase of operations.

srscor : TNG Limited
imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i211 : Metal Ore Mining
c33 : Contracts/Orders | c333 : Non-governmental Contracts | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
nterry : Northern Territory | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia

TD

CO
IN
NS

RE
IPD Contracts and Proposals
PUB SNL Financial LC
AN

Document SNLMMDW020141205eac20000h

Page60of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.