Datacentres.com: Evoswitch signs energy contract with Nuon

Datacentres.com: Evoswitch signs energy contract with Nuon

HD
WC 928 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

1 April 2014
News Bites - Private Companies
NBPRCO
English
Copyright 2014. News Bites Pty Ltd.

NEWS BITES - PRIVATE COMPANIES
[Company Release]

TD

EvoSwitch Data Centers, an international provider of carrier-neutral colocation and connectivity to
datacentres in Europe and the United States, has signed a three - year contract with an energy supplier
Nuon to supply green energy including wind power. The wind power is generated in Nuon 's wind farm
in Enkhuizen and will be used for EvoSwitch " colocation services in the Dutch market.
Through the contract with Nuon is the source of the wind "tangible", says EcoSwitch. When the wind farm
Nuon in Enkhuizen EvoSwitch posted a large sign to indicate that Nuon EvoSwitch 100 % green
renewable wind energy provides exclusive.
The colocation provider has chosen specifically for wind energy because it is the cleanest form of
renewable energy, a production of which is included in the energy term plan to 2020.

Click here for the full original announcement
COMPANY BACKGROUND

ACTIVITIES
BroadGroup is an Information Media Technology and Professional Services company providing a value
chain of research, publications, consulting and conference services to fast growing niches in the IT and
Telecoms sector with 19 events in 13 countries.
Founded in 2002, the company aims to provide senior managers with a different perspective of new and
emerging business niches, create new communities of interest, and inspire them with fresh insight on how
they could be exploited profitably. Today, the company covers a portfolio of markets offering professional
services through a value chain of bespoke consulting, market research, reports, and events.

FINANCIALS
Canadian telecom and media company Rogers Communications has announced its unaudited
consolidated financial and operating results for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2013.

"Our fourth quarter results largely reflect the continued impact of new customer-friendly wireless roaming
and simplified sharing plans we put in place several quarters ago which have been dilutive to our revenue
growth rate" said Anthony Staffieri, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. "However, we
delivered continued top-line growth in Cable, Media and Business Solutions. Our discipline around costs
allowed us to further expand margins and meet all of our financial guidance commitments for 2013, while
the 5% dividend increase we announced this morning reflects our confidence in the ability to grow cash
flows over the longer term."

Amongst quarterly highlights Operating revenue in-line with 2012: Consolidated operating revenue was
down 1% this quarter compared to the same quarter last year, reflecting a 2% decline in Wireless network
revenue as well as lower equipment sales, offset by growth in Cable (2%), Business Solutions (11%), and
Media (4%).

Business Solutions announced it is expanding its hosting business in Western Canada through a newly
expanded datacentre in Edmonton and a new Western Canada flagship data centre in Calgary, following
its acquisition of Pivot Data Centres in early October 2013.

Page13of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Source: Company Website

BUSINESS NEWS ROUND UP

31 March 2014: Datacentres.com: Celeste revenue grows 20% in 2013
[Company Release] French telco, Celeste has reported a 20% rise in revenue to EUR10 million in 2013
and a positive net profit for the tenth consecutive year. The company has invested over EUR12 million in
the last three years to strengthen its growth prospects. Celeste's national fibre network covers some 30
points of presence across France's biggest cities. The company has said that its R&D teams have been
working with the nu@ge consortium to build the StarDC ecological, high density mini-datacentre. Source:
Company Website

Click here for the full original announcement

31 March 2014: Neo Telecoms deploys ADVA FSP 3000 to support datacentre servicesv
[Company Release] ADVA Optical Networking has announced that Neo Telecoms has deployed the
ADVA FSP 3000 to connect its Paris network with a new datacentre located outside the city. The new
connectivity enables Neo Telecoms to target customers in previously underserved French markets.

Click here for the full original announcement
31 March 2014: Datacentres.com: China Mobile selects Alcatel-Lucent for IP ultra-broadband network
transformation
[Company Release] Alcatel-Lucent and China Mobil, have announced a one-year comprehensive frame
agreement valued at up to EUR750 million to provide technology that will move the world's largest mobile
service provider to an all-IP ultra-broadband network paving the way for future network functions
virtualization (NFV) and cloud-based services. This agreement builds on an already long-standing
relationship between China Mobile and strengthens Alcatel-Lucent's critical role in the world's largest
mobile network.

Click here for the full original announcement

31 March 2014: Datacentres.com: Nextgen shares fibre assets with Victorian government
[Company Release] Nextgen Group, the Australian wholesale network operator has signed an agreement
with the State Government of Victoria to share fibre assets in Victoria's south west corridor. The project
involves a commercial arrangement between the state government and Nextgen Group to boost regional
high-capacity data networking between Warrnambool and Geelong by connecting customers in the region
to Nextgen Group's optical fibre network., Telecom Paper reported. Nextgen has 3,300km of fibre network
in the state of Victoria and is currently undergoing an upgrade to 100 Gb on key routes.

Click here for the full original announcement

31 March 2014: Ghanaian government to build Accra datacentre
[Company Release] Alhassan Umar, The Director for IT Enabled Services at the Ghanaian Ministry of
Communications, has confirmed to Biztechafrica that the government with support from the Rockefeller
Foundation will be setting a up a massive datacentre in Accra to offer technological skills to unemployed
youths in the capital.

Click here for the full original announcement

IN

NS

RE

irenewf : Renewable Energy Facility Construction | i502 : Heavy Construction | i5020044 : Power Station
Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction
c1521 : Analyst Comments/Recommendations | c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | npress :
Press Releases | c15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat
: Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
uk : United Kingdom | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr :
Australia | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe

IPD ACTIVITIES; FINANCIALS; BUSINESS NEWS ROUND UP
PUB News Bites Pty Ltd (Europe)
AN

Document NBPRCO0020140401ea41000e3

Page14of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.