Woolworths clotheslines Wesfarmers with a Hills heist

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Woolworths clotheslines Wesfarmers with a Hills heist

Sue Mitchell
705 words
5 December 2014
Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
21
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Distribution

Wesfarmers may have to source the iconic Hills Hoist clothes line from arch rival Woolworths after
Australia's largest retailer signed a strategic partnership that gives it exclusive distribution rights to
the Hills brand for almost 20 years.

Hills has granted Woolworths exclusive distribution rights in Australia and more than 20 overseas
markets to the Hills brand, which covers 240 products including clothes lines, clothes care and
garden sprayers.

Woolworths plans to roll out a new range of private-label hardware and laundry products under the
Hills brand and could take the brand into new overseas markets, taking advantage of its global
sourcing and supply chain capabilities.

However, there are question marks over whether Hills brands will continue to be sold in Bunnings,
the leader in the $45 billion home improvement market, or in Mitre 10 stores supplied by Metcash.

If Bunnings and Mitre 10 decide to delist the Hills' brand in favour of other brands such as Daytek,
Yates and Hozelock, Hills' sales could halve, undermining the value of the deal.

Woolworths said it would continue to supply stockists and it would be up to retailers to decide
whether they would continue to stock the Hills brands. Bunnings was giving little away, saying it
stocked many leading brands in all categories, including Daytek in clothes lines, and it had a
long-standing commitment to deliver the lowest prices, best service and widest range to customers.

Under the partnership, Hills will receive an up-front fee from Woolworths and annual licensing fee
from the use of the brand and Hills intellectual property. The fee will rise if product sales exceed
agreed levels.

Woolworths home improvement managing director Matt Tyson, who was hired earlier this year from
the UK to turn around the loss-making business, said Masters, Home Timber and Hardware and BIG
W would now have access to the biggest range of Hills products at the lowest prices.

Hills chief executive Ted Pretty said the deal was a "win-win " for both companies. It would boost
Hills' profits, strengthen the balance sheet and enable Hills to focus on building its technology
business, particularly in security and healthcare.

Hills' original laundry and hardware products now accounted for less than 5 per cent of sales, he said,
and the group was struggling to make an adequate return on capital due to lack of scale.

The 70-year old Hills Hoist still accounted for about half the rotary clothes-line market but demand
was dwindling.

Page99of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."The quarter-acre block is something that's leaving - people want indoor dryers and wall-mounted
lines," Mr Pretty said. "Woolworths is one of Australia's pre-eminent retailers with national coverage
and penetration across a range of retail channels. We have no doubt that Woolworths is the right
partner to successfully distribute and market our products."

The licence agreement runs for an initial term of seven years, with Woolworths having three options
to renew for four-year periods.

The deal with Hills is the second announced by Woolworths this week. Woolworths acquired an
alcoholic drinks distributor in China for about $US25 million ($29.7 million), its first acquisition
outside Australia since the Progressive Enterprises deal in New Zealand in 2005.

Hills shares rose 6¢ to $1.25 and Woolworths shares closed 37¢ higher at $31.27.

In the latest of a series of broker profit downgrades, Bank of America Merrill Lynch forecast a 1.5 per
cent fall in Woolworths' net profit in 2016 and 5 per cent in 2017 - the first fall in underlying profits for
about 16 years.

Merrill Lynch cut its price target for Woolworths to $25 from $27 after downgrading earnings forecasts
by 5 per cent to $2.52 billion in 2016 and 13 per cent to $2.39 billion in 2017. These new forecasts
are well below current consensus forecasts of $2.72 billion for 2016 and $2.87 billion for 2017.
Merrill Lynchlead retail analyst David Errington believes the retailer will achieve 4.5 per cent
underlying net profit growth this financial year, towards the bottom end of the company's 4 per cent
to 7 per cent guidance.

wsfrm : Wesfarmers Ltd | wolwth : Woolworths Limited
i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i641 : Food Retailing | i6411 : Supermarkets/Grocery Stores | i654 : Specialty
Stores | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | iretail : Retail
cbrand : Branding | cgymtr : Intellectual Property | cpartn : Partnerships/Collaborations | c11 :
Plans/Strategy | c31 : Marketing/Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types |
nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020141204eac50003i

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page100of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.