RWE (CM) Teekay Tankers Agrees to Acquire Five Modern Aframax Tankers

HD
WC 419 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

RWE (CM) Teekay Tankers Agrees to Acquire Five Modern Aframax Tankers

19 December 2014
Resources News (RWE)
RESNEW
English
Copyright 2014 RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved.

TD

RWE (CM) Teekay Tankers Agrees to Acquire Five Modern Aframax Tankers

Sydney - Thursday - December 18 (RWE) - Teekay Tankers Ltd [NYSE:TNK] today announced that it has
agreed to acquire four coated Aframax tankers and one uncoated Aframax tanker for an aggregate
purchase price of approximately $230 million.

The five vessels, which are expected to be delivered in the first quarter of 2015, were constructed in 2008,
2010 and 2011 at top tier shipyards in Japan and China.

Upon delivery, the vessels will trade in the Teekay-managed Taurus LR2 Pool and Aframax RSA "We are
pleased to announce this acquisition of five, high quality, modern secondhand tankers at an attractive
price, which, when combined with the increase in our in-chartered fleet over the past six months, is
consistent with our stated strategy of increasing our exposure to an improving spot tanker market,"
commented Kevin Mackay, Chief Executive Officer of Teekay Tankers.

"Combined with our existing fleet and in-chartered portfolio, these new vessels will increase our fleet size
to 43 vessels.

In addition, the transaction provides optionality to trade the four coated Aframaxes in the crude or product
tanker markets and, with an average age of only 3.8 years for the five vessels, enhances the age profile of
our fleet.

"Spot tanker rates for crude and large product tankers for the fourth quarter of 2014 are averaging higher
than the previous quarter," Mr Mackay continued.
"Increased seasonal oil demand, winter weather delays and lower global oil prices, which is encouraging
stockpiling of crude oil and resulting in lower bunker fuel costs, are some of the key factors that are
driving spot tanker rates higher.

The vessel acquisitions have been approved by the Board of Directors of both Teekay Tankers and the
sellers and remain subject to customary closing conditions.

About Teekay Tankers LtdTeekay Tankers directly owns a fleet of 32 double-hull vessels, including 12
Aframax tankers, 10 Suezmax tankers, seven Long Range 2 product tankers, three Medium-Range
product tankers, including five vessels to be acquired in the first quarter of 2015, and has contracted ten
time charter-in conventional tankers.

Teekay Tankers' vessels are employed through a mix of short- or medium- term fixed-rate time charter
contracts and spot tanker market trading, and its vessels are commercially and technically managed by a
joint venture company in which Teekay Tankers and Teekay Corporation [NYSE:TK] each own a 50 per
cent interest.

ENDS

CO teetnk : Teekay Tankers Ltd | tkysp : Teekay Corporation
IN

imarfr : Marine Freight | i74 : Marine Transport | icargo : Freight/Cargo Transport | iship : Water
Transport/Shipping | itsp : Transportation/Shipping

NS mbnker : Bunker Fuel Markets | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c18 : Ownership Changes |

cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m143 : Energy
Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcrntg : Crude Oil/Natural Gas Product Markets |

Page137of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd
AN

Document RESNEW0020141218eacj00015

Page138of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.