Gold gets its shine back

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Gold gets its shine back

Brian Robins
961 words
22 March 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
10
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

The correction in the bullion price appears to have run its course, writes Brian Robins.
It's been a savage bust that wiped billions of dollars off the value of some portfolios, but the worst
may be over. After a correction that pushed the price of gold down 28 per cent last year alone, the
recent uplift has seen the smart money begin to flow back into the sector.

"It's broken the two-year correction," says Canaccord Genuity Australia executive chairman Warwick
Grigor of the rebound in the gold price.

"It started turning at the start of the year ... We are now seeing more normal trading dynamics assert
themselves."
Six months ago there was talk of the gold price falling to $US1000 to $US1100 an ounce. It didn't
happen. As a result, short covering from bearish investors forced to close out positions has helped to
put a firm floor under the precious metal with a number of investment banks and brokers pencilling in
a price of $US1200 to $US1300 an ounce over the next few years.
Also weighing on the gold price last year was heightened regulatory pressure on US investment
banks to slash their commodity operations, with selling also coming from gold exchange-traded
funds (ETFs). In the first quarter of last year, for example, more than 130 tonnes of gold were sold
into the market as funds were pulled out of gold ETFs.
Much of this pressure has run its course with gold stored at Comex by bullion traders now back at
2009 levels, and modest net buying again seen from gold ETFs.
The improved technical position has resulted in groups such as Canaccord Genuity telling clients gold
will trade around $US1350 an ounce for the next few years before edging higher.
"I expect the gold price to continue rising with investors moving out of iron ore; copper is on the
nose," Grigor, a former resources analyst, says. "Gold and uranium look the most interesting. Iron
ore and copper prices are responding to economic growth signals coming out of China."
That is, weak growth is weighing on sentiment towards these metals. For their part, uranium shares
have run ahead of the uranium price on optimism of nuclear power stations in Japan resuming
operations after the prolonged shutdown following the Fukushima meltdown. But without a pick-up in
the uranium price, this could see the sector sold off, he said.
The recovery in gold has resulted in gold stocks enjoying a strong start to the year, with the ASX
small gold index rising an impressive 40 per cent since the beginning of January, easily outpacing the
15 per cent rise in the gold price.
"Short covering plus M&A activity might lead to the green shoots of a revitalisation of the gold
equities," Macquarie Equities said in a report. As a result, investors should focus on low-cost
producers and miners with advanced projects that could make them acquisition targets, it said.

Page137of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RBC Capital Markets believes the key elements are in place for gold to move higher over the next
few years thanks to demand from China and the absence of central bank selling. It is directing clients
towards sector leaders globally, which have lower cost mines and improving cash flows.

This will help offset bumps such as the move by the US Federal Reserve board to reduce its
monetary stimulus - the so-called "fiscal tapering" - which has weighed on gold and gold equities,
most recently again late this week as investors look to US interest rates rising from 2015.
But even though the gold price may have bottomed, few expect it to reclaim its peak, with miners
forced to slash costs and focus on high-grade reserves to revive earnings. Additionally, there has
been a round of asset trading, as leaders such as Canada's Goldcorp sell off high-cost mines and buy
cheaper assets. Newmont also sold a large stake in local uranium miner Paladin last week along
with some higher-cost goldmines.
But the sector still has some digesting to do. Just over three years ago Goldcorp paid $3.6 billion for
the locally listed Andean Resources and has spent $US1.8 billion - a 30 per cent cost blowout - on
Andean's large low-cost Cerro Negro mine in Argentina, a 500,000 ounce a year mine. The first gold
is expected midyear.
A spate of share placements and issues over the past six weeks raised a handy $250 million as
Silver Lake, Saracen, Perseus Mining, Kingsgate and Indochine tapped the market for funds. And
unlike Kingsgate, which was forced to raise funds at a steep 30 per cent discount, Indochine was able
to place shares at a premium of more than 30 per cent.

"They've all been topping up the kitty, but it is yet to trickle down to the smaller explorers," one analyst
said of the raisings.

"Northern Star is shining with its acquisitions and management skills," Canaccord's Grigor says, when
looking at the key stocks in the sector. "It will emerge as a 350,000-ounce producer."

Others such as Beadell Resources - a former darling of the sector - has suffered from a shift in
sentiment following share sales by its managing director.

Oceania has won backing for the success of its Didipio mine in the Philippines, while Saracen has
come back into favour with a new managing director and the acquisition of assets. But leader
Newcrest remains firmly out of favour, as does Resolute Mining after a series of missteps.
Another local miner to find support is Metals X after its acquisition of the local operations of Alacer
Gold, with its share price doubling in recent months.

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

i22472 : Precious Metals | i22 : Primary Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources
m1421 : Gold Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mcat :
Commodity/Financial Market News | mpcsmt : Precious Metals Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140321ea3m00068

Page138of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.