New Hope sits out downturn on $1.1b kitty

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
New Hope sits out downturn on $1.1b kitty

Brian Robins
494 words
24 September 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
24
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Resources - Confidence in 'dirty coal' ban
With $1.1 billion in cash in the bank, the Soul Pattinson-controlled New Hope Corp is sitting out the
slump in coal prices as it waits for the right buying opportunity to emerge.

But with little pick-up in coal prices anticipated over the next 12-18 months, it may have longer to wait,
especially following last week's decision by China to ban imports of dirtier qualities of coal from next
January, which is likely to maintain pressure on coal prices.
On Tuesday New Hope revealed its net profit fell to $58.4 million from $74.1 million in the year to
July, with earnings a share dropping to 7¢ from 8.9¢.

And it will dig into reserves to pay its dividend with the final dividend cut to 5.5¢ (2¢ final plus a 3.5¢
special dividend) down from 10¢ paid a year earlier, which takes the full-year payout to 11.5¢, down
from 16¢ paid last year.
The net profit from coal dived to just $10.8 million from $74.1 million a year earlier, with the bulk of
its profit coming from its treasury contribution of $44.3 million, thanks largely to its pile of cash.
"They're making very little out of coal. It made some out of third party use of its infrastructure, some
from interest income and also from the sale of shares in Westside," one analyst said.

"We can't see much point in being there until they decide what they're going to do with the money,"
Paterson Securities analyst Matthew Trivett said.
Not on the list of prospective acquisitions is coal assets in Africa, Indonesia or Mongolia, says New
Hope chief executive Shane Stephan.

"We'll look at North America - as well as Australia," he said, while also assessing prospects in coking
coal where the group has no operations.
"Our board wants growth and M&A is all about timing - and the times are becoming much better for
M&A," Mr Stephan said.

"There are a number of opportunities coming available and the time is coming when [sellers] are
looking at their operations and price expectations more realistically."
New Hope is confident the changes under way in China, which will squeeze out supplies of dirtier
coal, will be to the advantage of exporters, since it reckons the new regulations will force out
unwanted domestic supplies.
"China is the clearing market in the Asia-Pacific," Mr Stephan said. "It is reducing domestic [coal]
supplies and that will flow through to an improvement in the seaborne prices."

Page179of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.New Hope said it was keen to acquire an open-cut coalmine, which are typically cheaper to operate
than an underground mine.
No improvements in the present "challenging conditions" in the coal market are expected until well
into fiscal 2016, it said.

RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140923ea9o0004c

Page180of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.