Fenn pilots transformational change at Downer

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Fenn pilots transformational change at Downer

BRIDGET CARTER, STRATEGY MATTERS
687 words
22 September 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
19
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

AT the forefront of Grant Fenn’s mind four years ago, when he became Downer EDI’s chief executive,
was how to turn a loss-making mining contractor into a company that would no longer try the
patience of its investors.

Mr Fenn, 49, grew up in the laid-back NSW sawmill town of Tumut, where his father worked in the
industry, and the upbringing helped give him the pragmatism he needed to handle the tough problems
that would confront him in the initial months.

At the top of the agenda at the time for the former Qantas executive was cleaning up after the $1.9
billion Waratah train contract debacle, which triggered $440 million in writedowns and losses for the
engineering firm.

But now, despite the business being cashed up and making a comeback from its problems, he has a
new set of concerns to deal with.
Revenue sources have been drying up as Downer’s mining customers cut costs because of lower
commodity prices.

Growth is the main discussion point with its investors, as its share price lingers at half the value it was
almost five years ago.
“Three years ago, people couldn’t get enough of mining services companies,” Mr Fenn said, but that
had changed in the face of the mining downturn.

The rugby enthusiast is, therefore, on the brink of introducing transformational change, because
analysts say Downer is a business that needs to evolve amid the tougher environment to win back
support.

“There are opportunities out there, and for us. What is important is that they are strategic,” Mr Fenn
said.

“We don’t want to buy things just to get bigger or buy things that just look like us.” Offshore expansion
or a push into a new area complementing its existing services are among his plans.

But he was cautious that the wrong move would create a disaster like the one he has grappled with in
recent years surrounding the troublesome delivery of the Sydney Waratah trains.

A deeper move into the markets in which it already operates, such as North America, or a strategic
purchase in Australia, would add to the company’s current activities.

Ideally, Downer would like to secure about 20 per cent of its revenue from global markets, which today
contribute only a small portion of the group’s earnings, Mr Fenn said.

Page140of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.His hopes also rest on further government outsourcing and privatisations. This included the $7bn
worth of annual road maintenance work currently handled by the public sector, and an area in which
Downer dominated.

“I think the private sector will do things better, and I don’t think the government needs to be there,” he
said.

Mr Fenn believed there were also opportunities with the outsourcing of public transport, whether it be
buses, or heavy rail, saying he believed rail should be privatised eventually, as in most of Europe.
Despite the downturn in mining, a sector from which Downer secures $3bn of its $7.7bn in revenue,
Mr Fenn believes it still offers opportunities, where the company could provide further cost-efficient
solutions for its clients.

Downer could introduce a smarter way for its clients to operate, including the introduction of new
technology and maintaining the leading edge with its systems.

“Mobile devices are permeating everywhere, even in the construction industry,” he said.

“All the things you see in the mobile world are all coming into the business we are in.” Mr Fenn said
Downer might currently be affected by the lower demand for its customers’ iron ore but he believed
the Chinese economy would improve.

“Clients are all working very hard to make sure their businesses are dealing with these lower
commodity prices,” he said.Following redundancy programs across the sector, he said it was too early
to hire engineers and other staff at cheaper rates because of enterprise agreements still in place. But
one positive was that the rate of turnover of fly-in, fly-out workers was lower, after it reached as much
as 50 per cent during the resources boom.

CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

ipil : Downer EDI Ltd
i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140921ea9m00039

Page141of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.