Chinese eyes on homes

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Chinese eyes on homes

JESSICA MARSZALEK
341 words
30 August 2014
Herald-Sun
HERSUN
HeraldSun
4
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

TEN million wealthy Chinese want to move to Australia and the desire for an Aussie lifestyle is
behind crowds buying in Melbourne’s most exclusive suburbs, experts say.

Suburbs close to private schools and the CBD were the most popular, with Toorak, Brighton,
Hawthorn, Albert Park, Middle Park and Deepdene in high demand.

And 36,000 new apartments bought by foreign investors are currently being built — more than half of
them in Melbourne and some of them wholly bought by foreigners.
A parliamentary inquiry is investigating foreign ownership of residential properties following concerns
wealthy foreigners, particularly from China, are buying homes in Melbourne and Sydney and pricing
out locals.
First National Real Estate’s Stewart Bunn told yesterday’s hearing as many as a quarter of all home
buyers in the top end of the Melbourne, Sydney and Queensland markets are mainland Chinese.
Asian investment group CLSA presented research showing almost half of China’s 70 million
wealthiest people wanted to emigrate, and 10 million had Australia in mind.

“The top two reasons are clean environment and better education for their children,” senior analyst
Andrew Johnston said.
This intention and the belief Australian real estate brought big gains was driving investment which
had boomed in the past two years, he said.
There are no restrictions on foreigners investing in new homes in Australia, but they can only buy
established homes if they have a valid visa.

Once that expires, they have six months to sell.

Those who had been found wrongly renting out Australian properties after returning home had been
made to sell up but were allowed to keep their rental “windfall”.

Mr Bunn said realtors felt some were lying about their visa circumstances when buying and regarded
the potential $85,000 fine as “low risk”.

But UBS Australia chief economist Scott Haslem said Australian first-home buyers in the market for
new Melbourne and Sydney CBD apartments “must be” facing greater competitive pressure because
of Asian buyers.jessica.marszalek@news.com.au

NS
RE

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | china : China | melb : Melbourne | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) |
apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz :

Page44of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz :
Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales
News Ltd.
Document HERSUN0020140829ea8u0007u

PUB
AN

Page45of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.