THE"YEAR"AHEAD

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

popular
THE"YEAR"AHEAD

1,407 words
5 January 2014
Young Witness
FYOWIT
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

What does this year hold for Young? The"Young Witness asked locals to peer into their crystal balls
and give their hopes and predictions for the year ahead.

Council

STUART FREUDENSTEIN, MAYOR OF YOUNG SHIRE: In this calendar year, there's a good list of
works I'm looking forward to see go ahead in the town and shire.

Elizabeth Street is being resurfaced, for example. There's the continuation of the resheeting of the
gravel roads in the rural part of our shire.
I'm also looking forward to the sports and arts studies being completed, then deciding on what
infrastructure needs to move ahead from there.
Another example is the often-mentioned railway from Blayney to Demondrille. I'm certainly optimistic
about its progress. It will be a very significant step for the region.

The abbatoir is opening, along with a number of other opportunities. We're expecting about 80 jobs for
the initial start-up, and I'm looking forward to that boost to local economic activity.
I'm hoping for a nice autumn break with a profitable season for our farming community and the rest of
the town.

DAVID NEWBERRY, TOURISM MANAGER YOUNG SHIRE COUNCIL: Young is in a great position to
capitalise on the Asian Century.
Given that China is really rising, not only have we got the Chinese heritage - which we will be
celebrating at the new Lambing Flat Chinese festival - but we've also got the cherry and other fruit
picking, which they love.
So we'll be working with our neighbouring areas on food, wine and heritage campaigns.
Business

"JIM CUSACK, PRESIDENT YOUNG CHAMBER OF COMMERCE: The chamber would like all local
businesses to become members, to have one voice. If they have any concerns about business or
marketing, they can approach the chamber for advice and help.

We're pushing locals to embrace change in their businesses, such as online dealings and other
avenues that can increase their turnover.

We're also looking at the insurance and public liability for the businesses in towns' stalls on the street.
Again, it's about increasing turnover.

WENDY SILK, DONGES IGA: Our hope for 2014 is for the town to prosper and grow. In order to
achieve this, we need to support locally-owned businesses, and welcome new locally owned business
to the town.

Page27of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.These businesses are the ones who support our town, investing in youth and community, on an
ongoing basis.

We would encourage all locals to think about shopping locally in the new year with independently
owned businesses.
ANNIE BASSINGTHWAITE, ANNIE B'S FULL HOUSE: I wish everybody well, with health and
prosperity.

I hope the abbatoir can open sooner rather than later. I also think the Chamber and Council should be
working with businesses to do a very strong shop local campaign.
If people are going to shop online or go out of town, then I don't see how local business can meet the
costs of doing business and employing locals.
Like many local businesses, I have very loyal customers and fantastic staff and I'm very grateful for
that.

I think it's going to be a tough year and I think we've all got to work together.

Health

DAVID KAYE, YOUNG DISTRICT MEDIAL CENTRE: "The Young District Medical Centre is hoping to
increase the number of GPs in the practice by attracting two additional fulltime registrars to help with
patient workload.

We hope to maintain all current services currently offered by the practice, including diabetic foot-care
and specialist visits.

The practice is looking forward to participating in the medical precinct workshop being conducted by the
Shire Council in February 2014 with a view to maintaining the medical workforce in Young into the
future.

Education

DR PETER WEBSTER, PRINCIPAL HENNESSY CATHOLIC COLLEGE: As one of the education
leaders in town it's our responsibility to communicate to the community the range of options available to
young people in this town and those options include pathways to university, traineeships and
apprenticeships.

Right now we have two high schools, a TAFE college and Hennessy - in addition to offering university
courses - is now developing a trade training - all on one block.

Sure there are regional centres that offer these facilities but there are very few towns the size of Young
that can offer that to young people " this town is quite unique in that.
With $15 million being spend in Young over the next 12 to 18 months including the refurbishment of
Young's TAFE campus ($10 million) and Hennessy's Trade Training Centre Trade Training Centre ($5
million) - the need now is to use education as our vehicle for success.

It's all here on our doorstep " there's no need for any student to leave town.

Students who study in Young are 10-15 per cent better off than their peers in Sydney - I mean we have
kids from Young who, because they are living in rural areas, are getting into courses that students from
Sydney cannot get into " we"re not just a viable option " we"re the best option.

It was hard for any manufacturing industry to compete on an international basis and what we need to
take from this is that jobs are currently being created through education development and by investing
in that we are investing in the future of our children.

Education is the bright spot in Young's future.

"KEL SMERDON, PRINCIPAL YOUNG NORTH PUBLIC SCHOOL: "With greater principal and
school-based autonomy along with strong equity-based funding to Young's public schools " it is
important all of our schools work together to continue to foster high quality opportunities for our student
to develop as empowered 21st century learners.

Page28of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Principals need also to consider how they are going to dynamically lead their schools to best service
the town's individual needs and ensure we offer staff continued high quality professional learning as
research shows the teacher makes a difference.

2013 saw Young Public School take out the state primary schools rugby league, Young High School
was recognized for its welfare programs as a Mind Matters focus school and, finally, Young North
received the minister's cohesive school community award.

Education that is high quality by any measure is the backbone of our town and builds opportunity for
our young people.

At the end of the day, regardless of what school we attend, we all grow as a community of people and I
look forward to Young growing and strengthening its educational and, more broadly, youth services in
2014.

Agriculture
"BRIAN MULLANEY, LOCAL VITICULTURIST: The wine industry had a positive 2013. Most grapes
were sold profitably, and those in Hilltops region did well.

The 2014 crop looks good. There's a small amount of hail and frost damage that should have no
dramatic consequences on the yield or quality.

The Grove Estate continued to grow in the year and looks forward to growing during the year and looks
forward to 2014. We sought new sales into China and believe further sales are forthcoming.

I believe Moppity Vineyards are looking at building a winery in 2014 to process grapes onsite with a
cellar door and hopefully a restaurant to follow at some stage. This will be great for the region, getting
more people into the area.

In general, I believe the big growth industry we look forward to in Young is tourism. The potential for
expanding our cultural and historical experiences that have occurred in Young are unique and worth
building on.

"PAUL PARKER, LOCAL AGRONOMIST: "My hopes are that farmers will have a successful season
and build on the disappointments that came from last year.

Last year on the farms started reasonably well, but we ended with frost and dry conditions. Hopefully
that won't happen again - we'll have good rain and all the farmers will have a successful and good
season.

The other hope I have is that our elected political representatives get out of their recliner chairs and
promote the farmers and rural communities to the wider population and recognise that farmers in rural
communities are the backbone of our state.

The state doesn't just revolve around and isn't just confined east of the sandstone barrier and the 85 or
90 percent of the population that live on the coastal fringe.

RE
PUB
AN

nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FYOWIT0020140106ea1500004

Page29of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.