Nyrstar Netherlands (Holdings) B .V. launches a conditional public tender offer in cash for up to €320 million retail bonds of Nyrstar NV

HD

WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Nyrstar Netherlands (Holdings) B.V. launches a conditional public tender offer in cash for up to
€320 million retail bonds of Nyrstar NV
1,728 words
16 September 2014
16:22
Thomson Reuters ONE
HUGNEN
English
© 2014 All Rights Reserved. Thomson Reuters.

THIS ANNOUNCEMENT IS NOT FOR Distribution, DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY, IN THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA, AUSTRALIA, CANADA, JAPAN, South Africa OR ANY OTHER JURISDICTION
WHERE TO DO SO WOULD BE prohibited by applicable law.

16 September 2014

Nyrstar NV ("Nyrstar" or the "Company") announced today the launch by Nyrstar Netherlands (Holdings)
B.V. (the "Offeror"), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, of a voluntary conditional public tender
offer in cash (the "Offer") to purchase, for an aggregate principal amount of up to €320,000,000,
(i) any-and-all of the €220,000,000 aggregate principal amount of outstanding 5.5 per cent. fixed rate
bonds issued by the Company on 9 April 2010 and due 9 April 2015 (ISIN BE6000680668) (the "2015
Bonds"), and (ii) up to an aggregate principal amount of €100,000,000, outstanding €515,000,000 5.375
per cent. fixed rate bonds issued by the Company on 11 May 2011 and due 11 May 2016 (ISIN
BE6220236143) (the "2016 Bonds", and together with the 2015 Bonds, the "Existing Bonds").

The Offer is a part of the comprehensive strategic financing that Nyrstar announced on 1 September
2014.  In addition to the Offer, the comprehensive strategic financing consists of an international offering
of €350 million of 8,5 % rated senior unsecured notes, due 2019, to institutional investors in the high
yield bond market (the "Notes Offering"), which were issued at an issue price of 98.018% on 12
September 2014, and an offering of 170,022,544 new shares at an issue price of €1.48 per new share, or
€251,633,365.12 in total, with (non-statutory) preferential subscription rights for the existing shareholders
of the Company at a ratio of 1 new share for 1 right (the "Rights Offering"), of which the completion is
expected to occur on 30 September 2014.

The aggregate proceeds of the Notes Offering and Rights Offering will be used to repurchase any-and-all
of the Company's outstanding 2015 Bonds and a portion of its outstanding 2016 Bonds in the context of
the Offer, to fund capital expenditures required for Nyrstar's continued transformation through capital
projects comprising the Smelting Strategic Review (SSR) investment programme and the Port Pirie
Redevelopment, to reduce net debt (towards a targeted Net Debt / EBITDA ratio of 2.5x), for transaction
costs and for general corporate purposes.
Through the Offer, Nyrstar intends to address the refinancing of its 2015 Bonds ahead of their scheduled
maturity in 2015, and proactively manage a portion of its 2016 Bonds maturing in 2016.  Today, 2015
Bonds for an aggregate principal amount of €220 million and 2016 Bonds for an aggregate principal
amount of €515 million are outstanding. Nyrstar's liability management exercise allows the Company to
proactively manage its debt position and improve the maturity profile of its outstanding debt, by
addressing in full debt maturing in 2015, and addressing up to €100 million of the outstanding 2016
Bonds ahead of schedule. The extent to which this goal can be achieved through the Offer will depend
on the number of Existing Bonds that will be tendered in the Offer, given the voluntary nature of the Offer.
Nyrstar intends to maintain cash available to repay any outstanding 2015 Bonds not tendered in full at
maturity.

- Ends -

Page261of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.About Nyrstar
Nyrstar is an integrated mining and metals business, with market leading positions in zinc and lead, and
growing positions in other base and precious metals; essential resources that are fuelling the rapid
urbanisation and industrialisation of our changing world. Nyrstar has mining, smelting, and commercial
operations located in Europe, the Americas, China and Australia and employs approximately 6,500
people. Nyrstar is incorporated in Belgium and has its corporate office in Switzerland. Nyrstar is listed on
NYSE Euronext Brussels under the symbol NYR. For further information please visit the Nyrstar website,
www.nyrstar.com .

For further information

Investors:
Amy Rajendran             Group Manager Investor Relations        T: +41 44 745 8103       M: +41 79 722
3089      E: amy.rajendran@nyrstar.com

Media:
Dirk Delmartino
Pip Green

Brunswick Group (Brussels)

 

 

T: +32 2 235 6510

Brunswick Group (London)

T: +44 20 7404 5959

nyrstar@brunswickgroup.com

IMPORTANT INFORMATION
This announcement is for general information only and does not constitute an offer to sell or to purchase
or the solicitation of an offer to buy or to sell, nor shall there be any sale or purchase of, the securities
referred to herein, in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation, sale or purchase would be unlawful
prior to registration, exemption from registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such
jurisdiction.  This announcement is not for distribution, directly or indirectly, in the United States of
America, Australia, Canada, Japan, South Africa or any other jurisdiction where to do so would be
prohibited by applicable law.  Any persons reading this announcement should inform themselves of and
observe any such restrictions.

The securities referred to herein have not been and will not be registered under the U.S. Securities Act of
1933, as amended from time to time (the "U.S. Securities Act"), and the securities may not be offered or
sold in the United States (as defined in Regulation S under the U.S. Securities Act) unless these
securities are registered under the U.S. Securities Act, or an exemption from the registration requirements
of the U.S. Securities Act is available. Nyrstar and its affiliates have not registered, and do not intend to
register, any portion of the offering of the securities concerned in the United States, and do not intend to
conduct a public offering of securities in the United States.

In any Member State of the European Economic Area that has implemented the Prospectus Directive,
other than Belgium (in respect of the Rights Offering and the Offer only), this communication is only
addressed to and is only directed at qualified investors in that Member State within the meaning of Article
2(1)(e) the Prospectus Directive.  The expression "Prospectus Directive" means Directive 2003/71/EC
(and amendments thereto, including Directive 2010/73/EU, to the extent implemented in any relevant
Member State) and includes any relevant implementing measures in any Member State.

This communication is being distributed only to, and is directed only at (a) persons outside the United
Kingdom, (b) investment professionals falling within Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets
Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005, as amended (the "Order"), and (c) high net worth companies,
and other persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully be communicated, falling within Article 49(2) (a) to
(d) of the Order (all such persons together being referred to as "relevant persons").  The offerings are only
available to, and any invitation, offer or agreement to subscribe, purchase, or otherwise acquire or sell
such securities will be engaged in only with relevant persons.  Any person who is not a relevant person
should not act or rely on this communication or any of its contents.

The Offer is not being made, and will not be made, directly or indirectly in or into, or by use of the mail of,
or by any means or instrumentality of interstate or foreign commerce of or of any facilities of a national
securities exchange of, the United States, and no offer may be made by any such use, means,
instrumentality or facility from or within the United States or to persons located in the United States. This
includes, but is not limited to, facsimile transmission, electronic mail, telex, telephone and the internet.

This communication is not a prospectus for the purposes of the Prospectus Directive in relation to the
Rights Offering, an offering memorandum in relation to the Notes Offering, or a tender offer memorandum
for the purposes of the Belgian Act of 1 April 2007 on public takeover bids, as amended (the "Takeover

Page262of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Act") in relation to the Offer.  A prospectus, offering memorandum and tender offer memorandum
prepared and made available in accordance with the Prospectus Directive and Takeover Act, as the case
may be, is or will be published, which, when published, can be obtained, amongst others, from the
Company. The Tender Offer Memorandum in relation to the Offer can be obtained as aforementioned. 
Investors should not subscribe for any securities referred to in this document except on the basis of
information contained in the prospectus in relation to the Rights Offering or offering memorandum in
relation to the Notes Offering, and holders of the Existing Bonds should not sell any Existing Bonds
referred to in this document except on the basis of information contained in the Tender Offer
Memorandum in relation to the Offer. Investors and holders of Existing Bonds may not accept an offer of
securities referred to herein, nor acquire or sell such securities, unless on the basis of information
contained in the relevant prospectus, offering document or tender offer memorandum that is or will be
published or disseminated by the Company. This communication cannot be used as basis for any
investment agreement or decision.
No announcement or information regarding the offering, listing, tender offer or securities of the Company
referred to above may be disseminated to the public in jurisdictions outside of Belgium where a prior
registration or approval is required for such purpose.  No steps have been taken, or will be taken, for the
offering, listing, tender offer, or securities of the Company in any jurisdiction outside of Belgium where
such steps would be required.  The issue, exercise, or sale of, the subscription for or purchase of, and
the tender offer in relation to, securities of the Company are subject to special legal or statutory
restrictions in certain jurisdictions.  The Company is not liable if the aforementioned restrictions are not
complied with by any person.

The full press release can be downloaded from the following link:

Press Release (English)

Press Release (French)

Press Release (Dutch)

This announcement is distributed by NASDAQ OMX Corporate Solutions on behalf of NASDAQ OMX
Corporate Solutions clients.

The issuer of this announcement warrants that they are solely responsible for the content, accuracy and
originality of the information contained therein.

Source: Nyrstar via Globenewswire

HUG#1856105

CT
CO
IN

NS

RE

nyrstr : Nyrstar SA/NV
i2113 : Lead Ore/Zinc Ore Mining | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | ctendo : Tender Offers | npress : Press Releases | c17 :
Funding/Capital | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu :
Acquisitions | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | belg : Belgium | neth : Netherlands | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | benluxz : Benelux Countries | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz
: North America | weurz : Western Europe
Basic Materials
A0M58B

IPD
IPC
PUB Thomson Reuters (Markets) Norway AS
AN

Document HUGNEN0020140916ea9g0002t

Page263of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.