A crisis made in China ?

HD A crisis made in China?
BY Mark Beeson, Professor of International Politics at Murdoch University
WC 953 words
PD 11 September 2014
SN The Conversation
SC CONVAU
LA
CY Copyright 2014. The Conservation Media Group.
LP

English

https://62e528761d0685343e1c-
f3d1b99a743ffa4142d9d7f1978d9686.ssl.cf2.rackcdn.com/files/58724/width668/5qkv7mk8-
1410391089.jpg AAP

The strength of a nation derives from the integrity of the home

TD

Confucius

Wise words indeed, and ones that are especially apt at present. Australia is not the only country that finds
itself having to come to terms with a rapidly changing economic landscape. More importantly – for the
world, at least – so does China. One of the key indicators for both countries is the performance of their
respective real estate sectors. Like so much these days, they are intertwined and sending out ominous
signals.
China’s problems have been a long-time in the making and are of a different order to Australia’s. In some
ways China’s problems are far from unique and are simply replicating a long-running story that is as old as
human civilisation: over time people move off the land and into cities. This is still the case in China but,
like everything else in that remarkable country, it is happening on an epic and unprecedented scale.

To the central government’s credit, it has tried to manage this process and in many ways it has been
remarkably successful. However, there are limits to what even the most authoritarian and interventionist of
states can do in managing economies, much less the people that make them up. Bad decisions can have
monumental consequences. The collective response to the misnamed global financial crisis now looks like
a quintessential case in point.
China was largely unaffected by the GFC thanks to a massive government-ordered domestic stimulus
package. Unfortunately, much of the subsequent investment ended up in the hands of property developers
and speculators. A nexus of local governments keen to sell land for development, so-called “shadow
banks” keen to lend, and a growing class of wealthy investors looking for high returns on investment,
fuelled a surge in apartment-building across China.
China’s notorious “ghost cities” are the most graphic illustration of massive, unconstrained construction
that is surplus to the needs of the population – or that part of the population with lots of money, at least. By
some estimates there are something like 50 million empty properties in China, or a vacancy rate of nearly
25%. Unsurprisingly prices are steadily declining despite the efforts of state and provincial governments to
prop them up. Prices fell by an average of 10% in the first half of this year, and new construction starts
have fallen by something like 25%.

While this may look like a necessary and overdue return to economic reality, the consequences for
China’s numerous, increasingly exposed and over-reliant trade partners are potentially grim. For example,
China has the capacity to produce 1 billion tonnes of steel each year; now however, a third of this
capacity is unused. The implications for Australia are all too predictable and manifest primarily in the
plunging price of iron ore.

Yet it’s important to recognise that Australia – or more accurately, the mainly foreign-owned resource
companies that dominate production in this country – has contributed mightily to this problem. The
massive increase in investment over the last few years has had its intended consequence: an equally
massive expansion in production. It’s hard to believe that the lavishly rewarded captains of industry who

Page301of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.run these companies can have been entirely surprised that an increase in supply would have an impact on
prices, with or without China’s domestic problems.

Apparently they are. Unfortunately the resource sector may not be alone in succumbing to short-term and
wishful thinking. Real estate in Melbourne and Sydney looks wildly over-valued in historical and
comparative perspectives, and yet the property bubble continues to inflate. We might do well to remember
another timeless piece of wisdom: things that look like they cannot go on forever usually don’t.
There may be further to go before real estate in Australia takes a similar hit, however, and China is
playing a part in this, too. A lot of the smart money is fleeing China as investment yields decline, the local
environment deteriorates, and the political situation remains unpredictable. Rising real estate prices in
Australia look like a good bet and also have the additional benefit of providing a potential bolt hole if things
go wrong in the People’s Republic.
Rather worryingly, Australian officials have little understanding of the impact of Chinese money on real
estate prices here, or little capacity (or desire?) to do much about it. The rules designed to regulate the
foreign purchase of domestic real estate are notoriously easy to get around and the Foreign Investment
Review Board seems to have little capacity to enforce them or detailed understanding of what is
happening on the ground. According to a recent report in the AFR, though
foreign investment in real estate surged to $24.8 billion in the first nine months of 2013-14, an increase of
93% on the previous year

There are few subjects about which people get more excited than real estate. It would be unfortunate if the
idea took hold that foreigners were pricing the locals out of the market, especially as the forces driving
house price rises are complex and still largely domestic, it is argued. Nevertheless, the possible export
and influence of China’s property problems could add an unwelcome and possibly avoidable additional
complication to what is an especially important, but occasionally fraught, relationship between Australia
and China.
Mark Beeson does not work for, consult to, own shares in or receive funding from any company or
organisation that would benefit from this article, and has no relevant affiliations.

NS
RE

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC
Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

PUB The Conversation Media Group Limited
AN Document CONVAU0020140911ea9b00008

Page302of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.