AUSTRALIA'S farm sector needs two key ingredients in

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Agribusiness
AUSTRALIA'S farm sector needs two key ingredients in

ANDREW MARSHALL
796 words
20 March 2014
Stock & Land
FSTOCL
10
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

AUSTRALIA'S farm sector needs two key ingredients in order to thrive during the next 20 years - new
investment backing for family farms, and milk.

Murray Goulburn (MG) estimates every Australian would be, on average, more than $800 better off
today if the nation's dairy farmers hadn't quit the industry in droves during the past decade.

Instead of maintaining a respected 15 per cent share of global dairy export markets, Australian milk
production has been slipping 1.7pc annually, despite a big surge in world dairy product demand in
the past five years.

Australia now supply just 7pc of the international trade.

Across the Tasman Sea, New Zealand has been doing the opposite, converting beef and sheep
country into dairy farms and growing its annual production by about 3.5pc.
NZ's share of the global milk product trade is now 37pc - up from a stake similar to Australia in 2002.
Milk exports are now turbo-charging the kiwi economy, with the sort of growth experienced by
Australia in the recent mining boom, including pushing value of the NZ dollar to 40-year highs.
Growth in demand for dairy foods is forecast to be more than double that of the next two fastest
growing food categories combined by 2020, dragged along largely by demand from China.
Chinese imports of dairy foods were worth just $309 million in 2001, but by last year had soared to
$US6.2 billion.
"Dairy is truly an amazing story of growth. It really is so huge," Murray Goulburn shareholder relations
general manager Robert Poole said.

"Unfortunately we have not been in a position to take advantage of it, but NZ saw the chance and
grabbed it."
A difficult decade of drought, milk market deregulation, a rising Australian dollar and low farmgate
milk returns eroding farmer confidence levels had convinced many producers it was time to stop
milking, sell their farms, sell irrigation water rights, or semi-retire.

"None of this makes sense for an Australian industry with such a great outlook," Mr Poole said.
"We need to reverse the trend and get farmland back into dairy production.
"Getting people to invest in dairy again is going to deliver an incredible prize."

He said a 3.5pc compound increase in annual production would deliver an extra $5b a year to the
national economy from export earnings by 2020.

Page36of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.To reclaim 15pc of the global trade by 2030 would bring in $11b - equivalent to an extra $824 per
capita every year.

Mr Poole admitted it was an "incredibly audacious goal", but his farmer-owned co-operative arguably
Australia's biggest food business was determined to do its bit to encourage as much production
growth as possible.

A key plank in MG's strategy is to promote growth by providing farmgate pricing confidence to its
expanding supplier network in NSW, Victoria, Tasmania and South Australia.
This trading year MG suppliers would be paid 50 cents a litre a near record and the company's
objective was to increase its milk price by a further 7c/L (equivalent to $1/kg for milk solids) to
encourage a turnaround in supply volumes.
"We can create so much more income per hectare from dairy cows than from sheep or beef cattle -
we've got to get the land lost in the past decade back in production," Mr Poole said.
Research by corporate consultancy Port Jackson Partners estimated dairy needed about $16b in
new capital funds to enable Australia to regain its lost export market share by 2020.

However, a major hurdle to farm productivity growth was the long tradition of funding farm expansion
with borrowed money.

Debt-heavy farmers were vulnerable to droughts and price volatility which put the debt-funded growth
model under stress.

Farmers were becoming reluctant to move quickly to take on bigger investment risks even if long-term
market prospects were appealing.

MG believed the most obvious alternative to blowing out farm debt even further was to encourage
outside equity into farming, particularly when farmers needed more land to lift production.
Since 2011 a partnership program coordinated by the big co-operative has increased milk production
by up to 28m litres a year by drawing in $20m in European equity to pay for farmland acquisitions
adjacent to or nearby existing MG suppliers in Victoria.

Mr Poole said superannuation investment groups now owned land which was leased at market rates
direct to nine highly credible farming family operations.

The deals provided fund managers with solid annual returns and long-term land value gains, while the
farmers were able to limit their borrowings to funding new machinery and buying more cows.

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

mryglb : Murray Goulburn Co-operative Company Limited
i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i413 : Dairy Products | i0 :
Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | nz : New Zealand | saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FSTOCL0020140319ea3k0000l

Page37of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.