In for the long haul

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
In for the long haul

PAUL GILDER
918 words
6 June 2014
Herald-Sun
HERSUN
HeraldSun
54
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

CHAT ROOM A tight economy won’t deter Webjet’s John Guscic, writes Paul Gilder THE dizzying mix
of a tight Budget, volatile Australian dollar and a cautious consumer would have most company chiefs
reaching for the headache tablets.

Instead, those factors would be more likely to have Webjet’s John Guscic reaching for the phone to the
marketing department, checking in on the online travel agency’s latest campaign.

Perhaps that’s to be expected of a man whose stock and trade is the business of sending people
packing on holidays at home and abroad. No matter the prevailing economic conditions, there’s always
a beach out there.

“It’s interesting that the Budget cuts have been met with such hostility in the broader community,”
Guscic says. “There’s been people protesting in the streets, which is unprecedented for an economic
action that was signalled well in advance.

“The level of consumer confidence drop was immediate even though the Budget hasn’t been passed
through the Senate.” But Guscic can’t deny that a more frugal consumer needs a bit of prodding to fork
out for a discretionary holiday spend.

“If you were counter-intuitive you’d suggest that maybe the bad news is the stimulus Australians need to
have for a holiday.” Speaking to BusinessDaily from his office on Melbourne’s St Kilda Rd, Guscic says
the ASX-listed Webjet was making headway in its efforts to derive more of its revenue from
accommodation sales rather than the pure flights bookings model.
To tick that box, Webjet looked overseas, forking out $23 million for Singapore and Hong
Kong-focused hotel booking firm Zuji in March last year, followed by a $1.5 million initial investment in
Lots of Hotels, a start-up venture in the Middle East.

Guscic says both are starting to make an impression; Dubai-based Lots of Hotels is gaining traction
after its launch costs ballooned to $2.3 million, while Zuji is trading profitably, given the cost synergies
that Webjet could unearth but its previous owner Travelocity could not.

“We’re delighted with the progress we’re making in selling accommodation across the world; in 2010-11
we sold $2 million worth of accommodation, we’re on a run-rate as of the (current) half of selling $120
million worth of accommodation, so 60-fold growth in three years.

“We have no regrets about doing the (Zuji) deal and we’d certainly embrace any other acquisition that
was similarly giving us a strong position in an overseas marketplace, and there’s not many of those
around. Zuji was unique in that capability.” EXPANSION aside, the all-important Australian dollar
remains a factor for the company ranked by online traffic monitor Hitwise as the nation’s top travel
agency site. However Guscic says it’s what the dollar does to the mindsets of consumers and travel
agents, rather than its daily movement.

Page169of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“The correlation between the fluctuations in the Australian dollar and outbound international travel is not
as obvious as you would imagine,” he says.

“When the Australian dollar was above parity (with the US dollar), the underlying outbound growth rate
was 8 per cent and now that we’re sitting at low 90s it’s at 4 per cent. So it has tapered off, but it’s still
great growth.

“It’s better than the underlying domestic growth rate, which is closer to 1 per cent, so there has been a
preference for Australians to travel overseas in the last two or three years.” When Australians do pack
their bags, it’s invariably for shorter trips, Guscic says. “We’re seeing people take shorter breaks but
more often.” Figures released this week from the Australian Bureau of Statistics back up the trend.
April’s short-term resident departures, determined as trips for less than a year, were up 10 per cent
seasonally adjusted on a month earlier to 789,000 travellers. Getting those jetsetters to connect and
upsize with Webjet is the end game for Guscic.

“We want to improve the level of conversion of our existing visitation to bookings — we want to make
that an easier process for consumers to go down,” he says.
The group has launched Webjet Exclusives, discounted inventory available only to its customers, while
it also sells packaged accommodation and flight deals into Virgin Australia Holidays, the airline’s holiday
partner.

Webjet’s other avenue of growth is in its margins — hence the importance placed on supersizing the
returns from individual customers. On top of a 33 per cent lift in total transaction values to $507 million
in its latest half-year results, its revenue margin was 10.3 per cent.

“As you sell more accommodation, the margin is more attractive. If we were able to sustain a 10 per
cent margin going forward, we would be delighted.” And while boasting a company awash with cash
and hungry for acquisitions, Guscic plays down any interest in hotel-focused listed rival Wotif — itself
the subject of fierce competition from brash interloper Booking.com.

“Give me a dollar and I’d be really rich every time I’m asked this question,” he says.

That probably means any analysts harping on about the virtues of a tie-up might be due a holiday
themselves.

paul.gilder@news.com.au

WISH YOU WERE HERE Top destination searches at Webjet At home … MELBOURNE SYDNEY
BRISBANE … and away LONDON BALI AUCKLANDSource: Webjet online figures

NS

RE
PUB
AN

gtdeal : Travel Deals/Packages | gcat : Political/General News | gdeals : Consumer Deals | glife :
Living/Lifestyle | gpersf : Personal Finance | gspend : Spending/Shopping | gtour : Travel
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document HERSUN0020140605ea660008p

Page170of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.