FED:Roc Oil shareholder wants say on merger

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

FED:Roc Oil shareholder wants say on merger

272 words
15 May 2014
Australian Associated Press Financial News Wire
AAPFIN
English
(c) 2014 Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

ROC PERTH, May 15 AAP - A major Roc Oil shareholder is calling on the company to let investors
vote on its $800 million merger with fellow energy player Horizon Oil.
The companies recently struck a deal to merge their Asian assets and produce up to 20,000 barrels of
oil per day.

But Simon Marais, the managing director of fund manager Allan Gray, said it was inappropriate that
Roc shareholders were unable to vote on the deal, and called for an extraordinary general meeting
(EGM).

"Despite talks with the management of both companies they won't budge," Dr Marais said in a
statement.

"It was only after we had exhausted all our options that we felt it necessary to call for this EGM - this is
about maintaining the integrity of our financial markets."
Allan Gray owns a 19 per cent stake in Roc Oil.
Under the merger plan, investors will trade their Horizon shares for shares in Roc Oil.
Horizon shareholders will own about 58 per cent of the merged company, and Roc Oil shareholders
the remaining 42 per cent.

Dr Marais said the request for the meeting was not about arguing the merits of the merger but giving
Roc shareholders a voice.
He proposes that the Roc constitution be changed so that if the company is issuing more than 30 per
cent of its shares, Roc directors must first obtain shareholder approval.
The proposed merged company is expected to have assets across China, Papua New Guinea,
Malaysia, Myanmar, Australia and New Zealand with a market value of around $800 million.

AAP krc/dmc

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

rocoil : Roc Oil Company Ltd
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cmerg : Mergers | c18 : Ownership Changes | cacqu :
Acquisitions | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact
: Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd
Document AAPFIN0020140515ea5f000xj

Page106of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.