Investors wary of Qantas risk

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Investors wary of Qantas risk

Anne Hyland
1,085 words
25 January 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
41
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

As 2014 shapes up as the year of whether Alan Joyce will survive as Qantas's chief executive,
institutional investors are privately questioning why they would want to own shares in the airline's
frequent flyer business.

A public offering of the frequent flyer business had been mooted with a speculated price tag that
ranges wildly between $1.5 billion and $3 billion.

A partial sale of that business is a more likely option.

This was what Qantas explored back in 2008 before the global financial crisis shelved the idea.

In 2008, Qantas hired UBS, Macquarie and Citigroup to advise it on that partial IPO and institutional
investors were desperate for a slice of the frequent flyer business.

Frequent flyer businesses have become money-spinners for airlines because essentially points are a
currency.
A credit card company, a retailer or hire car company that has partnered with an airline's frequent
flyer program pays the airline a fee.

At some point in the future the consumer accumulates enough points to claim a seat, but invariably
there are extra charges, taxes, fuel surcharges, and more cash to ensure you get the ticket you want.

The quandary for institutional investors is not whether the frequent flyer business is an attractive
business. It is.

It's how to price the frequent flyer business when there's a risk, even though a small one, that Qantas
could collapse.Lessons from Ansett collapse

For those who say a Qantas financial collapse is impossible, the federal government would never let
the national carrier go under, it's worth recalling Ansett.

It too had a valuable frequent flyer program, known as Global Rewards, which became worthless
when the airline was put into liquidation in 2002.

Qantas remains in negotiation with the federal government on the provision of a standby debt facility
with a government guarantee that Qantas could access for a fee.

This guarantee would bolster the airline's credit rating and could lessen its need to sell key assets
such as a stake in its frequent flyer business.

In the past year there has been enormous volatility in the earnings outlook for Qantas and there
remains doubt around Joyce's leadership.

Page222of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Qantas expects to report a first-half loss of as much as $300 million. Its credit rating has been
downgraded to junk.

The latter kicked off speculation that a sell-off of the frequent flyer business was back on the cards
and then Joyce declared "all options are on the table".
While institutions might be trying to price the risk side of a potential frequent flyer business sale
there's no doubt it's also in their interest to try to talk down a sale price.
Another option Qantas is exploring is a partial sale of Jetstar to a third party. Qantas has pushed
Jetstar, a low-cost carrier, which was seen as the airline's future. Now that's looking less and less like
a sure bet.

Many other mainline airlines such as United Airlines, Delta Air Lines, British Airways and Air New
Zealand have ditched their low-cost carriers, realising it leads to a lot of duplication in costs,
cannibalisation of the main airline and is a management distraction.Hating head office

Some analysts argue the rise of Jetstar has meant Joyce has taken his eye off fixing Qantas and
there's certainly plenty of resentment within Qantas towards Jetstar.

Indeed, Qantas remains very much an organisation of tribes where the only alignment is that head
office is hated.

For any organisation to be successful you've got to align you people behind you across all
the business.

Joyce, who's been in the chief executive's role since November 2008, is smart.

He has some hard choices to make on Jetstar, the frequent flyer business, as well as Qantas, and
that is all forming part of a strategic review now. But is what the airline really needs as part of its
strategic overhaul a fresh set of eyes?
Billionaire investors such as George Soros are again warning that China is on a very dangerous
path in terms of the rate of credit growth in that country and the rapid increase in leverage by Chinese
corporation in particular. However, this has been the case for a couple of years, with many China
watchers calling a bubble, both in China's real banking system and shadow banking system, and that
crash hasn't yet happened.
No doubt the domestic credit growth is worrying for China's financial system's stability.
To add to this concern is data dug up by CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets equity strategist Chris Wood,
which highlights China's rising offshore credit risk.
He's noted (see chart below) that the Hong Kong banking system's claims on China banks have
surged from $HK60 billion at the end of 2009 to a record $HK1.935 trillion at the end of October last
year.
Wood also noted the explosion in offshore issuance of international debt securities by Chinese
borrowers, the biggest of which are Chinese financial corporations.
China's international debt securities outstanding rose five-fold from $US46.5 billion at the end of
2009 to $US239.7 billion (see chart).

This tremendous credit growth in debt securities is consistent with growth in the issuance of corporate
bonds in the offshore RMB market that really took off in 2011-12.
Historically Chinese banks and corporations only issued bonds domestically.

Even so the growth in those charts seems off the charts.
The small comfort is that those Chinese banks issuing debt are government-backed.
It's unlikely they're going to be allowed to fail as the Chinese government has shown little appetite to
date in allowing state-owned enterprises to fold.
A decade ago, China was well through the process of recapitalising its banks and in the middle of a
really decisive upswing in the economy led by an investment boom, which was only facilitated
because of a clean-up in the country's banking sector.

Page223of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Now it needs to kick-start its next stage of economic growth by writing off bad loans, over investment
and recapitalising its banks again, which will lead to a rebalancing and resetting of the economy.
Reform on this front has been slow and second guessing the Chinese government on what it might
do or when it might act is a fool's game.

ahyland@fairfaxmedia.com.au Twitter: @newsandimages

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

qntas : Qantas Airways Ltd
i75 : Airlines | i7501 : Scheduled Passenger Airlines | iairtr : Air Transport | itsp :
Transportation/Shipping
c3141 : Sales Promotions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c31 : Marketing | c314 : Pricing | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140124ea1p0001c

Page224of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.