Flavour haven

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Brisbane News
Flavour haven

Fran Metcalf
735 words
17 September 2014
Brisbane News
BRISNE
1
20
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Discover culinary class at Balis new fine diners

Beef carpaccio with palm heart salad and sesame grissini. Snapper ceviche with aji amarillo dressing.

Lobster thermidor and classic, made-at-the-table Caesar salad.

Sounds like the offerings of an upmarket restaurant in Sydney, San Francisco or Seville but these
dishes are on menus in Bali.

Who would have thought?

No longer the domain of nasi goreng and satay sticks, the tropical holiday island is striving to making
a name for itself as a dining destination and attract fine food-loving, fivestar tourists in the process.

Spearheading Bali's wave of luxury accommodation and top-notch cuisine is Balinese businessman
Kadek Wiranatha, who owns upmarket outlets along the tourist strip including the Ku De Ta
beachfront precinct, which houses degustation diner Mejekawi, and recently revamped fusion
restaurant Chez Gado Gado.

"Seminyak has become known for its food and drink offerings and has actually become a destination
for travellers from around the world looking for stand-out food and luxury offerings," he says. "I think
this has become very apparent in the past five years." Kadek's newest venue is the six-star beachfront
retreat Double-Six Luxury Hotel at Seminyak, next to Bali's throbbing tourism hotspots of Kuta and
Legian.

It's a sophisticated 146-suite hotel with an in-house day spa, 120-metre infinity pool, personalised
butler service and staff dressed in bespoke uniforms designed by Indonesian haute couture designer
Chossy Latu.
But the biggest drawcard at Double-Six is the food and wine venues, all five of which are operated by
Sydney chef Robert Marchetti, who recently sold his restaurant, North Bondi Italian, and opened
Seminyak Italian Food at this new retreat.

Seminyak Italian is the main restaurant in the hotel, overlooking the pool and a row of thatch-roof bars
and warungs that line the Double-Six beachfront.

The trattoria offers night-time diners a generous choice of offerings, from smallgoods and bruschetta
to pasta, risotto and traditional dishes such as cotoletta Milanese and porchetta di marchegiano. The
wine list is similarly thorough, listing Piedmont Nebbiolo, New South Wales' Monocle Shiraz and pinot
grigio from Friuli in Italy.

Daytime and in-room menus are influenced by healthy options like fresh juices, smoothies and a focus
on local, seasonal produce.

Page165of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.But the jewel in Robert's crown at Double-Six is the 170sq m rooftop entertainment area.

Rooftop guests can book floating booths on a deck that sits 15m above sea level and offers ocean
views. Inside, the chefs theatrically cook satays over open flames in a central island.

When it's fully operational by the end of October, DoubleSix Rooftop will have a floor-toceiling
aquarium filled with sharks and exotic fish and a mini-cinema where guests can pull up a deck chair,
order a cocktail or some snacks and catch the latest awardwinning short film.

Down one level will be The Plantation Grill, boasting black marble finishes, a vaulted double-height
ceiling, huge windows looking out to sea and a reception desk designed to look like a giant Louis
Vuitton suitcase.

It will specialise in dry-aged meat and line-caught seafood, cooked in speciallymade wood-fired
ovens. Next door will be the Sling Bar, an equally theatrical venue serving prohibition-style cocktails
and decked out with green velvet couches offering wide ocean views.

Robert says this is what tourists now demand.

"People travel so much more. They expect personalised and customised service." And he isn't the
only Australian to identify this new market in Bali. Will Meyrick, formerly of Sydney's Longrain
restaurant, opened Sarong in Bali in 2008 and followed it up with Mama San last year. A combination
of Chinese, Indian, Malaysian and other Asian cuisines, Mama San mirrors 1920s colonial Shanghai
with mahjong tables and chester?eld lounges.

Meanwhile, Sydney caterer Adam DundasTaylor moved with his wife and baby a year ago to start up
Barbacoa, an upmarket Latin American-inspired restaurant making a name for its smoky, wood-fired
flavours.
"It's been tough," Adam says. "But we've built the business up gradually which is the right way to do
it. It's going really well now." The writer travelled as a guest of Double-Six Luxury Hotel, Seminyak.
Suites start from $450 a night. Garuda flies daily from Brisbane to Bali direct.

double-six.com

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gfod : Food/Drink | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
| nswals : New South Wales | queensl : Queensland
News Ltd.
Document BRISNE0020140916ea9h0000h

Page166of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.