AusNet quick out of blocks on NSW, QLD privatisations

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Market Wrap - Street Talk
AusNet quick out of blocks on NSW, QLD privatisations

Edited by Sarah Thompson, Anthony Macdonald and Jake Mitchell
432 words
11 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
14
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

ASX-listed utility AusNet has been quick out of the blocks in studying the pending Queensland and
New South Wales power privatisations, calling investment banks to pitch potential deal structures
and funding options.
It is understood AusNet, which has a $4.9 billion market capitalisation and counts Asian
heavyweights Singapore Power and State Grid Corporation of China as major shareholders, has
been seeking an adviser to take it to the NSW and Queensland auctions.

AusNet is believed to be sounding banks on asset values, potential bid partners and regulatory
outcomes, leading into the auction.

It comes as rival listed network owners Spark Infrastructure and DUET Group also considers their
options. The three groups are believed to be assessing forming consortia to make a play at some of
the NSW and Queensland assets, in bids which would likely see them tap equity markets and join
with unlisted funds.

However, it is understood AusNet is the first potential bidder to talk openly with banks about running
a selection process and appointing an adviser.

The group has links with Lazard and Credit Suisse, but is expected to sound the market more
broadly.

Advisers are also understood to have been talking informally to the large potential offshore buyers,
including AusNet's shareholders Singapore  Power and State Grid, and Spark's major owner Cheung
Kong Infrastructure.
The Asian heavyweights are seen as the three leading contenders for $75 billion of network assets
on the block, and the unlisted Australian and offshore infrastructure funds.
It'll also be interesting to see whether the big American Berkshire Hathaway Energy and the United
Kingdom's National Grid are enticed into the auction. The pair, along with other utilities providers
from the developed world, have had plenty of opportunities to buy Australian poles and wires and
transmission networks in the past, but passed up the opportunity.

UBS analyst David Leitch reckons buyers will have to write cheques worth a combined $25 to
$30 billion at the two states' privatisations.
Elsewhere, vacuum cleaner retailer Godfreys Group will seek to raise $90 million to $103 million at
its initial public offering. The company is seeking to sell shares at $3.37 to $4 each in a bookbuild
run by CBA Equities and Credit Suisse.

The offer was priced at 10.5-times to 12-times forecast 2015 financial year profit, according to a term
sheet sent to fund managers late on Monday.

Page189of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.A bookbuild was set for November 19 and 20.

CO

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

diuetr : Duet Group | sinpow : Singapore Power Ltd | sprkif : Spark Infrastructure Group | stgcoc :
State Grid Corporation Of China | tmasek : Temasek Holdings Pte Ltd
i1 : Energy | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16102 : Electric Bulk Power Transmission | i81502 :
Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | ieutil : Electric Utilities | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv :
Investing/Securities | iutil : Utilities
c183 : Privatizations/Nationalization | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c18 : Ownership Changes |
cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141110eabb00009

Page190of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.