Paladin defends sale price of stake

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Finance
Paladin defends sale price of stake

PAUL GARVEY, ENERGY
539 words
21 January 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
2 - All-round First
16
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

PALADIN Energy managing director John Borshoff has defended the price fetched from the sale of
a stake in the company's flagship Langer Heinrich mine in Namibia, with the deal set to provide
significant relief to the miner's debt position.

Paladin said yesterday it would sell a 25 per cent interest in Langer Heinrich to state-owned
heavyweight China National Nuclear Corporation for $US190 million ($216m), ending a drawn-out
sales process.

The proceeds from the deal, which was signed at a formal ceremony in Beijing at the weekend, will
go towards relieving the debt obligations that have hung over Paladin in recent years.

Combined with a restructuring of its debt facilities announced last week, Mr Borshoff is confident the
company is now well positioned to meet its obligations when a $US300m convertible note matures
at the end of next year.

Paladin had been looking to sell off a minority interest in Langer Heinrich to give its balance sheet
some breathing space from the current low in uranium prices. The spot price of uranium has halved
to just $US35 a pound since the Fukushima nuclear disaster in Japan in 2011, leaving many
uranium miners struggling to remain profitable.
Analysts had previously estimated that a minority stake in Langer Heinrich could be worth
$US200m-$US300m. Mr Borshoff acknowledged the end price was at the lower end of expectations
but said the deal needed to be seen in the broader context of the impact on Paladin's debt position
and the potential for a closer relationship with China.

``In this environment, we reckon it was a fair price,'' Mr Borshoff told The Australian.

``It's still accretive to us and there's a lot more implications there for us than just the price.''
The refinancing of project debt facilities announced by the company last week are expected to save
the company around $US35.5m in interest repayments a year.

RBC Capital Markets analyst Chris Drew said the Langer Heinrich deal would provide some
much-needed relief to Paladin.

``I'd say the price is at the bottom end of expectations, however that's perhaps not too surprising
given the state of uranium markets and the knowledge (among buyers) that there was probably a bit
of pressure on these guys to do a deal,'' he told The Australian.

``It's positive they've done it. It obviously improves their liquidity position and it's going to make their
life a lot easier when it comes to repaying their next debt facility that's due at the end of 2015.''
Paladin now needs to see a long-awaited improvement in the uranium price, both to restore profit
margins but also reignite investor interest in the sector.

Page149of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Drew said yesterday's deal meant Paladin only needed the uranium price to recover to around
$US45 a pound, rather than $US60 a pound, in order to meet its debt obligations.

Shares in Paladin jumped as much as 9.5c before closing up 0.5c to 56.5c. While the stock has
climbed significantly off its lows of late last year, it remains down more than 54 per cent from its high
of last February.

chinuc : China National Nuclear Corp.
i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16101 : Electric Power Generation | i1610109 : Electric Power
Generation - Nuclear | ieutil : Electric Utilities | iutil : Utilities
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat
: Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140120ea1l0004n

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page150of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.