Yancoal's $2.6b rights offering 'not needed'

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Yancoal's $2.6b rights offering 'not needed'

Peter Ker
355 words
25 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
18
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

A minority shareholder in controversial coal miner Yancoal has asked the Takeovers Panel to stop
the miner going ahead with a potentially dilutive $US2.3 billion ($2.6 billion) rights offering.
Hong Kong hedge fund Senrigan Capital sought the intervention on Monday, after being convinced
the rights offering announced earlier this month was motivated by plans for Yancoal's biggest
shareholder, Chinese company Yanzhou, to gradually dilute smaller shareholders like Senrigan
and Noble Group.

The $US2.3 billion raising is planned to help loss-making Yancoal clear $US1.8 billion of debt
owed to Yanzhou. If no other shareholders participated, Yanzhou could grow its 78 per cent stake in
the miner to 98.8 per cent.

Senrigan chief investment officer Nicholas Taylor told the Takeovers Panel the rights offer was not
needed, given Yancoal's debt was not yet due, and Yanzhou had promised to provide financial
support.

Mr Taylor could not be reached on Monday, but he told the panel the rights offer was "part of a
strategy'' to enable Yanzhou to convert its convertible notes into equity at "depressed prices''.

He urged them to prevent the raising from going ahead, and in the event that it did go ahead, Mr
Taylor said it should first be subject to a vote of minority shareholders.

The Takeovers Panel has yet to say whether it will conduct hearings into Senrigan's claim, while
fellow minority shareholder Noble Group also declined to comment.
The troubles at Yancoal, which was formed by a series of acquisitions in the Australian coal sector
between 2007 and 2011, are another indicator of the tough times in the sector, which is struggling
under low prices.
Coking coal prices are 16 per cent lower over the past year while thermal coal prices are 25 per
cent lower over the same period.

Yancoal chief executive Reinhold Schmidt said at the time that the capital raising was needed to
reduce gearing and "deliver significant cost savings to weather the challenges of an increasingly
competitive marketplace".
The company operates seven mines in Australia.

CO

IN

yaptyl : Yancoal Australia Limited | yankua : Yankuang (Group) Corp | ynzmn : Yanzhou Coal Mining
Co Ltd
i111 : Coal Mining | i1 : Energy | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i112
: Coal Mining Support Activities

Page7of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE
PUB
AN

c171 : Share Capital | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c17 : Funding/Capital | cactio : Corporate
Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141124eabp0001x

Page8of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.