Kano Gets Attention in Global Doing Business Report

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Kano Gets Attention in Global Doing Business Report

by James Emejo
559 words
30 October 2014
18:25
All Africa
AFNWS
English
(c) 2014 AllAfrica, All Rights Reserved

Abuja, Oct 30, 2014 (This Day/All Africa Global Media via COMTEX) -- For the first time, the Doing
Business report has analysed business regulations in Kano alongside Lagos, which has featured in
previous editions, as well as 11 other economies to provide new insights into the variability of business
regulation within countries.

The "Doing Business 2015: Going Beyond Efficiency" report, which was released on Wednesday, stated
that the differences between cities are common in indicators measuring the steps, time, and cost of
completing regulatory transactions where local agencies play a larger role.

The report noted for instance, that while resolving a commercial dispute took 720 days in Kano, it would
require 447 days in Lagos.
On the other hand, it said while registering property required less time of 45 days in Kano, it would take
77 to register same property in Lagos.

Since 2005, the Doing Business project showed that Nigeria implemented 10 regulatory reforms to make
it easier to do business. The majority of the reforms had focused on improving business incorporation,
trade, and credit reporting systems-allowing the country to gradually narrow the gap with the best
regulatory practices in the region.

The report stated that Nigeria ranked among the top five economies in sub-Saharan Africa in two areas:
the ease of getting credit and the strength of minority investor protection.

Between 2013 and 2014, Nigeria saw an increase of 3.6 points in its distance to frontier score, greater
than the global average increase of 0.8. This was due in large part to an increase in the coverage rate of
Nigeria's credit reporting system and a reduction in the company registration fee that made it less costly
to start a business.

It said while the regulatory environment for Nigerian entrepreneurs is improving, considerable challenges
remained.

The report stressed that businesses in the country spend valuable time and resources to comply with
local regulations, especially in four areas measured by the report, including getting electricity; dealing
with construction permits; registering property; and paying taxes.

To get a new electricity connection, for example, a local entrepreneur has to complete nine procedures
and wait 257 days. In Namibia, the process takes only six procedures and 37 days, it added.
The Doing Business report lead author, World Bank Group, Rita Ramalho said:"Removing burdensome
regulations is an essential step toward a stronger private sector. Although Nigerian enterprises face
regulatory obstacles, implementing business-friendly reforms will allow local entrepreneurs to use their
time and resources more efficiently and thus become more competitive."

The latest report expands the data for three of the 10 topics covered, and there are plans to do so for five
more topics next year. In addition, the ease of doing business ranking is now based on the distance to
frontier score.

Page6of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.This measure showed how close each economy is to global best practices in business regulation. A
higher score indicates a more efficient business environment and stronger legal institutions.

The report found that Singapore topped the global ranking on the ease of doing business. Joining it on
the list of the top 10 economies with the most business-friendly regulatory environments are New
Zealand; Hong Kong SAR, China; Denmark; the Republic of Korea; Norway; the United States; the
United Kingdom; Finland; and Australia.

RE

nigea : Nigeria | africaz : Africa | austr : Australia | china : China | den : Denmark | lagos : Lagos | norw :
Norway | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz :
Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz :
Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | nordz : Nordic Countries | scandz :
Scandinavia | wafrz : West Africa
africa

IPD
PUB All Africa Global Media
AN

Document AFNWS00020141030eaau000fk

Page7of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.