TACO STOPS

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

TACO STOPS

753 words
2 July 2014
The Press (Christchurch)
THEPRE
3
English
© 2014 Fairfax New Zealand Limited. All Rights Reserved.

TACO STOPS

The lovely Tommy Taco truck, run by the two Toms, is now parking up at a couple more locations. In
addition to The Colombo and the corner of Cashel and High streets, Tommy is now visiting 105 Victoria
St (opposite Harlequin Public House), and outside Vodafone in Riccarton Rd. The Pallet Pavilion may be
gone, but Mamacita's definitely isn't. Mamacita's Mexican truck is parked at The Commons (cnr Kilmore
and Durham) and is serving winter Mexican fare like mole negro tamales, beautiful enchiladas and
hearty soups. They even travel on Tuesdays, so if you're keen to get Mamacita's to a site near you,
check them out on Facebook and put in a request.

RIGGERS RETURN

After two years without, Cassels and Sons Brewery have brought back the rigger. Filling your own bottles
straight from the tap is a must-have service for keen beer drinkers anxious to get the best of the best and
save a little cash. So, Cassels is once again set up for selling the fill- your-own bottle. The Sow's Ear -
the bottlestore in The Tannery - is now ready to go. Patrons buy the 1 litre bottle first time, fill it on the
cheap, then clean and bring the bottle back next time for a refill, still on the cheap. At the moment, beers
available are the Cassels American Pale Ale, the Pilsner, the Pale Ale, and the IPA. The Best Bitter is
also coming in a 2.4-litre specialty bottle better matched to its style. The Sow's Ear is open
10am-5pm-ish daily.

NEW (SMALL) BAR

The Institution craft beer and cocktail bar is now open at 28 New Regent St. It's in the same spot once
occupied by lingerie store Hot Damn! Lingerie. Store owner Kat McCorkindale opened the bar with
business partner Ryan Gebbie after being introduced to craft brews a few years ago. It's a compact little
space over two levels (do note the blackboard tables), with five Kiwi beers on tap with international drops
being introduced now and then. There's a fridge full of beer to complement the taps. Open 5pm till late
during the week, and 2pm til late at the weekend. Check out The Institution on Facebook.
CHINWAGS RETURNS
After much waiting and wondering and hoping, Chinwag Eatthai is making a comeback. Its old home in
Victoria St is now occupied by The Dirty Land and Mexicano's, and the High St site is still full of rubble.
So, Tony Astle is re-opening Chinwags directly across the road from Mexicano's, at 104 Victoria St.
Some may remember this as Moji. Astle says Chinwags will be like the old, but with some changes
made for the better. It's still authentic Thai, with some familiar faces returning to the kitchen. The decor is
moody, dark wood and soft lighting. It's about shared food, but caters to those who want a plate all to
themselves. Dates are up in the air, but we'll be looking at a new Chinwags sometime soon this winter.
Check out Chinwag Eatthai on Facebook to get the latest.

A WIN!

Kiwi chefs have beaten Australia at the annual NZCA Gourmet Pacific Challenge, which pits the two rival
countries against each other in a senior and junior chef section, and a pavlova showdown. This year, the
Kiwis won, and the senior chef team had some familiar faces: Steve Le Corre (Timaru), Darren Wright

Page65of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.(Chillingworth Rd, Christchurch), Richard Hingston (Christchurch) and Mark Sycamore (Tequila
Mockingbird, Christchurch).
NEW CHEESE FOR MARKET
Rangiora's Mt Grey Cheese will be joining the Christchurch Farmers' Market lineup from July 12. You
might have seen them at the Ohoka or Waipara Valley market. For their new posting, they're bringing
with them a cheese called MEG. It's a washed rind cheese - golden, soft, and a strong taste. The
cheese was named for cheesemaker Megan, who survived chemotherapy and radiotherapy, showing
her strength of character throughout. Be sure to look out for them in a couple of weeks.

AND THE PRIZE GOES TO...
A study into a fungal disease with the potential to negatively affect New Zealand's $1.2 billion wine
export industry has won Lincoln viticulture student Jackie Sammonds the Wines of Canterbury David
Jackson Prize for 2014. The $2000 award recognises viticulture research that could lead to a beneficial
change within the industry. Sammonds studies focused on the behaviour of Botryosphaeria fungal
spores.

NS
RE

gcat : Political/General News
nz : New Zealand | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr :
Australia

PUB Fairfax New Zealand Limited
AN

Document THEPRE0020140701ea7200002

Page66of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.