Rhu Bru team is keeping the beet in Apple Isle

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Rhu Bru team is keeping the beet in Apple Isle

By MONIQUE HORE
348 words
13 August 2014
Weekly Times
HERWEK
WeeklyTimes
79
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

HOLGER Ostersen and Jan Hughes have proved that one man’s trash is another man’s treasure.

The husband-and-wife team use second-grade rhubarb, not fit for supermarket shelves, to create the
Rhu Bru range of juices, compotes, jam, vinegars, cordial and relish. They sold their first bottle of
rhubarb juice in September 2008, after almost a year of experimenting with flavours.

Now the couple produce about 100,000 pouches of rhubarb compote and 40,000 juice bottles a year
from the Razz Rhubarb processing factory in Scottsdale, Tasmania.

“If people had told us then that we would have a rhubarb processing plant I would have said they were
crazy — I’m a schoolteacher and Holger is a farmer,” Ms Hughes said.
“But the opportunity was there so you grab it and run with it.” The couple buy rhubarb from Ms
Hughes’ cousin, Jerrod Nichols, and lavender, carrot, apple and berries for mixed-flavour products
from other Tasmanian producers.

“We use only Tasmanian fruit because this is a Tasmanian product — if we support each other we are
stronger for it,” Ms Hughes said.
“It is too easy to import cheap products from China but we prefer not to do that.” Mr Ostersen and Ms
Hughes, who also run a bed and breakfast in Scottsdale, launched Beat Rhut beetroot juices in April.

“Beetroot is having a renaissance in terms of being popular for its health benefits,” Ms Hughes said.
“People are choosing these sorts of still drinks as opposed to fizzy drinks more and more.” Rhu Bru
compote is sold at Woolworths in Tasmania, while the full range is sent across the state through
distributors. Leo’s Fine Food and Wine stocks the range at its Melbourne stores.

The couple employ up to eight casual staff on productions days, and three to four for packaging.

Ms Hughes said Rhu Bru would take on more staff, rather than increase machinery, to expand.“We
find value in employing people,” Ms Hughes said.

RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document HERWEK0020140812ea8d0001q

Page79of239©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.