Baking firm offer needs sweetening

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Baking firm offer needs sweetening

Sue Mitchell and Max Mason
948 words
29 April 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
15
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Iconic brands White Wings, Wonder White and MeadowLea could become consumer staples in Asia
if Goodman Fielder and its shareholders convince $18 billion Singapore-based oils trader Wilmar
International and Hong Kong investor First Pacific to sweeten a $1.8 billion takeover proposal.

Goodman Fielder has denounced as "opportunistic" an initial 65¢ a share offer from Wilmar, which
owns CSR's former sugar assets, and First Pacific, which controls 50 per cent of Indonesia's largest
food group, IndoFoods.

However, Australia's largest baker, which has seen underlying earnings halve over the past six years,
says it is willing to discuss any proposal that maximises value for shareholders.
"The board of Goodman Fielder remains focused on maximising shareholder value and will be
constrictive in relation to proposals [that] are consistent with this objective," Goodman Fielder said on
Monday after meeting with First Pacific and Wilmar principals over the weekend.
Many of Goodman's shareholders paid $2 a share in its $2.1 billion initial public offer in 2005 and
have become frustrated with the company after years of restructuring, asset write-downs and profit
downgrades. The latest downgrade on April 2 wiped more than 20 per cent off the shares and
appears to have been the trigger for the offer.

Analysts believe Wilmar and First Pacific could afford to pay as much as 75¢ or 80¢ a share, based
on multiples paid in recent consumer food transactions such as Manassen Foods and Warrnambool
Cheese & Butter, and taking into account estimated synergies between $10 million and
$20 million.Makes a lot of sense

"The bid makes a lot of sense and it looks like it has been very well considered – that makes me think
they'll come back for another go," said one analyst, who declined to be named.

Goodman's future now lies with Perpetual Investments, which owns 12.23 per cent, and Ellerston
Capital, which paid about 65¢ for much of its 13 per cent stake.

Together, the two are in prime position to negotiate a higher offer with Wilmar and First Pacific and
force the Goodman Fielderboard to engage.

"We think the Wilmar bid appears opportunistic, especially given the recent profit downgrades have
been driven largely by one-off factors we think are going to reverse," Perpetual Investments fund
manager Paul Skamvougeras told The Australian Financial Review after details of the 65¢-a-share
offer were disclosed on Monday.
"However, we would still encourage the company to continue to have dialogue with Wilmar to try to
extract a higher value for shareholders," Mr Skamvougeras said.

Page103of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Goodman's current earnings were depressed because of one-off factors including delays in
recovering a record surge in farmgate milk prices in New Zealand, rising wheat costs in Australia and
supply chain problems in the Australian bakery business stemming from recent factory closures, he
said.'We feel they'll reverse'

"We feel they'll reverse and when we take those into account that's why the bid is opportunistic and
that's why we encourage the company to engage," Mr Skamvougeras said.

Ellerston Capital declined to comment on the offer, but sources claimed Ellerston also believed the
Goodman board should engage and allow Wilmar and First Pacific to conduct due diligence.
Investors said the board refused to engage when Wilmar made an informal 60¢-a-share proposal in
mid-2012, shortly after snapping up a 10.1 per cent stake for about 58¢ a share.

Goodman denies an offer was made.
Wilmar and First Pacific would prefer a friendly deal through a board-backed scheme of
arrangement, but analysts said they may have to go hostile at some stage.

"I don't think these guys are willing to pay the price they [Goodman] would want," one analyst said.

Goodman shares rose 10.5¢, or 19 per cent, to as high as 65.5¢, slightly exceeding the mooted offer.
The shares were trading around 68¢ in February but dropped as low as 47.5¢ earlier this month after
the company downgraded 2014 profits by 15 per cent and foreshadowed further asset write
downs.Shares jumped two days prior

Last Thursday, two days before the offer was made, Goodman shares jumped 2.5¢ to 55¢ on
abnormally high volumes, suggesting that some traders had become aware of the proposal.
Goodman, which makes Wonder White and Helga's bread, MeadowLea margarine and Praise salad
dressings, said the highly conditional offer "materially undervalues" the company.

However, Wilmar and First Pacific described the offer as "compelling" and represented a 27 per cent
premium to Goodman's share price since the profit downgrade on April 2 "reset" future earnings.

"The proposal represents a unique and compelling opportunity for Goodman Fielder to maximise
value for its shareholders and create a leading Asia-Pacific agricultural and consumer staples joint
venture with strong financial resources and Asian understanding," Wilmar and First Capital said in a
joint statement.

Wilmar and First Pacific plan to take Goodman's market-leading consumer brands and intellectual
property into Asia, taking advantage of Wilmar's upstream sourcing and procurement capabilities and
First Pacific's downstream distribution capabilities through IndoFoods.
Analysts said First Pacific was also keen to take advantage of Goodman's New Zealand dairy
business by exporting milk to Indonesia and Malaysia. Goodman has received offers for the dairy
business and this may have been another trigger for the bid.

"This is all about the future," said Citigroup analyst Gino Rossi. "They want to get this for a fair price
and get upside in Indonesia by tying the two together more closely."

CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

fdgl : Goodman Fielder Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140428ea4t0000c

Page104of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.