Ukraine crisis gives edge for Woodside

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Ukraine crisis gives edge for Woodside

Brian Robins
655 words
5 March 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
24
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Analysis
It's an ill wind that blows nobody any good, and that is clearly true of Ukraine's confrontation with
Russia, which has caused jitters in Europe's energy markets.

Along with oil supplies, Europe sources one-third of its gas from Russia, with half of this flowing
through Ukraine. And security of supply is essential, since there is no ready alternative supply source if
there are disruptions.

Russia has threatened previously to cut supplies to Europe when rowing with Ukraine, which has
pushed up gas prices. And those fears have been rekindled as Russia has taken control of Crimea, in
Ukraine's south.

For Woodside, which is finalising agreement to buy into the giant Leviathan gas project in Israel,
potential disruption to gas supplies to Europe potentially adds to the attraction of finalising its buy-in.
While it has been negotiating to acquire a stake in the venture, the price has risen as reserves have
increased.

Woodside's decision to acquire an interest in this project is due to the potential to liquefy the gas for
export, which is the Australian company's perceived area of expertise. It has its own LNG carriers and
has discussed publicly shipping gas from Israel to west Asia.

But the blunt reminder to Europe that Russia could allow its political interests to override "security of
supply" for European energy users will give the Leviathan gas sales team automatic access to
Europe's main buyers.

And the proximity of Europe to Israel means that market will be a much more valuable outlet than
shipping the gas longer distances to Asia.

That same logic will result in more gas flowing from the US to Europe, rather than to Asia as its gas
export ambitions take wing, despite the hand-wringing of some Australian analysts and observers that
US exports may undermine the prospects for additional sales of Australian gas into Asia.

Additionally, Russia playing hardball with its gas exports to Europe will keep Asian buyers on the back
foot when looking to Russia for supplies.

Political risk from dealing with Russia is not new. Gas producers saw this firsthand a decade ago, when
the Russian government forced Shell to cede control of the Sakhalin II gas project in north Asia to
Gazprom at a price that bore little resemblance to the cost of the project.
Shell's stake was halved to 27.5 per cent, with Russia buying in for just $US7.5 billion, at a time when
the project cost had escalated to more than $US22 billion with Shell and its Japanese partners forced

Page161of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.to shoulder the cost overruns. In this light, it is no little wonder China has been reluctant to buy Russian
gas, even though its markets are so close to the source of supply, Siberia.

Its talks with Russia about buying its gas have dragged on for years with little tangible progress, with
China turning to Turkmenistan in the west and Myanmar to the south, where Woodside is now stepping
up its presence by opening an office and committing to exploration wells.

With Russia largely sidelined in Asia, this market is likely to be split increasingly between Australian
and potential Canadian suppliers.

Canada is anxious to get a seat at the table, although its projects are yet to progress, with
environmental, government and financing approvals all several years away, at best.

Apart from liability for federal taxes in Canada, the British Columbia government is planning to levy a
tax of 1.5 per cent on a project's net income - revenues less expenses - once production begins.

And when capital costs are recouped, a further tax of as much as 4.5 per cent will be levied. On this
basis, the initial tax cost would be about $C50 million annually, rising to about $C250 million once the
project has recovered the initial investment.

RE

PUB
AN

russ : Russia | austr : Australia | ukrn : Ukraine | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | eeurz : Central/Eastern Europe | eurz : Europe | ussrz : CIS Countries
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140304ea3500046

Page162of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.