Nickel rebirth wows Diggers

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Nickel rebirth wows Diggers

Nick Evans
367 words
5 August 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
First
3
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

WA’s nickel industry has given the annual Diggers & Dealers conference a flying start, with nickel and
gold explorer Duketon Mining enjoying a sterling first day’s trading and a newly released Western
Areas offtake tender likely to kick off manoeuvring by potential bidders for BHP Billiton’s Nickel West
assets.

Western Areas yesterday announced it had opened the tender for an estimated 13,000 tonnes of
nickel in concentrate a year, to replace a contract with China’s Jinchuan Group expiring next year.

The nickel producer has pulled forward its plans to open the tender to bidders, to capitalise on the
sale process for BHP’s Nickel West operations.

Winning access to the Western Areas concentrate — and that to be produced by Sirius Resources’
Nova mine — is seen as a necessary step for potential Nickel West buyers, as the metallurgical
qualities of the Western Areas feed make it critical to blend concentrate produced by BHP’s WA
nickel mines before they are fed into the Kalgoorlie smelter.

Western Areas executive director David Southam would not comment directly on the Nickel West
sale process but said the company had already seen “strong interest” in the contract.
Introducing additional competition for its ore due to the Nickel West sale could pay off for Western
Areas through an increase in the “payability” of its nickel concentrate — the percentage of the
London Metals Exchange nickel price paid to Western Areas for its ore.
The company does not publicly release details of its ore’s payability but most analysts estimate it is
paid 70 per cent to 75 per cent of the LME price, with other WA producers generally running at 65 per
cent to 70 per cent.

Duketon’s warm reception on the Australian Securities Exchange was being celebrated by Diggers
delegates as a further sign the long freeze of sentiment for Australian exploration companies may be
starting to thaw.

Duketon closed its first day on the ASX up 7¢, or 35 per cent, on its 20¢ float price, with almost 3
million shares changing hands.

It is understood rigs are at Duketon’s prospects, with drilling likely to start this week.

CO

IN

NS

zdukem : Duketon Mining Limited | bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | wearea : Western Areas Limited | bltplc :
BHP Billiton PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i2114 :
Copper Ore/Nickel Ore Mining
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News

Page203of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE
PUB
AN

waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140804ea850000h

Page204of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.