Putt putt on hunt for new home as council sells site

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Putt putt on hunt for new home as council sells site

Monique Cowper
692 words
27 August 2014
Northern District Times
NORDIS
NorthernDistrict
3
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE iconic putt putt course at Melrose Park is facing an uncertain future after Parramatta Council sold
the site.

The second-generation family business is scrambling to find a new location. Last week the council
announced it had sold the site and its surrounds for $130 million to Chinese property developers.

Mayor John Chedid described the site as “surplus to community needs’’. Putt putt has been operating
on the corner of Victoria and Wharf roads for more than 45 years.
It is understood the first the owners knew of the council’s decision to sell the site was when a for-sale
sign was erected this year.

Manager Kim Whybro said putt putt hoped to stay in the area and was trying to find a new location.

“We are starting to get inquiries from the community about what’s happening, I think people realise the
value of what we do,’’ Ms Whybro said.

The business has received a letter from a nine-year-old boy, who has been visiting the mini golf since
he was three, who wrote, “please don’t take it away’’.

An occupational therapist who takes psychiatric patients to the facility said they were given discounts
and carers received free admission.

“Every single patient had a smile on their faces you couldn’t get rid of if you tried,’’ he wrote. “Although it
may not sound like much, an activity and outing such as this is actually highly therapeutically
beneficial.’’ Putt putt has about 120 bookings a day during school holidays, schools use the facility for
sporting days and Ronald McDonald House holds regular events for families of children who have
cancer.

“We’ve been here such a long time, people really will miss it,’’ Ms Whybro said.

HAVE YOUR SAY Write to editor@ northerndistricttimes.com.au

A SELECTION FROM THE ALMOST 200 COMMENTS ON OUR FACEBOOK WALL Maddy English
Devastating news MEGAN MYHILL Black eye ALEX NADER Alex, remember when jamie drove you
there?

PAUL SABA LOL hahahaha JENNIE MINIFIE Where will the children play?

JOEL MASSA They can’t do this ELIZABETH GARRATT Oh no, that’s so convenient for me and for my
Scout Group.

Evan Pluto Listerto Melissa and Paul I think we need a game of remembrance...

Page158of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.ASAPNICKI GERRIE I remember my brother having his 7th birthday party there back in 1975, The next
visit was with my own children in 2005, and my daughter having her 7th birthday there.The place was
was just as exciting for my children as it was for my brother all those years before.

NATHAN YOUNIS I am actually shattered CHRISTOPHER RIDINGS Yeek! Sad Matthew McMurtry Oh
no! So many childhood memories AMELIA PARKINSON GOODBY Ohh what an iconic amazing
childhood place!!!

VIVIAN SCHMIEDTE So so sad. Many many happy birthday parties were held and attended there.
KELLY KEEN I always had to have the pink ball every time I went.

ROSE TOROSSIAN Some good memories were had there. So sad it’s going to close. This is one of
Ryde’s unofficial landmarks.

Tim Stratford This is an outrage... The jungle course, water course and tricky adventure course going!
Almost as sad as when El Capallo Blanco and Magic Kingdom closed! RIP Ermo putt putt!

LEA EARLE I’m 51 cough cough I had my 6th Birthday party here and next generation so did my two
children SAM BURNS to Charlie Smith - must organise onesie soon!!!

MELISSA COX me dad use to live there heheh, We did the 24 hour challenge. It was amazing, so is the
stuff. Good luck Katie Hochbaum We are going to miss golf!!! Our three-year-old is obsessed and has
been planning her 4th birthday there.. Hope it’s still there in February!! RUSSELL EDWARD Message to
Bec Turner: I remember playing a few rounds of mini golf here with you RENAYE COWELL We had
some of our wedding photos taken there 14 years ago. Such a fun day DOROTHY WARWICKSuch a
shame to see another icon disappear — and all in the name of ‘progress’

RE
PUB
AN

nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
News Ltd.
Document NORDIS0020140827ea8r0001y

Page159of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.