Blocked MacGen deal stymies NSW sales

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Blocked MacGen deal stymies NSW sales

Brian Robins
580 words
5 March 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
23
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Electricity - ACCC scuppers AGL bid
The decision by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission to block the purchase by
AGL of Macquarie Generation, the largest generator in the national electricity market, may limit future
government sales of large electricity market assets.

"Government can't sell remaining [electricity] assets," an industry consultant said on Tuesday,
following the ACCC's decision.

The competition regulator's decision prompted the NSW government to withdraw Macquarie
Generation from sale on Tuesday, although it may reassess a sale in a year or so if asset values
change, an official said.
Buying Macquarie Generation for $1.5 billion would have resulted in AGL's generation capacity
matching its market position, which made the deal more valuable to AGL than the other bidders.

Professor John Quiggan, of the University of Queensland, said power generators and retailers were
seeking to merge to remove market risk as state governments were quitting the sector.

Splitting the generators from the retailers "created risks that didn't exist before," he said. "The market
reform process was misconceived from the start."

Buying Macquarie Generation would have resulted in AGL owning the largest generators in NSW,
Victoria and South Australia.

As a result, ACCC chairman Rod Sims said he was concerned about the "likely competitive impact of
the proposed acquisition in one or more of the wholesale electricity markets in these regions".

The deal would "prevent vigorous competition with AGL, Origin and EnergyAustralia", he said.

In NSW alone, these three would have controlled as much as 80 per cent of generation capacity if
AGL bought Macquarie Generation. They already control as much as 95 per cent of the market
demand for electricity.

"This is likely to raise barriers to entry and expansion for other electricity retailers in NSW and
therefore reduce competition," Mr Sims said of the proposed deal.

NSW Treasurer Mike Baird said the government could split Macquarie Generation. However, a
spokesman for the Treasurer said "there is no 'Plan B', although a sale may be looked at again in a
year or so if asset values change".

The government is also seeking to sell its remaining power generators - Delta Electricity's central
coast operations, along with a clutch of renewable generators.

Page182of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Origin Energy earlier bought Eraring (2.88 megawatts of capacity) from the NSW government, while
Hong Kong-owned EnergyAustralia acquired Mt Piper (1.4MW) and Wallerawang (1MW), although
one of its two units has already been made idle because of weak demand and low prices. The
second will be turned off at the end of the month.

The regulator said the AGL deal would cause a "significant reduction both in hedge market liquidity
and the supply of competitively priced and appropriately customised hedge contracts to second tier
retailers competing in NSW".

"In particular, it does not appear likely that the remaining non-aligned generators in NSW, Delta ...
and Snowy Hydro, would be able to provide a sufficient quantity and type of hedge cover to be able
to adequately service the requirements of second tier retailers," Mr Sims said.

AGL had said it would provide some capacity to smaller retailers during times of high demand, but
this was not enough to offset the ACCC's concerns. "When the ACCC approved AGL's purchase of
Torrens Island [in South Australia], no one thought AGL would exercise market power, which it has,"
an industry observer said. "The ACCC has learnt its lesson."

macgen : Macquarie Generation | agkega : AGL Energy Limited | auccc : Australian Competition and
Consumer Commission
i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16101 : Electric Power Generation | ieutil : Electric Utilities | iutil :
Utilities
c182 : Asset Transactions | c183 : Privatizations/Nationalization | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140304ea350003p

CO

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page183of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.