Two Infrastructural Development Firms Shortlisted for Mbalam/Nabeba Iron Ore Project

HD
BY
WC 429 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Two Infrastructural Development Firms Shortlisted for Mbalam/Nabeba Iron Ore Project

by Godlove Bainkong

13 May 2014
21:13
All Africa
AFNWS
English
(c) 2014 AllAfrica, All Rights Reserved

TD

May 13, 2014 (Cameroon Tribune/All Africa Global Media via COMTEX) -- Information from the website of
Sundance Resources Limited, an Australian firm leading the multi-billion iron ore projects in Mbalam
(Cameroon) and Nabeba (Congo) says two firms, one from China and another from Europe, have been
shortlisted for infrastructure development of the projects.

"During the March Quarter, Sundance made significant progress on the port and rail Engineering
Procurement and Construction ('EPC') tender. Sundance completed a shortaEURlisting process which
identified two preferred tenderers. One is a StateaEUROwned Enterprise (SOE) from China and the other
is an international construction company from Europe," a release on Sundance March 2014 Quarterly
Activities report states. Sources say the identity of the companies remain confidential for now as
negations continue.

Sundance staff, it notes, conducted a site visit to one of the tender's construction sites and both tenderers
delivered presentations to the company. The process has reportedly advanced to the detailed negotiation
phase and the subsequent submissions from the tenderers confirm the price and contract durations are
within the range expected from the estimates given in the MbalamaEURNabeba Iron Ore Project
Definitive Feasibility Study (DFS) completed by Sundance in March 2011. The release also states that the
tender bids include proposals for contractoraEURfacilitated financing in a number of structures ranging
from EPC with facilitated debt finance through to a full BuildaEUROwnaEUROperateaEURTransfer
(BOOT) solution. "Sundance is confident this tender process will result in a preferred contractor being
selected and an exclusivity arrangement being signed in the June Quarter, 2014, Giulio Casello, CEO and
Managing Director Sundance Resources Limited, notes in the release. Earthworks also reportedly
commenced during the period at both Nabeba and Mbalam sites to provide access to the main mine
infrastructure locations. The early works are said to provide ease of access for construction teams and will
also allow further sterilisation and geotechnical foundation drilling to be undertaken, once scheduled.
It was equally during the first quarter of 2014 that Sundance's subsidiaries, Cam Iron (in Cameroon) and
Congo Iron (in Congo) signed a long-term off-take contract with leading global commodities trader, Noble
Resources International. According to the terms of the agreement, Noble will buy all the production for the
first 10 years of operation outside that allocated to project equity participants. Stakeholders say the
contract with Noble Resources International will help facilitate completion of debt funding for the
construction of the port, rail and mines infrastructure needed to take off mine production for the projects.

CO sfmn : Sundance Resources Ltd
IN

i5020017 : Harbor Construction | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i22 : Primary
Metals | i502 : Heavy Construction | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | iconst : Construction | icre :
Real Estate/Construction | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
africaz : Africa | austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries
| dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

NS
RE

IPD australia

Page10of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB All Africa Global Media
AN

Document AFNWS00020140513ea5d000n6

Page11of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.