China investors scouring for gold , copper , infrastructure assets-industry

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

China investors scouring for gold, copper, infrastructure assets-industry

By Melanie Burton
529 words
22 September 2014
21:21
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.

MELBOURNE, Sept 22 (Reuters) - A growing number of private sector Chinese investors are on the
hunt for gold and copper resources in countries such as Australia and Canada, advisers and analysts
said on Monday.

Growing investment abroad has been identified by Beijing as a strategic priority as it looks to slow the
rise of its foreign currency reserves and help its firms climb up the global value chain.

"In the past year, we saw almost $8 billion dollars of dedicated equity money organised into funds that
are based in Hong Kong," Jorge Ramiro Monroy, managing director of Hong Kong-based adviser
Emerging Markets Capital, said at a mining conference in Melbourne.

"These funds by and large haven't started investing yet. The effect that will have on the market could be
quite significant," said Monroy, adding that the bulk of the funds came from Chinese financial
institutions.
Canadian asset manager Sprott Inc and Chinese gold miner Zijin Mining Group launched an offshore
global mining fund a year ago with an initial seeding of $110 million to invest primarily in gold and
copper mining companies. It has a target size of $500 million, according to its website.
China investors were "hugely bullish" gold, in part a strategic push to underpin the yuan as it becomes
more freely tradable, said Monroy.

State-owned enterprises, in the midst of an anti graft crackdown, are more cautious, having been badly
burned on deals such as Australian iron ore in the past. But they are still looking for projects near
completion and are increasingly teaming up with local partners.

"Particularly the bigger ones are looking for sizable projects with cash flows. If it's a greenfield project it
needs to ramp up in a one-to-three year horizon," said Helen Cai, a managing director of research with
China investment bank CICC.
China this month simplified rules to make it easier for domestic companies to invest overseas. Its
outbound direct investment by non-financial firms hit $90.2 billion in 2013, up 16.8 percent from the
previous year.
Jia Yu, a director at a unit of state-owned China Power Investment Corporation, said that each year at
least 30 percent of the company's total revenue has been targeted from overseas investment. "The
Chinese government has strong motivational policies and we have strong pressure," she said.

Baosteel Resources, working with Australian rail operator Aurizon Holdings Ltd, took control of the
West Pilbara Iron Ore project in July after sealing a $1 billion takeover of Aquila Resources.
"There is a greater interest from Chinese companies to work together with local companies ...
Particularly around risk identification, risk management and interaction with local stakeholders and
government," said Paul Glasson, chairman of advisory firm Satori Investments Greater China.

Page79of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Assets that could attract bids from China state-owned firms or their local joint ventures could be the
upcoming sale of Australian ports in Queensland and Melbourne, said Scott Gardiner, managing
partner at law firm King & Wood Mallesons. (1 US dollar = 6.1380 Chinese yuan) (Editing by
Muralikumar Anantharaman)

Released: 2014-9-22T12:21:47.000Z
imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
e1119 : Reserve Assets | mcopp : Copper Markets | m1421 : Gold Markets | e11 : Economic
Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets |
mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mnonfr : Non-ferrous Metals | mpcsmt : Precious Metals
Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | cana : Canada | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | melb :
Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
| namz : North America
Business
SERVICE:AUF
Thomson Reuters (Markets) LLC
Document LBA0000020140922ea9m009kx

RF
IN
NS

RE

IPD
IPC
PUB
AN

Page80of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.