Tracking spies: the rise of private cybersecurity

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Information
Tracking spies: the rise of private cybersecurity

Christopher Joye
1,620 words
28 January 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
21
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

One of the world's fastest growing and most sophisticated private cyber intelligence agencies, FireEye,
which on January 2 announced the $US1.6 billion ($1.8 billion) purchase of its equally spooky peer,
Mandiant, is led by the archetype of the modern digital warrior.

The brawny and bronzed deal-maker David DeWalt – a wrestling champion who competed at the US
Olympic trials – was previously CEO of the anti-virus provider McAfee, which he sold to Intel for
$US7.7 billion in 2010.

Trained as a computer scientist, DeWalt, 49, has bought and sold more than 50 technology
companies and joined FireEye 15 months before its spectacular September 2013 NASDAQ listing,
when its share price almost doubled on debut to $US40.

The Australian Financial Review has previously flagged cybersecurity as a space for investors watch.

FireEye's acquisition of the profitable Mandiant, which famously published 74 pages of evidence
linking 40 malicious software ("malware") families to Unit 61398 of the People's Liberation Army
signals intelligence department (known as "3 PLA"), sent its stock price soaring 39 per cent higher the
next day. This trend continued through January with the share price touching $US73.57 in recent days,
79 per cent above its January 2 level.

DeWalt's equity has ballooned to $US322 million while FireEye's founder and chief technology officer,
Ashar Aziz, has watched his holding's value jump to $US737 million.

FireEye and Mandiant are at the vanguard of the next generation of 24/7 network monitoring and
incident response service providers that help big corporates battle committed and motivated intruders,
called "advanced persistent threats" (APTs), that easily circumvent conventional firewall and anti-virus
solutions.

APTs range from sovereign states to organised crime syndicates.

In an exclusive interview with The Australian Financial Review, DeWalt explained his rationale for
absorbing Mandiant, which he independently chaired, and addressed criticisms sourced from local
players.

Any question that cyber risks were being exaggerated has been answered by a spate of recent
revelations, including the stunning disclosures by Edward Snowden and Mandiant about the extent to
which countries like the US and China are spying on public and private targets. The devastating
December breaches of eight major US retailers that allowed eastern European criminals to steal credit
card data belonging to over 100 million people, again alerted the masses to the dangers.Huawei's ban
from NBN

Page146of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Pervasive state surveillance also raises the spectre of technology protectionism in sensitive industries
like critical infrastructure, with Huawei's blanket ban from the national broadband network being one
striking example.

And it is this parochialism, particularly acute in the cybersecurity domain, that is arguably the most
significant commercial challenge FireEye faces in attempting to expand beyond its North American
market on the "march to profitability".

While Mandiant's business is profitable, DeWalt says the combined entity remains three to four years
away from this milestone.
DeWalt believes that Mandiant's disclosures of China's relentless hacking of private enterprise
coupled with Snowden's even more detailed leaks of how the US National Security Agency penetrates
the internet's every pore, has been a big boon for his business.

"While both super powers had different motives, this news has elevated and educated the world on the
monitoring and espionage that has been occurring in the cyber domain like never before," he says.
"We are seeing almost every company in the world being breached, whether that be by Chinese
military stealing intellectual property, NSA intrusions for surveillance, or Russian crime groups
heisting debit and credit cards."

"From FireEye's vantage these important events have created a much more compelling reason for
companies to see whether they are being compromised."

A concern foreign clients might have about retaining FireEye and Mandiant is that they could be legally
co-opted into facilitating US intelligence gathering as Google, Facebook and Microsoft have in the
past.

One of FireEye's original investors was In-Q-Tel, a venture capital fund that invests in technology
companies "to support the missions of the CIA and [the] broader US intelligence community".
A FireEyeboard member was also previously a senior NSA official, while DeWalt himself is a member
of President Barack Obama's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee.

Yet the first wrestling inductee into the University of Delaware's Athletics Hall of Fame counters that
"we have never once received a subpoena or warrant from a US agency; never once. Nor would I
ever foresee that I would be issued with a warrant."

DeWalt maintains this is because FireEye is a "defensive product" that has no client information
retention capabilities. "What we study are behaviours in the network. We don't have any information on
our clients that would be of interest to military intelligence agencies."

"Australian companies and the Australian government can use our technology to help protect them
against any adversary, without fear of any information sharing or ties to US agencies," DeWalt affirms.

Three of the four major banks, the Australian Federal Police, and the Department of the Prime Minister
and Cabinet, are already clients.On-premises radar system

"The beauty of our technology is it is a radar system that is on-premise, and does not have to distribute
data to any back-end infrastructure."

FireEye's founder, Aziz, adds that its products are deployed in more than 40 military intelligence
agencies around the world, including non-"Five-Eyes" nations. Perhaps the spies want to buy the
system to work out how to defeat it.
So who is a greater threat for business: America's NSA or China's 3 PLA? "My perspective here has
been that they have very different motives," DeWalt says.
"What I see from 3 PLA and China's Ministry of State Security has been espionage orientated for the
purposes of enriching their economic system. I've tracked hundreds of companies that Chinese
agencies have stolen directly from.

"What I notice from US intelligence activities is that it is much more about monitoring and surveillance,
signals interception, and related to understanding national security threats from global actors."

The Mandiant deal, which was struck at 10 times revenue, triggered murmurings of a cybersecurity
bubble. Yet DeWalt rationalises it on the basis each company offers very different services. FireEye
provides a real-time, enterprise-wide detection system for advanced intrusions.

Page147of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."We deploy virtual machines at various levels of the company's network architecture that study
behaviour.

The slightest deviation in behaviour in the network allows us to create a threat score that determines
whether we should block that user or that application from being able to continue to perform."

With an average 243-day window between a breach and a remedy in the US, fingering the bad guys
quickly can materially reduce a company's financial and brand damage.

But FireEye's critics say that while it can find the bad guys, it offers no incident response capability,
which is Mandiant's specialty. "FireEye is really good at detecting problems, but all we do is give you
an alert," DeWalt concedes. "The next challenge is fixing it. Mandiant allows us to do both."

DeWalt says Mandiant, which made waves assisting The New York Times track down and repel
Chinese hackers, has "breach responders – cyber Seals, if you will – deployed all over the world that
help organisations solve complex attacks as they occur."

"The intelligence they gather is then automated into Mandiant's software products that companies can
use to compress the breach-to-remedy gap faster."

DeWalt does not think FireEye has any interest in getting into "offensive defence", where companies
seek to physically destroy, or "fry", hosts and servers used by intruders.

"There is a market for offensive security capabilities that is creating economic opportunities for some
companies, but it is not something FireEye or myself want to partake in."No place for vigilantes

"We don't want to be the vigilante that strikes back. That is a job for law enforcement."

Asked about what new attack techniques are emerging, DeWalt says that "over 90 per cent of
incidents now use command and control servers located inside ISPs and ASPs based in the victim's
country to try to lower suspicion".

Another development is the rise in intrusions originating from within the target itself.
"The adversary actually hijacks the company's own website, so it looks like the attack is coming from
NAB on NAB itself, which is a technique called "water holing". In these cases components of the
company's website architecture are used as the command and control server to exfiltrate information.

"That is why blacklisting products can be completely ineffectual because the attackers can come from
friendly websites and ISPs, and you cannot blacklist yourself."

DeWalt also says that in the last 12 to 24 months he has seen growth in malware interacting with
command and control servers via "state-of-the-art cryptography that is not off the shelf". "This is
very-difficult-to-track cryptography out of China, the US and Russia."

A final trend he cites is bad guys widening their scope to target "off-band" devices.

"So you download an app on to a personal mobile device that sideloads a key logger that steals your
corporate login credentials. They will then log back in as you on your corporate network, download an
exploit, establish a command-and-control server, and then start exfiltrating data."

"The combination of social networking coupled with new smartphones is lethal, because I know
everything about you online, and you're an active downloader of mobile apps, which is creating a
perfect platform of evil for high-value targets to be compromised."

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

fireei : FireEye Inc. | rclicl : Mandiant Corporation
isecpri : Security/Privacy Software | inetwt : Network Monitoring/Testing Tools | i3302 :
Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302021 : Applications Software | i3303 : Networking |
icomp : Computing | itech : Technology
ghack : Computer Crime | gspy : Espionage | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General
News | gcns : National Security | gcrim : Crime/Courts | gdef : Armed Forces | ncat : Content Types |
nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter
austr : Australia | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North
America
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140127ea1s00001

Page148of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Page149of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.