Propertylink's best year yet

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Propertylink's best year yet

Mercedes Ruehl
614 words
18 December 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
31
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Boutique real estate and infrastructure fund manager Propertylink has finished the year as an
aggressive purchaser of property, with a now-powerful presence in Australian real estate after
buying more than $600 million of assets.

"It's been our best year yet and we intend to do it again next year,"managing director Stephen Day
said.

"We took the business from $33 million of assets 3½ years ago to $2.4 billion across property and
infrastructure. The plan is to continue growing both of those."
Mr Day, founder of Valad Property Group, is also considering ways to provide liquidity to some
long-standing shareholders. "Listing is just one way of doing that. But for now, we are still focused on
building the business so you won't get a surprise in the next six months reading about [a float]," he
said.
The acquisitive real estate firm on Wednesday bought the Gateway Estate at Mount Kuring-Gai for
$55 million, on a passing yield of 8.04 per cent. The multi unit estate has a gross lettable area of
40,000 square metres.Colliers International's Gavin Bishop and Richard Ford brokered the deal.Mr
Bishop said the site will benefit from the North Connex project which will link the M1 and M2
Motorways.
Propertylink is also tipped to be nearing a deal to buy 73 Miller Street in North Sydney in a joint
venture with China's Fosun for around $120 million, but declined to comment when asked about the
transaction.

Mr Day stepped into the Propertylink business when it merged with Echo Capital Partners in 2011.

"We have fixed it, we have grown it, we have turned dividends back on and we have brought in new
investors," Mr Day said.

Propertylink, which itself is ungeared, will grow its funds business next year after kicking off the
Propertylink Australian Industrial Partnership 2. Propertylink's investment management platform is
made up of several funds and mandates but the largest is PAIP 1.

"PAIP1 has been acquiring an asset on average every 11 days this year, so it has been busy. It will
be about $500 million by Christmas, which will mark the end of the fund's investment phase," Stuart
Dawes, chief operating officer and head of investment management for Propertylink, said.

PAIP 1, whose two investors are Goldman Sachs and Grosvenor, has 28 assets and is focused
towards NSW and Victoria. PAIP2 will have a similar strategy, Mr Dawes said. Propertylink is in
discussions with a Asian sovereign wealth fund as a cornerstone investor in the fund. The fund will
have a hard cap of $400 million.

Page240of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Propertylink has been a big buyer of core plus industrial assets but next year intends to invest more in
the core plus office space, head of property Peter McDonald said.
Mr McDonald has just been endorsed by the board as a director.

Other investors through mandates and other funds include Bahrain-based Islamic bank Al Salam,
M&G Real Estate, HRL Morrison & Co, RBS and UK listed Balfour Beatty.

Infrastructure has also been an important part of the Propertylink business. Through Echo Capital the
team has managed PPP projects for 11 years.

Propertylink's infrastructure joint venture InStruct provides independent management services for
PPP projects, one of which is the Royal North Shore Hospital. InStruct has been hired to do the
operational management and all the finance for RBS.
Last week, the group was appointed to manage the construction and operational management for the
$250 million expansion of student accommodation at the University of Wollongong by the Living +
Learning consortium, whose lead partner is Balfour Beatty.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

valpgp : Valad Property Group | blgrou : The Blackstone Group LP
ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles |
i8150206 : Investment Trusts/Funds | i815020602 : Real Estate Investment Trusts | ifinal : Financial
Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141217eaci00004

Page241of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.