Property Investment Consultants' Advice: Now Is the Best Time to Invest

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property Investment Consultants' Advice: Now Is the Best Time to Invest

746 words
5 December 2014
00:00
PR Newswire (U.S.)
PRN
English
Copyright © 2014 PR Newswire Association LLC. All Rights Reserved.

Australia is seeing a growth in population, rise in real income, and shift in
economy, which are likely to push housing demand up. Learn why this is the
best time to invest in Australian properties.

QUEENSLAND, Australia, Dec. 4, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- A new wave is turning Australia's economic
landscape. The baton is passed from a mining investment-fuelled economy to a mining production and
home building economy, with third-placer NSW knocking down resource-based WA from its long-held
position as the country's strongest economic performer. And NSW's ace card? The number of recent
building Australia's real estate constructions happening across the state as it is trying to play catch-up
after years of under building. Other states are leaning to follow course.

Photo - http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20141203/162184

What's fuelling the development?

Australia's population is on the rise, fuelling the housing demand. Housing Industry Australia's recent
report, which analyses the country's future building requirements, emphasized the need to ensure
sufficient supply of new dwellings to provide housing to the country's growing and ageing population.

"In a scenario where Australia's population and its real incomes grow at a medium rate -- a scenario we
believe most plausible -- the nation will need to build an average of around 186,000 dwellings per
annum," HIA economist, Geordan Murray, said.

The number comprises 30,000 to 35,000 houses to offset demolished properties and 152,000 residences
to provide dwelling for new households and to meet the demand for additional housing driven by the
growth in real household income.
Then there's also a rising demand from abroad. Foreign real estate investors are coming out in
droves--especially those from Singapore and China. A Credit Suisse report stated that Chinese investors
are expected to sink around $44 billion into country's real estate market, particularly in residential
properties, in the next seven years.
Property investment consultants advise: "Invest now!"

The law of supply and demand tells us that when there is low supply and high demand, prices are highly
likely to increase. But why jump on the real estate bandwagon now? Because price growth, which is
expected to continue in several years, is just starting out and is unlikely to spurt until 2017.

Further price growth, combined with an easing of housing undersupply and possible changes to the
interest rate policy, will likely cause real estate price inflation to slow down in most cities from 2015 to
2016.

In fact, affordability has remained steady (if not improved slightly) in some capitals, including Perth with a
-2% price forecast, Canberra with +1%, and Darwin with +2%.

Page168of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Affordability in Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne, on the other hand, has significantly deteriorated, with
QBE Australian Housing Outlook 2014-2017 forecasting them to experience price growth at a rate of
+17%, +9%, and +5% over the next three years.
"Regardless of the affordability forecast though, putting your money in Australia's real estate today is still
a good idea, because the projected affordability at current rates can accommodate further price growth.
The earlier you enter the market, the higher your chances of getting a property at a lower price and the
higher your chances of making better profit when you decide to sell in the future where housing demand
and property prices are at their peak," said BAP.
BAP continues to encourage investors, "If you are looking to enter Aussie's real estate market, we
suggest that you do it now."

To learn more, contact an investment consultant in Australia at BAP to receive guidance through the
whole process. For more information about the property investing, visit their website and sign up to
receive a free e-book.
About Buy Australian Properties
Buy Australian Properties Corporation is an internationally based company that specializes in sourcing,
negotiating and supplying quality Australian property investments to the local Australian market and also
the international Asian market.

This content was issued through the press release service at i-Newswire.com. For more info visit:
http://www.i-newswire.com

Contact Information
Buy Australian Properties

Kent Town, South Australia

Kent Town

South Australia

5067 1300 99 44 17

To view the original version on PR Newswire,
visit:http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/property
-investment-consultants-advice-now-is-the-best-time-to-invest-300004380.html
SOURCE Buy Australian Properties Corporation

NS

RE

ereal : Real Estate Markets | e1104 : Personal Income/Average Earnings | gdemog : Demographics |
npress : Press Releases | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | gcat :
Political/General News | gcom : Society/Community | ncat : Content Types
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
NND

IPC
PUB PR Newswire Association, Inc.
AN

Document PRN0000020141204eac400051

Page169of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.