Pathology Land Grab Could Erode Margins, Says CS -- Market Talk

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Pathology Land Grab Could Erode Margins, Says CS -- Market Talk

1,577 words
18 September 2014
09:08
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

2308 GMT [Dow Jones] Australian pathology companies are participating in a land grab that shows no
signs of abating, says Credit Suisse. The broker's analysis of current Approved Collection Centers shows
a recent surge in deployments, with 526 centers added over the past nine months, an industry-wide
increase of around 12%. "The accelerated pace of ACC roll out in CY14 appears irrational in our view,
with inflated operating costs providing no apparent revenue gain." Broker keeps Neutral rating on Primary
Health Care Ltd. (PRY.AU), Sonic Healthcare Ltd. (SHL.AU) and Healthscope Ltd. (HSO.AU). "Should
weak pathology volume growth persist through FY15, the increased costs associated with ACC roll out
will likely see margin erosion for all providers." (rebecca.thurlow@wsj.com; @beckthurlow)

6:55 p.m. EDT [Dow Jones] In probably its strongest statement about the future of the U.S. Export-Import
Bank yet, Boeing said the continuing resolution passed by Congress on Wednesday would leave
"exporters and their workers in limbo until the middle of next year, and this will likely negatively impact
U.S. sales to foreign customers." The resolution keeps Ex-Im up and running until June 2015 and
ensures the bank will continue to be a political football while Delta Air Lines Inc., the most vocal opponent
of the bank, continues its search for 50 new twin-aisle jets from Boeing and rival Airbus Group NV.
(jon.ostrower@wsj.com;@jonostrower)
2252 GMT [Dow Jones] Boral Ltd.'s (BLD.AU) annual tour of its U.S. operations will likely shed some
light on what the future holds for its brick business in the country, says J.P. Morgan. At its FY14 result on
Aug. 27, Boral highlighted that a review of its global bricks position was ongoing. "While a definitive path
is unlikely to be unveiled next week, there is bound to be further light shed on what form the various
options might take," J.P. Morgan says. Clear direction on the issue could act as positive catalyst for the
stock, it adds. Also, there will likely be considerable focus on what will change as the business enters the
"transform" phase of the company's "fix, execute, transform" strategy. In particular, attention will likely be
drawn to the "aspirational" shift towards multi-family and R&R, the broker says. J.P. Morgan rates Boral
at overweight with a A$5.80 ($5.24) price target. BLD last traded at A$5.22. (david.winning@wsj.com;
@dwinningWSJ)
2250 GMT [Dow Jones] Atlas Iron Ltd. (AGO.AU) may be making a real effort to improve its cost
competitiveness, but the company is unlikely to report material benefits until FY16, says J.P. Morgan
analyst Luke Nelson. "Costs are now the main priority," he says, adding that AGO thinks it can cut its
breakeven point to the mid-US$70/ton level from about US$80/ton currently. For now, though, with
iron-ore prices languishing near five-year lows, the miner is cashflow neutral. J.P. Morgan keeps a
neutral rating on AGO, with an A$0.65 target. "While the stock trades at a discount to our NPV, we
believe there is too much uncertainty with the company's growth plans, capex and cost profile to be
comfortable with a more positive view," he says. AGO last traded at A$0.585. (rhiannon.hoyle@wsj.com;
Twitter: @RhiannonHoyle)
2249 GMT [Dow Jones] Private equity suitors Pacific Equity Partners and KKR & Co. have opted
against pitching a final bid for SAI Global Ltd. (SAI.AU), yet a number of parties have shown interest in
some of the businesses. That, says J.P. Morgan, is natural given the disparate assets that make up SAI
aren't a neat fit for any one peer. Still, the brokerage notes an offer for the whole company was a much
cleaner transaction and any break up or sale of individual assets needs to consider other factors such
as tax implications and the return profile of the remaining business. As such, J.P. Morgan's price target
on SAI reverts to A$4.40/share ($3.98) from A$5.18. It retains a neutral recommendation. SAI last traded
at A$4.18. (robb.stewart@wsj.com; Twitter: @RobbMStewart)

Page113of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.2245 GMT [Dow Jones] A debt restructure looks imminent at Africa-focused mineral-sands miner Base
Resources Ltd. (BSE.AU), which J.P. Morgan says could be a positive catalyst for the stock. The broker
cites comments by Base Resources management that proposed terms for a restructure of the Kwale
Project Finance Facility, which supports its mineral sands project in Kenya, have already been agreed
with all lenders. Under the terms of the restructure, all principal repayments will be deferred by six
months, J.P. Morgan says. The first principal repayment will be deferred to June 2015 and the current
portion of borrowings will be reduced to A$12 million ($10.8 million) from A$50 million. J.P. Morgan
rates Base Resources at overweight, with a A$0.50 ($0.45) price target. BSE last traded at A$0.28.
(david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)
18:37 ET [DOW JONES} Expect imminent action from the U.S. Treasury Department on inversions. "I'm
hopeful that we're going to be able to take action very, very soon," U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob Lew
said at an event hosted by the UCLA Anderson School of Management. Mr. Lew said he'd met with his
inversion team Tuesday on the actions being prepared and would discuss the plans with them again
while he's in Australia for the G20 finance ministers meeting this weekend. Unless Treasury plans to
announce the actions while the secretary is on the other side of the world, that would put an official
announcement into next week at the earliest. (ian.talley@wsj.com)

18:14 EDT - Nice timing on the temporary reauthorization of the US Export-Import Bank until next June.
On the agenda for its board meeting Thursday is an application for a loan guarantee from a unit of
Brazilian airline Gol for aircraft engine maintenance. Gol previously used just such a guarantee to park
engine work at Delta Air Lines (DAL), an arch-critic of Exim's current practices. Colombia's Avianca, Air
China, Ethiopian Airlines and Virgin Australia among the carriers that have lined up for Exim backing for
jet deals in recent weeks. (doug.cameron@wsj.com; @dougcameron)

18:10 EDT - The world's most powerful finance minister waded--just barely--into the Scottish
independence question on the eve of the vote, warning that secession could create economic problems.
"We think a strong, united UK is important," US Treasury Secretary Jacob Lew says in response to a
question at an event hosted by the UCLA Anderson School of Management. "It's an internal debate
within the UK right now, but obviously there are potentially significant economic ramifications and I think
we're all watching with great interest what happens tomorrow." (ian.talley@wsj.com)
18:08 EDT - Avison Young, a fast growing Canadian commercial real estate services company, has
made another acquisition in the New York City region: Kwartler Associates, a New Jersey-based
property management firm. Mark Rose, Avison Young's chief executive, declined to reveal the price
Avison paid for the family-owned firm that manages about 50 properties with more than 5.1M square feet
of office and industrial space in the New York region. But he says more deals can be expected in the
acquisition binge in which Avison Young has paid over $100M for about 30 companies over the past
five years. The Kwartler deal is expected to be announced Thursday. (peter.grant@wsj.com)

18:04 EDT - US Attorney General Eric Holder joins the chorus of public officials calling for individuals to
be held responsible for white-collar crimes, an approach that has recently been scaring compliance
officers. But he also concedes that such prosecutions currently face hurdles and called for potential
changes in the law. "The buck needs to stop somewhere where corporate misconduct is concerned. We
ought to consider this further and modify our laws where appropriate," he says. (rachel.ensign@wsj.com;
@RachelEnsignWSJ)

18:01 EDT - Stability in the polls is bad for Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff's chances of re-election at
this point, Eurasia Group says. Public support for Rousseff has seesawed in recent months, with the
president currently trying to overcome a slight disadvantage in the polls to challenger and current
frontrunner Marina Silva. But polls released this week have shown Rousseff's recovery stalling, which
Eurasia Group says may be the result of her negative campaigning against Silva. "For Rousseff to
remain the favorite, such tightening has to continue to at least a tie--or a slight Rousseff advantage--in
the second round over the next two weeks," Eurasia adds. (paul.kiernan@wsj.com)

To contact the Market Talk Editors,
Kevin Kingsbury, 212 416-2354, kevin.kingsbury@wsj.com
Cynthia Lin, 212 416-4403, Cynthia.lin@wsj.com
John Shipman, 212 416-2181, john.shipman@wsj.com
Patrick Sullivan, 212 416-2326, Patrick.sullivan@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

September 17, 2014 19:08 ET (23:08 GMT)

Page114of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO
IN
NS

prihea : Primary Health Care Ltd
i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences
gpol : Domestic Politics | gvtre : Treasury Department | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | namt :
All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed
Income Asset Class News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gvbod :
Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce :
FC&E Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020140917ea9h00410

Page115of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.