Sydney, Australia: Waterfront, beaches, art and food

SE
HD
BY
CR
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Life | Toronto Star
Sydney, Australia: Waterfront, beaches, art and food

Ingrid Williams
Special to the star
1,579 words
23 January 2014
The Toronto Star
TOR
English
Copyright (c) 2014 The Toronto Star

In ever-sunny, easygoing Sydney, don’t let the famous attractions circling the handsome harbour
consume all your attention. Focus instead on the evolving neighborhoods where art spaces are cropping
up beside train tracks, and innovative, chef-driven restaurants are opening at a rapid clip. If you’re
searching for flash, look to Darling Harbour, where celebrity chefs like David Chang and Luke Nguyen
have opened outposts in the Star, a ritzy casino and entertainment complex that reopened in 2011 after
a renovation costing around $800 million. For more discreet indulgences, seek out the diminutive
drinking dens that now pepper the city, the result of a change in local liquor licensing laws that finally
made business viable for small bars. Then when it’s time to dry out, the natural beauty of Australia’s
most populous city will be waiting along the sandy beaches that lie just minutes from downtown. And
don’t worry! You’re bound to pass a certain opera house along the way.

TD

Friday

3 p.m.

Modern Masters

Sydney is the pre-eminent place for art on the continent, in part because of the city’s soaring
multi-storey arts spaces. First hop over to the White Rabbit Gallery (free), which focuses exclusively on
contemporary Chinese art. Rotating exhibitions draw from the gallery’s vast collection, which includes
stunning pieces such as a life-size wire motorbike by Shi Jindian, a pile of Ai Weiwei’s sunflower seeds,
and Tu Wei-Cheng’s reproduction of a chocolate shop stocked with tank- and bomb-shaped
confections. Then head uptown to the Rocks precinct where the renovated Museum of Contemporary
Art reopened in 2012 with a new five-storey wing. Most interesting are the temporary exhibitions, such
as last year’s captivating Anish Kapoor retrospective, and, now, a thought-provoking collection from
Yoko Ono.
6 p.m.

Duck, duck, dumplings

In a city flush with excellent Asian restaurants, one of the most exciting is Mr. Wong, a two-level,
Chinese-inflected establishment hidden down a narrow lane. The restaurant’s elegant interior features
wood-beam ceilings, bamboo-framed chairs and rows of plump ducks hanging in the kitchen window.
After seeing the fowl, it will be difficult to pass up the Chinese roasted duck (half order, 34 Australian
dollars, about the same in U.S. dollars) or the Peking duck pancakes (half order, 45 Australian dollars),
but save room for a platter of delicious steamed dim sum (32 dollars).
8 p.m.

Culture carriage

Near the ascendant Redfern area, a 19th-Century industrial complex where railroad cars were once
constructed is now a cavernous cultural hub called Carriageworks. Located at the old Eveleigh Railway

Page38of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Yards, the venue hosts myriad contemporary arts events, everything from offbeat plays to large-scale
art exhibitions, in its many performance and exhibition spaces. Look out for an ambitious installation by
Christian Boltanski this month, and performances from the Samoan choreographer Lemi Ponifasio’s
company of Maori dancers, MAU, in May.
11 p.m.

Basement bars

Finding Sydney’s most atmospheric bars is no easy task. For example, to reach the Baxter Inn, you
walk down an unmarked alley, through an unkempt courtyard and down a flight of industrial-looking
steps to a nondescript basement door. When you’re mumbling, “This can’t possibly be right,” heave the
heavy portal open to enter an attractive, dimly lit saloon with vintage boxing posters on the walls and
hundreds of fine whiskeys lined up behind the bar. A hip hangout, squirreled away from view, is
Frankie’s Pizza. The front half of the bar is a kitschy homage to a pizzeria, with plastic checked
tablecloths and Chianti-bottle candleholders, while the rear half houses a rollicking American dive bar
circa 1987, with pinball machines flashing and deep cuts from Guns ’N’ Roses blasting. There are also
tasty sausage pizzas and craft beers from around the world, so plan for a very late, and fun, night.

Saturday
9 a.m.

Seaside salutations

Greet the morning with a series of sun salutations in stupendously scenic environs. About a mile south
of the more famous Bondi Beach, along a breathtakingly beautiful waterfront walkway, is Bronte Beach,
a boomerang of golden sand nestled between wind-worn cliffs, a verdant public park and the Tasman
Sea. Here, in full view of the aquamarine water, Yoga by the Sea holds restorative hatha classes in a
beachfront studio (23 Australian dollars). Sessions are also held at Bondi and Tamarama beaches, but
finding your centre amid the sea breezes and rhythmic crashing of waves in Bronte is hard to top. After
class, cool off with a dip in the sea or stake out a spot on the beach for a blissful, extended savasana.
12:30 p.m.

Bronte bites

From the beach, it’s a short, albeit steep, uphill walk to Three Blue Ducks, a casual restaurant opened
by three surfer friends. The vibe is laid-back; there are colourful murals painted across the walls, fresh
air wafting through open doors and windows. The organic-focused menu reflects a fine-dining
sensibility. During the antipodean summer, try a bright salad from the ever-changing menu; a recent
standout included spicy duck, green mango and bean sprouts. Then scope out the backyard garden that
most likely supplied some of the produce that graced your plate. Lunch for two, about 50 Australian
dollars.
3 p.m.

Neighbourhood shops

Spend the afternoon strolling through Surry Hills, a tranquil neighborhood where the tree-lined streets
are home to organic markets, sidewalk cafés and stylish shops. Give your wandering purpose with a
shopping tour beginning at Mushu, an eclectic boutique brimming with vintage-inspired clothing, delicate
jewellery and bright leather bags. Then cross the road to the Standard Store, an airy shop stocked with
printed sundresses, striped sailor shirts and polished brogues for dapper ladies and gents. Afterward,
head to Workshopped, a cool housewares store packed with Australian-designed products, from
copper pendant lamps to amber glass jam jars.
7 p.m.

Grill guys

Stick around Surry Hills for supper at Porteño, a lively Argentine restaurant owned by the chefs Ben
Milgate and Elvis Abrahanowicz. Dine on whole suckling pig and milk-fed lamb, roasted over an open
flame for eight hours, or try a steak cooked on the smoking parrilla. Should you find yourself waiting for
a table, head upstairs to Gardel’s Bar, where you can whet your appetite with a Fernet Branca and cola,
a popular tipple in Argentina. Dinner for two, about 100 Australian dollars.
10 p.m.

Page39of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Little darlings

After dinner, head north to Darlinghurst, a slightly scruffier area dotted with great watering holes. Start at
Red Lily, a tiny Indochina-inspired cocktail bar that serves creative concoctions such as the Pham
Fatale (kaffir lime leaf vodka, lychee and ginger liqueurs, lemon, and coconut water; 18 Australian
dollars). Continue the bar crawl at Shady Pines Saloon, a basement bar that could double as a
taxidermist’s lair. It’s easy to settle in here, shelling peanuts, listening to honky-tonk, petting the stuffed
bull head and drinking beer all night. But if you tire of the tongue-in-cheek Americana, head out for a
nightcap at Hinky Dinks. At this ’50s-themed bar, claim a seat on the banquettes and order one of the
irresistibly cutesy cocktails, such as the Hinky Fizz: strawberry-and-prosecco sorbet, gin, St-Germain,
peach bitters and grapefruit juice served in a sorbet cup (18 dollars).

Sunday
10 a.m.
Bread and Brett

Start the morning mingling with the many neighborhood pooches that accompany their owners outside
Bourke Street Bakery, a local institution that recently opened a fifth location. At one of the original café’s
sidewalk tables, linger over a short black and a pear-and-berry muffin or sweet pistachio crème brûlée
tart. Then grab a loaf of sourdough and walk up the block to the Brett Whiteley Studio (free), the former
home and workplace of the prominent Australian artist. Now an exhibition space under the auspices of
the Art Gallery of New South Wales, the studio contains some of Whiteley’s abstract and surrealist
pieces, as well as his well-preserved loft workshop, complete with unfinished works, reference books
and inspiration wall.
12:30 p.m.

Harbourside hideaway

Seaside beaches such as Bondi can get crowded, so instead soak up the sun harbourside. One
secluded swath of soft golden sand on the harbour’s eastern edge is Camp Cove Beach, where clear
turquoise water laps the shore. It’s the sort of secret spot where Sydney-siders come for a picnic, a
swim and a reminder of the fantastic nature that lies so close to their concrete metropolis. To reach this
hidden beach, take the ferry from Circular Quay to Watsons Bay, a relaxing ride that also affords a fine
view of — what else? — the white wedges of the iconic Sydney Opera House, backed by the steel arch
of the Sydney Harbour Bridge.

The New York Times

If You Go

Venture beyond the obvious!

Lesser known beaches are worth the visit, and great bars and restos are tucked away

ART

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Harborside delights. Take the ferry from Circular Quay to Watsons Bay, a relaxing ride that also affords
a fine view of the white wedges of the iconic Sydney Opera House backed by the steel arch of the
Sydney Harbor Bridge.
gart : Art | gcoart : Contemporary Art | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gcat : Political/General News | gent :
Arts/Entertainment
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
Toronto Star Newspapers Limited
Document TOR0000020140123ea1n001s4

Page40of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.