STYLE FILES

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

APlus
STYLE FILES

375 words
3 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
APlus
6
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

HTC design chief steps aside HTC Corporation’s design chief is to step down as the Taiwanese
smartphone maker’s market share shrinks.
Scott Croyle was the key individual behind the company’s latest flagship smartphone, the HTC One
(M8), which garnered favourable reviews for its sleek design when it was unveiled earlier this year.
Croyle will be focusing on “special projects” and “next-generation developments”, HTC said.

A few years ago, HTC was the top seller of Android-powered smartphones. But then it ran into
marketing and operational problems and dropped out of the world’s top 10 smartphone makers by
volume last year. Competitors Samsung and Apple — as well as lower-cost Chinese rivals such as
Lenovo and Huawei — gained ground.
To beef up marketing efforts, the Taoyuan-based company recently hired Samsung’s former US
marketing chief, who helped create the successful Galaxy brand, as a consultant.

Croyle joined HTC in 2008 after One & Co, a San Francisco-based boutique design house he
co-founded, was acquired by the Taiwanese company.
Loan to help light up Africa A SOLAR-POWERED lamp created by Berlin artist Olafur Eliasson and
Copenhagen engineer Frederik Ottesen will soon brighten more homes and classrooms in Africa,
thanks to a low-interest loan from the foundation of former New York City mayor Michael Bloomberg.
The foundation is set to make a $US5 million ($5.39m) deal with LittleSun, the German company that
makes Little Sun, a handheld solar-powered lamp. The lamp, introduced two years ago at the Tate
Modern museum in London, is for areas where electricity is scarce and the primary source of lighting
is kerosene lamps. The device is available in eight sub-Saharan African countries. At $US9 to $US17
each, the device pays for itself in roughly six months.

Kerosene lamps produce carbon dioxide and throw off particulate matter. The foundation estimates
one hour of breathing the fumes from a kerosene lamp is equivalent to smoking 10 cigarettes.
The lamp “will improve the health and quality of life of the people who purchase it because you get
away from indoor air-pollution issues which are detrimental to everyone, but especially detrimental to
children”, said foundation member Rohit Aggarwala.DOW JONES

CO
IN

NS
RE

htecc : HTC Corporation | viatec : VIA Technologies Inc
i347 : Electric Lighting Equipment | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | icnp : Consumer Goods | idurhg :
Durable Household Products | ielec : Consumer Electronics | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances |
itech : Technology | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | i34411 : Mobile Communications
Equipment
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

Page111of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140502ea5300033

Page112of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.