Posco looks east for growth

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Posco looks east for growth

Saskia Pickles
333 words
10 November 2014
Business News
WABN
English
© Copyright 2014 Business News Pty Ltd.

THE head of South Korean giant Posco's recent Australian business developments, Richard Lee, is
leaving the company with plans to establish himself in Perth.

Mr Lee, who was involved in the group's attempt to win the major contract for the Roy Hill project and
led its involvement in a coal-linked rail project in Queensland, is understood to have plans to remain
in Perth with his family.

Last month he established a company, ESP Global, with a trading name ESP Consulting Services.

Posco has shifted its investment focus from Western Australia to Queensland after initially entering
the Australian market as an equity partner in the $10 billionRoy Hill project.

The focus on the east coast follows its construction business, Posco E&C, missing out on Roy Hill's
major subcontract, which was awarded last year to national rival Samsung C&T for $5.6 billion.

Posco, which is the world's third largest steel producer, is continuing to invest heavily in Australian
mining projects, such as the Hume Coal project in New South Wales.
In WA it has a 49 per cent interest in half of the joint venture Australian Premium Iron, which is
developing the massive West Pilbara Iron Ore project. China steel giant Boasteel took control of 50
per cent of the joint venture earlier this year when it took over Aquila Resources.

In July, Posco E&C agreed, along with a subsidiary of India's Adani Group, to develop a
388-kilometre heavy haul railway to open up coal reserves in Queensland's Galilee Basin.

It is understood Posco E&C is also interested in further construction opportunities with Adani's $16
billion project, including developing the mine's coal handling and preparation plant and expanding
Abbot Point port.

In May, Posco E&C signed a memorandum of understanding with TNG to construct the Mount Peake
vanadium, titanium and iron project in the Northern Territory.

CO
IN

RE

PUB
AN

samsng : Samsung C&T | pohn : Posco Co
i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibasicm :
Basic Materials/Resources | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | isteel : Steel Production
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Business News Pty Ltd
Document WABN000020141112eaba000p2

Page229of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.