CHINESE LEAD INVESTMENT

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CHINESE LEAD INVESTMENT

By GREG NINNESS AND SAMANTHA HUTCHINSON - AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL REVIEW.
1,751 words
2 February 2014
Sunday Star-Times
SUNSTT
21
English
© 2014 Fairfax New Zealand Limited. All Rights Reserved.

CHINESE INVESTORS are likely to play an increasingly prominent role in the commercial property
market this year, with one commercial real estate agency reporting they accounted for a third of the
firm's sales last year.
Bruce Whillans, the executive director of Ray White Commercial Auckland, said his company sold
$450 million worth of commercial property last year, of which almost $150m went to Chinese buyers.

That part of the business has grown from almost nothing because Whillans only started fielding a
serious level of enquiries from Chinese investors at the beginning of last year.
"It has grown exponentially," he said, and as a result he was in the process of hiring Chinese- speaking
staff to man a dedicated Asian Business Desk within the agency.
He was finding there were three main types of Chinese buyers.

Those who had moved permanently to New Zealand and were already well-established, with a house
and other investments here.

Those who had sent their children to study here but were hoping to relocate the whole family to this
country at a later date and were buying assets in anticipation of the move.
Ultra wealthy individuals and large China-based corporate investors.

A common refrain from many of his clients was that although there were still difficulties moving large
amounts of money out of China, shifting up to about US$10m a year overseas was "do-able."
"So they tend to buy a nice family home for say $2m to $2.5m and a car and invest the rest.
Consequently Whillans gets many of his investor referrals from residential property agents within the
wider Ray White branch network.
"I'll get an agent from say Mairangi Bay ring me up and say he's just sold a house to a Chinese client
who now wants to invest $20m in commercial property," he said.
Many were keen on buying vacant residential land earmarked for future development.
Last year Whillans sold down many of the development sites at the Albany City project on Auckland's
North Shore and the majority were sold to Chinese buyers, he said.
"I think they are comfortable with landbanking because they understand residential land. There are
some who just want to buy it and park it. And others who are well-advanced with their development
planning, and they are using local consultants and architects and seem to be going about it in a prudent
manner."

Some were also buying for a relatively quick flick. "Some have bought $20m blocks and subdivided
them into $5m blocks and resold them," he said.

Page53of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In some cases, family money from China would be channelled through a son or daughter studying
here.
Whillans said he sold a block of land for $25m to a Chinese student studying at Auckland university
whose family hoped to move here.

"They are killing two birds with one stone because the kids are getting a good education and they are
establishing a financial beachhead here." he said.
There was also good interest from Chinese corporations and ultra wealthy individual investors keen on
buying major commercial property assets such as large office buildings worth $50m or more.

"The trouble is, those types of properties tend to be tightly held by local institutional investors such as
listed property trusts, so there is not a lot of stock available."
But if something did come on to their market, Whillans would expect some serious Chinese interest.
"It's creating some good liquidity in the local property market," he said.
The flow of funds from China seems to be part of a wider regional trend, with Australia also receiving
an influx of Chinese cash.
The most recent figures available from Australia's Foreign Investment Review Board showed Chinese
property investment during the 2011-2012 financial year was worth A$4.2 billion, with China the
third-biggest foreign investor in the domestic property market, behind the US (A$8.16b) and Singapore
(A$5.7b).
Sydney trophy home Altona at Point Piper sold in May 2012 for A$53 million to Chinese businessman
Xiuzhen Ding. another point Piper waterfront home owned by Seven executive Bruce McWilliam sold in
April for A$33m to Forbes Rich Lister and Cubbie Station buyer Qiu Yafu.
In Melbourne this week, private Chinese investor Fu Wah International Group snared one of the
country's prime hotel sites, the Park Hyatt Melbourne for A$135m, continuing a wave of Asian-lead
investment.
The sale comes in the wake of a string of deals to offshore investors at blisteringly high prices,
including Chinese developer Greenland's A$45m purchase in October of a four-hectare parcel at
Flemington Racecourse for a future high-rise development which could have an end value in excess of
A$500m.

The opportunity to own land outright on a freehold title, rather than the standard 70-year leases granted
in China, is one reason developers choose to buy land in Australia. "Its simple, you buy the site and
don't lose the title - ever," managing director of developer Antaeus, Stanley Lei said.
Having no caps on the number of properties an individual could buy in Australia was another incentive.

Families living in Beijing are restricted to owning just two apartments.
"Policies like this have driven Chinese locals to outside China to invest," Lei said.

Clean air and a relatively pristine natural environment was another drawcard, as was Australia's range
of universities - well-respected in global standings, according to CBRE (Australia) residential head
David Milton.

"The investors I see are typically following their children who went to uni here, but once they get here
they see it as a great place to live and a safe place to invest," he said, adding: "this wave of investment
is hardly a new thing.
"The Chinese have always invested in Australian property, but the biggest change is what used to be
quite a small investment is now turning into something big."
Chinese-born Australian resident Matthew Xu was one of the hoards who snapped up apartments in
Chinese developer Greenland's residential tower midway through construction on the site of the
former NSW Water Board headquarters in Sydney's CBD.
An accounting graduate from Xi'an in China's north-east and now studying towards his CFA (Charter
Financial Analyst) exams, Xu paid around A$1.05m for a two- bedroom apartment in what is slated to
become Sydney's tallest residential tower.

Page54of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It is his fifth investment property.

Xu arrived in Australia in 2009 after an aunt in Sydney suggested he try out for a Masters of Finance at
the University of New South Wales. He arrived on a student visa but quickly found the combination of
fresh air, green open space and range of great job opportunities was a compelling proposition to make
a life in Australia.
He became a permanent resident and embarked on his first property purchase as soon as he could to
avoid paying what he considered exorbitant rents.
"It was so expensive. I realised it would be better value to buy as soon as I could," he said.

He now owns apartments in Little Bay, Macquarie Fields, Burwood and Rhodes in addition to the recent
purchase in Sydney's CBD.

Xu has bought some of the apartments on his own. Other apartments, including the one in the city,
were funded with help from his parents, who run an agricultural business in China and invest in
equities. They are happy to invest in Australian property, he said, because it's is a much more secure
investment than property in China.
"Property prices have gone up so much in China and a lot of people think there is a bubble," he said.

"I think it's actually safer to invest here and I can get a good return."
Affordability was also an issue, he saids, adding that an apartment in Beijing equivalent to his central
Sydney flat would cost around A$2m.

"The prices are too high," he said of Beijing. "And people are scared in a few years the prices will go
down a lot."

A lower Australian dollar had also made investment more attractive.

His parents are unlikely to ever move to Australia but now that he's married and working as an
accountant, he's here to stay.
"It's a beautiful country here, and the environment is so much better. China has really bad air quality
and terrible pollution. It makes a big difference."

Local agents have long accepted that Ferraris and a protracted negotiation process are par for the
course when dealing with Asian property buyers. But a new crop of buying and selling practices,
including "net-to-vendor" agreements, are ruffling feathers.

A number of high-profile exchanges have been negotiated using the net-to-vendor model, which builds
an additional "facilitation" fee into the sale price, agents say. A Sydney-based agent speaking on the
condition of anonymity says he has seen instances where an intermediary involved in the deal will
demand an introduction fee, taken either out of the agent's commission or as a proportion of what the
vendor receives.

In these agreements, the fee is shared between the buyers' agent and lawyers, accountants and in-
betweens who put the deal in train by introducing a prospective buyer.

It's a practice some local agents call "unconscionable".
"I'm not sure how practices like that fly in Europe or Asia but, frankly, I think it's just taking advantage of
buyers," said one agent. "I mean, they're paying a substantial margin to these groups, and the higher
price may not necessarily be reflected in the value of the home." Vendors are missing out, too, he says,
and are receiving less than they should for saleable, good-quality property.

Other local agents say they understand the custom and are prepared to play ball, arguing it takes a lot
of people to convert a businessman, living in one of China's industrial cities and pondering an
investment in Australian property, into a buyer signing a deed of exchange.

"I think some people forget these clients are living thousands of kilometres away and, in many cases,
have never visited Australia," an agent in Sydney's eastern suburbs said. "It can take a lot of work and
numerous introductions to get them to the point where they're seriously thinking about a purchase, not
to mention time spent building trust."

Page55of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE

PUB
AN

c182 : Asset Transactions | ereal : Real Estate Markets | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate
Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic
News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
china : China | auckl : Auckland | austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | beijin : Beijing | apacz : Asia
Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals
: New South Wales | nz : New Zealand
Fairfax New Zealand Limited
Document SUNSTT0020140201ea220003o

Page56of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.