London calling for mid-sized homegrown developers: OCBC

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Top Stories
London calling for mid-sized homegrown developers: OCBC

Jamie Lee
616 words
21 April 2014
Business Times Singapore
STBT
English
(c) 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

Funding access is an ace in hand for Asian developers forming JVs abroad
[SINGAPORE] Mid-sized property developers in Singapore have joined the big boys in expanding
overseas - particularly in London and Australia - and are expected to continue in pursuit of better
margins amid stiff competition at home, said a senior executive from OCBC.

Last year, 20 per cent of construction loans that OCBC extended to Singapore developers have been
allocated to overseas projects, head of OCBC's global corporate banking George Lee told The
Business Times.

The developers are driven by the promise of better yield, Mr Lee said. OCBC's loan book in London
has fattened about five times since 2010, given the interest in residential and commercial properties
from Singapore developers.
Commercial properties in London command a 5-per cent yield. "In the context of Singapore, it's very
attractive," Mr Lee said, noting that commercial properties here have a yield of about 3 per cent.
Also, commercial leases in London can stretch up to 15 years, compared to a typical three-year
rental agreement in Singapore - a source of comfort to developers, added Mr Lee.
Interest is strong in Australia too, where commercial yield is even higher at about 6 per cent, he said.
Listed property developers in Singapore have announced plans to expand into these two markets,
given pressures on home ground.

Hiap Hoe said in February that it would continue its expansion into Australia, having bought an
investment property in Perth. In the same month, Heeton Holdings said that it plans to refurbish its
recent London purchase, the Enterprise Hotel.

Mr Lee expects more construction loans from these two markets - seeing the same growth in
absolute-number terms this year - though he noted that these loans are a fraction of the bank's overall
loan book. OCBC has the second-largest construction loan book in Singapore after DBS. It booked
about $25 billion in building loans last year, up 11 per cent over the year.
Property developers in Singapore see "intense competition and sluggishness in the market", said Mr
Lee. Besides fending off competition from Chinese and Malaysian developers, property firms here
have had their margins squeezed by the government's cooling measures.

"Given these dynamics, there is an impetus to go overseas," said Mr Lee.
While navigating unfamiliar territory, smaller property firms from Singapore and the region hold an
ace in hand when negotiating joint-venture deals with foreign developers.

By bringing in a Singapore bank such as OCBC to the table, these developers offer a valuable credit
line from Asian lenders when Western banks, particularly those from London, are shying from
construction loans as they repair their balance sheets, said Mr Lee.

Page148of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Hotel Properties sealed one such partnership with London developer Native Land and Malaysia's
Amcorp Properties in 2012 to acquire an office building in London for £85 million (S$178.8 million) for
redevelopment.

Malaysian developers have played the same hand. A consortium made up of the Employees' Pension
Fund of Malaysia, SP Setia and Sime Darby, snagged a 400-million pound bid for London's Battersea
Power Station in 2012, beating Chelsea Football Club, which planned to build a new stadium there.
Much attention has been drawn to the project, since the site of the idle building - which was featured
on a Pink Floyd album cover - will be designed by famed architect Frank Gehry.
The site will become a residential area, with the redevelopment plans backed by funding from Asian
banks such as CIMB Group, OCBC, and Maybank.
Mr Lee: Property developers in S'pore see 'intense competition and sluggishness in the market'
malay : Malaysia | singp : Singapore | austr : Australia | london : London (UK) | uk : United Kingdom |
apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries |
dvpcoz : Developing Economies | eecz : European Union Countries | eland : England | eurz : Europe |
seasiaz : Southeast Asia | weurz : Western Europe
Singapore Press Holdings Limited
Document STBT000020140420ea4l00006

ART
RE

PUB
AN

Page149of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.