Hotel sale reflects growing demand

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Commercial realestate
Hotel sale reflects growing demand

Carolyn Cummins
311 words
2 July 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
25
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Chinese investors have paid $10 million for the Newport Mirage Hotel in Sydney's northern
beaches.
Meanwhile, Chinese group Fu Wah International has completed its acquisition of Park Hyatt
Melbourne.

The deals indicate the rise in demand in the hotel sector, as tourists are showing a preference to
travel domestically and also look for out-of-town and short-term holidays.
CBRE Hotels' Andrew Jackson and Paul Kapiris sold the property on behalf of the vendors, the
Bayfield family. The Bayfields also own the Newport Arms Hotel, the Dee Why Hotel and Bayfields
Liquor Superstore. The family has owned the Newport Mirage Hotel since 2000.
Mr Jackson said it was the first hotel purchase for the Chinese group, and interest had been
strong from investors in the northern beaches area.

Mr Kapiris said buyers were increasingly looking to secure assets on shorter time-frames than seen
in the past. "This is particularly the case with hotel assets located within the metropolitan areas of
the country's major capital cities such as Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane."
The Park Hyatt deal is the first significant foray into the Australian property market for Fu Wah
International Group.

Wayne Bunz, senior director of CBRE Hotels Australia, and Anton Eilers, executive director, global
capital markets, China CBRE, were the brokers for the off-market deal between Singapore's GIC
and Fu Wah.
The newly listed Mantra Group has also expanded its portfolio with the lease of Observatory Tower,
one of Brisbane's landmark buildings on the corner of Wickham Terrace and Edward Street. The
24-level residential tower will be converted to aserviced apartment hotel, known as Mantra on
Edward.
The group has rebranded the former Diamant Hotel Brisbane as Mantra Terrace Hotel Brisbane,
taking the number of its Brisbane hotels to six.

IN

RE

PUB

i6651 : Hotels (except Casino)/Motels | i66 : Hotels/Restaurants | i665 : Lodgings | ilea :
Leisure/Arts/Hospitality | itourm : Tourism
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | china : China | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney |
apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz :
Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz :
Eastern Asia | queensl : Queensland
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited

Page69of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document SMHH000020140701ea720004j

Page70of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.