CapitaLand's loss could be FCL's gain in Australand deal

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies
CapitaLand's loss could be FCL's gain in Australand deal

Kalpana Rashiwala
861 words
5 June 2014
Business Times Singapore
STBT
English
(c) 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

WHAT does Frasers Centrepoint Limited (FCL) see in Australand Property Group that escaped
CapitaLand?

This must be a question on some market watchers' minds after FCL said yesterday that it had
submitted a conditional cash proposal to acquire up to a 100 per cent stake in Australand at A$4.48 per
stapled security, totalling A$2.6 billion (S$3 billion). FCL has entered into a four-week, exclusive
due-diligence period, after which the plan is to launch a binding offer. A key condition is that FCL
receives minimum 50.1 per cent acceptance.

CapitaLand had a 59.1 per cent stake in Australand, which it divested itself of in two stages: 20 per cent
last November at A$3.685 a stapled security or a total of A$426 million, followed by a sale of the
balance 39.12 per cent stake at A$3.75 each raising A$848.8 million. "This divestment would allow us
to reallocate capital to our core businesses in Singapore and China," CapitaLand's group CEO Lim
Ming Yan said in March.

The total sales proceeds of around S$1.5 billion would no doubt come in handy for the already
cash-rich group in its effort to privatise CapitaMalls Asia.

CapitaLand's involvement with Australand goes back two decades, prior to CapitaLand's formation in
2000 from the merger of DBS Land and Pidemco Land.

In 1994, DBS Land, helmed by Han Cheng Fong, bought a 65 per cent stake in Australian Housing and
Land Group of Companies (AHL), one of Australia's biggest residential property development
companies. DBS Land later renamed AHL as Australand and floated it on the Sydney and Singapore
bourses in June 1997. In 1999, Australand acquired Walker Corporation, a residential and industrial
property developer.

In November 2003, Australand stapled its shares to units in the then newly created trust, Australand
Property Trust (APT), which bought over high-yielding office and industrial properties owned by
wholesale property trusts that Australand had spun off a few years earlier. The stapling was aimed at
providing greater income stability to stapled security holders than a pure property development
business, where incomes are more volatile.

In early 2008, CapitaLand unveiled a tie-up with Australand to set up a pan-Asian development platform
in the industrial/logistics business, though this was put on hold later that year.

CapitaLand never got into the driver's seat at Australand. Granted, this may have been difficult as
Australand is a separate listed entity with its own board and management. That said, CapitaLand could
have tried to privatise Australand, gaining full exposure to its earnings and improving its return on equity
while tapping synergies to scale up operations. This did not happen.
When CapitaLandgroup CEO Liew Mun Leong retired, passing the baton to Lim Ming Yan from Jan 1,
2013, the group said it was reassessing its investment in Australand. It had said at the time that it
regarded Australand as more of a financial investment and that the firm had a different business focus
from its own.

Page207of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.So what does FCL see in Australand? And could it not have acquired a controlling stake at a much
cheaper price?
FCL did not buy a stake in Australand during CapitaLand's divestment exercises probably because,
under Australian law, the maximum it could acquire in Australand outside of an offer is 19.9 per cent. By
proposing a cash offer now, it stands to gain full control of Australand.
Australand's business stretches across Australia and includes development of residential land,
housing and apartments in addition to the development of and investment in income-producing
commercial and industrial properties. The group is also involved in property management.

FCL entered Australia in 2000. It made its first major acquisition in 2002, when it bought a Sydney CBD
site which it has since developed into Lumiere Residences and Frasers Suites Sydney. In 2007, it
acquired the former Carlton & United Brewery site in Sydney, which it has started developing into a
major urban rejuvenation project, Central Park, comprising residential, office and retail components,
over several phases.
The group also owns and operates serviced residences Down Under while its sponsored Reit Frasers
Commercial Trust owns two office buildings in the country - Caroline Chisholm Centre in Canberra,
and a 47-storey premium grade office tower in Perth, also named Central Park.

If FCL gains full control of Australand, it can integrate the two entities and expand its Australia
operations significantly. It will also be able to harness Australand's industrial property development
expertise to grow this business - whether in Singapore or elsewhere. Even if FCL gains majority, but not
full, control of Australand, it stands to enjoy a boost in asset size and earnings. In particular, recurring
income will rise, thanks to Australand's attractive commercial and industrial property portfolio. FCL
also stands to improve its residential development expertise Down Under.

Last year, Australand generated A$135.3 million net profit attributable to its stapled security holders.
CapitaLand's loss could well be FCL's gain.

CO
IN

RE

PUB
AN

ahlaus : Australand Property Group | ceprol : Frasers Centrepoint Ltd | dbsl : CapitaLand Limited
i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | i8500031 : Residential Property
Dealing/Owning | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest : Real
Estate | irreal : Residential Real Estate
austr : Australia | singp : Singapore | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Singapore Press Holdings Limited
Document STBT000020140604ea650000d

Page208of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.