Farmers say time is right to jump on the organic wagon

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Farmers say time is right to jump on the organic wagon

Duncan Hughes
622 words
1 December 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
39
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Fred Appleton, co-owner of a 182,000-hectare farm in central Queensland that is 400 kilometres wide,
is a new breed of beef farmer switching from traditional methods to organic.

Mr Appleton, who has 40,000 head of cattle, has bought an adjoining 15,400-hectare property for an
undisclosed price because of his confidence in rising demand, prices and profits.

"Everything is right to go," he said of the mix of rising supply and demand.

Specialists in organic farming claim that double-digit growth and record demand from local and
overseas consumers for everything from food to household products are driving other farmers to
consider the switch.

But consultants warn it is harder work and premium retail prices do not mean fatter farm gate profits.

According to the biennial Australian Organic Market Report, the industry has been growing at a
compound annual rate of more than 15 per cent for the past five years and is valued about
$1.7 billion.
Australia has the largest area of organic land in the world. There are 22.69 million hectares of land
for organic farming, and 17.15 million hectares have full organic certification.

Andrew Monk, chairman of Australian Organic, a not-for-profit industry body that sets and monitors
standards, estimates demand should expand from about 1 per cent to 5 per cent of the nation's
consumer demand over the next 10 years.

Mr Monk, a former farmer, said supermarkets could comfortably increase organic purchases by up to
40 per cent as consumer demand shifts from margins to mainstream. China FTA will speed up
demand
Industry specialists claim the recent free trade agreement with China will accelerate demand in Asian
markets as the growing middle classes seek clean and green alternatives.

Organic exports have more than doubled over the past two years. For now, North America and
Europe are the biggest markets for Australian organic food exporters, followed by Singapore and
Malaysia, Hong Kong and Japan.

Rising incomes are also linked to increased demand for beef, poultry and better quality household
products.

For farmers like Mr Appleton, whose property is near the central Queensland township of Alpha, the
switch means being able to increase beef prices from $3.20 to $5.40 a kilo.

Page201of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The father of four daughters aged from four to nine years, owns the farm with his brother, Loid, and
father, Dale. They will spend the next two years finalising stringent quality controls for certification.

This includes not using growth hormones or chemicals.
"Buy the right country and it will do it for you," he said about preparing land for the transition.

Consultants, such as Organic Systems Solutions, claim there is also huge demand for organic grain,
wine grapes and cosmetics. 'Still a niche industry'
Neil Clark, principal of Neil Clark Business Intelligence, a rural consultancy, said the shift to organic
is only financially realistic for "very good" farmers with "very, very good" cost controls.

That's because many farmers have to offset the promise of higher prices with lower yields, because
they are not using production-enhancing chemicals, and higher costs.

Premium prices for organic food do not always find their way back to the farmers in the form of higher
prices for their products, he added.

"It is still a niche industry and many back out of it because it is too hard," he said.
The Australian Organic Market Report found dairy was the fastest-growing segment in the organic
market, worth $113 million, followed by beef which is worth $198 million.
Organic grape production for wine surged 120 per cent between 2011 and 2014 and is now worth
$117 million.

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

iorgf : Organic Food | i0 : Agriculture | iofarm : Organic Farming | ireest : Real Estate | i01001 :
Farming | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods | icre : Real Estate/Construction |
ifood : Food Products
c312 : External Markets | mcattl : Beef/Dairy Cattle Markets | mlvstk : Livestock/Meat Markets | c151 :
Earnings | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing/Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | m14 :
Commodity Markets | m141 : Agricultural Commodity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market
News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : C&E
Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141130eac10002a

Page202of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.