Austrade confident China trade deal can outstrip NZ

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Austrade confident China trade deal can outstrip NZ

John Kerin
503 words
24 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
5
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Australia can do better than New Zealand in its proposed trade deal with China, Austrade chief
executive Bruce Gosper says. Mr Gosper said while New Zealand had sold the benefits of its deal
largely on a big boost in dairy exports, Australia was looking for a much broader outcome on
agriculture.

The Austrade chief was speaking at a Committee for Economic Development of Australia
conference in Canberra on Monday.

Mr Gosper said after 20 rounds of talks, people were anxious to see a conclusion and he hoped the
Australia-China free-trade agreement would be concluded before the end of 2014.

"The negotiations are well advanced," he said. "Our interests stretch across a wide area of
agriculture, more than just dairy and more than just livestock . . . [including] some quite sensitive
areas in the Chinese context such as grains, rice and sugar.

"It's a much wider negotiation than perhaps New Zealand faced," he added, while conceding New
Zealand had done "fabulously well" in lifting dairy exports by $NZ2 billion ($1.9 billion).

He said Australia's gains from the deal could go well beyond the livestock sectors, noting the country
could also do well in banking, insurance, environment and education services, as well as logistics –
and could even make some gains in advanced manufacturing.

"That's never an easy thing to negotiate with any FTA partner, because when you come to services
you are dealing with a whole range of jurisdictions at federal and provincial level," Mr Gosper said.
But China was grappling with rapid modernisation, meaning demand for new services was growing.

"I suspect you will see in the services sector a series of outcomes that enable us to fill holes in niche
sectors in parts of China, such as high-growth regions," Mr Gosper said. "This deal will put us ahead
of other countries because no other developed country has a deal with China other than New
Zealand.

"[But] it's across broad areas of agriculture and services where the largest gains will be had," he
added.

Trade Minister Andrew Robb has been saying for some time that Australian farmers can expect at
least as good a deal as their New Zealand counterparts.
Australia has held on-again, off-again talks with China since 2005. The New Zealand deal, which
dropped or phased out tariffs altogether on a range of products, came into force in 2008.

Prime Minister Tony Abbott has set an ambitious goal to secure all three north Asian free-trade
deals by September, with Australia already securing agreements with Japan and Korea.

Page25of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.One of the biggest hitches had been concerns over raising the foreign investment threshold for
China from $248 million to $1 billion before it triggers Foreign Investment Review Board scrutiny.
The Coalition has promised to introduce a farmland register to allay voter concerns over foreign
investment in Australia.
China is Australia's largest export market, with two-way trade worth $113 billion in 2013.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

e512 : Physical Trade | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News
china : China | nz : New Zealand | auscap : Australian Capital Territory | austr : Australia | apacz :
Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China
| devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140623ea6o0000a

Page26of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.