Greenhills hosts executives out for a power lunch

HD Greenhills hosts executives out for a power lunch
WC 1,389 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

14 September 2014
Philippine Daily Inquirer
AIWPHI
English
Copyright 2014 Inquirer Interactive, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

TD

        There are not a lot of romantic restaurants in the Greenhills area but the restaurateurs here sure
know how to cater to one of their biggest markets: the executive class. Here are a few restaurants where
you can seal a deal over a power lunch.   Cowrie Grill   A great juicy steak in a pristine setting seems most
appropriate for executives in power suits. This is what The Cowrie Grill offers.   It brings you to a five-star
hotel setting, even if it is located in the outskirts of the bustling Greenhills mall. That is because the
restaurant is still managed by The Manila Hotel, which created The Cowrie Grill, originally located beside
the all-day buffet of Cafe Ilang-Ilang in 1977.   Service is likewise hotel-inspired. Waiters are attentive. A
basket of bread and fancy butter are offered within five minutes of being seated to assuage a growling
stomach while waiting for your orders. The only thing missing is valet parking.   The menu is straight up
and traditional.

You will find neither fusion nor confusion here, just good ol' American-style steak. They offer a grade 8 US
Wagyu striploin; a US Angus Tomahawk ribeye; a US-certified Angus tenderloin; a young prime Angus
Porterhouse; and a young prime T-bone. The fanciest items on the menu are the Chateaubriand and the
Entrecote, still on the lines of straight up steaks.   Not a meat-eater? There is seabass with orange beurre
blanc and lobster thermidore, sold at market prices. For dessert? For the ultimate executive, a chocolate
gateau to be paired with cognac. Or for the more dainty, a New York cheesecake.   The power lunch
comes with power prices, though. While the Porterhouse is at a reasonable P2,200, and the Tomahawk, at
21 ounces, is at a reasonable P3,700, the US Wagyu ribeye, at 10 ounces, costs P6,700. How's that for a
meal to seal the deal?   Gloria Maris   Nine out of the 10 tycoons in the Forbes 2014 Top 10 Richest
People in the Philippines list are Chinese. So it is crucial to have a Chinese restaurant on this list and the
biggest Chinese restaurant on the block is Gloria Maris—literally.   The restaurant now boasts of an
astounding 7,500 square meter area with two floors and five sections. The second floor accommodates a
hundred tables, perfect for weddings and corporate events; and also has 13 VIP function rooms of various
sizes. On the massive ground floor, the fine dining hall has forty tables while the adjoining areas with
around 50 tables are used for the more casual hotpot and dimsum dining.   People still come here to enjoy
their famous hakaw, two-tone almond seafood soup, and Peking duck (although Peking Garden still reigns
supreme for duck orders). Interestingly, they now also offer Japanese items on the menu. The starter of
Chiu Chow cold cuts has salmon sashimi and California maki incorporated in the order. Another unusual
combo is the half order of suckling pig with California maki. They have also developed modern Chinese
creations such as the pan fried stuffed fresh mushroom with abalone, a delightfully chewy and gooey
savory starter, in spite of its diversion from abalone as traditionally served.   While the old reliables are
present, there are admittedly some items on the menu that are not as stellar. The Rich Man's Fried Rice is
poorer in terms of flavor and ingredients than, say, a Yang Chow Fried Rice or a Seafood Fried Rice. The
Fried Mashed Taro Duck is a depressing experience reminiscent of mush and rubber, considering it is
priced at P700.   But as with any other restaurant, you just need to know what to order. Gloria Maris' winter
melon soup has an excellent broth. And the pigeon stuffed with liver sausage is so delicious it is worth a
seven-year wait. (Service may be slow.)   Nevertheless, that this gigantic space is full even on a weeknight
with businessmen, families as big as  armies, and a wedding, is testament to its reliability as a restaurant.
Best of all, sometimes they offer promos that give you 50 percent off if you use a specific credit card. Now
that's a winning deal!   Choi Garden   This isn't in the Greenhills complex but close enough, along
Annapolis.   You will initially feel like you're walking into either the Moulin Rouge or a watermelon because
of the red area before the tunnel that you need to cross to get to the main dining section. But power
lunchers can get a private dining room and negotiate over Choi Garden's pigeon or Hong Kong-style
Chinese fried chicken, an off-the-menu item tipped by the gourmet senator from San Juan. And for
executives who       want a perfect balance of Yin and Yang, the Double Soup in Pot is perfect for you: the
left side offers a very Yin broth while the right side of the pot is a fiery Yang.   A bonus (or not) is that you

Page118of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.might bump into politicians and tycoons at this resto. For some reason this is a politico fave. But with the
privacy and the hot pot that the restaurant offers, it's easy to see why.   Wafu   Another favorite cuisine for
businessmen—and everyone else (!)—is Japanese. (Why else would Gloria Maris have Japanese items
on their all-Chinese menu?) Kimpura and Sugi are still around, but the recent revelation at Greenhills is
Wafu, just behind Gloria Maris. It is a huge restaurant with two floors and a deck for private dining on the
steps leading to the second floor.   Executives can appreciate teppanyaki without stinking up their Hugo
Boss suits as the owners have invested in teppanyaki tables with special vents. And in case you have
guests whose identities must remain confidential, there is also a private room with a special elevator that
you can take from the underground parking lot.   Best of all, they offer hard-to-find items like otoro and
botan shrimp from Japan. Feed this to any connoisseur and he or she is bound to be instantly won over!  
House of Wagyu   A group of six would easily set the host back P20,000 at this restaurant. But the
Australian Wagyu that can be personally cooked by guests on the restaurant's customized stone grills
ensures a first-rate first impression.   This restaurant is owned by Melo Santiago of Melo's, that hit
steakhouse of the 1990s. Consider this the chicer and wiser version of his eponymous restaurant,
capitalizing on the intricate marbling of Australian-bred Japanese Wagyu. Enjoy their ribeye offered in
various grades with the restaurant's equally impressive wine list. And don't be afraid to overdress; the
restrained elegance of the Chito Antonio-designed interiors (from Tangerine, the previous restaurant at
this location) allow it.   * * *   With all these restaurants now open, Greenhills is proving that it's no longer
just for bargain hunting but for serious businessmen (and women) in power suits as well.   The Cowrie Grill
  Missouri Street, Greenhills Shopping Center. Reservations recommended. Call 5270011. Open daily.
Lunch 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Dinner 6:30  to 10:30 p.m. Major credit cards accepted. Wheelchair accessible.  
Parking beside the restaurant close to impossible but you can park in the Greenhills parking area beside
Promenade.   Gloria Maris   Missouri Street Corner Connecticut, San Juan. Reservations recommended.
Call  5700921, 5700923,  5700924. Major credit cards accepted. Call to inquire about credit cards that
offer discounts.   Valet parking available. Ground floor is wheelchair accessible.   Choi Garden   Annapolis
(approaching Edsa), San Juan. Reservations recommended. Call  7268987. Major credit cards accepted.  
Parking is limited. Ground floor is wheelchair accessible.   Wafu   Greenhills Shopping Center (behind
Gloria Maris). Reservations recommended. Call 5703242. Open for lunch 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. and dinner 6
to 10 p.m. Major credit cards accepted.   Basement parking available. Wheelchair accessible (except the
lotus pods area).   House of Wagyu Stone Grill   McKinley Arcade cor. Club Filipino Drive, Greenhills.
Reservations recommended. Call  7252811 or  7257450. Open daily from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m. Major credit
cards accepted.   Open space parking right beside the restaurant. Wheelchair accessible.   Blog:
margauxlicious.com. Email: margauxlicious.media@gmail.com.   Facebook, Twitter, Instagram:
@margauxsalcedo.    

IN

NS
RE

i6611 : Full-service Restaurants | i323 : Textile Machinery Manufacturing | i32 : Machinery | i66 :
Hotels/Restaurants | i661 : Restaurants/Cafes/Fast Food Places | iindstrls : Industrial Goods | ilea :
Leisure/Arts/Hospitality
gfod : Food/Drink | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle
usa : United States | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North
America

IPC food, Restaurant, Greenhills, The Cowrie Grill
PUB Inquirer Interactive, Inc.
AN Document AIWPHI0020140914ea9e0001g

Page119of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.