Miners shrug off ban

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Miners shrug off ban

John Dagge
386 words
18 September 2014
Herald-Sun
HERSUN
HeraldSun
53
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

RESOURCES AUSTRALIAN coal miners have played down the impact of proposed Chinese
measures to ban imports of low-quality coal, with Whitehaven saying the rules will ultimately benefit
the local sector.
Australia’s coal industry is poring over the finer points of a Chinese Government draft that from next
year would ban the import and local sale of coal with high impurities.

The crackdown comes as Chinese authorities move to tackle air pollution. China accounts for a
quarter of Australia’s exports of thermal coal, which is used in energy production. It bought about 50
million tonnes last year.
Of concern to miners are plans to ban the import into China’s three biggest economic regions of coal
with ash content greater than 16 per cent and sulphur content greater than 1 per cent.
The regions cover Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou, which account for 42 per cent of China’s
thermal coal imports, according to investment bank Citi.
Energy research group Wood Mackenzie has estimated that no local thermal coal exports would
currently meet the new conditions — a claim disputed by mining lobby group Minerals Council of
Australia.
Morgan Stanley says about 40 per cent of thermal coal exports could run foul of the new regulations
but notes only a proportion of these shipments go to China. Rio Tinto yesterday said the new rules
would have “little if any impact” on the company. BHP Billiton said it did not expect any impact on its
business.
The State Government, which is trying to develop a brown coal export industry, said the ash and
sulphur content of the state’s coal was far below any of the proposed requirements. Analysts also say
miners can reduce coal’s ash content by washing or blending it with higher grades, although this can
be expensive for a sector already struggling with low prices.
Just how far-ranging the ban will be is yet to be clarified. Whitehaven Coal chief Paul Flynn said local
coal producers would, in the long run, benefit from the new rules as Australia’s coal was of higher
quality than international rivals.

Whitehaven shares closed 2.5 per cent lower at $1.775. Rio Tinto shares climbed 0.4 per cent to
$62.03.john.dagge@news.com.au

NS
RE

gcat : Political/General News
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

Page88of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

News Ltd.
Document HERSUN0020140917ea9i0003x

Page89of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.