Minor global agribusiness deals expected

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY

LP

TD

Minor global agribusiness deals expected

By Gregory Meyer in New York
555 words
6 March 2014
03:13
Financial Times (FT.Com)
FTCOM
English
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and
redistribute by email or post to the web.

A wave of big takeovers in global agribusiness stalled late last year, when the Australian government
said no to Archer Daniels Midland's $3.1bn bid for local grain exporter GrainCorp.

But bankers and executives say more deals are to come - just minor ones.

New York-listed ADM is keeping its 19.8 per cent stake in GrainCorp, saying it is happy with the
company's proximity to Asia. Meantime, ADM has allocated $1.4bn for capital spending and "small
M&A" this year.
Bunge, its rival, recently told investors that M&A activity would be focused on "filling gaps" in its global
agricultural trading operations and expanding in food and ingredients businesses, such as wheat
milling.
The company is meanwhile considering a sale of its sugarcane mills, one of several Brazil-based
operations to struggle with low sugar prices and policies adverse to making ethanol.

Cargill has signalled it would invest more in its own assets and less in substantial deals after the $2.1bn
acquisition of animal nutrition companyProvimi, its largest ever. Recent takeovers have been too
modest to make headlines, including an olive oil company in India and a dog treat manufacturer in
California.
Glencore Xstrata has also moved into agriculture through the $6.1bn purchase of Viterra, a
Toronto-listed grain trader. However, it remains a relatively small player in the industry with a narrower
geographic focus than many of its rivals. According to analysts, Glencore has holes in two critical areas
for agriculture, the US and Brazil, and the only way it can fill them is via acquisitions.

The US Department of Agriculture projects world trade in "coarse grains" used to feed livestock - such
as corn and barley - will rise 25 per cent to 179m tones in the next decade. Soyabean trade will grow
almost half to 152m tonnes.
This requires stronger links between regions of fast-rising demand, such as China, with areas of surplus
grain supply such as Australia, Brazil, Canada, Russia, Ukraine and the US.

In trading and processing businesses, where profit margins are measured in pennies per pound,
consolidation can make sense as a way to maximise the capacity of silos and ships. Cargill, CHS and
ConAgra are awaiting antitrust approval to form a three-way joint-venture in US flour milling.

However, many of the bigger potential deals have already been realised. What is left are smaller traders
such as The Andersons, a $1.6bn-market capitalisation company based in Ohio.

In some fertile regions it can be tough to do business. International traders have fought tax evasion
complaints in Argentina, while Russia declared a cereals export ban in 2010. One Ukraine oilseed and
grain merchant to catch the eye of foreign executives is Warsaw-listed Kernel, but the country's
uncertain regime makes it difficult to evaluate, industry advisers and investors say.

Page155of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.One possibility that is rarely discussed is one of the big global traders merging with another, perhaps
involving a western behemoth and one of the rising houses based in Asia. This would undoubtedly raise
competition concerns, but one adviser suggests that given the success of recent cross-border deals,
these may be surmountable.

"There's not a lot to buy unless you go very, very big," he says.

CO
IN

NS

RE

IPD
IPC
PUB
AN

arch : Archer Daniels Midland Company
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i416 : Flour/Malt Products | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood : Food
Products
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
usa : United States | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North
America
Company News
CN
The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)
Document FTCOM00020140305ea350048x

Page156of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.