New Business Development Director at BMT Defence Services 20 May 2014

HD New Business Development Director at BMT Defence Services 20 May 2014
WC 966 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

21 May 2014
News Bites - Private Companies
NBPRCO
English
Copyright 2014. News Bites Pty Ltd.

NEWS BITES - PRIVATE COMPANIES
[Company Release]

TD

BMT Defence Services (BMT), a subsidiary of BMT Group, has appointed Roy Quilliam as Business
Development Director. Roy joined BMT in 1990 and previously held the position of Technical Director
since 2003.

With over 30 years' experience of naval engineering design and support, Roy's involvement in new design
projects includes the QEC Aircraft Carrier, Type 45 Destroyer and Astute Class submarine. He has a
broad technical background from concept and feasibility design through to major in service design change,
and from policy issues through to practical engineering.

Recognising his strong links with the University of Bath which includes supporting student activities within
the Faculty of Engineering & Design and engagement with the University's developing Women in
Engineering initiative, Roy has been recently granted the title of Honorary Professor.

Commenting on his new role and Honorary Professor status, Roy Quilliam says: "BMT is a great place to
work and I"m very much looking forward to the next step in my career here in taking the business
development reins and supporting the organisation in its drive for future growth both here in the UK and
internationally. Furthermore, being appointed as Honorary Professor for the University of Bath is a great
privilege. Here at BMT, we put immense effort into attracting talented, young engineers and therefore my
own personal affiliation, as well as the organisation's commitment to engage with the University, is
extremely important."

Roy has recently been co-opted on to the Council of British Naval Equipment Association (BNEA).

In addition, Roy is a member of the Lloyds Register Naval Ships Technical Committee, and represents
BMT on the UKNEST Steering Group where he is also the Deputy Chair. He chairs the Industry Steering
Group for the UK MOD Naval Design Partnering (Ships) (NDP) and is a member of the Project Board for
both NDP Ships and NDP Submarines. He also chairs the Industrial Advisory Board for the Mechanical
Engineering Department at the University of Bath, the number one department in the UK for student
satisfaction.

Click here for the full original announcement
COMPANY BACKGROUND

ACTIVITIES
BMT Group Limited operates as a maritime engineering, science, and technology consultancy company
internationally. It offers defense sector services, such as naval architecture, marine engineering, combat
systems engineering, information systems, risk, safety and environmental engineering, logistics
engineering, project management, and business support services. The company also provides
environmental management support services, as well as engineering consultancy, technical support, and
specialized products for the energy sector. In addition, it offers consultancy, engineering, maintenance,
forecasting, surveying, and planning services to clients in the road, rail, water, intermodal, and airborne
transport sectors. Further, the company provides risk and insurance industry services ranging from
technical analyses, simulation, and experimentation to model and evaluate the causes and consequences
of specific risks; application of generic approaches to risk assessment, management, and control for
product, project, or process developments; and high-level risk methodology developments, including cost

Page79of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.benefit assessment techniques. BMT Group Limited was founded in 1985 and is based in Teddington,
United Kingdom.

BUSINESS NEWS ROUND UP

16 May 2014: Charles Packshaw joins BMT Group Board
[Company Release] BMT Group Ltd, a leading international design, engineering and risk management
consultancy, has announced that Mr Charles Packshaw has joined the Board of Directors as a
non-executive Director. Charles has thirty years' experience working with financial institutions in the City of
London and is currently Head of UK Advisory at HSBC Bank, where he is responsible for advice to clients
on strategy, acquisitions, capital structure, equity and debt financing and shareholder relationships.

Click here for the full original announcement

15 May 2014: UK MOD to Benefit from BMT's Innovative IT Approach
[Company Release] BMT Defence Services (BMT), a subsidiary of BMT Group, has undertaken a major
contract with the UK Ministry of Defence (MOD), Defence Science and Technology Laboratory (Dstl). To
enable the MOD to effectively aggregate, communicate and share information that is captured by Military
Stabilisation Support Group (MSSG) staff in the field, BMT has developed a central database and
dashboard portal using the latest software technologies. The MSSG is a unique organisation that provides
military support to the civilian efforts to help stabilise countries around the world that are either emerging
from conflict, or are at risk of sliding into chaos.

Click here for the full original announcement

13 May 2014: Shell Awards BMT Platform Maintenance Contract
[Company Release] Shell has selected BMT Asia Sdn Bhd (BMT) to provide three-year maintenance
services for a production storage facility offshore Malaysia. Sister company, BMT Scientific Marine
Services previously installed Marine Instrumentation Systems (MIS) and Marine Advisory Systems (MAS)
on the platform.

Click here for the full original announcement

09 May 2014: BMT Expands In Both Queensland and Western Australia
[Company Release] BMT JFA Consultants, a subsidiary of BMT Group, the leading international maritime
design, engineering and risk management consultancy, has announced plans for new offices in both
Perth, Western Australia and Brisbane, Queensland in order to better support its clients' requirements and
provide space for expansion. The new Perth office will combine BMT's strategic ports and harbours and
machinery consultancy expertise into a single location in Perth by bringing BMT JFA Consultants and BMT
WBM into the one office.

Click here for the full original announcement
08 May 2014: BMT Appointed Environmental Consultant for Hong Kong Housing Authority

BMT Asia Pacific (BMT), a subsidiary of BMT Group, announced today its appointment as Environmental
Consultant to the Hong Kong Housing Authority (HKHA), the main provider of public housing within the
Special Administrative Region. BMT will undertake environmental design studies for several of HKHA's
public housing developments under this assignment.

Click here for the full original announcement

CO unbath : University of Bath
NS

gnavy : Navy | c1521 : Analyst Comments/Recommendations | c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions
| c411 : Management Moves | cslmc : Senior Level Management | npress : Press Releases | c15 :
Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | c41 : Management Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
gcat : Political/General News | gcns : National Security | gdef : Armed Forces | ncat : Content Types | nfact
: Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E
Industry News Filter
uk : United Kingdom | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr :
Australia | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe

RE

IPD ACTIVITIES; BUSINESS NEWS ROUND UP

Page80of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB News Bites Pty Ltd (Europe)
AN Document NBPRCO0020140521ea5l002mk

Page81of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.