RWE (CM) Grand Pacaraima Gold Corp [PINKSHEETS: BITCF] Announces Appointment

HD
WC 368 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

RWE (CM) Grand Pacaraima Gold Corp [PINKSHEETS: BITCF] Announces Appointment

3 February 2014
Resources News (RWE)
RESNEW
English
Copyright 2014 RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved.

TD

RWE (CM) Grand Pacaraima Gold Corp [PINKSHEETS: BITCF] Announces Appointment
Sydney - Sunday - February 02 (RWE) - Grand Pacaraima Gold Corp [PINKSHEETS: BITCF] announces
the appointment of leading financial mathematician Dr Vyacheslav M Abramov, PHD to its advisory board.

Dr Abramov holds a PHD in mathematics from Tel Aviv University with more than 30 years of unparalleled
experience as a financial statistician, software engineer, algorithm and computer database developer.

In addition to being invited to speak at several international science and technology conferences and
symposiums, he has also lectured at some of the top technological institutes around the world including
Swinburne University of Technology in Australia, City University of Hong Kong, the University of
Melbourne, Monash University in Australia and others on topics such as time series analysis, financial
mathematics, differential equations and probability and statistics.

Dr Abramov is a published author and has written reports and reviews in many of international
mathematical and statistical journals including a review on operations research and management science
for the e-book "Queuing Networks: A fundamental approach.

Dr Abramov is highly skilled in predicting financial markets and crypto-currency fluctuations and shared
his opinion in the Asia Pacific Financial Markets journal with a review on "Estimation and Prediction of a
Non-constant Volatility.

He also served as an associate editor for the International Journal of Statistics and Probability and he was
a member of the editorial board for the Chinese Journal of Mathematics' mathematical analysis section.

"We are thrilled and honored that Dr Abramov has agreed to join our advisory board as Chairman," the
company said.

"His level of mathematical financial expertise is parallel to none and we are looking forward to a long and
prosperous relationship.

He became involved in crypto-currency concepts and will apply his in-depth mathematical knowledge to
take the company to the next level.

Dr Abramov will also identify the direction of crypto-currency development and provide advice on the
acquisition of Bitcoin start-ups and other Bitcoin-related businesses.
The company is currently in negotiations with a number of other experts in the financial field on
crypto-algorithm development to come on board as advisors.

ENDS

CO unmelb : University of Melbourne | untddv : Grand Pacaraima Gold Corporation
IN

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
c411 : Management Moves | c41 : Management Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South
Wales

NS

RE

Page7of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd
AN

Document RESNEW0020140202ea230001g

Page8of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.