LETTERS

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

LETTERS

461 words
21 August 2014
Chinchilla News
APNCHN
Main
10
English
Copyright 2014 APN Newspapers Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

LETTERS

What real future?

HOW sad to see the local real estate industry dancing on the graves of Chinchilla’s only sustainable
industries – tourism and agriculture – at their recent real estate community meeting.

Unsurprisingly, their dancing partners are the mining industries that are killing off the agricultural
industries that built Chinchilla.

For all the boasts of speakers from CSG companies such as Origin and the banks such as ANZ that
support them, the CSG industry is predicted by the State Government to last only 20 years.

The construction phase was the period of greatest employment. Running the gas fields doesn’t take
many employees at all.
The coal industry, too, is in international decline as our major markets such as China and India turn to
renewable energy, and the plunging prices for coal reflect this.

So when the miners are gone, we will be left with destroyed agriculture and tourism industries from the
sucked-dry Great Artesian Basin and the poisoned left-over water for our drinking supply and farmers.
We will be left with destroyed topsoil, and the huge holes in the ground where carcinogens seep into
the water they fill with, along with a town full of overpriced houses with no local jobs for the hapless
owners to pay them off with.

Working for local fast food outlets servicing the mining trucks along the Warrego Highway won’t pay off
$400+/week mortgages, and as the mining boom ends, the truck flow will shrink, too, leaving us with a
trashed highway that will continue to cost the public purse multi-millions to rebuild.

In the meantime, as our local bores dry up, all the mining boom leeches that spoke so proudly of our
bright future completely ignored the death of our local dairy industry and the sold-up local growers
and graziers that can’t get the banks to carry them over the normal dry spells of agriculture despite
knowing the next good season will repay their investment.
These bankers love big business, and their big business mates are happy to snap up these
productive farm businesses as the banks foreclose on our local farmers. Just because the
supermarkets leech off the profits the farmers should be getting instead doesn’t mean that farming
isn’t a profitable growth industry.

If this is our local “brains trust”, I guess it just shows how stupid we all are to let them get away with it.

Nationally mining employs only 49,300, and this figure is shrinking. Agriculture directly employs
307,000 and tourism 342,800.
Why are we allowing big business to destroy these industries that create a real future for Chinchilla?

Page99of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Elena Garcia,

Burncluith

NS

RE
PUB
AN

nlte : Letters to the Editor | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter |
niwe : IWE Filter | nlet : Letters | nrgn : Routine General News
queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
APN Newspapers Pty Ltd
Document APNCHN0020140820ea8l000jp

Page100of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.