Landmark $19- B PNG gas project makes 1st shipment

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business News
Landmark $19-B PNG gas project makes 1st shipment

352 words
27 May 2014
Manila Bulletin
MABULL
English
(c) 2014 Manila Bulletin Publishing Corp. All rights reserved.

Sydney - The first shipment of liquefied natural gas from a landmark US$19 billion project in Papua
New Guinea has left for Japan, US oil giant ExxonMobil said Monday.

The project is the largest development ever undertaken in the Pacific country and ExxonMobil
managing director Peter Graham called the shipment, which comes four years after construction began,
''an historic moment''.

''This is the country's largest resource project and it has taken the effort of many thousands of people to
bring it to fruition,'' he said.

''Revenue from the PNG LNG Project will support Papua New Guinea's continued economic and social
development.

''The PNG LNG Project demonstrates to the world what Papua New Guinea is capable of delivering.''
The project will supply four major customers in Taiwan, Japan and China and is expected to produce
an expected nine trillion cubic feet (255 billion cubic metres) of LNG over its 30-year life.

At its peak, more than 21,000 people were employed during construction with the operators having to
overcome flooding and extremely steep slopes as they built infrastructure including airfields and roads
from scratch.

''Not only will the people of Papua New Guinea now benefit; their children and grandchildren will
continue to enjoy the benefits and positive effects from this valuable resource development for many
years to come,'' PNG Prime Minister Peter O'Neill said.

However, critics say the project is environmentally devastating and has inflicted human rights abuses on
villagers affected.

They also query whether the PNG government, which ranks poorly in international corruption rankings,
will spend the revenues wisely.

The project includes gas production and processing facilities in PNG's Southern Highlands and Western
Provinces, liquefaction and storage facilities on the Gulf of Papua and more than 700 kilometres (450
miles) of pipelines.
ExxonMobil has the largest stake at 33.2 percent. Its partners include Oil Search Ltd (29 percent), the
PNG government (16.6 percent), Australian energy firm Santos (13.5 percent), Japan's Nippon Oil
Corp. (4.7 percent) and local landowners (2.8 percent).

CO
IN

NS

exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural
Gas/Oil Extraction
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News

Page206of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

IPD
PUB
AN

papng : Papua New Guinea | austr : Australia | jap : Japan | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia |
nswals : New South Wales | pacisz : Pacific Islands
Business News
Manila Bulletin Publishing Corp
Document MABULL0020140527ea5r0000h

Page207of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.