Overseas raiders

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Overseas raiders

Nathan Mawby and John Dagge
410 words
6 March 2014
Herald-Sun
HERSUN
HeraldSun
3
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

INVESTORS in China are buying 14 per cent of Melbourne’s new housing supply and driving up
prices, according to a new report.
Just days ago the Foreign Investment Review Board revealed Chinese investment in Australian
property for the 2012-13 financial year amounted to more than $5.9 billion, and that Victoria had the
nation’s highest number of approvals for proposed real estate investment.

The value of all foreign residential investment approvals in Victoria totalled $5.78 billion in that
period.

Figures out yesterday revealed Melbourne is the capital for Significant Foreign Investor applications,
attracting more than half of Chinese applications, which make up 90 per cent of the total.
An Australian investment strategy report from investment advice groupCredit Suisse estimates the
figure for total residential investment by Chinese in Australia, based on FIRB, Immigration and
Bureau of Statistics figures, could be $5.4 billion.
Underpinning the claim is an evaluation of offshore Chinese buying new developments, Chinese
living in Australia as temporary residents, Chinese-based developers and recent Chinese settlers.

The report warned a “generation of Australians are being priced out of the market” after $24 billion
was invested in Australia by Chinese over the past seven years.
Credit Suisse research analyst Damien Boey, who co-authored the report, said his firm had been
unable to quantify the price impact on property, but said “it would have to have a meaningful
impact”.

Mr Boey said the affordability problem for local home buyers was being exacerbated by overseas
buyers who do not see our property prices as high.
He said this figure was likely an underestimate and did not include those who buy through local
friends or intermediaries, which is a breach of FIRB regulations.
The report estimates $44 billion will be spent in Australia by offshore Chinese investors in the next
seven years.
The rush into Melbourne’s bricks and mortar from China comes as new figures show Victoria is the
destination of choice for cashed-up Chinese seeking to fast-track residency by investing $5 million.

The Garden State accounts for 49 of the 88 Significant Investor Visas (SIVs) issued in the first 12
months of the controversial program. Nine in 10 went to Chinese investors.

Page100of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Visa recipients do not need to pass the usual points tests for skills and language, and become
eligible for a permanent visa after four years.nathan.mawby@news.com.au

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | china : China | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document HERSUN0020140305ea3600017

Page101of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.