Datacentres.com: Digital Realty Survey finds virtualization, Big Data, and consolidation to be top drivers in APAC 02 June 2014

HD Datacentres.com: Digital Realty Survey finds virtualization, Big Data, and consolidation to be top

drivers in APAC 02 June 2014

WC 1,410 words
PD
3 June 2014
SN
News Bites - Private Companies
SC
NBPRCO
LA
English
CY
Copyright 2014. News Bites Pty Ltd.
LP

TD

NEWS BITES - PRIVATE COMPANIES
[Company Release] The virtualization of critical applications, big data, and datacentre consolidation will
drive the next wave of datacentre capacity growth in APAC, according to a commissioned survey
conducted by Forrester Consulting on behalf of Digital Realty Trust. Digital Realty's 2014 survey of data
centre trends in APAC canvassed datacentre decision makers in Singapore, Hong Kong, Japan, and
Australia.

The combined survey results for the four countries revealed that the top expected drivers of data centre
capacity growth were virtualization (47%), big data (46%), and data centre consolidation (41%). The next
tier of drivers included business growth (39%), business continuity (34%) and storage growth (32%).

"This survey helps us better understand the business priorities of our APAC clients, enabling us to
become a valued partner and trusted advisor in the development of a data centre strategy that is uniquely
suited to our clients' needs," said Kris Kumar, Digital Realty Senior Vice President and Regional Head for
the Asia Pacific region. "IT transformation projects such as virtualization and big data are viewed as the
main factors driving robust development across the datacentre sector. We feel this demonstrates the
maturing aspect of these organizations in relation to their datacentre plans and budgets."

When making decisions about new APAC datacentre facility investments, the most important
considerations for respondents were the datacentre's location and resiliency. Factors rated as "Important"
or "Very Important" by respondents included the risk profile of the location (78%), the resiliency level and
availability of the facility (77%), and the level of control over the facility (75%). APAC companies also
prioritized the datacentre's network connectivity options and carrier availability and density, with 75% of
respondents claiming this as a priority.

Around 50% of respondents said their datacentre budgets will grow between 5-10% in the next 12 months,
with nearly 60% of respondents in Australia and Singapore expecting to increase their spending between
5-10%. An additional 11% are planning to increase their investment in datacentre facilities by more than
10% over the next 12 months. When surveyed regarding their future plans for datacentre capacity
planning, respondents (60%) indicated they are planning some form of expansion within the next four
years. Respondents consider outsourcing (40%) and colocation or other data centre leasing (31%) as the
preferred sourcing models to address their expansion plans.

Click here for the full original announcement
COMPANY BACKGROUND

ACTIVITIES
BroadGroup is an Information Media Technology and Professional Services company providing a value
chain of research, publications, consulting and conference services to fast growing niches in the IT and
Telecoms sector with 19 events in 13 countries.
Founded in 2002, the company aims to provide senior managers with a different perspective of new and
emerging business niches, create new communities of interest, and inspire them with fresh insight on how
they could be exploited profitably. Today, the company covers a portfolio of markets offering professional
services through a value chain of bespoke consulting, market research, reports, and events.

FINANCIALS

Page73of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Canadian telecom and media company Rogers Communications has announced its unaudited
consolidated financial and operating results for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2013.

"Our fourth quarter results largely reflect the continued impact of new customer-friendly wireless roaming
and simplified sharing plans we put in place several quarters ago which have been dilutive to our revenue
growth rate" said Anthony Staffieri, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. "However, we
delivered continued top-line growth in Cable, Media and Business Solutions. Our discipline around costs
allowed us to further expand margins and meet all of our financial guidance commitments for 2013, while
the 5% dividend increase we announced this morning reflects our confidence in the ability to grow cash
flows over the longer term."

Amongst quarterly highlights Operating revenue in-line with 2012: Consolidated operating revenue was
down 1% this quarter compared to the same quarter last year, reflecting a 2% decline in Wireless network
revenue as well as lower equipment sales, offset by growth in Cable (2%), Business Solutions (11%), and
Media (4%).

Business Solutions announced it is expanding its hosting business in Western Canada through a newly
expanded datacentre in Edmonton and a new Western Canada flagship data centre in Calgary, following
its acquisition of Pivot Data Centres in early October 2013.
Source: Company Website

BUSINESS NEWS ROUND UP

02 June 2014: Datacentres.com: Health finally takes IBM outsourcing deal to tender
[Company Release] Australia's Department of Health has gone to market for a new IT outsourcing
partnership for the first time in 14 years, after first signing a A$350 million, five-year agreement with
long-running partner IBM in 2000. The federal agency has renewed its contract with IBM for the provision
of IT infrastructure and support services six times over the last 14 years, with the last extension awarded
in 2010 for A$109 million. In tender documents released late last week, the Health department publically
invited offers from the industry to take over IT infrastructure and support services for the agency.

Click here for the full original announcement

02 June 2014: Datacentres.com: Equinix almost quadruples Australian profit
[Company Release] The Australian arm of global data centre provider Equinix has almost quadrupled its
profit to nearly A$8.5 million, with the 44th consecutive quarter of growth globally. Equinix Australia's
latest annual revenue was over A$77.6 million, a 19% increase from the A$65.2 million recorded in the
previous year.

Click here for the full original announcement

02 June 2014: Datacentres.com: NTT DOCOMO deploys Alcatel-Lucent's IP technology
[Company Release] Alcatel-Lucent has announced the deployment of its IP technology by NTT DOCOMO,
the Japanese mobile phone operator, to meet rapidly increasing demand for mobile broadband Internet
services including videos and music streaming, and multi-player gaming. NTT DOCOMO will use
Alcatel-Lucent's 7450 Ethernet Service Switch (ESS) as part of its system, greatly enhancing the speed
and capacity of its backhaul network, and helping NTT DOCOMO address the significant spike in demand
for its mobile broadband service in Japan, one of the most advanced markets globally in terms of mobile
communications. NTT DOCOMO is using Alcatel-Lucent's ESS IP technology to address increased
demand for broadband content and applications thanks to the widespread use of network devices such as
smartphones and tablets. Alcatel-Lucent Japan president Nicolas Bouverot, said: "Demand for mobile
ultra-broadband services in Japan is exploding, and this is a serious challenge for telecom carriers.

Click here for the full original announcement
02 June 2014: Datacentres.com: NextDC looks to raise A$30 million
[Company Release] NextDC aims to raise a minimum A$30 million in the coming week to extend its
datacentre capacity in existing colocations and fund corporate operations via a five-year senior
unsecured notes offering. The Australian datacentre operator claims this will give it flexibility in its "current
ramp-up phase." It said it will also diversify current funding sources and provide additional tenor to its
existing debt maturity profile. NextDC chief executive officer, Craig Scroggie, said the move represents
diversity of funding sources which provides further flexibility to support future growth. The fixed-rate
medium term notes will be offered to "qualified professional and sophisticated investors' at eight per cent

Page74of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.per annum, and one per cent per annum payable on redemption. The transaction is led by the National
Australia Bank.NextDC will also replace its existing A$30 million senior secured facility with a A$30
million senior secured debt facility from NAB. The NAB facility has a maturity in June 2016, with ongoing
review event requirements and financial covenant testing from March 31, 2016, together with customary
drawdown terms and conditions and ongoing obligations under the facility agreement. Source: Company
Website

Click here for the full original announcement

30 May 2014: Steadfast opens new datacentre in Edison
[Company Release] Hosting provider, Steadfast has announced the opening of a new datacentre space in
Edison, New Jersey. Steadfast had previously acquired hosting provider The New York NOC, but the
company's expansion plans lead to a search for a new space. Steadfast has been offering colocation
hosting services out of the New York metro area since Q3 2009; dedicated server, colocation, and cloud
hosting services have been available since Q1 2010.

Click here for the full original announcement

NS

RE

c1521 : Analyst Comments/Recommendations | c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | npress : Press Releases | nsur : Surveys/Polls | c15 : Performance | c152 :
Earnings Projections | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin :
FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | jap : Japan | uk : United Kingdom | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz :
Western Europe

IPD ACTIVITIES; FINANCIALS; BUSINESS NEWS ROUND UP
PUB News Bites Pty Ltd (Europe)
AN Document NBPRCO0020140603ea63000mg

Page75of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.