Digest

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Digest

1,911 words
3 February 2014
The Main Report Farming Alert
TMRAGL
English
(c) 2014 The Main Report Publications Ltd

Agribusiness

PM refuses expert help on SPCA

The Land 30/01/2014. Prime Minister Tony Abbott has declined a request from two eminent members of
his government’s own advisory panel to meet before cabinet discusses whether to save food processor
SPC Ardmona. It can also be revealed former Labor industry minister Greg Combet, the third member of
the panel put together by Industry Minister Ian -Macfarlane, quit late last year and is now helping the
South Australian -government deal with the impact of the closure of General Motors Holden’s factories.
Combet, who helped rewrite work practices at SPC Ardmona, left late last year after the panel completed
its work and the subsequent decision to stop making Holden cars. The other two members of the
taskforce, Telstra chairwoman Catherine Livingstone and former Manufacturing Australia chief and
Reserve Bank board member Dick Warburton, have been seeking a face-to-face meeting with the Prime
Minister in the lead-up to the cabinet meeting. But the request was denied. One -government
spokesperson says Macfarlane was aware of the taskforce’s position and he would convey it to Abbott
and the rest of cabinet.

Cropping

Feed options bind

The Land 30/01/2014. Cotton seed dearer than the current price of a bale, southern stockfeed grain
increasing in value by the week, and hay, fodder and pasture reserves diminishing quickly – just some of
the dilemmas now facing graziers throughout this parched State. “It’s getting really, really serious now,”
says John Webster of Quirindi Grain Trading Pty Ltd. “This dry is covering such a big area and everything
is going through the roof.” He says barley was selling at $300-plus a tonne and there was not much hay
left down south. “You can’t buy corn until the new season comes in, and I paid $470/t delivered for last
year’s white corn going from Toowoomba, Queensland, to Goodooga,” he says. “But the new season
corn is still going to be about $340/t to $350/t.” Webster says cottonseed was selling for $580/t at Moree
and an order he had from Longreach, Qld, may not eventuate even if he could get a contract for the
proposed $610/t delivered, because the Moree gin had no more to sell until they filled their own orders.

Northern demand strong

The Land 30/01/2014. The spread between grain prices in northern, western and southern Australia
continues to sit at in excess of $60 a tonne despite patchy rain over the summer cropping belt as buyers
look to address regional shortages. Matthew Pattison, trading manager for PentAg Nidera, based at
Toowoomba, says the rain was relatively widespread across the Darling Downs, but more follow-up rain
was needed for dryland crops. Nathan Cattle, ProFarmer chief analyst, says the rain was useful, but
added the planting window was finished for southern Queensland. “They virtually have all the crop in the
ground they will put in.” He says the north continued to act as a vacuum for feed grain. “That vacuum is
getting bigger and grain is coming in from further afield all the time.” Cattle and Pattison had different
ideas about how far away the grain would come from. Pattison says the fact some sorghum was still likely
to be exported meant there must be still stocks of feed grain around that could be moved by road or rail.
“I don’t think this talk of boats coming from South Australia is right.”

Beef

Page13of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Aus dominates China market
The Land 29/01/2014. Australia was the largest red meat supplier to China in 2013, with a 48% market
share. This is according to figures released by China Customs, Global Trade Atlas, which reports
Chinese red meat imports during 2013 surged 194% on 2012, to 543,105 tonnes shipped weight,
comprising 294,223 tonnes swt of beef and 248,882 tonnes swt of sheepmeat. A total of 94% of red meat
imported into the Chinese market was supplied by Australia, NZ and Uruguay. China imported 294,223
tonnes swt of beef during 2013, up 379pc year-on-year, with imports from Australia reaching 154,777
tonnes swt, up 467pc. Meat and Livestock Australia reports that Australia’s market share has increased
steadily since 2010 when it sat at 24pc, with a further rise from 44pc in 2012, to 53pc in 2013. While the
volume from Uruguay and NZ lifted to 70,334 tonnes swt (up 385pc year-on-year) and 35,375 tonnes swt
(up 374pc), market share of both countries remained steady year-on-year, at 24pc and 12pc respectively.

Finding a niche in the US

The Land 27/01/2014. American beef producers continued to sell off the US herd through 2013,
establishing conditions for beef consumption in the United States to come under increased price pressure
from chicken and pork. The depletion of the US herd, now at 60-year lows after a long spell of adverse
weather and cattle prices, coincides with a bumper corn crop and falling corn prices. This will see
increased chicken and pork production, MLA’s North American regional manager David Pietsch reports,
driving down prices for those proteins at a time when beef prices are rising. “We now have to see at what
point US consumers begin to resist paying more for beef as chicken and pork get cheaper,” Pietsch says.
This is already playing out on restaurant menus, where new items tend to favour price-competitive
chicken or pork. The vast US manufacturing beef industry is Australia’s second-largest beef export
market. Manufacturing beef accounts for 70% of Australia’s beef exports to the US - the lean Australian
product is combined with the fattier lot-fed local product to make the 78CL burger pattie. Ground beef
constitutes 55-60% of US beef consumption.

Health

Wrong picture painted over antibiotic use
The Dairy Site 29/01/2014. The animal agriculture industry has wrongly been painted as being
irresponsible in its use of antibiotics, writes Chris Harris from the International Production and Processing
exhibition in Atlanta. Dr Richard Raymond, the former Undersecretary for Food Safety at the US
Department of Agriculture speaking at a USPoultry seminar on pathogen reduction says the current uses
and doses of antibiotics for animals have been approved by the Food and Drug administration as
appropriate. Dr Raymond hit out at the critics of the use of antibiotics in animal feed and says they had
exaggerated the reported overuse of antibiotics as growth promoters. He specifically attacked the
campaign led by Congresswoman Louise Slaughter that said 80% of all antibiotics sold in the US were
given to perfectly healthy animals raised for food. He says the campaigners failed to mention the
antibiotics are also used to protect animals from diseases and others are given to companion animals,
which the official figures from the FDA show.

Rotting zebra bacteria can kill anthrax
The Dairy Site 29/01/2014. A Zebra carcass has yielded a team of bacteriologists with a possible solution
to anthrax bacillus. Bacillus phage Tsmamsa was discovered in a Zebra carcass on the plains of the
Etosha National Park in Namibia and was found to invade and kill bacillus anthracis. The phrase
‘bacteriophage’ literally means ‘bacteria eater’, which University of California researcher, Dr Holly Ganz
said it can do ‘voraciously’. Tsamsa is one of the largest ever bacteriophages to be discovered. During
the study, which was published in the journal PLOS One, the team found Tsamsa would also infect
closely related bacteria, including food poisoning bacteria Bacillus cereus. Furthermore, by sequencing
the genome, the team was able to identify lysin, an enzyme used to kill bacterial cells as an antibiotic of
disinfecting agent.

Poultry

New poultry inspection rules could improve safety
The Meat Site 29/01/2014. US - New moves by the USDA to change the system of poultry meat
inspection will place more inspectors at the sharp end of detecting food safety issues rather than quality
issues. Dr Richard Raymond, the former USDA Undersecretary for Food Safety speaking at a seminar on
pathogen reduction during the International Production and |Processing Exposition in Atlanta said that the
new regulations will also help to save money while improving the service. He says a modernisation rule
on inspection is expected shortly. Dr Raymond says at present too many inspectors are based on the line
looking for blemishes in the poultry meat, broken legs and other quality issues rather than testing for
pathogens and other food safety issues. Typically, he says, four inspectors are on the line looking at

Page14of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.quality issues and just one at the end of the line is testing for food safety problems. He says the changes
could free up 1,500 inspectors looking to pathogens and other similar problems, which employees of the
processing companies should be searching for quality defects.

Policy

Canada, Mexico play huge role in US pork, beef markets
The Meat Site 29/01/2014. US - The timely completion of US farm legislation (ie. The Farm Bill) appears
to be in grave doubt. The houses of Congress had passed different versions of the legislation and a
conference committee was charged with reconciling those differences and arriving at a final bill that
would then go back to each chamber for a simply yes-no vote. No further modifications would be allowed,
write Steve Meyer and Len Steiner. But the conference committee report completed yesterday and filed
last night omitted two key provisions sought by livestock and meat groups:

• A “fix” for mandatory country-of-origin labeling (MCOOL) that would avert retaliatory tariffs on a broad
range of US products by Canada and Mexico.

• A prohibition on the Grain Inspection Packers and Stockyards Administration (GIPSA) from enforcing
and completing regulations it proposed pursuant to the 2008 Farm Bill and a prohibition from adopting
policies similar to those proposals. The 2008 Farm Bill authorised GIPSA to write rules to clarify “unjust
discrimination” and other terms in the Packers and Stockyards Act. Many industry groups and participants
believed GIPSA badly overstepped the intent of those provisions and, perhaps, its authority under the
act.

Technology

Filleting robot to help the Norwegian fishing industry
The Meat Site 29/01/2014. Norway - A newly developed white fish filleting machine could give the
Norwegian fish industry a much-needed boost. Unlike farmed salmon, white fish varies greatly in size and
weight. This means that until now, no one has been able to develop a machine which can fillet these fish.
However, there is now a filleting machine which could result in a positive upturn in the Norwegian fishing
industry. The machine is a result of a development project run by Nordic Innovation, in which Sintef,
Marel, Faroe Origin and Norway Seafoods have been working together. White fish is complicated and
time-consuming to fillet, because the bones are difficult to find and remove. As a result, three to seven
percent of the most valuable part of the fish is currently cut away unnecessarily. Researchers at SINTEF
ICT have conducted X-ray tests in the laboratory, and have used CP scanners at Oslo University Hospital
to learn more about where fish bones are located. The technology focuses on image analysis and
recognition. The new machine locates the fish bones using X-ray technology, and fillets the fish quickly
and precisely with a powerful jet of water. This means that the fish is guaranteed to be boneless, with
considerably less wastage than with manual filleting.

NS

c312 : External Markets | c21 : Output/Production | nsum : News Digests | c31 : Marketing | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB The Main Report Limited
AN

Document TMRAGL0020140204ea230000b

Page15of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.