What's news

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

What's news

454 words
12 June 2014
China Daily-Hong Kong Edition
CHNDHK
14
English
Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Company. All rights reserved.

China's oil stockpiling keeps prices high, reports say
China is stockpiling crude oil at the fastest pace in at least a decade, shielding itself from supply
disruptions and helping keep prices above $100 a barrel. The country imported a record volume in April
as it emulates steps taken by the United States in the 1970s to create a strategic petroleum reserve,
government data show. The purchases are helping drive oil prices higher, according to Barclays Plc,
Citigroup Inc and Nomura Holdings Inc.

Probe at Qingdao Port said to focus on Deching unit

The government's investigation of whether metals stockpiled at Qingdao Port fall short of collateral
obligations used to secure loans is focused on Decheng Mining, said two bankers assisting with the
probe. Investigators are trying to determine if Decheng used the same batches of copper and aluminum
stored at the port as collateral to secure multiple loans, said the bankers. Decheng's parent company,
Dezheng Resources Holding Co, declined to comment when called this week and last week.

Customs announces rules on collateral in bonded zones

The nation's customs agency issued rules to help prevent goods being pledged multiple times as
collateral for loans at Qingdao Port, said two people with direct knowledge of the matter. All transactions
at bonded zones of the port must be put on record at the Qingdao branch of the General Administration
of Customs, effective July 1, said the people, who asked not to be identified. Documents, including
warehouse storage agreements, packing lists, sales contracts and invoices, must be provided, they
said.
Baosteel bid for Australian ore firm Aquila hits hurdle
Baosteel Group Corp's bid for an Australian iron ore project developer hit a hurdle after a potential rival
took a 12 percent stake in its target. Aquila Resources Ltd rose to a two-year high in Sydney on
speculation that Australia's Mineral Resources Ltd had bought the stake. Baosteel, the owner of
China's biggest listed steelmaker, and Aurizon Holdings Ltd last month offered to buy Aquila in a deal
that valued the Australian company at A$1.4 billion ($1.3 billion).

Huawei plans to double R&D staff levels in Europe

Huawei Technologies Co plans to double its research and development team in Europe as it competes
for business in the region against rivals including Alcatel-Lucent SA and Ericsson AB. Huawei will
double the number of R&D employees to 1,700 in Europe in the next three years, Chief Strategy
Marketing Officer William Xu said in an interview in Milan. The hiring is part of the company's plan to
add about 5,500 workers in the region in five years, he said.

CO
IN

barc : Barclays PLC
i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1 : Energy | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk :
Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services

Page149of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | china : China | shand : Shandong | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
China Daily Information Company
Document CHNDHK0020140611ea6c0000k

Page150of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.