Project brings new confidence

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Project brings new confidence

339 words
18 November 2014
The Chronicle (Toowoomba)
APNCHR
Main
3
English
Copyright 2014 APN Newspapers Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

THE Wellcamp Airport has put Toowoomba on the map and made it a key location for big
business, according to Toowoomba and Surat Basin Enterprise CEO Shane Charles.

“Connectivity is critical,” he said.

“Suppliers and business people in the region now have access to capital cities.

“Toowoomba is about to grow up.”

Mr Charles said Toowoomba had long been perceived as a small regional town without
adequate services.

“Now that we have an international capable airport we’ll be promoted around the world,” he
said.

“It’s a great day for our region.”

Toowoomba Chamber of Commerce and Industry president Andrew Wielandt said the airport
created confidence in investors and businesses.

“Toowoomba as a region has a great story. Between agriculture, education, health, and
resources, we’ve got a good economic story to begin with,” he said.

“What this does is help engender further confidence in what is frankly a fragile national
economy.”

Mr Wielandt said the airport would bring opportunities for new businesses.

“The multiplier effect is significant,” he said.

“For every dollar that is spent there is around three times that going into the economy.
“That could easily go into the hundreds of millions of dollars.”

Mr Wielandt said businesses were already seeing the benefits.

“A number of suppliers and contractors based in Sydney have already booked flights to
Toowoomba.

“The Wagners have done their bit and the public have done their bit.
“Thousands of tickets have been sold.

“My call to businesses is that it’s now up to them to support the airport.”

He said infrastructure projects were giving people more reasons to come to Toowoomba.

Page180of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“Both social and business tourism offers a huge opportunity for our region.”

Mayor Paul Antonio said residents needed to work for the opportunities.

“They won’t just fall into your lap,” he said.
“There are amazing prospects in places like China for milk or meat producers but it will take
some organising.”

gcat : Political/General News
queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Crime - Law
APN Newspapers Pty Ltd
Document APNCHR0020141117eabi000ji

NS
RE
IPD
PUB
AN

Page181of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.