$1.4b bid to break deadlock

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
$1.4b bid to break deadlock

Nick Evans and Peter Klinger
447 words
6 May 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
Second
1
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

Tony Poli, the founder and architect of Aquila Resources’ rise into a billion-dollar mining house, risks
being frozen out of the company’s legacy iron ore project after Baosteel and coal hauler Aurizon
surprised the market yesterday with a hostile $1.4 billion cash takeover bid.
Aquila has substantial assets beyond its West Pilbara Iron Ore project, including a half stake in the
under-construction Eagle Downs coking coal mine in Queensland. But its biggest prize is the 2.2
billion-tonne West Pilbara venture, which offers China’s Baosteel the opportunity of a significant iron
ore off-take deal and Aurizon its long sought-after entry into the Pilbara.

The pair directly targeted executive chairman Mr Poli, who owns 29 per cent of Aquila. He was not
available for comment.

Aquila finance and corporate general manager Martin Alciaturi said the board would consider the
takeover bid on its merits.

“We’ve got a number of weeks to get our thoughts together and give it genuine, considered thought,”
he said. “It eventually comes down to value.”

Aquila shares jumped 89¢ to $3.34, shy of the $3.40 bid price.
Baosteel Resources chief financial officer Wu Yiming yesterday expressed her company’s frustration
with the pace of movement at West Pilbara, saying the Chinese steel giant had previously tried to
negotiate a way through the impasse between Aquila and its project joint venture partners American
Metal & Coal International and Korea’s POSCO.

“We can’t get agreement with the four parties, but especially with Aquila,” she said. Ms Wu said
Baosteel had last year brought a “change of control” offer to Aquila to try to break the deadlock but
had been rebuffed.

AMCI appeared to echo Ms Wu’s sentiment, declaring: “We consider the joint bid provides a credible
pathway to development of the project.”
Colin Barnett, who returned from a trip to China last month and trumpeted Baosteel’s interests in
Anketell, described the bid as “a positive step for the development of the Anketell mine and port and
rail infrastructure”.

Any doubt the bid was aimed at Mr Poli’s robust approach to negotiations is dispelled by the
shareholder agreement between Baosteel and Aurizon. If the pair reach the 50 per cent acceptance
hurdle but fail to secure 100 per cent of Aquila, they will appoint a new board of four Baosteel
nominees, one Aurizon representative and two independent directors.

Baosteel already owns 19.8 per cent of Aquila. Co-founder Charles Bass holds 10 per cent and about
2700 of Aquila’s 3365 investors each own 5000 shares or less.

Page139of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

aqures : Aquila Resources Ltd. | baois : Shanghai Baosteel Group Corp | dorval : Aurizon Mines Ltd |
hclamn : Hecla Mining Co
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining | isteel : Steel
Production
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140505ea5600007

Page140of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.