Chinese free-trade deal yields winners and losers

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Chinese free-trade deal yields winners and losers

KERRIE SINCLAIR LIAM WALSH
552 words
24 November 2014
Courier Mail
COUMAI
CourierMail
26
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE long-awaited free-trade pact that Australia has inked with China is a double-edged sword for
Queensland businesses.

For many, it promises a powerful springboard into the world’s second-largest economy.

It can’t come soon enough for Queensland’s dairy industry, which has been praying for a miracle to
reverse dire conditions.

But the free-trade pact will put even more pressure on Queensland’s manufacturers, who have been
struggling to compete against cheap Chinese imports.
David Kemp, managing director of Australia’s largest domestic shelving manufacturer, BDS Group,
which employs 100 staff at its Brisbane headquarters, says his industry has already been in
recession for more than a year.
“I’m the last of 10 major manufacturers of shop fitting and shelving manufacturing products in
Australia. Over 10,000 in our industry have been put out of work,” Mr Kemp said.
“China has virtually destroyed the manufacturing of the goods we do in Australia.” He said a lack of
intellectual property protection – also omitted from Monday’s FTA – means Chinese rivals simply
copy his products and export them back to us.

Chamber of Commerce and Industry Queensland general manager of advocacy Nick Behrens
(pictured below) said the FTA would undermine some manufacturing businesses that “would already
have done everything possible” to be competitive.

But he said Queensland’s economy would be a clear net winner, given that the state exports $11.6
billion of products to China and imports about $6.1 billion worth.
The major winners of the China deal will be the coalminers and the meat, dairy, fruit and vegetable
industries.
Australian businesses will get greater access to Chinese private hospitals and nursing homes,
tourism operators will be able to buy restaurants and hotels, and Australian insurance companies
will get access to the third-party insurance market.

But Brisbane-based insurer and bank Suncorp, which has an Australia-New Zealand focus, and the
Bank of Queensland did not perceive any direct opportunities from the FTA.

However, the Bank of Queensland expected “indirect benefits from any economic improvement and
opportunities associated with supporting customers who have exposure to the China market”.

Page118of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It was a sentiment echoed by Martin Barrett, chief executive of Bundaberg-based building society
Wide Bay. He noted a potential flow-on effect to areas such as mining from increased Chinese
investment, which could help the regions in which Wide Bay operates, such as Mackay or
Moranbah.

“If it stimulates those local economies, that will, in due course, help us,” Mr Barrett said.

But Australia’s large-scale renewable energy sector, which faces a potential shutdown by the Abbott
Government at home, is eyeing China as a lifeline.

David McCallum, managing director of Brisbane-based Conergy Australia, said the deal opened the
door for the company to start pursuing contracts for services such as engineering, procurement and
construction.
Given that, in one year alone, China is set to add 13 gigawatts of solar capacity, the opportunities
are vast.
“We have been eagerly looking at opportunities within China for the export of services for
large-scale projects, and this agreement allows us to pursue that vigorously,” Mr McCallum
said.“Without fail, on the services side, the FTA is extremely beneficial for us.”

NS
RE

PUB
AN

e512 : Physical Trade | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | china : China | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document COUMAI0020141123eabo000ak

Page119of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.