Jetstar's Jet Sale Highlights Challenge of Cracking HK Market -- Market Talk

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Jetstar's Jet Sale Highlights Challenge of Cracking HK Market -- Market Talk

1,708 words
18 November 2014
16:02
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

0502 GMT [Dow Jones] Jetstar Hong Kong says it has sold six of its nine passenger jets amid delays in
getting approval from Hong Kong authorities to start flights, a move that underscores the difficulties of
entering new markets with strong local airlines. Industry analysts say that Jetstar Hong Kong has likely
been delayed due to opposition by Cathay Pacific (0293.HK), which filed a formal objection with the
government in September last year. The joint venture of China Eastern Airlines (0670.HK), local firm
Shun Tak (0242.HK) and Australian discount carrier Jetstar Airways, a unit of Qantas Airways (QAN.AU)
says it's ready to start flights soon after it gets approval. "This has been an unfortunate but prudent
business decision made by the Jetstar Hong Kong board as the regulatory approvals are taking longer
than initially expected," the company says in emailed comments attributed to Edward Lau, chief
executive.

Jetstar Hong Kong also says it has seconded some pilots to other airlines while some have quit.
(gaurav.raghuvanshi@wsj.com)

Editor JSM

0451 GMT [Dow Jones] Bank Indonesia isn't likely to hike interest rates in an extraordinary meeting
today as the current monetary stance is sufficiently tight to handle the inflation impact from higher fuel
prices, says Bank of America Merrill Lynch in a research note. "Bank Indonesia faces a tough balancing
act, given weakening growth and rising inflation," it adds. The bank expects the central bank may issue a
statement highlighting that it will remain vigilant on any second-round inflation pressures and any rise in
inflation expectations. A Bank Indonesia official said they will issue a statement around 0800 GMT today
in response to the average 34% fuel price hike starting today. (I-made.sentana@wsj.com)

Editor JSM

0446 GMT [Dow Jones] Nomura's index of leading indicators for India ticked up in September,
suggesting strong growth in the economy two quarters ahead. The index, which forecasts future growth
in nonagricultural gross domestic product, includes non-oil imports, equity returns, tourist arrivals,
indicators of money supply and others. The Indian government is due, before the end of the month, to
release data on GDP growth in the quarter that ended Sept. 30, and many forecasters expect growth to
come in below the 5.7% rate achieved in the quarter ended June 30. But Nomura analysts say they are
"confident" that the growth cycle will turn more strongly next year. (raymond.zhong@wsj.com; Twitter:
@zhonggg)

Editor: TFD

0446 GMT [Dow Jones] Indonesia's decision to raise subsidized fuel prices by about a third will take
on-year inflation to 7.3% by the end of 2014, Finance Minister Bambang Brodjonegoro says. "Clearly
there will still be an inflationary effect in January and February 2015, but there won't be much of an

Page97of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.impact by the end of [that year]," he tells reporters. Inflation currently stands at less than 5%, within the
government's targeted 3.5%-5.5% range in Southeast Asia's largest nation. He said the government is
still estimating the impact of the increase effective today, but that it would free up more than 100 trillion
rupiah ($8.2 billion) for "productive spending such as infrastructure," and for social protection of poor
families and to help develop maritime capacity. (ben.otto@wsj.com; Twitter: @benottoWSJ)

Editor JSM

0439 GMT [Dow Jones] Nomura says it is maintaining neutral on Reliance Communications
Ltd.(532712.BY) with a target price of 120 rupees per piece, despite the company's better earnings for
the quarter ended June. "An operationally in-line quarter" for Reliance Communications, notes the
brokerage and adds that the earnings was helped by a 16% decline in interest costs compared with the
previous quarter. "However, year-to-date its revenue growth trends lag behind those of its peers," says
Nomura. The brokerage says the company's debt declined to 363 billion rupees, which led to interest
costs falling 13% a quarter ago. The Mumbai-based company had earlier said it will reduce loans to 250
billion rupees and save about 6 billion rupees in interest costs. "This still remains key for the stock, in
our view," it says. Nomura says the company's infrastructure sharing agreements with Reliance Jio
Infocomm Ltd., a new telecom venture that is yet-to-start services will "offer potential operational upside,
though revenue contribution is modest at this stage."(krishna.jai@wsj.com; Twitter: @jaikrishna)

Editor: MNG

0439 GMT [Dow Jones] Chinese developers are no longer able to achieve "super growth" by leveraging
up and buying cheap land sites, says UBS. Given the limited upside of property prices and high funding
costs, aggressive leveraging will bring few benefits, it says. UBS says the government is starting to watch
closely for malpractice in land tendering, reducing chances to pick up land at significant discounts. "The
focus will shift to cost and inventory control, sell-through rates and, most importantly, asset turnover,"
says UBS, which upgrades Longfor (0960.HK) to buy because of its management's focus on inventory
and asset turnover. It also lists Shimao (0813.HK), CR Land (1109.HK) and Vanke (2202.HK) as its top
picks due to their fundamental capability under this new operating environment. (jacky.wong@wsj.com;
Twitter: @jackycwong)

Editor JSM

0437 GMT [Dow Jones] Lead December Japan government bond futures fall further after a weak auction
of 20-year JGBs. "It was a very weak result, with yields having fallen as well as ahead of [Prime Minister
Shinzo] Abe's announcement about delaying the sales tax tonight," said Barclays Securities Japan
strategist Akito Fukunaga. The Ministry of Finance sells 1.098 trillion yen of 1.4% 20-year bonds with the
lowest price of 101.55 yielding 1.301%, much lower than street forecasts for a lowest price of 102.05.
The bid-to-cover ratio deteriorates to 2.88 from 3.59 at the last tender, while the tail is longer at 0.41 from
0.08. It was the first time since December, 2009 that the tail has been over 0.40 at a 20-year auction.
Lead December JGB futures are down 0.34 at 145.93. (eleanor.warnock@wsj.com)

Editor JSM

0435 GMT [Dow Jones] Asian naphtha producers such as Taiwan, South Korea, Singapore and Thailand
may divert cargo to Japan from China. This comes as Asia's biggest economy is set to become
self-sufficient in naphtha, a petrochemical product, in around 2017 as coal-to-chemical plants start
operations, says Mizuho Bank in a report. China plans to build several coal-to-chemical plants inland.
Once products from these plants start meeting demand from China's coastal industrial areas, the
country's imports would drop, the report says. Currently, Japan is a naphtha exporter to China. However,
Japanese naphtha producers are the least competitive among the Asian firms currently exporting to
China, according to report. (mari.iwata@wsj.com)

Editor JSM

Page98of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.0425 GMT [Dow Jones] The NZD/USD is "edging a bit higher" as markets await news from Japan, says
Stuart Ive, OM Financial senior client advisor. "We are waiting for an announcement and that's propping
everything up at the moment," he says. Markets expect Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to say he
will put off a planned sales-tax increase. He is also set to call for a general election on Dec. 14 to renew
his mandate for an all-out assault on deflation, which has combined with falling wages and weak demand
to keep Japan's economy sluggish. "The Kiwi is benefiting from the cross-yen trades coming through and
the carry trade may be coming back into play," says Ive. Markets will then focus on the overnight
GlobalDairyTrade auction for any clues on whether milk prices are stabilizing.
(rebecca.howard@wsj.com; Twitter: @FarroHoward)

Editor: TFD

0418 GMT [Dow Jones] PVEP, the leading production arm of state-owned PetroVietnam, says it has
discovered oil from a new well offshore southern Vietnam. It says oil is flowing at 1,000 barrels per day
from Than Nong-1X well in Block 05-1A 260 kilometers southeast of Ba Ria Vung Tau province. The well
is also churning out two million cubic feet of gas a day, the company says. It doesn't say when
commercial production from the well will begin, but adds that it will conduct more exploration drilling in
the area. (trong-khanh.vu@wsj.com; Twitter: @TrongKhanhVu)

Editor: KLH

0408 GMT [Dow Jones] Australia's central bank appears resigned to the fact the Australian dollar is set
to remain overvalued, says Greg Gibbs, currency strategist at RBS. The Reserve Bank of Australia
repeated in policy meeting minutes Tuesday that the Australian dollar is fundamentally too high, but it
also expressed its concern that Bank of Japan policy action could boost the Australian dollar. This view,
coupled with Australia's success in gaining a free-trade agreement with China this week could keep the
Australian dollar supported, particularly against the euro and yen, says Gibbs. (james.glynn@wsj.com;
Twitter: @JamesGlynnWSJ)

Editor JSM

0359 GMT [Dow Jones] Japanese oil refining margins improved after roughly 500,000 barrels a day of
capacity cuts, and additional cuts of some 400,000 b/d expected in the following three years would
sustain a proper supply-demand balance, Mizuho Bank says in a report. Refiners such as JX Holdings
Inc. (5020.TO), Idemitsu Kosan Co. (5019.TO) and Cosmo Oil Co. (5007.TO), acting on government
orders, closed some of their crude distillation units before the end of March, in line with Japan's
decreasing oil demand. As a result of the elimination of overcapacity, margins at these refiners nearly
doubled in the first 6 months of this year, the report says. Because the government plans to impose
another round of capacity cuts by March 2017, on expectation of continued oil demand decline, operating
rates at refineries would remain high, the report says. (mari.iwata@wsj.com)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

November 18, 2014 00:02 ET (05:02 GMT)

CO

IN

NS

RE

cathp : Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd | chea : China Eastern Airlines Corp Ltd | oxair : Jetstar Airways Pty
Ltd | qntas : Qantas Airways Ltd
i75 : Airlines | iairtr : Air Transport | itsp : Transportation/Shipping | i7501 : Scheduled Passenger Airlines
| ilowair : Low Cost Airlines
e1125 : Index of Leading Economic Indicators | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c1521 : Analyst
Comments/Recommendations | c411 : Management Moves | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cslmc :
Senior Level Management | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities
Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | c184 : Joint Ventures | c15 : Performance |
c152 : Earnings Projections | c18 : Ownership Changes | c41 : Management | cactio : Corporate Actions |
e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
hkong : Hong Kong | china : China | india : India | austr : Australia | singp : Singapore | apacz : Asia
Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China |

Page99of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | indsubz
: Indian Subcontinent | sasiaz : Southern Asia | seasiaz : Southeast Asia

PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020141118eabi000pi

Page100of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.