Asian property transactions to Sept. 12

Anusha Iyer

SE
HD
BY
WC 995 words
PD
SN
SC
VOL Issue: 82156
LA
CY
LP

Exclusive
Asian property transactions to Sept. 12

15 September 2014
SNL Real Estate Daily: Asia-Pacific Edition
REAP

English
Copyright 2014. SNL Financial LC

TD

Australia
* Shimao Property Holdings Ltd. is conducting due diligence on an office building at 175 Liverpool St. in
Sydney's central business district that has the potential for an apartment and hotel development worth
up to A$1 billion, The Australian reported Sept. 10.

The building is owned by Singaporean investment giant GIC Real Estate, which is expected to rake in up
to A$400 million if the deal goes through, the publication noted. The 28-level tower has a net lettable area
of about 46,320 square meters.

* Lend Lease Corp. Ltd.'s funds unit is thought to be nearing a deal to sell a A$600 million portfolio of
shopping centers, with DEXUS Property Group's unlisted property fund rumored to be among the
bidders, The Australian reported Sept. 10.
The five shopping centers are held in Lend Lease-managed unlisted fund Real Estate Partners 3. Lend
Lease itself is also believed to have shown interest in the assets for one of its funds, the publication noted.

According to sources, a deal could go through on a yield described as "incredibly sharp."
The sales process is understood to have kicked off with CFSGAM Property Enhanced Retail Fund, an
unlisted fund of CFS Retail Property Trust, making a move for the centers. The newspaper noted that the
fund may still be in the race.
Charter Hall Group, however, is said to have missed out on the deal.
* Australian Industrial REIT said Sept. 10 that it acquired an industrial property at Erskine Park in New
South Wales. The property is under development and is expected to be completed in late 2014.
Upon completion, the property will comprise two built-to-suit warehouses and associated offices with a
total gross building area of about 8,067 square meters. Both buildings have precommitted seven-year
leases to two tenants with national operations, and will be wholly occupied.
* Mirvac Group has emerged as a front-runner to acquire Aveo Group Ltd.'s 95-hectare Saltwater Estate
in Melbourne's Point Cook, The Australian reported Sept. 9.
Aveo is expected to realize A$100 million from the disposal. The site has approval in place to hold about
1,000 residential lots, according to the report.
* The Australian government has chosen a group comprising infrastructure specialist Capella Capital and
partner Lend Lease as preferred bidder for the A$8 billion first stage of a road tunnel and toll motorway
project in Melbourne, Reuters reported Sept. 9.
Other members of the consortium include Spanish construction firm Acciona and French construction
groupBouygues. The contract is expected to be finalized by October.

The Australian Financial Review also reported on the news.

Page51of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.* Abacus Property Group scooped up a half-stake in the Westpac House office tower in Adelaide, for
A$74 million, The Australian reported Sept. 9. The deal with Arena Investment Management takes
Abacus' holding in the building to 100%.
* Sunland Group Ltd. said Sept. 8 that it paid A$18 million for a 3-hectare site in Warriewood in Sydney's
Northern Beaches. The site is set aside for a residential community consisting of 81 townhouse
residences, with an estimated end value of A$80 million.

The project is pending planning and design approvals and is slated to be launched in 2016. The
acquisition will close in 12 months.
* Charter Hall Group said Sept. 8 that it partnered with superannuation fund HOSTPLUS to buy a A$603
million portfolio of properties in a move that marks its entry into the hospitality sector.
The seller, ALH Group, has 329 pub venues throughout Australia and is owned 75% by Woolworths Ltd.
and 25% by the Mathieson Group. The ALH portfolio comprises 54 high-quality hospitality assets and has
an initial lease term of 20 years.

The new wholesale partnership, to be managed by Charter Hall, will be known as Long WALE Investment
Partnership. The new vehicle has committed equity of A$302 million, which, together with a A$340 million
nonrecourse debt facility from a syndicate of two Australian banks, will fund the acquisition.
China

* Modern Land (China) Co. Ltd. said Sept. 10 that it, Great Wall Pan Asia International Investment Co.
Ltd., Modern Land (HKNo.5) Ltd., among others, entered into a joint venture agreement to form a joint
venture company to develop the two parcels of land in Changsha, Hunan province, into residential and
commercial properties.

New Zealand
* Ingenia Communities Group said Sept. 5 that it agreed to sell its New Zealand student portfolio of three
buildings in Wellington, for NZ$49.4 million. The buyer is an affiliate of Forum Partners, a global real
estate investment management firm.
The sale, which concludes Ingenia's divestment of overseas assets, is conditional upon Victoria
University's not exercising its first right of refusal to acquire the assets. It is also conditional on the
consent of the two anchor tenants, Victoria University and Wellington Institute of Technology.
The divestment is part of the company's strategy to focus on affordable seniors accommodation in
Australia.

Japan
* Japan Logistics Fund Inc.'s asset management company said Sept. 11 that it decided to acquire
Sagamihara Logistics Center in Kanagawa, and Tajimi Logistics Center in Tajimi, Gifu, for a total price of
¥10.37 billion.
* Premier Investment Corp. said Sept. 5 that it sold Kanda Chuodori Building in Kajicho, Chiyoda ward in
Tokyo, for ¥2.78 billion to an undisclosed domestic industrial company. The company has not decided
how to use the proceeds from the sale.

* Japan Retail Fund Investment Corp. said Sept. 4 that it decided to acquire and lease DFS T Galleria
Okinawa in Naha-shi, Okinawa; Cute Cube Harajuku in Shibuya-ku, Tokyo; m-city Toyonaka in
Tokyonaka-shi, Osaka; as well as G-Bldg Omotesando 02 in Shibuya-ku, Tokyo; and mozo wonder city in
Nishi-ku, Nagoya, Aichi. The total anticipated acquisition price is ¥46.74 billion.

Some links may require a subscription.

CO dbrrrt : Dexus Property Group | gosic : Government of Singapore Investment Corporation | llc : Lend

Lease Group | shmpoh : Shimao Property Holdings Ltd
i5020039 : Tunnel Construction | ireest : Real Estate | i502 : Heavy Construction | iconst : Construction |
icre : Real Estate/Construction | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150206 : Investment
Trusts/Funds | i815020602 : Real Estate Investment Trusts | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | ifinal :
Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | isover : Sovereign Wealth Fund
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News

IN

NS

Page52of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

austr : Australia | cabc : British Columbia | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) | tokyo : Tokyo |
apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | cana : Canada | easiaz : Eastern Asia | jap
: Japan | namz : North America | nswals : New South Wales

IPD Real Estate Property Transactions & Development
PUB SNL Financial LC
AN

Document REAP000020140918ea9f00004

Page53of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.