Property agent advertises Queensland farms on Chinese websites

HD Property agent advertises Queensland farms on Chinese websites
WC 612 words
PD 28 November 2014
SN Emerging Markets Business Information News
SC EMBIN
LA
English
CY © 2014 EMBIN (Emerging Markets Business Information News). All Rights Reserved. Provided by

Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company

LP

TD

A Queensland property agent is looking overseas for buyers for local properties, advertising dairy and
cattle farms on real estate websites in China and Hong Kong. Brett Allen, from Monto Livestock and
Property, has posted two advertisements in the past week, and has already received an enquiry. He says
he's going fishing to see if there is Chinese interest in Queensland dairy and beef farms. What we have
decided to do is take every opportunity we can for our (rural) clients, and making sure that we can look at
the emerging markets, Mr Allen said. The ads feature a dairy farm near Monto and a Brahman cattle and
horse breeding property near Eidsvold, and have been posted on three real estate websites in China and
Hong Kong. From that, Mr Allen says he's now talking with a Beijing-based agricultural company.
However, he says the company is interested in larger-scale beef properties close to major roads and
ports, which is an issue for Monto.

The (investor wants) around 10,000 acres; certainly we're in smaller land holding areas... but the
opportunity to aggregate some of those bigger farms... is something we'd be keen to look at. Monto is a
long way from the northern live cattle export facilities, but Mr Allen says there are proposals to open up
export further south. There is talk around (cattle) export going out of Gladstone... and if that happens, that
brings us so much closer to those markets. Even though the demand is there, that doesn't mean the
properties' price tags have been raised. Mr Allen says they've been priced no higher than their values in
Australia. We don't think (it's necessary) to put a premium on. Let's face it, most people here would be
happy to move on to their next project. And when it comes to local people's attitudes about selling property
to foreign investors, Mr Allen says there are concerns but people are largely open to the idea. Now, we
wouldn't be doing this if the clients didn't feel that they wanted to sell to an overseas interest. They are
quite willing to look at all avenues. He says the investment could create employment, but there are
questions about where the profits would go. Nevertheless, Mr Allen says it would keep industry ticking
along. We need to make sure we can keep a rural industry alive so the employment that's generated
around those industries can be maintained. Farmers hope to see gains from Rinehart investment Monto
dairy farmer Leeson Ison has had a particularly rough trot over the past few years. The 2013 floods
damaged her infrastructure and pastures, and now, hot dry conditions are forcing down each of her cow's
production by about four litres a day. She says doing business with China has pros and cons - that
farmers don't want China to buy up all their property, but that stronger trade links offer opportunities to
make more money. Now, there are hopes billionaireGina Rinehart's multi-million dollar plans to process
infant milk formula in Queensland could increase demand for milk and hand cash back to farmers. Ms
Ison says it's understood Ms Rinehart will only produce 70 per cent of the milk she needs, meaning she
will source milk from other farmers who are supplying other processors. Which we hope leans them
(processors) to the fact that they're going to try and pay us more to produce more milk and to compensate
what she's going to take over from, Ms Ison said.

IN

NS

RE

i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | ireest : Real Estate | i0 :
Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy
Products | icnp : Consumer Goods | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ifood : Food Products | ilsfarm :
Livestock Farming
c32 : Advertising | c31 : Marketing/Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact
: Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

IPD Advertising & Media
PUB Info-Prod Research (Middle East) Limited

Page17of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN Document EMBIN00020141128eabs000gr

Page18of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.