$1500 HOME BUYER SLUG

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
$1500 HOME BUYER SLUG

SAMANTHA MAIDEN
449 words
23 November 2014
Courier Mail
COUMAI
CourierMail
9
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

FOREIGN investors snapping up Australian real estate will be slapped with a $1500 fee for every
property they buy under a plan to crack down on rorting.

The Abbott Government is understood to be considering the measure amid fears investors are
driving up house prices in major cities.

The Parliamentary Budget Office has costed a new foreign buyers administration fee that would raise
up to $600 million over the next decade.

It argues that the slug would not deter investors, “given the small cost of the proposed fee relative to
the cost of purchasing residential real estate.’’ The fee would apply to each application lodged to
buy foreign property in Australia.
A long awaited report into foreign investment in Australian real estate to be released on Thursday is
also expected to examine moving towards a user-pays system for investors applying to buy homes.

It is expected to consider a register to provide better data on what overseas investors are buying and
where.

Chaired by Liberal MP Kelly O’Dwyer, the committee is expected to criticise the Foreign Investment
Review Board for failing to aggressively enforce existing laws.

Since 2008, the FIRB has not issued a single order forcing investors who breached the rules to sell
their assets.

The report is believed to have been delayed because the Abbott Government was concerned that
proposals may have created controversy in the lead up to the signing of the Chinese free trade
agreement.

The committee rejected proposals to hike stamp duty on foreign investors. But the plan for a user
pays system to beef up FIRB compliance powers won favour.

The new slug would be used to fund a crackdown on investors who breach rules that prohibit the
purchase of existing housing stock rather than encouraging new buildings.
Foreigners can legally purchase real estate in Australia but are prohibited from buying existing
homes. A temporary resident who has had a visa for longer than 12 months can purchase a single
property to live in but must sell it within three months of leaving Australia. There are concerns this
rule is not being aggressively enforced.
There are also concerns there are no penalties for real estate agents who knowingly help investors
break the law.

Page191of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Fines of up to $85,000 can apply to investors, which some industry sources say are regarded as “the
cost of doing business’’ in Australia.

Penalties can include up to two years in jail.
The fee would be on applications to buy all types of residential property including new and existing
property, off the plan and residential land.The costings assume 32,000 properties a year are
approved for foreign investment.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document COUMAI0020141123eabn00046

Page192of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.