Visy warns of five-year window to gear up for Asia

Visy warns of five-year window to gear up for Asia

2 April 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) News
ABCNEW
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

Sarina Locke

HD
BY
WC 626 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Packaging giant Visy says there is a narrow five-year window for Australia to gear up as a major food
supplier to Asia.

Visy boss Anthony Pratt says other countries are also positioning to supply that hungry and cashed-up
part of the world.

TD

He's made a few policy suggestions for the Federal Government, including helping farmers adopt new
sustainable techniques, and increased research and tax incentives for food manufacturers.
As head of Australia's largest packaging and recycling company, Mr Pratt has congratulated the Federal
Coalition for successfully sealing a free trade deal with South Korea in its first year in office, and he's
talked up the government's commitment to finalising ones in China and Japan soon.
"To illustrate what's at stake, the Australian Farm Institute estimates that, within six years, Asia will import
an additional 5.2 million tonnes of dairy, 1.9 million tonnes of beef and 1.1 million tonnes of chicken
meat, which represents 50 per cent of Australia's current dairy production, 86 per cent of our beef and
140 per cent of our chicken meat production."

Mr Pratt speaks with some knowledge about environmental sustainability, and he worries about
Australia's falling farm productivity.

"But are we ready for the future?" he asked, at a Global Food Forum in Sydney.

"Getting the FTAs done doesn't guarantee increased food exports will flow automatically, or food from
Australia will make the most of this windfall.
"We have to develop more coherent, long lead times policies toward farming and agriculture, on water
and soil and plants.

"We have worked closely for the last five years with former Governor General Mike Jeffrey to promote
sustainable farming.

"His Soils for Life Program shows that it's possible to boost healthy food production while looking after the
environment.

"Now it's time for other companies in the food supply chain to help extend this valuable applied knowledge
across the country.

"We also have to invest in innovation to capture opportunities where we have long-run competitive
advantages, like advanced food processing technologies, cold pasteurisation packaging that preserves
and protects fresh food in transport, better ways to capture soil carbon for crop productivity, advances in
genetics for plant and animal selection and many more.

Call for accelerated depreciation

Mr Pratt says the Federal Government should be assisting food manufacturers tap into new markets and
become more sustainable, through reducing tax on investments in innovation and technology.

Page255of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."(I'm calling for) accelerated depreciation in new manufacturing investments in food, to reduce payback
time.

"Food manufacturing is perfect target. It would help encourage innovation and cope with the high
Australian dollar and high labour costs.

"Australia has a natural competitive advantage as a potential food superpower.

"Ultimately, innovation depends on people with advanced skills with ideas, and we need to catch up
particularly with access to more places in universities to study agricultural science.

"At most, we have a five-year window to gear up. In feeding a hungry world, there are other food
superpowers eager to steal our lunch."

Mr Pratt says Visy has been showing the way over the last 20 years.
"We've recently invested about $200 million, including $80 million in a beverage can factory, $50 million
in a plastics recycling plant and $20 million upgrading our combi-block carton production.
"And there are many entrepreneurial companies that are confident Australia can lead innovation and grow
sustainably."

Mr Pratt cited, as his inspiration on food supply, Dr Norman Borlaug, the agricultural scientist who began
the Green Revolution, and is credited with saving a billion people from starvation.

The Global Food Forum was organised by News Corporation.

NS
RE

ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania

IPD food
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCNEW0020140402ea4200034

Page256of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.