TAU Enters EAC Market With Quality

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

TAU Enters EAC Market With Quality

898 words
22 July 2014
03:38
All Africa
AFNWS
English
(c) 2014 AllAfrica, All Rights Reserved

Jul 21, 2014 (East African Business Week/All Africa Global Media via COMTEX) -- TAU is the leading
exporter of Japanese used car and damaged car and spare parts.

For those who have interest in these goods, our website is the best place to find the suitable one.

We are committed to providing a long, stable and excellent business relationship with you by supplying
damaged car, used car and spare parts through our website (http://www.tau-trade.com).

Recently the Chief Executive Officer of TAU Corporation, Akitaka Miyamoto talked to Walter Isenged,
the Editor in Chief of East African Business Week about their vehicle business. Below are excerpts.

Who is TAU and what do you do?

TAU Corporation was established in 1996 based in Saitama city Japan. We buy used cars and
damaged cars which were damaged by natural disasters or accidents through our 18 branches in
Japan.

Then we sell those cars to 108 countries through our own internet auction. To respond increased
overseas demand, we have established offices in Brisbane Australia; Vladivostok, Russia and Dubai
UAE and also we have 21 agents in 17 countries.

From Japan to all over the world, we not only have cars, but also we deal with used boats, machinery
and motor oils.
How many branches do you have worldwide and what is the size and scale of your company?

We have 18 branch offices in Japan and three branch offices overseas, and we last week opened a
fourth branch office in Santiago.
Last financial year sales was 15.6 billion JPY ($153 million as of September 2013), and as of July
2014, 400 employees are working.
We have employees from 13 countries outside Japan such as Taiwan, Hong Kong, Russia, Iran and
Pakistan, who are able to speak 17 languages.

Uganda's motor vehicle industry is very vibrant and there are many other suppliers of motor vehicles in
Uganda as seen by the many vehicle showrooms in Kampala, why do you wish to enter this busy
industry?

We think demand for used vehicles will increase more in Uganda due to economic growth in recent
years and next decade. Demands for auto spare parts also will increase accompanied with used vehicle
needs.

Our used cars have good quality and high values. The cars are direct from leasing companies,
insurance companies or used car dealers before other auction companies have touched them.

Page188of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Our purchase channels have high transparency. We can help fulfill needs for people in Uganda by
supplying good quality vehicles and spare parts. This also helps revitalize local motorization and we
hope this enriches the daily life of people in Uganda.

What is it that you offer that will make you competitive in this industry?

Our used cars are from leasing companies who have contracts with auto maintenance shops all over
Japan.
The cars have regular maintenance such as oil change and other consumable parts replacement. Thus,
we can say the condition of these cars is excellent.
Furthermore, we can supply additional items such as used spare parts and motor oil.

There are many fake vehicle importing companies and websites available to the Ugandan buyer. How
are you going to assure them that you are genuine?

We have been selling vehicles through our own internet auction. Our skilled assessors check more than
100 detailed points of vehicles and open the information on our website

In addition to our assessment, we have third party assessment (JAAA) with certificate. In case we have
misrepresentation on our website, we will do a follow-up based on our claim rules in our customer
agreement.

We are dealing with more than 70,000 registered customers in 108 countries thanks to our high
transparency business model.

We have varieties of vehicles in terms of prices, types and models. We can supply what Uganda people
want.

Uganda, like the rest of East Africa, is beginning to institute the ban on very old vehicles. Uganda has
already put in place the vehicle inspection requirement (JEVIC), are you able to assure Ugandans that
your vehicles are good?

Used vehicles we have are from the leasing companies who have contracts with auto maintenance
shops all over Japan.
It is compulsory to have regular oil change and consumable parts replacement in their contract.

Also third part JAAA(Japan Automobile Assessment Association) assessors check 344 points of
vehicles condition and issues a certificate for each of the vehicles. So customers can purchase our
used vehicles with security.

Many Ugandans like dealing with companies that have an established presence in Uganda, are you
planning to set up office or shop in Uganda?

At the moment, we are not planning to have office in Uganda, but we can quickly deal with local demand
by regular business trips and help from our sales agent in Uganda.

What other services or products to you hope to introduce into Uganda, since Ugandans generally like
products made in Japan?

At this point, we deal with automobile related products such as used vehicles, auto spare parts and
motor oil.

In the near future, we will deal with other 'Made in Japan' products such as daily commodities and
clothes not being able to be sold in Japan with some reasons from insurance companies and leasing
companies we have contracts with.

We will supply products other than vehicles to our customers all over the world.

RE

IPD
PUB
AN

uganda : Uganda | africaz : Africa | austr : Australia | jap : Japan | taiwan : Taiwan | apacz : Asia Pacific
| asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | eafrz : East Africa | easiaz : Eastern Asia
africa
All Africa Global Media
Document AFNWS00020140721ea7l001xu

Page189of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Page190of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.