Watchdog probes Sino Aus for market fraud

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Watchdog probes Sino Aus for market fraud

LEO SHANAHAN, Mining services
590 words
11 June 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
17
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

SINO Australia Oil and Gas is the subject of a criminal investigation after the Australian Federal Police
executed search warrants against the Australian-listed mining services company as part of a probe
into market manipulation and false trading.

The Australian Securities & Investments Commission last week continued a freezing order over the
HSBC bank account of the Chinese drilling services company after its chairman and majority
shareholder, Shao Tian-peng, attempted to transfer $7.5 million to Chinese bank accounts a day after
the company floated on the Australian Securities Exchange on December 12 last year.

Sino Australia listed on the ASX last year, raising $12.8m at 50c a share for a market capitalisation of
$109m.
According to a letter of complaint to the corporate regulator from two of the company’s sacked
directors, Wayne Johnson and Andrew Faulkner, Mr Shao asked the board to authorise the payment
of $7.5m into a Chinese bank account, which would have left $170,000 in its accounts just a day after
listing.

Continued on Page 18 Continued from Page 17 Mr Johnson and Mr Faulkner were removed from the
board after refusing to sign off on the transfer.
The Chinese drilling-services company also had trading in its shares halted by the ASX after it failed
to lodge its accounts in February.

The Australian revealed significant discrepancies between profit assurances given by Sino prior to the
float and its actual financial performance, as well as significant “related-party transactions” paid to Mr
Shao by the company worth $3.1m.

Last night, Sino issued a statement to the ASX calling on ASIC and the Federal Court to release the
company’s funds, but did not comment on a criminal investigation.
“It is the unanimous opinion of the company’s directors that the injunction is hurting the company, is
not in shareholders’ best interest, is unwarranted and should be removed,” it said.

The Sino board said the frozen funds identified by ASIC had been earmarked for drilling purchases in
China, and it was the court’s freezing order that was dragging down expected profits.

“ASIC is concerned about an historical variance in forecast profit to actual profit caused by the
company’s reliance on leased equipment but is actively preventing the company from expending its
money, in a manner entirely in accordance with what was disclosed, to purchase equipment that
would reduce the reliance on leased equipment and increase profitability,” the statement said.

Affidavits filed in the Federal Court by ASIC reveal that the AFP executed a search warrant at an
address in Mosman in Sydney on May 21 “pursuant to s3E of the Crime Act”.

Page234of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“The search warrant relates to suspected contraventions of the following provisions of the Corporations
Act arising from the trading in SAO’s shares during the period from around 12 December 2013 to 24
February 201.” The ASIC and AFP investigation relates to “market manipulation” and “false trading” of
Sino shares.

“Evidence obtained by ASIC prior to obtaining this warrant indicates that Mr Shao was aware of the
motive underpinning the trading in SAO’s shares (that is the subject of ASIC’s investigation into
market manipulation and false trading) and supported it.”An ASIC spokesman would not comment
further on the search warrants or the ongoing investigation into Sino. ASIC is understood to have
interviewed Mr Shao and other Sino directors late last month, with Mr Shao now having returned to
China.

CO
NS

RE

PUB
AN

aufpol : Australian Federal Police | ausic : Australian Securities and Investments Commission
cwarr : Warrants | gcrim : Crime/Courts | c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal Action | c17 : Funding/Capital |
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140610ea6b0005e

Page235of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.