Wilson adds health service

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Wilson adds health service

Peter Williams
396 words
9 January 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
First
62
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

National carpark operator Wilson Group has added health services to its offering by acquiring a
WA medical training and ambulance provider.

The newly formed Wilson Health unit last month took control of the 15-year-old Welshpool-based
Medic One as its flagship business.

Wilson, in annual results filed with the corporate regulator, said it had invested a combined $6.4
million in Wilson Health and its new Melbourne-focused Wilson Storage subsidiary.

Medic One is expected to support other companies in the group, and combine with Wilson Security
to offer services packages to mining and oil and gas projects.
“It’s going to complement Wilson where it wants to grow as a company,” Medic One founder and
general manager Janine Nicholas said.

A paramedic originally from Tasmania, Ms Nicholas started the business in 1998. It provides
medical training and other services in Welshpool, and for clients around Australia and in the United
Arab Emirates.

WA’s firefighters and personnel at the Amberley RAAF base in Queensland are among those
trained by Medic One.

The business has a fleet of 12 ambulances used to service private clients such as Aspen Medical
Group and Medibank Health Solutions. It has about 40 employees.
“We’re Australia’s first company offering paramedic education for every individual Australia-wide,”
Ms Nicholas said. “Normally that was reserved for State ambulance members only. So we broke
that mould.”

Ms Nicholas said she and other shareholders sold the business so it could expand. “Medic One
has been my child for 15 years and it’s bursting at the seams to become an adult,” she said.
“It needed to grow up and it needed the right company to do that. I believe that Wilson Health was
that company.

“It’s a wonderful fit.

“We share the same values and ethics.”

Ms Nicholas said selling Medic One enabled her to continue to doing a job she loved without the
stress of running the business.

Page141of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.While the sale agreement contracted her to the company for two years, she planned to stay
longer. “I hope it’s another 15 years,” she said.
The Hong Kong-owned Wilson Group reported an annual profit of about $19 million for 2012-13,
up 14 per cent. It had revenue of $721 million. It operates about 300 carparks around Australia
and provides security services.

c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140108ea190000a

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page142of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.