Signs are right for takeovers extravaganza

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Signs are right for takeovers extravaganza

TONY KAYE
616 words
1 February 2014
The Courier-Mail
COUMAI
CourierMail
67
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

IF THE financial forecasts are correct, the conditions are right for a surge in the number and size of
corporate takeover deals across Australia in 2014.
An acceleration of the global economic recovery, rising business confidence, a lower Australian
dollar and a growing list of cashed-up corporate investors eager to buy premium, undervalued assets
will likely propel mergers and acquisitions activity.

Add to this factors such as low interest rates and improved funding options, meaning potential buyers
also can raise funds affordably from banks or capital markets.

In addition, general expectations that the Australian economy will slow to some degree means that
organic growth might be harder to come by – and so growth by acquisition could appear very
attractive for some companies.

With the Government taking aggressive steps to pay down sovereign debt, overall uncertainty about
Australian financial risk is evaporating.

Takeover deals will come in all shapes and sizes, with some hostile and others representing a
meeting of corporate minds.
Cashed-up private equity firms and venture funds, including from the US and Europe, also are likely
to be among key takeover players.

Foreign companies are keen to invest here – a fact that will no doubt keep the decision makers at the
Foreign Investment Review Board busy.
The FIRB was tested last year when it scrutinised, and subsequently rejected, a $3.4 billion offer for
grain co-operative GrainCorp by Canada’s Archer Daniels Midland.

It deemed the bid not to be in the national interest.

But scores of other foreign bids have been approved, including a large number emanating from
China.
In the past few days, the Canadian dairy giant Saputo has tightened its takeover grip on Victoria’s
Warrnambool Cheese and Butter, with its $530 million deal enough to stave off stiff competition
from Australian bidding rivals Bega Cheese and the Murray Goulburn co-operative.
Figures just released by the research firm Dealogic show a total of 1393 M&A deals involving
Australian companies, with a combined value of $US86 billion, were announced last year.
The biggest was the $7.5 billion acquisition of Singapore Power’s Australian energy assets by
State Grid, China’s key power distributor, followed by the $7 billion restructure of the Westfield

Page94of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.property group, and the $5.3 billion sale of Port Botany and Port Kembla by the NSW Government
to a consortium led by superannuation heavyweight Industry Funds Management.

More big deals are on the cards, with infrastructure assets one of the biggest areas identified as the
federal and state governments move to privatise industrial operations ranging from electricity
generation and distribution networks to hospitals, roads, railway lines and rolling stock, to ports.
And then there’s billions of dollars of other assets set to come into play, including whole companies
as well as parts of companies that are put up for sale to raise cash.
While some experts are predicting that the mining sector won’t be a major area of takeover activity,
the devaluing effect of lower prices for some metals commodities and a lower Australian dollar will put
many resources companies firmly into the bidding zone.

Indeed, of the current takeover deals underway involving Australian-listed companies, a high
percentage relate to mining companies.

Takeovers specialist Tom Elliott this week named in the Eureka Report three listed companies that he
has on his radar screen as hot buys.
They include a listed mortgage broker, an online travel bookings company, and a major oil and gas
producer.

He also listed another three well-known companies as wait/holds.Tony Kaye is the Eureka Report
editor. To read more go to www.eurekareport.com.au

NS

RE
PUB
AN

c182 : Asset Transactions | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | npred : Economic
Predictions/Forecasts | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions |
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E
Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document COUMAI0020140131ea210006t

Page95of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.