BEWARE THE “SHADOW BANKS” AS CHINA INVESTMENT CHANGES

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

BEWARE THE “SHADOW BANKS” AS CHINA INVESTMENT CHANGES

832 words
28 May 2014
Mining Business Media
MIBMED
English
Copyright 2014. Mining Business Media Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

Sydney, May 28
There will not be any significant immediate term funds coming out of China for magnetite iron projects
in Australia or internationally, according to advisory firm, PCF Capital, as it warns of pending swings in
global competition for exploration funds.

The market changes also raise the spectre of “shadow bank” operations becoming a temporary force
in mine project funding, but at much higher risk than conventional bank based debt.
Perth, Western Australia-based PCF Capital M/D Liam Twigger has told the Paydirt 2014 Latin America
Downunder conference that current market dynamics point to China not expected to back any new
magnetite iron projects for at least 5 years.
“China has 2 magnetite projects in Australia that it is struggling to get fully commissioned amid cost
blowouts and other challenges – Citic’s Cape Preston Project and the Karara J/V, with a third being the
development of Sino Iron’s Extension Hill. Until these projects (all in Western Australia) actually get up
and deliver, there will be no more Chinese backing for magnetite projects either in Australia or
overseas.”

However, Twigger says the good news is that the market now knows a lot more about magnetite
operations and the detail required in feasibility studies.

”The only ones with any chance of success in attracting capital will be those with a measureable
pathway to production and some relativity between the sponsor’s market cap and the amount of capital
needing to be raised.”

He says this prevailing mood swing comes at a time Australia is trying to get a number of long mooted
magnetite projects off the ground and into mining and export.
“Equity markets are now on the cusp of a turning point and magnetite aside, Australia should continue
to present compelling value within the mood shift. The top tier investment sentiment will swing heavily
and dominantly behind gold, copper and nickel.”

Twigger warns, however, that a collapse in market appetite for capital raisings via predominantly
placements and rights issues, and to a much lesser extent IPOs, is seeing a material increase in
companies seeking debt and increasingly accessing this from non-conventional sources allowing the
emergence of “shadow banks.”

“For ASX investment, the value of placements and IPOs is down from around $A107B in 2009 to barely
$14B or so in the first half of 2014, few of which have been mining plays. Equity has become hard to
come by and entities are borrowing more to minimise shareholder dilution.
“On a global basis, this same capital starved trend has seen equity and debt raisings for gold and base
metals fall from around $US23.6B in 2010 to barely $8.5B in 2013. The mix of capital access has also
changed in this time from 70% equity and 30% debt, to now around 50:50 equity and debt.

“Within this, we have seen shadow banks emerge – basically metal trading and offtake parties as well
as metal streamers -- which don’t have to operate within the regulatory and prudential constraints of
traditional banks.

Page131of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“They operate quickly and can provide large chunks of cash in return for offtake and marketing rights.
The big unknown, however, is how these trading houses will act when things get tough – as they
increasingly are – and that should worry project owners going down that route or considering such a
credit line possibility.”
Twigger points to Latin America’s sustained investment appeal and mining performance over this
period – and he expects it to continue to be so.

“At a time the global exploration spend is down 60%, compared to its all-time high in 2010, Latin
America on a regional basis, will continue to dominate the global exploration spend and be at the
forefront of new investment rallies, particularly as it presents a premium pricing for gold projects.
“On a one year average, the market is now paying up to 4 times to buy into a Latin American gold
project – somewhere around $US86 an ounce – compared to only $22oz on a global basis. Even on a
3-year average, the gold premium is more than double for Latin America at $70oz compared to $37oz
globally.”

He points to new data showing Latin America remains at the forefront of global exploration appeal,
accounting for 27% of last year’s $14.4B spend – with gold dominating that activity – some 46% of
budgets.

“In short, Latin America has retained the mantle as being the number-1 region for exploration
expenditure for the past 20 years and this trend should continue.”
CITIC PacificMining

Website:http://www.citicpacificmining.com
Wholly owned subsidiary of Hong Kong-based CITIC Pacific Group, whose majority shareholder is
Chinese state-owned conglomerate CITIC Group, established to manage the Sino Iron project, the
company’s first major investment in Australia

 

Sinosteel Corporation Limited

Website:http://en.sinosteel.com
Chinese state-owned, Fortune Global 500 corporation involved in development of mineral resources,
raw materials trading and logistics, engineering services and equipment

IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
m1421 : Gold Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mcat :
Commodity/Financial Market News | mpcsmt : Precious Metals Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales
Mining Business Media Pty Ltd
Document MIBMED0020140529ea5s00007

Page132of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.