Cashed-up Auswin TWT seeks more deals

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Features
Cashed-up Auswin TWT seeks more deals

GREG BROWN
654 words
13 March 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
29
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

CHINESE-backed Auswin TWT Developments, which last month bought the Tabcorp headquarters in
Sydney's Ultimo, is eyeing two more Sydney sites and has the firepower to triple its development
pipeline to $300 million.
Auswin TWT general manager Stephen Fitzpatrick says that the group, which came to Australia in
2002, was on the hunt for similar opportunities to the Tabcorpsite, which will be converted to
apartments.

Fitzpatrick was tight-lipped on where the sites are, but says that the group is ``definitely'' close to
buying another 5000sq m block with the chance for a project with apartments, retail and community
facilities.
Auswin TWT is part of a cohort of Asian developers that have purchased office buildings for
residential redevelopment, with Singaporean developer Far East Organisation and Chinese
behemoth Greenland Holdings Group also making substantial acquisitions.
``We are looking for sites the size of the Ultimo, so one that's a 5000sq m site and that would be 250
to 300 apartments, and properties that can provide a community and cultural infrastructure as well,''
Fitzpatrick says.
``In Beijing this group is very dedicated to the arts and so they support galleries and they like to
include that inside their development.
``(The Chinese owners) don't want to just do multiple apartments; they want to create a legacy that
they can leave behind, something that they're proud to do and something that's enduring,'' he adds.
Auswin TWT's planned signature on its site in Ultimo, according to Fitzpatrick, will be the potential
synergies with the Ultimo Community Centre.

This could include using the retail space to create another branch of the Jessie Street National
Women's Library and complement the Chinese workshops in the community centre.
The group also plans to build 250 apartments and provide public sculpture on the site.

Architect Woods Bagot was this week hired for the design.

``These are all the things we can discuss with the council in our pre-development approval stage,''
Fitzpatrick says.
``Being an art-focused development company, we'd like to look at opportunities where we could
expand upon the women's library and maybe (build) a national women's gallery (where) we could fund
women's art.''

Page171of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The problem with most mixed-use developments, Fitzpatrick says, is that developers pile in as much
residential as possible to make the project work financially.

``But we take a longer view than that, because we think that if it's going to be a mixed-use building
then the mixed-use really needs to work for that particular area,'' he says.

Auswin TWT is one of about 40 companies around the world that the family owns, says Fitzpatrick,
who declines to reveal the family's name.
The group has done substantial developments in China, including a 1046 townhouse project. They
also have global holdings in art and real estate, Fitzpatrick says.
Auswin TWT's first Australian development was a small residential project at Seaforth in Sydney's
northeast.
Last year, it developed the T1 residential tower at St Leonards on Sydney's north shore. The T1
project included an art gallery on the ground level, which is a new permanent gallery space for St
Leonards and wider community.

Auswin TWT is sponsoring its first exhibition in the T1 Art Terminal, the ``DEGENERATION'' exhibition
presented by the Australia China Art Foundation (ACAF) and Bridging Hope Charity Foundation. The
exhibition began on February 22 and will continue until May 16. The company is now planning to
deliver a creative precinct at the site, which is expected to include an outdoor cinema, public art within
a dedicated ``art park'', public open space, restaurants and retail.

Fitzpatrick became general manager of Auswin TWT in August last year. He left a sales role at Ray
White Lane Cove in 2010 to start his own property marketing firm called Kinsale Property Group.

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

tabcor : TABCORP Holdings Ltd
i5010022 : Residential Building Construction | i501 : Building Construction | iconst : Construction | icre
: Real Estate/Construction | i97912 : Gambling Industries | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality
gart : Art | gcat : Political/General News | gent : Arts/Entertainment
austr : Australia | china : China | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140312ea3d0002v

Page172of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.