Woodside mulls entry in to InterOil's PNG gas project

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Market Wrap - Street Talk
Woodside mulls entry in to InterOil's PNG gas project

Edited by Sarah Thompson, Anthony Macdonald and Gretchen Friemann
478 words
7 February 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
14
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Woodside Petroleum has spent the past 10 years studiously avoiding Papua New Guinea. But that
may be set to change given the informal discussions held within the past week between executives at
the Perth-based energy giant and InterOil's management team, which is headed by former Woodside
chief, Michael Hession.
It is understood the talks revolved around acquiring a potential stake in the Houston-based company's
Elk and Antelope gas fields – the largest reserves to have been discovered so far in PNG.

InterOil has already agreed to sell a majority stake in those fields to the French energy behemoth,
Total SA, in a deal that could be worth up to US$3.6 billion, depending on the precise volume of gas
found. That transaction is yet to go unconditional and it is understood Total would prefer to sell down a
portion before it enters binder terms. The Australian-listed company Oil Search has already displayed
interest in snapping up a fraction of the French company's stake but sources said negotiations have
slowed over recent weeks as the conversations intensify about the price of any deal.
If Oil Search is unable to meet Total's terms it seems there are plenty of parties ready to step up to the
plate.

Street Talk understands that Santos executives are also beating a path to Hession's door in the hope
of gaining a foothold in the PNG project.
Any sell down by Total needs approval from Inter Oil, considering its 33 per cent stake in the gas
fields. Given the demands from its own share holders the company may be loath to offload any more
of its share of Elk and Antelope, unless the bidder offered a lofty price.
But if Hession was to usher Woodside and Santos in the direction of Total,Oil Search could be in for
some stiff competition.Total is thought to be unenthusiastic about signing up to a large financial
exposure in PNG – a costly and unpredictable territory.
Selling a slice to Oil Search not only allows Total to take money off the table, the cash could be used to
mop up minority owners in Elk and Antelope, who own 20 per cent of the reserves. That in turn would
benefit InterOil as one eliminating the minorities is also one of the preconditions to the Total joint
venture.
Elsewhere, Russell Keating has been promoted to head of metals and mining at Citi after Paul Harris
left the firm. Keating had a productive 2013, working on about $2 billion of deals. The deals included
China Moly's acquisition of Rio Tinto's stake in the Northparkes copper mine and a sell-side role
advising BHP Billiton on the Pinto Valley sale.

CO
IN

fdp : Total SA | wodpet : Woodside Petroleum Ltd | gshaf : InterOil Corporation
i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1 : Energy | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | i14 : Petroleum/Coal
Products | i14001 : Petroleum Refining | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction | iindstrls : Industrial Goods

Page48of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS
RE
PUB
AN

ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140206ea270003t

Page49of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.