Dragon fires up over Lee ties

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Dragon fires up over Lee ties

517 words
4 February 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
Second
3
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

Dragon Mining has escalated a confrontation with its major shareholder by directly implicating
interests linked to corporate raider Lee Ming Tee in a pending board spill.
The Perth-based, Swedish-focused gold miner has gone to the Takeovers Panel seeking to block
a showdown on Friday where Peter Gunzberg’s Lee-backed Eurogold will seek shareholder
approval to roll most of Dragon’s directors.

Dragon alleges the Lee family and the Malaysian-Chinese billionaire’s long-time friend, Shirley
Chong Sok Un, are in cahoots with Eurogold to try and seize control of the company in breach of
takeover laws.
The complaint, which is still being evaluated by the panel, centres on Chong’s 12.1 per cent stake
in Dragon held via COL Capital, a holding which could well decide Friday’s vote.

Lee’s Allied Group, run by son Lee Seng Hui, holds 36.5 per cent of Eurogold, which in turn owns
24.5 per cent of Dragon.

Dragon argues that the Lees and Chong are associated parties, and that the latter is therefore
subject to the same restrictions on share purchases applying to the Lees.
It says COL’s purchase of Dragon shares over a six-month period a year ago breached takeover
laws by delivering Eurogold a significantly increased stake in Dragon.

It wants the panel to adjourn Friday’s meeting until any proceedings by the regulator are
concluded. But it is also seeking the confiscation and sale of the COL holding and wants COL and
Eurogold banned from voting their stakes.

It is not the first time Lee and Chong have been caught up in a corporate stoush in Australia, with
both figuring prominently in a panel ruling on a similar matter during an attempt to snare board
control of Mt Gibson Iron six years ago.
On that occasion, the panel blocked Chinese group Shougang’s attempt to buy a 19.7 per cent
stake in the iron ore miner because of Shougang’s association with the Lee-backed APAC
Resources, Mt Gibson’s biggest shareholder.

Lee Seng Hui remains a member of the Mt Gibson board. The Lee family’s other local interests
include a major stake in Tanami Gold.

Friday’s meeting is due to consider the dumping of three of Dragon’s four directors and the
appointment of two Eurogold nominees, including Allied Group and Mt Tanami director Arthur Dew.

The new directors would join Gunzberg in forming a new board promising to provide the leadership
they claim has been lacking at Dragon.

Page242of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Eurogold would appear to be in no position to be offering advice, given it is virtually dormant, its
shares suspended from trading since last June while it hunts for a new project.

However, it has lost plenty on Dragon’s sliding share price and reckons the group hasn’t been
quick enough to rein in costs.

Dragon chairman Peter Cordin has countered that Eurogold’s criticism shows “a lack of
understanding of gold mining” and says the prospect of a board spill by a suspended company is
“unpalatable”.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

tormin : Dragon Mining Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i2112 :
Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140203ea2400034

Page243of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.