Calls to curb foreign property ownership

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Calls to curb foreign property ownership

344 words
25 October 2014
The Observer (Gladstone)
APNOBG
Main
28
English
Copyright 2014 APN Newspapers Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

Parliamentary inquiry Millionaire calls for action
AUSTRALIA’S largest property investment group has renewed calls for the Federal Government to
curb foreign property ownership by introducing 50-year lease restrictions.

Recent reports reveal foreign buyers are snapping up one in every six new residential homes and
apartments in Australia.

According to a new National Australia Bank survey, foreign demand surged in the September quarter
and is tipped to rise even further next year.
Kevin Young, founder of the Property Club, has warned of “dire consequences” if a current federal
parliamentary inquiry into foreign investment does not recommend immediate action to curb the
“blatant new home grab”.

The inquiry committee is due to report next month.

“We need to continue to welcome foreign investment whilst doing everything we can to protect
Australian home buyers and our sovereignty,” Mr Young said.

Under the 50-year lease proposal put forward by Mr Young, foreign investment will continue, meaning
more construction and more jobs. The increase in supply of housing will also help to counteract
ever-increasing inflation of property and rent prices.
“Chinese buyers alone are investing more than $5 billion a year into Australia's residential market.
This is fantastic for our economy but there are more issues at play here,” Mr Young said.
“If we offer property on lease terms and not freehold terms, we get the benefits of foreign investment
without giving away the farm.
“The majority of overseas countries restrict unfettered foreign property ownership and Australia needs
to re-think its current position.”

About

Kevin Young is a BRW rich lister with an estimated personal fortune in excess of $200 million. He
founded the Brisbane-based Property Club 20 years ago and it has now grown into an Australia-wide
property buyer and property education network whose members purchase about 3000 properties per
year. It also has a Property Millionaires Club with more than 4000 members who have purchased
multiple properties through the club.

NS
RE
PUB

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
APN Newspapers Pty Ltd

Page47of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document APNOBG0020141023eaap0002y

Page48of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.