MOVING TIME

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

M
MOVING TIME

JOHN BAILEY
2,459 words
1 June 2014
Sunday Age
SAGE
First
8
English
(c) 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

COVER STORY

Once seen as revolutionary, Circus Oz is now seen as the Establishment, writes JOHN BAILEY.

Moving house is hell. Ask Anni Davey, a Circus Oz veteran who took up the job of co-ordinating the
company's shift to its glossy new Collingwood home.

"Moving into the new building, I've been reminded how much shit Circus Oz has got. When I say shit, I
really mean that in the nicest possible way, because I go through all those props and there's so many
memories of all those great shows that people did. There's all this stuff. Now we can see it all because
it's in these open shelves and it's full of resources."

Circus Oz isn't one of those homemakers who only keeps the absolute essentials, either. It's more of a
hoarder, and the new venue's prop storehouse includes items that go back to the very beginning.
Hundreds of gadgets and outfits and set pieces and safety items line shelves that tower ceilingwards,
and each has its own story.

Programming director Matt Hughes pulls out a time-wearied miniature chariot that belonged to
faux-stuntman act Special Robert. "This is a chariot that Special Robert used to ride in on. When we did
it at the Melbourne Town Hall we had a draught horse. I think it's the only animal act Circus Oz has ever
had. We had to bring the draught horse in on a lift, and although people wanted the horse to parade
around, what the clowns wanted was for it to have a shit on stage. But then someone would have had to
clean it up. I think we were required to have a nappy."

On one shelf is a pile of skateboards, but they never appeared on a Circus Oz stage. They were used by
performers lying flat on their stomachs in the tiny space beneath that stage, whizzing from one side to
somehow appear on the other within seconds. There's also no shortage of mechanisms to suspend
performers high above, including the harnesses that allowed an entire band to play upside-down near
the peak of the big top.

"There was only a certain amount of time that act could go for before people would start to feel dizzy,"
says Hughes.

Until you see so much history dusted off in one space, it's easy to forget that Circus Oz is one of the
country's oldest pillars of culture. It pre-dates both the Melbourne Festival and Melbourne Fringe by a
good handful of years, and institutions such as our comedy festival and Bell Shakespeare are unruly
teenagers in comparison. Now, at 36, Australia's leading circus outfit has finally settled down in a new
Collingwood home tailor-built to its requirements. It's a homecoming, of sorts - the company was largely
created by the sorts of rabble-rousers who frequented Carlton's Pram Factory in the late '70s and flung
around wild ideas over coffee at Marios in Fitzroy.

The anarchy and big dreams of that era gave birth to the irreverent, DIY spirit that was synonymous with
the fledgling Oz. It was New Circus - animal-free, a punk aesthetic, no desire to do things the traditional

Page160of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.way. "We began as part of a larger cultural push against a sort of conservatism in theatre," says
costume designer Laurel Frank. "When we started there was not a great deal of circus activity in
Australia. There were a number of touring circus families that had been around for a long time, but we
were at the forefront of the new circus movement."
Frank is one of the founding members of the company, and has been a part of its history across four
decades. "When we started we were in a basement in Carlton, and everything happened from there. We
built our first tent and painted the trucks and made the costumes. It was exciting but inhospitable. For a
while I went to having a sewing machine in my bedroom."
The company later set up in a dilapidated warehouse in Kensington, which was "flood-prone and lined
with asbestos". After various moves, Circus Oz landed in Port Melbourne, where it was to stay for the
next 15 years. In comparison to the previous spaces her costume workshop had operated out of, the
Port Melbourne office "seemed like paradise but was actually a very cramped and dusty room right next
to the rehearsal space, so we had the band booming up at us all the time".

It's only fitting that Frank's new costume studio is the one of the best in the house - indeed, one of the
most attractive studios in Melbourne. "We have the best space in the building. That's what everybody
says. We have this lovely south light, so it's going to be very even all year, and we're quite protected
from harsh north and west sun which we've had in other places and which are really bad for fading
costumes."
During the lead-up to a new production, there will be about eight or so people working under Frank's
command. Right now she has two milliners and three people pattern-making and costume-cutting.

The main feeling Circus Oz's new home has afforded Frank "is that I can breathe out". She says it with a
palpable sense of relief. She's been holding her breath that long? "Holding your breath for 36 years, I
know!" she laughs. "It's not good for you!"

At first, Frank and her colleagues were the bolshie young revolutionaries reinventing circus. But what
happens when the rebels become the establishment? When you've been kicking against the pricks so
long that you find yourself in their place?

"Being an institution is good and bad," she says. "We define ourselves as that, but also against it."

In the beginning, Circus Oz was "trying to use circus to make political statements or talk about important
things".

"Those initial aims have probably softened as the circus community has grown in Australia and a lot of
other younger, leaner companies have grown up and picked up that mantle. We've had to redefine
ourselves now we're not brash, young, necessarily cutting-edge in the way we felt ourselves to be when
we started."

Davey began performing with Circus Oz in 1987. She says that there's a natural tension when a
company defined by its independent spirit achieves the status of a national icon.

"Absolutely, yeah. The tension is constantly fought at the coalface, which is in the boardrooms and
offices of the Australia Council and the funding bodies and government. The thing that Circus Oz has
done really successfully over the years is to maintain its purpose and its way of doing things in spite of
the pressure to do it like everybody else. They keep going, 'Get yourself a blah blah and do this and
make sure you've got that', and Circus Oz goes, 'No, we'll do it our way, actually'. We've been doing this
for a long time. We know how to do it. We do it our way."

Davey says that over the years "there has been pressure to de-collectivise, to have a hierarchical form
of reporting that they can read, or reflects more familiarly for them".

"There was a lot of pressure in the last few years to force artistic turnover. The other pressure obviously
is that people get angry if you say something about their government in the show. So there's that
balance as well. It's a balancing act. To go, 'Yes, you give us money, but you're the government and it's
arts' purpose to comment on the government of the day'."
Hughes says that in 1978 the company "started as a true collective in those days and then gradually
morphed into the organisation we are now, where it is a collective in the way we make decisions, but
there's more departments specialising".
"When I was originally in the company you'd put the tent up and then you'd perform. The problem with
that was that the audience didn't see you putting the tent up. They only saw the resulting lack of energy
when you were on stage performing."

Page161of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.One of the implications of the Circus Oz's early days as a collective was that everyone did everything,
which means that even Frank took to the stage as a performer. "You didn't have to be any good, so, hey,
I was in the show," she says.
Now the company has various departments - and hires people to do the tent-building - but like Davey
and Hughes, many performers go on to work elsewhere within Circus Oz. "There's not many career
paths for circus performers post-circus," says Davey, "so we do try and offer a career path, even if it's an
informal one. For example, Mel Fyfe was the strongwoman for years and years and is now our
operations manager. I was a performer for years and now I work with the new building and do all sorts
of other things."

Performers who have recently left the ensemble are frequently offered teaching gigs with Oz's public
classes program, "so they've got some bread-and-butter work as they work out what they want to do.
There's a lot of people around the periphery who are still here and who know stuff about what's been
going on."

The collegiate atmosphere is probably in large part due to the shared perils circus performers face. In
1991, Davey broke her neck and both wrists performing an aerial trick. She was five months in traction,
and spent the entire time thinking over her routine so she wouldn't forget it. That kind of
get-back-on-the-horse-that-threw-you mindset seems characteristic of the art.

"I think it's a characteristic of circus performers, because circus is a series of setbacks," says Davey.
"And we're very familiar with injury. You work in this arena, you hurt yourself. You get used to pain. A lot
of our work is very painful and it's something you have to overcome. I'm not just talking about injuries.
You get somebody on a trapeze for the first time and everybody goes, 'Oh no, that really hurts!'. You
say, 'Yeah, that's right'. You have to get used to it."

Hughes says that circus is safer than sport, however, since everyone is at least on the same team.
When the company is on the road, there's still that sense of all-in that drove the team back in 1978. "To
have 12 people on stage is very unusual. A few of the big commercial companies do, but we're a group
of 20 people on the road, whereas Cirque du Soleil moves with 65. It's quite a different model. It's a
lifestyle. You have input. When you're in the ensemble you get to decide what you want to tell the
audience, and although there's an artistic director, he's a facilitator, not an editor."

Mike Finch is that artistic director, and he says the upcoming new show, But Wait, There's More, is
concerned with the history of entertainment. "The whole company comes out of a wicker trunk at the
beginning, like an old vaudevillian company that's been packed in an old road case for 50 years.
Gradually the show accelerates until we get to the end of the first half, and these acts are almost like
Australia's Got Talent on speed, sped up until we reach this frantic flying trapeze act with all of the
performers in it."

But while the show does make some pointed comments about the role of circus in the screen age,
Hughes says Circus Oz will always have something going for it that can't be saved to disk.

"These days you can see the best physical acts on television, or you can watch sport, but what people
really want at our show is to have an interaction with people. To see someone on stage and see that
they're affected by you. If you clap or something more, they react to it, and that sort of dialogue between
the audience and the performer is what live performance is about."
THE BRAND LEADERS

ROOF-WALK

Along with costume designer Laurel Frank, Tim Coldwell is the only founding member of Circus Oz still
with the company after 36 years. And he's still performing, too. His most memorable act involves what
might be the oldest piece of equipment in the Oz storeroom, though its one you're not supposed to see.
His Roof-Walk has him play out a B-grade detective yarn upside down, shuffling around the ceiling as if
it's the most normal thing in the world.

NANJING ACROBATIC TROUPE
Many of the iconic Circus Oz acts owe their existence to a cross-cultural exchange with a group of
Chinese acrobats in the 1980s. The Nanjing Acrobatic Troupe taught the Aussies a range of new skills
such as pole-climbing, hula-hoop and group-bike. The new Circus Oz building even has a room
decorated in memory of the collaboration, its walls lined with Chinese circus sayings such as: "Miss one
day, you know. Miss two days, your coach knows. Miss three days, the audience knows."

STRONG WOMEN

Page162of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.One of the founding principles of Circus Oz was gender equity, and the company has featured a range
of women taking on the feats once limited to the traditional circus strongman. Longtime performer Mel
Fyfe, for instance, was known for her half-tonne leg press, and the Circus Oz kitchen still houses her
Breville of Death: an oversized sandwich press lined with hundreds of rusty nails, between which she
would lie while someone tap-danced on its lid.

THE KANGAROOS
Kangaroos have been one of Oz's most recurrent symbols. While most of the company's performers
have probably suited up in the legs and tail over the years, the earliest appearance of the fauna was
probably during the legendary 32-week season Circus Oz played at The Last Laugh in 1979.

BLAKFLIP

Dale Woodbridge-Brown isn't the first indigenous performer to work with Circus Oz, but he is the first to
come through its BLAKflip. A Kamilaroi man from Mungindi, he was eight when Circus Oz visited his
hometown and inspired his future career. Through BLAKflip, the company now has a regular program
for training and recruiting indigenous acts.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gtheat : Theater | gcat : Political/General News | gent : Arts/Entertainment
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SAGE000020140601ea610003w

Page163of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.