Gold Stock Picks In A Low Price World

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Gold Stock Picks In A Low Price World

985 words
26 November 2014
FN Arena
FNAREN
English
Copyright 2014. FN Arena Ltd.

- Rising USD a headwind - Copper exposure provides offset - AUD gold supports local production

By Greg Peel

Year to date the gold price is down around 6%, while ASX-listed gold stocks have suffered a collective
fall of around 8%. The capital weighting of gold mining stocks in the ASX200 has fallen to a decade low
0.7%, notes Morgan Stanley, down from 3.8% in mid-2011.
Institutional investors can thus apply more discretion in their gold exposures, the broker suggests, given
they aren't forced by cap-weighting to hold a particular stock or stocks. Absolute returns are possible but
difficult to identify, with only four of 26 listed gold miners assessed by Morgan Stanley providing a
positive return in the past six months.
The broker retains a subdued outlook on the US dollar gold price given a strengthening US dollar, rising
US interest rates and a muted US inflation outlook, all of which act as headwinds. In 2014, geopolitical
tensions and speculation over the timing of the Fed's first rate rise have added to volatility. Morgan
Stanley thus warns equity selection is critical.

Per ounce total cash costs for the aforementioned 26 miners have increased around 6% in US dollar
terms since the 2012 gold price peak, while production is up 9%, implying around a 16% rise in absolute
operating costs, Morgan Stanley notes. The trend of "cost-outs" among miners has focused on reducing
cash outflows through decreased new mine development and reduced exploration spend.
Morgan Stanley's analysts cover seven of those 26 stocks. Of the seven, only Alacer Gold ((AQG))
attracts an Overweight rating. On Equal-weight are Regis Resources ((RRL)), Medusa Mining ((MML))
and Evolution Mining ((EVN)), while Newcrest Mining ((NCM)), Perseus Mining ((PRU)) and Resolute
Mining ((RSG)) all attract Underweight.

The analysts at Morgans disagree with Morgan Stanley on Newcrest and Perseus. They have run a
sensitivity study to assess the impact on goldminers under coverage were the gold price to fall to
US$1000/oz. Such a price would result in significant reductions in valuation, and certain assets would
cease production or development. But if cost savings of 10% can be found, Morgans finds "it's not
necessarily the end of the world".
There are two elements which separate those gold stocks Morgans likes in the space at present and
those it doesn't. They are judicious price hedges in place, and copper exposure.

Perseus comes up trumps on the first factor, boasting a hedge book which provides a buffer to cost
savings achievement as well as being debt free. Yet were the gold price to linger too long around
US$1000/oz, Perseus would be forced to review production at Edikan and put the Sissingue development
on hold, Morgans suggests.
Newcrest is a winner on the second factor given the copper exposure offered by the company's long-life
(30 years), low-cost Cadia Valley operation. Copper revenues provide Newcrest with the opportunity to
continue servicing debt were the gold price to fall, albeit the rest of Newcrest's portfolio would struggle,
with Lihir particularly exposed.

Page212of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.OceanaGold ((OGC)) ticks both boxes, boasting both a low-cost, copper-exposed flagship operation at
Didipio and hedges in place over much of the remaining mine life of its New Zealand operations. Oceana
is also lightly geared and thus in a position to potentially exploit opportunities in a low gold price
environment.

Morgans maintains Add ratings on all of Oceana, Newcrest and Perseus.
Macquarie's preference is for Australian-domiciled gold production. Gold in Australian dollar terms
suffered its first meaningful decline in some time in October, falling $100 to a low in early November of
$1130/oz, but it has since recovered back to $1385, putting it back in its $1350-1450 trading range, the
broker notes.
Macquarie's commodity team retains a longer term positive outlook for gold, notwithstanding the potential
for price volatility in the nearer term. Last Friday's easing actions from the central banks of China (rate
cut) and the eurozone (asset purchases) provided a boost for the gold price given implications for
renminbi and euro devaluation, however the coincident stronger US dollar acted as a counterweight in US
dollar price terms. China's appetite for gold is nonetheless robust, with recent trade data suggesting
exports to China and Hong Kong have been the strongest in months, Macquarie notes.
The broker is forecasting a long term gold price (2019+) of US$1500/oz, with incremental appreciation to
US$1331/oz in 2015 and US$1390/oz in 2016.
The recovering Aussie dollar gold price nevertheless drives Macquarie's local gold stock preferences, in
particular those stocks offering strong operational exposure to assets with a predominantly Aussie dollar
cost base which are generating strong cash flow at current prices. Falling into this category are Regis
Resources, Northern Star Resources ((NST)), Saracen Mineral Holdings ((SAR)) and Evolution Mining.
Macquarie also anticipates more M&A activity in the gold space before the year is out.

Technical limitations

If you are reading this story through a third party distribution channel and you cannot see charts included,
we apologise, but technical limitations are to blame.

Find out why FNArena subscribers like the service so much: "Your Feedback (Thank You)" - Warning this
story contains unashamedly positive feedback on the service provided.

FN Arena is building the future of financial news reporting at www.fnarena.com . Our daily news reports
can be trialed at no cost and with no obligations. Simply sign up and get a feel for what we are trying to
achieve.

Subscribers and trialists should read our terms and conditions, available on the website.

All material published by FN Arena is the copyright of the publisher, unless otherwise stated.
Reproduction in whole or in part is not permitted without written permission of the publisher.

RF
CO
IN

NS

EC9B4944-9B24-931E-B5E2C64C66E4422B
dwitd : Morgan Stanley | newmoh : Newcrest Mining Ltd
igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22472 : Precious Metals | i22 : Primary Metals | i224
: Non-ferrous Metals | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i814 : Banking |
i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial
Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
m1421 : Gold Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial
Market News | mpcsmt : Precious Metals Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce :
C&E Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB FN Arena Ltd.
AN

Document FNAREN0020141126eabq00001

Page213of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.