Caught between a Roc and a hard place

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Caught between a Roc and a hard place

Michael Smith
1,474 words
14 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
40
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Roc Oil's management team have found themselves caught in a potentially messy situation after
miscalculating the response of a key shareholder to the company's proposed $800 million tie-up with
Horizon Oil.
What was supposed to be a "cracking" deal to achieve the scale needed to tap oil and gas
opportunities in China and Papua New Guinea is turning into a headache for Roc Oil chairman Mike
Harding and chief executive Alan Linn.

Their biggest problem is Allan Gray fund manager Simon Marais, who owns just under 20 per cent of
the company. Marais is the type of investor most boards usually sit up and pay attention to if he
appears on their register.

Marais has influenced the outcome of takeover bids for Spotless, Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund,
Valad Property Group and Centro Retail, often securing a better deal for investors. He is not afraid to
try to unseat directors, either, as former board members of PaperlinX, APN and Tassal will attest.

He is often described as a shareholder activist – a term he does not like. But the impact investors like
Allan Gray are having on companies reflects the surge in corporate activism in the United States
which is only starting to find its way to Australia.
So it seems surprising that Roc Oil has been caught off-guard by Marais' refusal to back its merger
with Horizon Oil. The unique feature of this deal is a quirk in corporate law which means a listed
company can push ahead with a scrip takeover without getting shareholder approval.
This means that while Horizon shareholders get to vote, Roc Oil shareholders do not. This is all
perfectly legal, and Roc Oil management is under no regulatory obligation to consult its own
shareholders on the deal.Marais to call EGM

Not consulting investors on the transformational deal before signing a binding agreement was a
mistake, though. Marais is the kind of shareholder who likes to have a say in decisions affecting one
of his investments. He now plans to try to do something about it.
Marais is this week finalising the paperwork to call an extraordinary general meeting of Roc Oil
shareholders to amend the company's constitution and force a vote on the merger.

Marais also wants management to provide more information about a deal which he is highly sceptical
of. The outcome will be messy either way and raises the prospect of legal action if Roc Oil breaks its
binding agreement with Horizon.

Changing the constitution would not necessarily stop the deal from going ahead, so it is hard to see
what the end-game is here. It may force Roc Oil to provide more information about the merger and
send a clear message to other companies doing deals without consulting shareholders first.

Page280of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."Truth in takeovers" policy means companies (unlike politicians) cannot make false or misleading
statements when it comes to takeovers. This opens up the risk of class action if Roc Oil suddenly
changes the terms of the deal.

Horizon shareholders could still vote against the deal as well, although that looks unlikely as they
have the most to gain in the short term.Inconsistency due for review

Roc and Horizon are old friends and have been talking about a potential deal for several years. The
time is now ripe, as US players are exiting Asia to focus on shale investments back at home, and Roc
sees a chance to seize on opportunities in Asia. Finding the scale to pursue growth is something
many explorers struggle with.
Roc Oil would front up a bulk of the assets and end up with a 42 per cent stake in the combined
company. While analysts say the deal dilutes Roc's core valuation by 16 per cent and reduces 2014
earnings per share by 29.5 per cent, the long-term gain from exposure to Horizon's PNG assets
outweighs the short-term impact.

Harding, who also chairs Downer EDI and sits on the board of Santos, says he has been around long
enough to recognise a good deal in what is often a risky sector. Linn, who divides his time between
Malaysia and Australia, has agreed to relinquish the CEO role to Horizon chief Brent Emmett.

While the share prices of both Roc and Horizon have risen since the deal was announced, it seems
like a lot could still go wrong. Roc also fears it will become the whipping boy for an inconsistency in
Australia's listing rules, even though it was abiding by those rules.

What is clear is that the inconsistency should be reviewed to ensure all shareholders affected get to
vote in the future. Oxiana shareholders did not get to vote on the 2008 merger with Zinifex, either, and
that deal resulted in a messy legal battle over market disclosure claims.

It has been an uphill battle for Ian Smith since he embarked on a major restructure of explosives
maker Orica more than two years ago. The company's shares lost more than 5 per cent on Tuesday
after dampening expectations for full-year earnings, with coal markets still in the doldrums.
The company would be in far worse shape than it is now without the relentless focus on costs and
margins to drive returns, but a weak coal market is the latest hurdle to Orica's recovery.
It reported weaker than expected volumes in its mining services business in the first half, while its
chemicals business also underperformed.
Smith, the former Newcrest Mining chief, has been pulling every lever he can to turn the business
around as the external environment remains subdued.
The strategy is to focus on costs and margins and generate more cash so the company can deliver a
higher overall rate of return no matter what part of the cycle it is in. It now expects full-year earnings to
meet or exceed last year's $592.5 million, compared to earlier guidance for higher profits this year.
Smith says the biggest challenge ahead is what happens to coal. If thermal coal prices fall further
and parts of pits are closed, it is bad news for everyone. "Let's hope for all concerned, ourselves
included, that what we are seeing in the price of coal is the bottom of the trough. But another $10 [fall
in the thermal coal price per tonne] would really put this industry under pressure," he said.Conditions
unlikely to deteriorate

The problem with restructures is that it takes a while before there is any meaningful payback. Smith
says he wants to position the company to give it long-term continuity and security in North America
and Australia, while tapping growth markets in Africa, Russia and the Pilbara, which are now starting
to deliver.

The good news is that cash flow is up, rising 11 per cent in the first half, as gearing reduced to
36.5 per cent. But earnings fell 7 per cent on the back of weaker volumes. Asia performed the worst,
with explosives volumes down 20 per cent. Overall volumes were off by 2 per cent.

Smith has cut headcount by 1000 people over a year and there will be more cuts this year. Orica is
also looking to exit some of its smaller markets, where it can no longer justify high overheads versus
light volumes.

The turnaround story at Orica has taken longer to play out than investors hoped, although there is a
sense that conditions will not get any worse. Even though many analysts say Orica looks cheap, the
stock fell to a six-month low on Tuesday.

Page281of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Smith expects mining services volumes to pick up in the second half. The big unknown is Australian
coal. A trade sale or market float of the company's chemicals business is still on the agenda, with
an update likely before the company's full-year results.

GrainCorp will not be dwelling on what could have been when it releases its half-year results on
Thursday.
But the failed $3.4 billion takeover bid for the company by Archer Daniels Midland continues to loom
over it. While there is plenty of speculation about whether new competition will open the door for ADM
to come back in with another bid, the US food giant is keeping its distance for now.

ADM will also be watching how a separate takeover bid for Goodman Fielder by its strategic partner
Wilmar plays out, and whether this influences its plans for GrainCorp in the future. Wilmar is 16 per
cent-owned by ADM. Treasurer Joe Hockey does not appear to have warmed to ADM, either, after
referring to the company's character at a business dinner last month.

michael.smith@afr.com.au Twitter @MikeSmithAFR

Tony Boyd is covering the federal budget.

CO

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

hasduf : APA Sub Group | ppxaus : PaperlinX Ltd | rocoil : Roc Oil Company Ltd | valpgp : Valad
Property Group | austpi : APA Group | blgrou : The Blackstone Group LP
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i471 : Paper Mills | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles
| i8150206 : Investment Trusts/Funds | i815020602 : Real Estate Investment Trusts | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv :
Investing/Securities | ipper : Paper/Pulp | ireest : Real Estate
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140513ea5e0004r

Page282of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.