Offshore Australia, India tipped for big finds

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
VOL
LA
CY
LP

TD

Asia Pacific
Offshore Australia, India tipped for big finds

James Bourne
725 words
16 April 2014
Platts Oilgram News
PON
ISSN: 0163-1284, Volume 92, Issue 75
English
(c) 2014 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

Ceduna Basin, Bay of Bengal likely hotspots: WoodMac

The Great Australian Bight is a promising area for exploration, and India's Bay of Bengal could hold
Asia-Pacific's next huge gas find, according to a leading upstream consultant.

"If you're a big company and you're interested in high impact exploration, then the Australian Bight
Ceduna Basin is a very lightly drilled, potentially very large new play, but of course risky, [it] might be
gas, [it] might be oil," said Andrew Latham, vice president for exploration research at UK-based oil
industry analysts Wood Mackenzie.

"You've got companies like Murphy, BP, Anadarko—[and] Statoil has just joined in—who've been
there a while now, so first division explorers are really quite intrigued," he said of the Bight.
Statoil has a 30% stake in a $1.4 billion drilling program led by BP in the Ceduna Basin—part of the
the Australian Bight, a stretch of ocean off the central-southern Australian coast.

One frontier exploration block in the far west of the Bight was offered in Australia's 2014 offshore
licensing round that was announced last week.

Turning to the Asia-Pacific region overall, and with the caveat that his forecast was "wildly
speculative," Latham said the huge river-borne sedimentary deposits in India's Bay of Bengal pointed
to the possibility of undiscovered gas fields.

"If you had to pick somewhere where another vast new gas play could emerge, that is one of the
places that's big enough," he said.

"There's a huge pile of rock there...it's one to watch."

Latham was speaking in an interview with Platts held on the sidelines of last week's Australian
Petroleum Production and Exploration Association's annual conference in Perth, Western Australia.

While acknowledging that Australia's onshore Cooper Basin—currently a hotbed of unconventional
exploration—holds promise, Latham urged caution.

Mixed on Cooper

"The Cooper is one of those plays that is everywhere on the spectrum: there's existing conventional
[gas] production, still a bit of exploration around that, then there's tight plays that are being tested, [that
can] potentially use the same infrastructure, which is very helpful."

But the prospects for onshore shale exploration in Australia do not look as good as they do in
Argentina's Neuquen Basin, Latham said.

Page24of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."All things being equal above ground, the subsurface in Argentina looks more interesting [than
Australia]. Our forecast is 200 wells [will be drilled] in Neuquen [this year], which is rather more than
you'll see in the Cooper."

WoodMac has predicted 25 shale wells will be drilled in Australia this year.

"It's not enough wells to really prove a new play," Latham said.

By comparison, the Edinburgh-based consultancy has predicted 400 shale wells will be drilled outside
North America this year, including 60 in China, 20 in Russia and 20 in Saudi Arabia.

"Compared to Argentina, compared to North America, the rate of [Australian shale] exploration...is
pretty slow. It's better here than most of Europe, but it's quite slow really," Latham said.

In addition, Latham, noted, shale gas does not fit all explorers' ideal portfolio because costs are high
and returns are low compared to oil plays. However, Asia-Pacific's relatively high gas prices are some
help, he said.
"If you can't find oil then oil-indexed gas is your next best option," he said.

In his APPEA conference presentation, Latham pointed to the unusually high number of recent
Australian oil and gas finds which languish at "contingent" status, or are uneconomical at current
prices.

About 60-95% of Australian discoveries were classified as contingent over 2009-12, compared with
less than 30% over 2003-08, according to Latham's presentation. Discovery costs in Australia
rocketed in the same period, from about $1/barrel of oil equivalent in 2009 to about $7/boe in 2012.
Globally, about 20% of new oil and gas finds are deemed contingent, he said.

"The issue in Australia has been that discoveries in the last three or four years have been quite small,"
said Latham, explaining that—unless they are close to bigger fields and can be tied-in as satellite
developments—bringing such finds to production is currently uneconomical.

James Bourne

IN

NS

RE

IPD
PUB
AN

i1300002 : Oil Exploration | i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | iexplo : Natural Gas/Oil
Exploration
cnatrd : Natural Reserves/Resources Discovery | c24 : Capacity/Facilities | ccat : Corporate/Industrial
News
austr : Australia | india : India | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | indsubz :
Indian Subcontinent | sasiaz : Southern Asia
Exploration
The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Document PON0000020140514ea4g00001

Page25of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.