THE BATTLE OVER THE BIMBLEBOX

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Lifestyle
THE BATTLE OVER THE BIMBLEBOX

KATHLEEN NOONAN
997 words
8 November 2014
Courier Mail
COUMAI
Canvas
28
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Sometimes as a journalist you report on an event or protest, and you walk away thinking, well, they’ve
got Buckley’s chance.

In the Bible, the David and Goliath yarn has an upbeat ending but, in real life, things usually tilt in favour
of the big boys.

You get a glimpse of what goes on behind the scenes – the spin, the corporate tactics that kneecap any
local community or group that tries to stand in the way of a massive corporation. You know in your gut, it
is wrong. You wander away knowing the little bloke is outgunned and outmanoeuvred at every turn –
legally, financially, friends in high places, resources, the lot.

Yet, every once in a while, the little bloke puts up one hell of a fight. That’s the story of Bimblebox Nature
Refuge, an 8000ha patch of bush beauty and diversity, and the people who love it. Everyday
Australians, because they love the bush and birds and nature and fairness, have been fighting with
everything they’re got to save it from mining.

Back in March 2012, I wrote about Bimblebox Nature Refuge: “Welcome to Alpha, in central
Queensland, where one of the largest of dozens of mines planned is Clive Palmer’s Waratah Coal
‘China First’ thermal coalmine project in the Galilee Basin. Four underground mines, two surface mines,
covering almost 700,000ha, exporting 40 million tonnes a year … smack bang in the way is the
Bimblebox Nature Refuge ... Apparently, under Queensland law, wide-scale mining of nature refuges is
allowed – when it suits. When bird friend Paola Cassoni, with others, set up the Bimblebox Nature
Refuge and signed the land over in 2003, they believed it would be protected forever. Forever.’’ Wrong.
Back in 2000, when Paola Cassoni, one of Australia’s quietly tenacious fighters for the environment,
bought Bimblebox to save it from land clearing, the Federal Government kicked in about $300,000 for
the purchase in recognition of its high conservation values.

So, it was too valuable to lose then, but now? Since 2012, much has happened. Clive Palmer repeatedly
claimed the nature refuge was a former pastoral property that has no environmental value at all.
Bimblebox actually hosts 95 per cent remnant – uncleared – native vegetation. Apart from rare
endangered black-throated finches (little Poephila cincta cincta), there are 154 bird species and 12 bird
species of Conservation Significance for the Desert Uplands that have been recorded by Birds Australia
surveyors and scientists.

So that was just one of those little Clive facts. The sad thing is, most Australians now accept the MP
might sometimes not be on nodding acquaintance with the truth. Yet, in December last year he received
Federal Government approval for his monster coalmine, as Environment Minister Greg Hunt gave it the
nod with 49 conditions.

Now, economic commentators are asking if any of the Galilee Basin projects are viable. It had previously
not been developed because of $10 billion needed to build a 500km rail link to coastal coal ports.

Page42of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.When the coal price crept above $US100 a tonne in the last boom, it looked a goer. Now prices are on a
roller-coaster ride as Chinese demand decreases. No matter, the federal and the state governments
want to forge ahead. At the other end of the mega-mining process is the Abbot Point expansion and the
highly controversial plan to dump the waste – all three million cubic metres of dredge spoil – into the
World Heritage-listed Great Barrier Reef Marine Park. It was the quickest, easiest, cheapest, dirtiest
option. To put it mildly, the dredge spoil hit the fan and controversy raged, so the federal and state
governments scrambled around for the next quickest fix – and are poised to fast-track the second dirtiest
plan – to dump millions of tonnes of dredge onto significant wetlands at nearby Caley Valley, an
extraordinary habitat for up to 40,000 birds including threatened shorebird species, and a fish-breeding
ground that runs out to the Reef.

Hunt says: “These proposals will be assessed thoroughly.” Yet, five minutes ago he was perfectly OK
with dumping it on our Reef, as was Jeff Seeney, Queensland’s Deputy Premier. Did I mention they
want to change the dredging time, to start as soon as January? Yes, in the middle of a north
Queensland wet season. You couldn’t make this stuff up.

Interestingly, when any ordinary mild-mannered Australian airs concerns about the environment,
underground water, losing farming land or the climate, Hunt swiftly adopts certain language. He speaks
of “the extreme anti-coal activists’’, those “extreme Lefts’’ and the “hard Lefts’’, which would be a
surprise to some readers, who are all shades of politics but concerned about badly thought-out mining
and dredging.

The argument in favour of these mega mines in Australia has now claimed the high moral ground. Hunt
is following the songbook of US coal lobby groups, spruiking verbatim that digging coal out of the
ground is all about “bringing (millions of) folk out of poverty’’ in India. Bless him. I got all teary hearing
that. So, these mega mines are really like, you know, global humanitarian projects?
Annoyingly for Hunt, Indian environmental activist Debi Goenka, argued coal exported from the Galilee
Basin will not lift the poorest Indians out of poverty: “The cruel reality is that (it) will not bring us light or
power. Many are not connected to the electricity grid. Those who are, simply cannot afford power from
Australian coal.’’ The Bimblebox battle is the story of any Australian who one morning wakes up and
realises their lovely little life is about to be walked over by greed, government or the big boys. It is the
story, in a nutshell, of when the mega mines came to Queensland, to Australia.

Maureen Cooper’s Bimblebox: A Nature Refuge Under Siege, will be launched at Avid Reader, West
End, on November 20.noonanslastword@gmail.com

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gnatcn : Nature Conservation | gcat : Political/General News | genv : Environmental News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document COUMAI0020141107eab80003o

Page43of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.