Private equity 's quest for mines stumbles as commodities slide

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

BRE
Private equity's quest for mines stumbles as commodities slide

623 words
11 September 2014
The Mercury
MERCRY
E1
19
English
© 2014 Independent Newspapers (Pty) Ltd

THE PUSH by private equity funds to buy mining assets is slowing as investors struggle to land
major deals while commodity prices slide.
The funds have raised $1.1 billion (R12bn) for investments in mining and metals this year,
compared with about $8.8bn last year. Less than $2bn has been spent by the funds on mining
assets in the past two years, according to Bloomberg Intelligence research.

"When private equity makes an investment they say they want to be out in three to five years," David
Williams, the managing director of corporate adviser Kidder Williams, said at Bloomberg's "Beyond
The Boom: Mining to Dining" seminar in Melbourne.
Making bets on producers of commodities from coal to almonds was less certain, he said. "What I
see in mining is a risk in pricing."
Funds, including those led by former Xstrata chief executive Mick Davis and ex-Barrick Gold boss
Aaron Regent, are said to have examined targets from Peru to South Africa. Few have completed
major deals even as mining firms sold $53bn of assets in the past 12 months.
Price declines in commodities from copper to iron ore might be leaving investors wary over
opportunities for returns, Simon Mawhinney, a portfolio manager at Allan Gray Australia, said.
"Private equity funds are opportunistic and most of the assets that have made their way to market so
far in the resources space are assets that don't generate positive free cash flow at current commodity
prices," Mawhinney said. "For anyone to buy them is risky."
Iron ore has slumped 38 percent this year as producers have increased output.
BHP Billiton plans to spin off a collection of operations from South African thermal coal to an
Australian silver mine into a new company next year rather than pursue asset sales. Broker
valuations for the new company range from $8bn to $17bn.

"Trade sales probably didn't eventuate at the prices they thought were fair value," said Michelle
Lopez, an executive at Aberdeen Asset Management. "I'd assume there were buyers out there, but
what they were willing to pay wasn't in line with what BHP Billiton wanted."
Davis's X2 Resources was said in April to be studying some BHP Billiton thermal coal and nickel
assets, while Regent's Magris Resources was said last year to have been considering a bid for
Glencore's Las Bambas. A consortium led by China Minmetals agreed in April to pay $5.85bn for the
copper development project in Peru.
"Private equity hasn't been able to put its hands on anything significant in mining," said Alberto
Calderon, a board member of Orica, which supplies mining explosives, and a former BHP Billiton
executive. "It hasn't happened and I wouldn't think that it's going to happen in any material way."

Page310of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Calderon was speaking before the Bloomberg seminar in Melbourne on Tuesday, which he also
addressed.
While private equity investors might have concerns over weaker commodity prices "contributors to
these funds are unlikely to wait much longer to see their investments put to use", auditing firm E&Y
said last month. Mining acquisitions might increase in the next 12 months as investors sought assets
when valuations were at their lowest, it added.
QKR, a mining investor founded by former JPMorgan Chase banker Lloyd Pengilly, agreed in
February to a $110 million deal for AngloGold Ashanti's Navachab mine in Namibia. Calderon
invested in May in Gulf Alumina, which is developing bauxite projects in Australia.
"For small deals, there's a role for private equity," Calderon said on Monday. "In deals between $10m
and $30m, in this current environment, there [will] be interesting opportunities." - Bloomberg

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i8150203 : Private Equity | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | ialtinv : Alternative Investments
| ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
cspin : Spin-offs | c02 : Corporate Changes | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio
: Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cncc : New Companies Creation | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | safr : South Africa | africaz : Africa | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
| devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | souafrz : Southern Africa
Independent Online
Document MERCRY0020140911ea9b00048

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page311of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.