Not so peachy: Uncertain future has farmer looking at cattle fodder instead of orchards

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Not so peachy: Uncertain future has farmer looking at cattle fodder instead of orchards

Jared Lynch
1,238 words
8 February 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
6
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Cover

He leans against the large rear wheel of his grey Fergie tractor and sinks his teeth into a freshly
picked peach. His red heeler Roughie, called so "because he's as rough as guts" nuzzles up beside
him and licks the drops of juice from his chin.

Gary Godwill's family has grown fruit for four generations and has farmed this orchard, about 15
kilometres from Shepparton, for the past 80 years.

Although he grows granny smith apples and pears "as good as anyone, anywhere in the world" his
future, along with other fruit growers in the Goulburn Valley, is uncertain.

So much so, Mr Godwill is contemplating levelling his 20-hectare orchard to grow fodder for cattle.

Prime Minister Tony Abbott said this week he would not reconsider his refusal of Coca-Cola Amatil's
request for $25 million in financial assistance for its SPC Ardmona subsidiary.

"The decision we made last week was a tough decision," Mr Abbott said. "But it was a necessary
decision. I've got to say, it was a defining decision."

And, according to Mr Godwill, it is a decision that could decimate the Goulburn Valley. If SPC's
canneries in Shepparton, Kyabram and Mooroopna close about 50 per cent of the region's fruit
growers would go out of business, he estimates.

Growers who remodelled their businesses to focus solely on the fresh fruit market could survive,
Agribusiness analysts say.
But Mr Godwill, who is also secretary of the Shepparton Horticulture Group, said a glut is already
forming in the fresh fruit market, describing it as a "bloodbath".

"So much of the fruit the was normally destined for the cannery is going to the fresh food market," he
said. "We knew going into this year, straight after the cannery announcement, that is would be a very
tough year.

"But this is nothing new. We have been through tough times. We have had reasonable times. It's
never been bountiful in my living memory, and I'm 59. My parents tried to talk me out of coming back
onto the land, but the land is what I wanted ... so I'm still here."

SPC's earnings have eroded in the past few years, as it has battled a high Australian dollar and
cheap imported fruit packaged as private brands.
The company launched anti-dumping action with the federal government last year. But the
Productivity Commission found there was no need for protection action against cheap imports.

Page15of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Rather, the commission said the industry had been hurt more by long-term reductions in domestic
demand for processed fruit, reduced export volumes, rising costs of production due to declining
economies of scale and supermarkets promoting their private-label products.
In addition to the government cash, which would have been matched with $25 million from the
Victorian government, Coca-Cola Amatil would have tipped in more than $90 million to upgrade its
canning facilities.

It planned to move away from tins to plastic packaging, while fruit for ingredients, such as dry fruit for
muesli bars, was identified as a potential area of expansion.
The company also believes fruit pastes, which are often a base product in processed foods such as
pasta sources, and puree for the aged-care market was another opportunity.

Mr Godwill said the proposal was "well thought out".

"The cannery realises that there is no future in being known as a cannery. People don't sit down
much now as a family and have a main meal and then peaches and ice cream.

"Most of the fruit now is being eaten on the run. People walk into a 7-Eleven, pick up a little zip-top
container, rip off a spoon from the side and eat it walking down the street.

"That is where the market is. They [SPC] have identified the market, they showed a very good
business plan and it was rejected with the pathetic excuse that 'oh no, you are paying your workers
far too much money'." Mr Abbott, Treasurer Joe Hockey and Employment Minister Eric Abetz
suggested that SPC's financial woes stemmed from "overgenerous" workplace conditions brokered
with unions.

Liberal MP Sharman Stone, whose electorate covers the Goulburn Valley, said the PM was lying,
saying such arguments were "just wrong".

SPC said allowances paid to production staff totalled only $116,467 last year, less than 0.1 per cent
of the total cost of goods, while a "wet allowance" referred to by Mr Abbott generated no payments in
the year and loadings were in line with industry norms at 20 per cent for afternoon shifts and 30 per
cent for evening shifts.

NAB agribusiness economist Vyanne Lai said the government unlike other western countries had
only just recently started drafting policies around maintaining food production and security.

"They adhere to WTO fair trade agreements more strongly and don't have a very strong agenda for
food security," Ms Lai said.

Meanwhile, fruit growers were angered by Victorian Agriculture Minister, and former SPC director,
Peter Walsh's recent suggestion that orchardists could convert to other intensive farming industries,
such as dairy farming.
But unlike milk production, many orchardists own significantly smaller parcels of land, while Mr
Godwill said the conversion cost would be too expensive.
"You are going to spend $1000 on a cow, you need a least 200 of them to make a dairy farm
profitable. You need quite a few hundred acres of dairy, including a bit of dry land.
"If you are building a new dairy you need state-of-the-art rotary, and that's going to set you back a
couple of hundred thousand, maybe more depending on the size.
"Then you have got to fence it ... It's a huge cost in converting to dairy. I really don't see it
happening."

What Mr Godwill believes is more reality is what he saw during the 13-years of drought which began
in the late '90s, breaking a few seasons ago.
"A lot of farmers sold their dairy cattle. They just sent them to slaughter ... and a lot of blokes sold
their water and they just put a few beefies on or something like that.

"Some of those properties are still standing like that. They are full of thistles and they've got wild cats
and foxes and things running in them.
"It's such a shame when they were such fertile and profitable dairy farmers prior to the drought. If you
see that happen to the orchards in the Goulburn Valley, it would be a crying shame."

Page16of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Godwill said if it gets really tough he could try growing cattle fodder instead of fruit.

But he said not all fruit growers have that option and he doesn't even know if it will pay off for himself.

"The property here is irrigation. It's only 50 acres and it requires a water service charge of $10,000 a
year before we even start to use a drop of water. The water is on top of that and then there's the
electricity, which has gone through the roof.

"So whatever I do on this property it has to be fairly intense culture. I don't know if I can grow fodder
for cattle economically or not. I'm going to try."

amtl : Coca-Cola Amatil Ltd | coca : The Coca-Cola Company
i010020603 : Non-citrus Fruit/Tree Nut Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i01002 : Horticulture | i0100206 :
Fruit Growing | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | icnp :
Consumer Goods | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
reqraf : Suggested Reading Agriculture/Forestry | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis |
reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140207ea280004i

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page17of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.