Investors flex muscles in energy M &A tussles

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Investors flex muscles in energy M&A tussles

Drilling down Angela Macdonald-Smith
724 words
9 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
20
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

In a few brief weeks, Australia's energy sector has suddenly come alive on the M&A front, and it is
providing the opportunity for some shareholders to toss their weight around.
Hong Kong's Cheung Kong Infrastructure (CKI), never a fan of APA Group's $2.1 billion scrip play
for control of Envestra, certainly acted on its convictions. CKI surprised the market on Thursday with a
$2.37 billion conditional cash offer for the gas distributor. After losing out on several infrastructure
assets in Australia over the past months, CKI looks determined to get its way on this one, which it
knows well as a 17.6 per cent shareholder.

Whether it would win over rival APA is another matter, given the gas pipeline owner's 33 per cent
stake and clear motivation for a takeover.

But CKI's still conditional bid would be conditional on just 51 per cent acceptance, enhancing its
chance of success and leaving the way open for APA to remain on board.

CKI's two representatives on the Envestra board had been clear about their dissatisfaction over the
offer.

They thought APA was being mean in the premium offered for securing control, and didn't much like
the increased risk profile of the merged company. CKI, despite having been courted by banks and
hedge funds for its stake in Envestra, had held on to its shares, so Thursday's move isn't entirely out
of the blue.
With the Hong Kong player owning enough of Envestra to vote down the scheme of arrangement
housing APA's scrip offer, it was an unusual situation.

The deal was left hanging in the air with the market in the dark whether CKI would act on its beliefs
and vote against the scheme – to the embarrassment of the Envestra board – or opt for abstaining,
having made its point.
Over in the oil and gas space, Roc Oil chairman Mike Harding is facing his own embarrassment, with
Roc's largest shareholder, Allan Gray, being very public of its dismay of the agreed $800 million
zero-premium scrip merger with Horizon Oil.

Allan Gray, with about 20 per cent of Roc, is incensed that Roc shareholders, despite contributing
most of the assets and cash, don't get a vote on the merger, in contrast to Horizon investors.

Harding stands behind the Australian Securities Exchange's listing rules, which mean Roc has indeed
no obligation to offer that opportunity to investors. The ASX rules, in what proxy adviser Ownership
Matters describes as a "loophole", allow one company to buy another with scrip without getting
approval from its own shareholders.

Page271of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It is of no comfort to Allan Gray's outspoken portfolio manager, Simon Marais, who reckons if Roc was
so confident about the deal, it would at least do shareholders the courtesy of offering that. Marais is
sceptical about the figures being presented by Roc and Horizon of the scale-up benefits of the
merger, in terms of market valuation.

For his part, Harding claims Allan Gray is on its own among institutional shareholders opposing the
tie-up, which he is portraying as a once in a lifetime opportunity to pick up assets such as Horizon's
undervalued Papua New Guinea acreage that it could never afford to buy. Whether Marais forces the
issue and calls an extraordinary general meeting to try to force a vote remains to be seen.

But Roc boss Alan Linn was adamant on Thursday that even if a vote were held, it wouldn't be binding
under the merger implementation deed agreed with Horizon.

He cites figures that 31 companies in Australia have pursued this structure for a takeover in the past
15 years.

In this instance, if looks as if Allan Gray will be left frustrated at its lack of influence, despite its
dominant shareholding.
Further down the food chain, Nexus Energy shareholders are similarly left with little to relish from
Seven Group's 2¢ a share offer, which Seven declared yesterday would not be increased unless a
higher rival one emerges.

It's a sad story for shareholders that once dreamed of rich returns from Nexus's attractive Timor Sea
interests.

amacdonald-smith@afr.com.au Twitter: @angelamacd

CO

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

austpi : APA Group | chkinf : Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings Ltd | envest : Envestra Ltd. |
hutwam : Hutchison Whampoa Limited
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i502 : Heavy Construction | i5020043 : Pipeline Laying |
iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c18 : Ownership Changes |
cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140508ea5900004

Page272of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.