Chinese money flows into Australian dairy sector

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Chinese money flows into Australian dairy sector

by Paul Whitfield
541 words
18 November 2014
The Deal
DEALNEW
English
Copyright 2014. The Deal LLC.

Two Chinese companies announced plans on Tuesday to invest hundreds of millions of dollars in the
Australian dairy sector, just as it emerged that the owner of Australia's largest privately owned
milk-processing company had been placed in receivership.
Freedom Foods Group Ltd., a listed milk and cereals producer, said it had signed a memorandum of
understanding with China's New Hope Group to develop "large scale intensive dairy farms in South
East Australia" to supply long-life and fresh milk to the Chinese company.

New Hope said it had established a fund of up to A$500 million ($436 million), a "significant portion" of
which has been earmarked for investment in dairy farms.
Separately, Chinese property developer Greenland Holding Group Co. said it planned to buy Australian
dairy, beef and wine companies to secure supplies for mainland China. State-owned Greenland is
already in talks to make a first acquisition, its chairman Zhang Yuliang told reporters.
"Chinese people's consumption habits are changing," Zhang said. "Our next step is to acquire such
kinds of Australian companies and import more Australian products into China."
Chinese consumption of dairy products is expected to grow by about $23 billion over the next four
years, increasing the total size of the Chinese market by about 50% from its current $47 billion,
according to Euromonitor International Ltd., a London-based market research group.

Tuesday's announcements are part of a flurry of deals that have been announced to coincide with the
signing of a trade agreement between China and Australia that will remove tariffs on Australian dairy
and beef imports into China. China's President Xi Jinping and Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott
signed off on a draft deal on Monday, with the final agreement due next year following a legal review of
the documents.

Also on Tuesday, Abbott and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi agreed to push for a free-trade
agreement in a bid to increase their countries' $15 billion of annual trade.

"We have agreed to speed up negotiations on the comprehensive economic partnership agreement,"
Modi told reporters in Canberra, Australia. "I also asked for easier access for Indian business to the
Australian market and quicker investment approvals."
Not all the news out of Australia on Tuesday was positive for the dairy sector. The future of United Dairy
Power, a milk processor operating in South Australia and Victoria, was thrown into doubt after it
emerged that parent company Five Star United Food (Aust) Pty Ltd. has been placed in receivership by
lender Rabobank Group.
The move comes almost 10 months after Hong Kong-based businessman William Hui acquired United
Dairy Power for about A$70 million, using debt financing issued to Five Star.

Rabobank has appointed Rod Slattery of Australian insolvency specialist PPB Advisory as receiver and
manager of Five Star. PPB has in turn replaced the CEO of United Dairy Power, appointing Marcus
Derwin to the role.

Page72of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."Disagreements between the financier and shareholders [led] the financier to take some action and
appointed receivers over the parent entity," Derwin told ABC radio on Tuesday. "I am looking at all of our
business operations and the strategic options available to UDP Group."

CO
IN

NS

RE

IPD
PUB
AN

ausnfh : Freedom Foods Group Limited
i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming |
ilsfarm : Livestock Farming | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood : Food
Products | ifunfod : Functional Foods
c16 : Bankruptcy | cpartn : Partnerships/Collaborations | c11 : Plans/Strategy | cactio : Corporate Actions
| ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ccfd : Corporate Financial Difficulty | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Article
The Deal, LLC
Document DEALNEW020141125eabi00018

Page73of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.