Selling Stake in Langer Heinrich Will Alleviate Debt

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Selling Stake in Langer Heinrich Will Alleviate Debt

by Chamwe Kaira
588 words
16 January 2014
22:27
All Africa
AFNWS
English
(c) 2014 AllAfrica, All Rights Reserved

Jan 16, 2014 (The Namibian/All Africa Global Media via COMTEX) -- PALADIN Energy, the mother
company of the Erongo Region based Langer Heinrich, says there is strong interest coming from several
parties to buy a minority stake in the uranium mine.
"Paladin offers a unique platform in the uranium supply sector generating competition from the nuclear
industry for an association both for current production and future growth. Paladin has confidence in an
outcome which will alleviate shareholder concerns regarding debt, noting the next tranche of convertible
bonds is not due until November 2015," the company said in a report for the quarter ended 31
December.

Langer Heinrich produced a record 1 431 307 pounds (649 tonnes) of uranium oxide for the December
quarter, four percent above budget.
Revenue from Langer Heinrich and the Kayelekera mine in Malawi amounted to US$101 million.

In October, an employee and two contractors were involved in a serious electrical incident at Langer
Heinrich. Two of the workers received serious burns while the third worker received smoke inhalation.
The more seriously injured worker passed away in October, while the second injured worker has since
returned to work. The findings and outcomes of a full investigation into the incident are pending, the
company said.
Commenting on the uranium market outlook, Paladin said amidst moderate transactional volume levels,
the uranium oxide spot price moved in a narrow range between US$34,50 per pound and US$36,25 per
pound during the quarter.
Paladin said activity continued to be extremely limited in the longer term market, with the uranium oxide
term price flat over the quarter at US$50 per pound.
Last year, construction began on 10 reactors located in Belarus, China, the United Arab Emirates and
the United States, bringing the total number of reactors in active construction to 71, nine more than
immediately prior to the Fukushima accident in March 2011.

In September last year, the Russian government announced a new nuclear building programme
consisting of 24 new reactors scheduled to be operational by 2030. The Turkish government announced
that the initial reactor at its Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant is scheduled for operation in 2020 and that
governmental approval for the country's second nuclear project, Sinop, is anticipated by June this year.
Persistent low uranium prices have resulted in a number of production cut-backs and deferrals of
planned expansions. In early November, Kazakhstan's state-owned uranium production company,
Kazatomprom, placed all output expansion projects on hold pending an improvement in the uranium
market. The Russian uranium production company, ARMZ, announced that the Honeymoon ISR Mine
in South Australia would be placed on care-and-maintenance status while ceasing all new capital
investment in new Russia-based uranium projects.
In the United States, Energy Fuels announced that it was deferring the development of its Canyon Mine
in Arizona while also deferring the production at the Pinenut mine.

Page158of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Leach tank failures at the Rossing mine in Namibia and the Ranger mine in Australia resulted in reduced
operations in Namibia and a production halt at Ranger, both facilities operated by Rio Tinto affiliates.
"Investment analysts specialising in uranium including Cantor Fitzgerald, Cormark Securities, Raymond
James and ScotiaBank recently underscored the looming market imbalance in uranium demand and
supply and the crucial imperative for higher sustainable incentive prices of at least US$70 per pound to
support new supply, virtually twice the current spot uranium price level," said Paladin Managing Director,
John Borshoff.

IN

NS

RE

iuran : Uranium Ore Mining | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
gdis : Disasters/Accidents | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | grisk : Risk News | ncat : Content Types |
nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
africaz : Africa | austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries
| dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
accident

IPD
PUB All Africa Global Media
AN

Document AFNWS00020140116ea1g000zn

Page159of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.