Schadenfreude cheer

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Schadenfreude cheer

Pierpont
1,915 words
5 December 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
19
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Pierpont

Pierpont Shareholders have had a tough time with falling commodity prices. Some worse than others.

Christmas being a cheerful time of year, Pierpont will spend today trying to spread a little joy among his
readers.

Many of you will doubtless be downhearted because the fall in commodity prices has crunched the
value of your resource stocks. Others are despairing because shares in the big four banks are
retreating, due to David Murray insisting they should shore up their capital bases.

Pierpont's mission today is to revive investors' spirits by pointing out that things could be worse. You
might be moaning about the drop in value of your BHP or Westpac shares, but there are several other
companies around the ASX where investors have suffered far more dire results.

As proof, your correspondent will list three that have been disasters for shareholders, plus a fourth
which may yet be saved – just to give readers some extra uplift.

Platinum Australia was a star stock between 2005 and 2008, when it soared from a few cents to $11
mainly on the prospects of its Smokey Hills platinum mine in South Africa. But there wasn't much time
to escape at the top, because it tanked abruptly, crashing below $1 and finally going into administration
in 2012.

What went wrong? Everything.

To begin with, the global financial crisis belted the price of platinum down from $US2080 in July 2008
to under $US800 an ounce by December (which is why the share price crashed that year). Platinum
then recovered but has been in a broad downtrend for the past three years and is $US2012 as
Pierpont quills this column.
Platinum Australia had delegated development of the mine to a contracting company named Redpath
Mining. Platinum Australia's directors repeatedly said the development was progressing well, although
it wasn't.

Smokey Hills was planned to reach full production of 7900 ounces a month in the first half of 2010 (or
95,000 ounces a year).

But production ran under budget for several reasons. One was industrial action, which had been
plaguing the mine at least since 2007. Another was power outages, a chronic problem with mines all
over South Africa because the grid just can't supply reliable electricity.

Page141of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The mineralisation was shallow, enabling Platinum Australia to access the ore by simple adits (tunnels,
if you like). Then they hit a large pothole between two of the adits and had to redesign the mine
access.

Worse, Redpath was failing to hit production targets. Full production was delayed for a year and
directors said they were addressing the situation. In 2010 they sacked Redpath and brought in another
company called JIC Mining as contractor.

The switch triggered even worse labour problems, partly because the employees claimed they were
owed wages that Redpath hadn't paid. JIC sacked the majority of the workers, who went feral and
launched a campaign against the mine. One employee of JIC was killed while travelling home at
the end of a day shift. Then Redpath sued Platinum Australia for damages. The company settled for
$93 million.

At the start of 2012, Platinum Australia terminated JIC and began running the mine itself. But platinum
prices kept deteriorating, production never reached target and in June the company called in Bryan
Hughes of Pitcher Partners as administrator.

The shares have been suspended ever since. Hughes sold the assets to African Thunder Platinum, a
subsidiary of the Toronto private equity company Great Lakes Capital Management. Macquarie Bank,
as the secured creditor of Platinum Australia, will get 13.5 per cent of African Thunder. Unsecured
creditors and shareholders will receive 2 per cent. So the shareholders who once owned 100 per cent
of Platinum Australia will wind up with maybe 1 per cent of African Thunder.

Not quite a wipeout, but close.

Coppermoly Ltd was another stock that looked a great bargain. Coppermoly had 28 per cent of the
Mount Nakru copper deposit in New Britain, PNG and was negotiating to buy the remaining 72 per
cent from the giant Barrick Gold for $5 million.
This looked terrific. Barrick had spent $24 million exploring Mount Nakru and was prepared to quit for
about what it spends on postage stamps.
Coppermoly was able to force the sale because it held legal encumbrances over the deposit, which
prevented anyone else from bidding, and Barrick wanted out anyhow.
The Nakru-01 deposit had an inferred resource of 38 million tonnes at 0.6 per cent copper plus minor
grades of gold and silver. In 2012, Swain Engineers did a conceptual mining study, which estimated
that an open-pit mine would have an eight-year life and pay back debt in two years. Swain estimated
the net present value of the deposit at between $291 million and $728 million.
There is also a Nakru-02 deposit, where a drill hole struck copper grading more than 1 per cent and so
looks highly promising, along with several other prospects nearby. Development of the mine, together
with a slurry pipeline to the port of Kimbe is estimated to cost $500 million.

The jarring difficulty is that Coppermoly has no cash. It is one of the great horde of junior resource
companies trying to raise hundreds of millions for capex while having a bank account that would
barely cover Pierpont's Bollinger bill. And the fall in commodity prices hasn't helped. During 2013-14,
Coppermoly raised $2.9 million in four share issues and borrowed another $500,000 from its major
shareholder Jelsh Holdings, but by the end of September had only $125,000 left in the kitty. Jelsh is
charging 6.5 per cent interest on its loan, which is due to be repaid by New Year's Eve.

Coppermoly is talking bravely about doing a joint venture, but the shares have crashed from 15¢ in
2010 to a notional 0.7¢ now and Pierpont fails to discern any white knight riding to the rescue.
Gindalbie Metals is a mid-west iron ore hopeful whose share price has plummeted from $1.60 in 2008
to about 2¢ now.
Gindalbie failed to reap profits from its Karara magnetite mine in the high days of the iron ore boom
because of various problems, including slow environmental approvals, the rising Australian dollar, the
scarcity of skilled labour and soaring construction costs. Some of these problems have gone or
ameliorated, but too late to help Gindalbie.

One of its biggest problems was the concentrator. To expedite construction, some of the engineering
design work wasn't completed – a short cut that proved almost lethal. The plant, which was supposed
to be fully commissioned in early 2010, was not declared open until April 2013, but still wasn't in
commercial production. The first batches of premium quality magnetite were not produced until August
2013.

Page142of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Iron ore fines clogged filters in the tailings circuit, restricting plant throughput, which had to be fixed
with extra pipes and pumping capacity. The tailings system was not achieving correct moisture content
and had to be re-engineered.
Total project cost, originally estimated at $1.9 billion, blew to $2.75 billion. And then, of course, the
iron ore price crashed.
Gindalbie has been rescued, after a fashion, by its joint venture partner, Ansteel of China, which has
pumped funds into the project. Ansteel now owns 52 per cent of the mine and the right to take its stake
in Gindalbie to 62 per cent. So Gindalbie hasn't died, but it's on life support. Karara's performance is
improving, but it's still not cash-flow positive and, in the words of chairman Keith Jones at the annual
meeting "many challenges remain to be overcome before the operation is self-sustaining".
KBL Mining had a different problem. It was running the Mineral Hill copper-gold mine in central NSW
before it was nearly hijacked last month by John Kinghorn. Until then, KBL was not only operating
profitably but looked like one of the great ASX bargains.
In 2014, KBL made a profit of $10.4 million. Admittedly $6 million of that was a writeback of a
previous impairment of Mineral Hill. Even so, the $10.4 million equated to 2.7¢ a share. As the shares
were trading around 3.5 , that notionally gave the stock a price-earnings ratio of less than 1.3 times.
But KBL had a $12.5 million debt facility with Capri Trading, owned by the Kinghorn family, which also
held 38 million shares in KBL, representing just under 10 per cent. KBL was an open register
company with the top 20 holding only 54 per cent.
KBL wanted to dig an open pit to exploit the Pearse gold deposit at Mineral Hill and was looking for
ways of funding the capital expenditure. The Pearse extension of Mineral Hill was estimated to produce
a free cash flow of $34 million to KBL.

Suddenly last month a junior explorer named Kidman Resources announced it had acquired the debt
facility and the shares from Capri Trading. Kidman held tenements next door to Mineral Hill.
Kidman did not seem financially robust. Its cash at the end of September was a mere $1.6 million, so
how it would repay Capri looked problematic.

Kidman was active, though. It immediately began approaching KBL shareholders, urging them to vote
against all shareholders at the annual meeting due on November 19. That would have included sacking
two KBL directors who were up for re-election – Greg Starr and KBL's chairman Jim Wall. In fact,
Kidman wanted to sack the entire board and replace them with three of their own nominees.

The Capri-Kidman loan could be converted into shares if KBL was subject to a takeover event. A
Kidman-appointed board could trigger that provision by organising some sort of takeover offer.

If the offer were made at the prevailing price of 3.5¢, the loan could have been converted into
something like 350 million shares, almost doubling KBL's issued capital and making Kidman-Capri the
dominant holder with about 50 per cent. Other shareholders would have been massively diluted and
control would have changed hands without the bidder being required to offer a control premium.

KBL adjourned the AGM until November 28 and the board fortunately managed to secure enough
votes (roughly 120 million votes to 93 million) to stave off immediate disaster.
KBL director Bob Besley says the company is close to securing enough capital to pay back the
$12.5 million loan and develop the Pearse pit (maybe $8 million capex to strip the ore body and instal
a small carbon-in-leach plant). KBL has also found three potential Chinese buyers for the gold
concentrate from Pearse.

Of course the funding has not yet arrived and Capri and Kidman are still lurking, so KBL has to raise
some $29 million quickly to avoid further peril.

And there could be another chapter to go, because KBL also needs capital to fund its proposed Sorby
Hills silver-lead-zinc mine in the Kimberleys.
Anyhow, that's the happiest mining story Pierpont could find to conclude this column. He'll see you all
again with the Dubious Distinction Awards in a few weeks.

www.pierpont.com.au

4 disaster stories to cheer you up and show you how things could have been a lot worse.

Page143of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

plaaus : Platinum Australia Ltd
i22 : Primary Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | i22472 : Precious Metals | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141204eac50000x

Page144of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.