PORT IN A STORM

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
PORT IN A STORM

By MICHELLE HARRIS
737 words
1 May 2014
The Newcastle Herald
NEHR
First
1
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Calls for Hunter to get fairer share : CHINA'S $1.7 BILLION DEAL

THE Baird government is under pressure to commit more money to infrastructure in the region after
announcing yesterday it would lease the Port of Newcastle for $1.75 billion - more than double its
public estimate of $700 million.

Newcastle lord mayor Jeff McCloy demanded half the proceeds be handed to the Hunter, while Labor
said the deal was a rip-off for the region.
The 98-year lease of the country's largest coal port will go to the "Port of Newcastle Investments"
consortium of equal partners Hastings Funds Management and China Merchants, an enterprise
owned by the Chinese government.

Announcing the deal in Sydney, Premier Mike Baird, left, declared it a "monumentous result", which
the ACCC and Foreign Investment Review Board already approved.

The successful bid represents about 27 times the port's earnings and comes ahead of the June state
budget.
The $1.5-billion net proceeds will be invested in new infrastructure.
Newcastle would receive its promised $340-million share for light rail and be transformed into "the
jewel of the Asia Pacific".

"Newcastle will be renewed. This is an incredibly exciting day for

Continued Page 4

Calls for Hunter to recieve larger share

From Page 1

Newcastle. It was always a pipe dream. It is now going to happen," the Premier said.

Mr Baird previously said the city's share represented a good result out of the expected proceeds for
the port of $700 million, and it should not expect any further funds to flow its way.

However, as the Newcastle Herald has reported, the government had privately anticipated from the
outset that the lease could fetch more than $1 billion.

Yesterday, Mr Baird indicated a larger share of spending for the Hunter was no longer ruled out.

"In terms of Newcastle and the Hunter, watch this space," he said.

Page253of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."We are surprised obviously by what we've seen in terms of the final result. So we will be in position,
we may have more to announce later."
But with no firm promise of extra spending, critics quickly labelled the result a rip off for the region.
"The Port of Newcastle is a rolled gold high-quality asset - and Mike Baird deliberately talked down
the sale price to make himself look like a genius when it turned out to be worth more," Labor's
treasury spokesman Michael Daley said.

"The Hunter is a region awash in unfinished transport projects, struggling hospitals and school
grounds blighted by demountable buildings.

"It is offensive that Mike Baird has left the Hunter with barely a sliver of the proceeds to meet these
serious infrastructure needs."

Greens MP John Kaye said the higher-than-expected result meant the lease holder would be seeking
to extract "even larger profits from the port", which would "now be half-owned by a foreign power".
Mr Baird said there would be no changes to existing commercial arrangements for the coal chain, and
the state would retain control of maritime functions.

"The only thing that has really changed today is the shareholder has shifted from being the state to a
new partner," he said.

The consortium members were "well-known, long-term global infrastructure investors", and would
unlock new opportunities at the port, he said.

Asked when work would start on light rail, Mr Baird said Transport and Hunter minister Gladys
Berejiklian would make announcements shortly.

"But we are both determined to get cracking as soon as we possibly can," Mr Baird said.

"You know a lot of work's been done. But you will see progress, significant progress made this year in
relation to that."
The government had already committed - but is yet to spend - $120 million to covering over the
heavy rail and building a new interchange in the city, prior to announcing last year its plans to lease
the port and build light rail.

Ms Berejiklian has refused to give cost estimates for the transport project, but said in February all light
rail options being considered as well as the interchange were within the $460 million total budget.

The state government has previously announced 85 Newcastle Port Corporation staff would transfer
to the lessee with two-year job guarantees, and the government would generally retain contamination
liabilities for the state-owned land under the lease.

hasfml : Hastings Funds Management Limited | wstpac : Westpac Banking Corporation Limited
i5020017 : Harbor Construction | i502 : Heavy Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150211 : Unit Trusts/Mutual Funds |
ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
c183 : Privatizations/Nationalization | npag : Page-One Stories | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
china : China | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document NEHR000020140501ea510000j

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page254of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.