Silver lining as mining boom fades

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Feature
Silver lining as mining boom fades

ADAM CREIGHTON
1,571 words
6 August 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
19
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Transport, IT and food sectors will now drive the economy

THE feared end of the resources boom does have at least one silver lining: the business front pages of
Australia’s newspapers will no longer hinge on the sometimes monotonous gyrations of the price of iron
ore and coal. Instead, Australians will learn that their prosperity depends on the success of other parts
of the economy, which in fact already contribute at least as many jobs as mining and will have far more
long-term growth potential.

The Australian’s 2014 Mid-Market Capital Series, supported by GE Capital, examined some of the
challenges and opportunities faced by three sectors that don’t grace the news pages often enough:
transport, food and beverage, and information technology.

The size of the mid-market within each of these industries — more than 4000 individual firms making
more than $100 billion a year in revenue — points to their overall potential. These substantial revenues
provide economic resilience at the same time as their more nimble size avoids the management clutter
that pervades many large-cap companies.

Transport and IT are at least as important for how they affect the costs of other businesses and boost
productivity as they are stand-alone contributors.

Rapid advances in telecommunications in particular can improve business efficiency so much that
businesses are able to expand without hiring more staff.

“It’s the fact that we’re prepared to invest in technology, or we can leverage technology better, that’s
going to allow us to get more scale, to generate more revenue, without necessarily adding to the cost
base,” GE Capital Australia and New Zealand chief executive Duncan Berry said, referring to surveys
that show 61 per cent of mid-market companies are expecting some form of growth this year without
necessarily hiring additional staff.

The growth of personal mobile communication devices — mobile phones and iPads — is boosting the
productivity of existing workers, enabling work to be conducted from home or while commuting.

Commuting is becoming obsolete. “For a lot of employees it’s a lifestyle choice,” Anthony Woodward,
chief executive of cloud computing specialist Bulletproof, told the series. “They don’t want to be tied up
spending long periods of time travelling to and from a workplace. Or they may want to live in an area
that suits their lifestyle.” The slump in the cost of mobile phone and computing technology has given
consumers and workers the ability to access state-of-the-art technology sooner than their employers can
order it. Where once the most advanced equipment employees operated was in the workplace,
increasingly workers’ own store of computing power exceeds what their employers would or could
provide. Such technology is also restructuring firms’ back offices, especially data-intensive payroll
administration. In bygone eras, firms would need their own heavy-duty computing infrastructure to
crunch and store data.

Page184of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.But emergence of cloud technology — the ability to access computing firepower remotely — is
dramatically cutting business costs, too.

According to Mr Woodward about 86 per cent of Australian firms are using cloud computing.

“Essentially computing becomes a utility, so you pay only for what you need when you need it. This
removes the cost of unused or underutilised infrastructure capacity,” he said.
New Zealand small-cap firm Xero announced recently that its cloud accounting software had processed
more than $1bn worth of payroll in Australia in June.

“We’ve seen amazing growth in both the number of businesses and amount of Australian payroll
processed using Xero,” the company said.

“End of year payment summaries, which small businesses around the country are struggling with right
now, can take as little as a few minutes to prepare in Xero’s product,” Xero managing director Chris Ridd
said.

“Tax file number declarations (which traditionally have involved manually completing employer details on
the paper form) now just take one click to get this information to the ATO,” he added.

The prospect of rapid advances in time-saving devices leading to jobless growth is not unique to
Australia.

In fact world-renowned economists including former US treasury secretary Larry Summers have become
concerned advanced economies will not be able to generate sufficient full-time work for low-skilled
workers. The sectors that used to provide such jobs en masse — large-scale manufacturing — have
shifted to developing countries with lower labour costs.

Like IT, Australia’s transport sector has a critical effect on the productivity and job prospects of the
broader economy. Almost all businesses are affected by the quality of private and certainly public
logistic capabilities. Supply-chain costs make up about 10 per cent of the final costs of a product to a
consumer.
Michael Paul, chief executive of Australian logistics firm Pack and Send, told the series that growth of
internet shopping had increased the cost of congestion to the wider economy.

“The number is only going to increase with population increase, but it’s going to increase more so as a
result of a change of delivery to more homes as a result of online shopping,” he said.

NSW Transport Minister Gladys Berejiklian, who took part in one of the series’ panel discussions,
pointed out that her government was prioritising construction of new mass transit systems to reduce
household demands on the existing road network, pointing to the North-West Rail Link and new light rail
options between Sydney’s central business district and the University of NSW.

Households and businesses can at least expect some reprieve from the final repeal of the carbon tax in
July. The $25 a tonne tax on carbon emissions ultimately found its way into the costs of all goods,
including transport. Whether prices will fall in the wake of its removal remains to be seen, but
businesses are confident.

Infrastructure Partnerships Australia’s chief executive Brendon Lyon said, “We can rely on the invisible
hand of the market to drive these sorts of (cost-cutting) behaviours because they are very competitive
markets.” GE Capital’s Kirk Purchase said the carbon tax had damaged the mid-market transport sector
by curbing already slender margins. “It’s already a 4 per cent profit margin industry so the sooner that
tax could get rolled back the better for those operators,” he added.

The privatisation of Australia Post is an elephant in the room that could yet have profound influence on
the transport and logistics sector. The publicly owned national mail service is facing steep losses as
booming profits on parcel delivery fail to outweigh losses from standard mail delivery. Online shopping
has boosted parcel delivery dramatically as email and social media have devastated traditional snail
mail businesses.

So far the Abbott government has ruled out privatising Australia Post. But Australia’s ability to maintain
something akin to a next-day delivery service for the cost of a 50c or 60c stamp will become less
feasible. If ever the parcel business need not subsidise the loss-making letter business, costs could fall,
benefiting all.

The growing pipeline of infrastructure projects is a more certain benefit. Australia’s infrastructure backlog
is well known and the Abbott government has undertaken to provide incentives to state governments

Page185of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.that elect to sell publicly owned infrastructure, such as electricity networks, as long as they plough the
proceeds back into road, rail and port facilities that in turn improve the country’s productivity.

Unlike transport and IT, Australia’s food and beverage sector doesn’t affect the productivity of the rest of
the economy so tangibly, but it is slated to be part of the next boom in Australia’s economy.

Agribusiness is among the five Australian industries recently singled out by Deloitte Access Economics
to grow at rates at least 10 per cent faster than global gross domestic product as a whole. As the world’s
population surges ahead by more than 60 million a year and Australia’s neighbours become richer, so
will their diets and their demand for Australian food and beverages.

“We’ve all heard the line about Australia being Australia’s food bowl for Asia and Oceania but we haven’t
really thought about what that means: the potential is huge,” John Barilaro, NSW government
Parliamentary Secretary for Small Business, told the series.
“We’ve seen predictions where China alone by 2030 could consumer almost 60 per cent of Australia’s
agricultural food output compared to around 12 per cent in 2007.” Ben McKee, chief executive of
Capilano Honey, said exports were growing fast especially in China and not just because of population
trends but because of Australia’s growing brand power as a source of fresh, “premium’” food. “People
are liking the products because they are actually produced here — not only the primary production but
all the manufacturing and quality standards,” he said.

While Australia’s growing list of free trade agreements has helped exporters take advantage of the new
opportunities, they still contain sometimes exorbitant restrictions on offshore sales. Tariffs of up to 220
per cent still apply to some beef exports to Japan, even after signing a free trade deal with that
country.As the resources boom fades into the rear-vision mirror, Australia’s economic destiny will rest on
industries such as transport, IT and food and beverage sector. Policymakers will need to become as
knowledgeable about their cost structures and challenges as much as of the resources sector’s.

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

gecapt : General Electric Capital Corporation | gnelc : General Electric Company
i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i111 : Coal Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i1 :
Energy | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150104 : Sales
Financing | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | reqrmm : Suggested Reading Metals/Mining | redit : Selection of Top
Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140805ea860005l

Page186of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.