Adding Value to Natural Resources. a Multilevel Challenge

Adding Value to Natural Resources. a Multilevel Challenge

HD
WC 680 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

20 May 2014
04:31
All Africa
AFNWS
English
(c) 2014 AllAfrica, All Rights Reserved

TD

May 19, 2014 (United Nations Economic Commission for Africa/All Africa Global Media via COMTEX) --
This article was written and Published by Mr. Antonio M.A. Pedro, Director of the Sub-regional Office for
Eastern Africa at the United Nations Economic Commission on Africa (UNECA) and Co-Chair of the UN
Sustainable Development Solutions Network (SDSN) in the thematic group on "Good Governance of
Extractive and Land Resources".

Pedro is also member of the Global Agenda Council on Responsible Mineral Resources Managements of
the World Economic Forum and of the Advisory Board of the Vale Columbia Center on Sustainable
International Investment (VCC). Many developing countries suffer from the same malaise, i.e. the paradox
of plenty, where abundant endowments of natural resources, including minerals, are not translated into
equivalent levels of prosperity, broad-based development and resource-based industrialization. As with
many other resource-rich countries, Indonesia wants to realize and maximize local retention of its mineral
wealth, including through the enhancement of local processing of its raw materials. The recent ban of
exports of raw materials could have therefore been introduced as part of an effort to scale-up local
resource-based industrialization (RBI) and value addition, a legitimate aspirational goal. However,
international investors view such practices as a form of resource national- ism or intrusive policy reforms
bordering "creeping expropriation". Managing the tension between the need to maximize the development
outcomes of the extractive industry in benefit of host countries and the profit motivation of mining
investors is not an easy proposition. Indonesia's ban of exports of raw materials and the African Mining
Vision's (AMV) call for greater value addition of Africa's mineral resources are part of this same narrative.
Regional and global organizations, in particular the European Union, would be well advised to support
these efforts.

Resource nationalism on the rise?

Indonesia's ban did not come as a surprise and it is not the first example of state intervention in the
minerals sector on a global level. Evelyn Dietsche from the Centre for Energy, Petroleum and Mineral
Law and Policy (CEPMLP) of the University of Dundee, in Scotland, divides the reform process in the
extractive sector in three periods. These are (i) the 1980-1990, where the focus of mineral policy and
reforms was to provide attractive legal and fiscal conditions to attract foreign direct investment through
stable propriety rights regimes and favourable legislation; (ii) the 1990s-2000s, where the key
preoccupation was to design mechanisms to improve the management of mineral resources and avoid the
resource curse; and (iii) the 2010s forward, where there are greater domestic pressures for broader
benefits and the policy focus is on how to build linkages in the extractive industry and beyond through
local content and industrial policy. In its "tracking the trends 2013" report, Deloitte identified resource
nationalism amongst the top 10 issues mining companies would face in 2014. It noted that governments
were eyeing the mining prize and "would continue attempts to increase control over their national
resources". They further observed that "while not all countries are moving toward privatization and
expropriation, many are exercising their own forms of resource nationalism", in different formats, including
windfalls taxes in South Africa, Ghana, the Ivory Coast, and Zambia; resource tax in China; export
controls in Argentina; or raising taxes and royalties in Chile and Peru.

In discussing resource nationalism, it is important to note that this is not a developing country syndrome.
Instead, we should recognize that where national interests are at stake, both rich and less endowed
countries apply some form of it. In this respect, the decision by the Canadian government to reject the
takeover of Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan (PotashCorp) by Australian mining giant BHP Billiton

Page205of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.(BHP) is quite telling. In evaluating BHP's bid, the Canadian government considered Potash a strategic
resource, which could not be under foreign ownership and deemed BHP's offer insufficient in terms of the
net benefit to Canada. Equally revealing was Australia's opposition to Chinalco's takeover of BHP.

CO bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
IN

NS

RE

i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil
Extraction | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c183 : Privatizations/Nationalization | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
cana : Canada | africaz : Africa | arg : Argentina | austr : Australia | chil : Chile | china : China | ghana :
Ghana | peru : Peru | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries
| chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz
: Eastern Asia | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America | samz : South America | wafrz : West Africa

IPD africa
PUB All Africa Global Media
AN

Document AFNWS00020140519ea5j001xl

Page206of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.