Air New Zealand and Virgin Australia boost South Island capacity

HD
WC 698 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Air New Zealand and Virgin Australia boost South Island capacity

22 May 2014
ENP Newswire
ENPNEW
English
(c) 2014, Electronic News Publishing. All Rights Reserved.

TD

Release date - 20052014

Alliance partners Air New Zealand and Virgin Australia, will increase trans-Tasman capacity to
Queenstown by almost 50 per cent over the upcoming summer period of November to March compared
with the same period last year.

The airlines will operate an additional 36,000 seats between the popular holiday spot and Sydney,
Brisbane and Melbourne by adding up to seven extra trans-Tasman services per week over the period.

All aircraft operating trans-Tasman services into Queenstown now have Required Navigation
Performance (RNP) technology on board, allowing them to take off and land in low visibility conditions
which have traditionally caused schedule disruptions in the region.

Capacity on trans-Tasman routes into and out of Christchurch will also be bolstered with an additional
43,000 seats, representing a 13 per cent increase in capacity on the previous corresponding period. The
increase will be made possible with up to seven additional weekly services into the Garden City. The
airlines will now operate morning and evening Christchurch to Sydney services seven days a week.

The alliance operates flights from Christchurch to Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Coolangatta as well
as a seasonal service to Perth.
Cam Wallace, Air New Zealand's Chief Sales and Commercial Officer says it's great to see demand
growing, not only for Queenstown, which is consistently popular with travellers year round, but for
Christchurch too.

'It's fantastic to see demand on Christchurch services on the rise and we hope to further stimulate this
growth by working closely with our alliance partner Virgin Australia. We believe this additional capacity to
two of our key South Island ports will appeal to both leisure and business travellers with convenient
onward connections to our domestic network,' says Mr Wallace.
Judith CromptonVirgin Australia's Chief Commercial Officer says today's announcement demonstrates
the alliance's commitment to continuing to enhance the offering for customers.

'Together with Air New Zealand we can provide more choice for customers and better respond to
seasonal demand from Australian travellers. We're also able to improve the travel experience, using
technology that enables us to reduce the impact of weather disruption on our customers', says Ms
Crompton.

Christchurch Airport GM Aeronautical Business Development Matthew Findlay says Christchurch Airport
is also seeing increased loads.

'Over this past summer, flights across the Tasman to Christchurch have never been fuller. Record load
factors have proven there is demand for added capacity and bodes well for the upcoming summer period.
We expect next summer to continue the momentum for Christchurch, which is clearly in a phase of
upward growth,' says Mr Findlay.

All services will be operated by a combination of Airbus A320 and Boeing 737 aircraft as well as a Boeing
767 aircraft on the Christchurch - Perth route.

Page166of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Flights are on sale now at www.airnewzealand.com and www.virginaustralia.com.

Ends

Issued by Air New Zealand Public Affairs ph +64 21 747 320

About Star Alliance:

Air New Zealand is proud to be a member of Star Alliance. The Star Alliance network was established in
1997 as the first truly global airline alliance to offer worldwide reach, recognition and seamless service to
the international traveller. Its acceptance by the market has been recognized by numerous awards,
including the Air Transport World Market Leadership Award and Best Airline Alliance by both Business
Traveller Magazine and Skytrax. The member airlines are: Adria Airways, Aegean Airlines, Air Canada,
Air China, Air New Zealand, ANA, Asiana Airlines, Austrian, Avianca, Brussels Airlines, Copa Airlines,
Croatia Airlines, EGYPTAIR, Ethiopian Airlines, EVA Air, LOT Polish Airlines, Lufthansa, Scandinavian
Airlines, Shenzhen Airlines, Singapore Airlines, South African Airways, SWISS, TAP Portugal, Turkish
Airlines, THAI and United. Air India has been announced as a future member airline with Avianca Brazil to
join under the existing Avianca membership. Overall, the Star Alliance network offers more than 18,000
daily flights to 1,269 airports in 193 countries.

For more information about Air New Zealand visit www.airnewzealand.com and for more information
about Star Alliance visit www.staralliance.com.

[Editorial queries for this story should be sent to newswire@enpublishing.co.uk]

CO airnz : Air New Zealand Ltd | vrbair : Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd
IN

i7501 : Scheduled Passenger Airlines | i75 : Airlines | iairtr : Air Transport | itsp : Transportation/Shipping |
ilowair : Low Cost Airlines
npress : Press Releases | ncat : Content Types
austr : Australia | nz : New Zealand | brisbn : Brisbane | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales | queensl : Queensland

NS
RE

PUB Electronic News Publishing Ltd.
AN

Document ENPNEW0020140522ea5m000bm

Page167of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.