Dinner time

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CO

IN

NS
RE

Business
Dinner time

Paul Gilder with AAP
304 words
22 November 2014
Herald-Sun
HERSUN
HeraldSun
67
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

DEALS A BRAZILIAN meat processing giant has swallowed smallgoods producer Primo Group as
the trend for offshore companies to dine out in Australia gathers pace.
Brazil’s JBS — the world’s biggest food processing company — has signed a $1.45 billion deal
through its Australian offshoot to buy Primo, a 29-year-old family business.

Australia’s biggest ham, bacon and smallgoods producer, Primo had been 70.1 per cent owned by
private equity groupAffinity Equity Partners since 2011.

Its brands include Primo Smallgoods, Hans and Beehive, and it boasts a 3000-strong workforce and
five processing plants across Australia and New Zealand.
The deal comes hot on the heels of a $1.3 billion Singaporean-Hong Kong joint offer for
breadmaker Goodman Fielder.
It also bookends a year in which Canadian dairy heavyweight Saputo waged a fierce battle for
control of Warrnambool Cheese and Butter Factory, snapping up almost 90 per cent of the group
in February.
IG Markets strategist Evan Lucas said the recent signing of a free-trade agreement with China,
Australia’s biggest trading partner, had helped put Australian agribusinesses front of mind among
global investors.

“These sort of deals are probably going to be a fairly regular thing over the next year and a bit,” Mr
Lucas said.

It also comes as local movers and shakers Andrew Forrest, chairman of Fortescue Metals, and
billionaireGina Rinehart invest millions in beef and milk producers respectively to cash in on the
expected boom in demand from China’s increasingly affluent middle-class.
JBS Australia chief Brent Eastwood said the acquisition provided a great opportunity for the group
to expand Primo’s sales into offshore markets, including China.
Primo chief Paul Hitchcock said he welcomed the deal.The sale is subject to regulatory approvals.

fdgl : Goodman Fielder Ltd | wcbfch : Warrnambool Cheese and Butter Factory Company Holdings
Ltd
ifood : Food Products | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods | i413 : Dairy
Products | i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

Page233of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

News Ltd.
Document HERSUN0020141121eabm0003z

Page234of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.