Cellmid Limited ( ASX:CDY) Chinese Distribution Agreement Signed with Beijing Based Company for Hair Loss Products

HD

Cellmid Limited (ASX:CDY) Chinese Distribution Agreement Signed with Beijing Based Company
for Hair Loss Products

WC 685 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

29 January 2014
17:01
ABN Newswire
ABNENG
English
Copyright 2014. Asia Business News Pty Ltd.

TD

Sydney, Australia, Jan 29, 2014 - (ABN Newswire) - Cellmid Limited (ASX:CDY) advises that it has
signed (via its wholly owned subsidiary Advangen Inc. (Japan) a Chinese distribution agreement for its
Lexilis Black(TM) and Jo-Ju(TM) brands with Beijing Huana Likang Biotechnology Co Ltd. The distribution
agreement is exclusive for these brands in China subject to minimum performance requirements. The
agreement is for a period of three years, however it may be automatically extended if minimum sales are
met.
Huana Likang is a fast growing direct marketing company with primary channels through television
shopping networks and web-based sales. Cellmid's Lexilis Black(TM) (for men) and Jo-Ju(TM) (for
women) are positioned as key brands amongst products that include health supplements and selected
cosmetics.

Ordinarily, companies importing healthcare and cosmetic goods to China face significant hurdles and
often take several years for sales permits to be issued. Cellmid has been able to achieve rapid market
access due to its acquisition of Advangen Inc. (Japan) in May 2013, which had Chinese import permits
for Lexilis(TM) and Jo-Ju(TM) already in place.

There has been intense interest in Cellmid's FGF-5 inhibitor hair growth products from various market
segments following the acquisition of Advangen Inc. (Japan). In selecting Beijing Huana Likang
Biotechnology Cellmid has found a partner with strong growth potential and a dedicated sales force for its
FGF-5 inhibitor brands. Costs associated with marketing and sales will be met solely by the distributor,
however Cellmid will provide assistance by supplying its marketing information and materials and product
designs to the distributor.
It is conservatively estimated that the premium Chinese hair growth market exceeds $3 billion, assuming
that around 5 million people, or 0.37% of the total population, are or will be using hair growth enhancing
lotions and shampoos. The Lexilis Black(TM) and Jo-Ju(TM) brands will be targeted to the large and
growing middle class as premium, scientifically validated treatments. Other, Australian manufactured hair
growth product brands are planned for China to expand the market reach of the Company's unique
FGF-5 inhibitor technology.

Midkine (MK) Midkine is a growth factor that is highly expressed during embryonic development. Midkine
modulates many important biological interactions such as cell growth, cell migration and cellular
adherence. These functions are relevant to cancer, inflammation, autoimmunity, ischemia, nerve
growth/repair and wound healing. Midkine is barely detectable in healthy adults and only occurs as a
consequence of the pathogenesis of a number of different disorders. Midkine expression is often evident
very early in disease onset, even before any apparent physical symptoms. Accordingly, midkine is an
important early marker for diagnosing cancers and autoimmune diseases. Finally, midkine is only present
in a disease context, and targeting midkine is not expected to harm normal healthy tissues.

FGF-5 inhibitor hair growth products In 2010 Cellmid set up a dedicated subsidiary, Advangen
International Pty Ltd, for the development of midkine for hair growth. While developing this program, the
Company launched a range of FGF-5 inhibitor hair growth products on the market in 2012 under license
and acquired the owner of the technology, Advangen Inc. (Japan) in May 2013. Since then, Cellmid has
been actively building its distribution in Australia, Japan and in other major markets.

Page106of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.About Cellmid Limited:
Cellmid Limited (ASX:CDY) Cellmid is an Australian biotechnology company with lead drug candidates in
immuno- oncology. The Company is developing innovative novel therapies and diagnostic tests for a
number of cancer indications, in particular solid tumours. Cellmid holds the largest and most
comprehensive portfolio of intellectual property related to the novel oncology target midkine and midkine
antagonists globally. The Company’s most advanced development programmes involve using its
anti-midkine antibodies in addition to commercialising midkine as a biomarker for the early diagnosis and
prognosis of cancer. For further information please see www.cellmid.com.au.

Contact:
Maria Halasz,
CEO
T +61-2-9221-6830
@mariahalasz
Source:

Cellmid Limited

ABNEN76517

RF
CO medthp : Cellmid Ltd
IN
NS

i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences
cdagr : Distribution Agreements | npress : Press Releases | c33 : Contracts/Orders | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | beijin : Beijing | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales

RE

PUB Asia Business News Pty Ltd.
AN

Document ABNENG0020140129ea1t0002t

Page107of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.