Auckland tower deals to ease

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Auckland tower deals to ease

Colin Taylor
1,456 words
30 August 2014
The New Zealand Herald
NZHLD
C001
English
(c) 2014 The New Zealand Herald

The number of major Auckland office deals can be expected to slow with investment capital moving in
a new direction towards the end of this year, says Brent McGregor, senior managing director of CBRE
New Zealand

“The ever-tighter investment market in Auckland due to the weight of capital, along with the number of
office buildings being converted to residential use, is adding stimulus and viability to commercial
development, which is good for future investors,” McGregor says. “It is also shifting investor interest
toward development and into other major centres including Wellington, which is already the focus of
numerous major marketing campaigns.”

McGregor has been involved in the sale of more than $500 million of commercial property this year
alone.

“I am pleased to say that CBRE has been involved in a significant number of major Auckland CBD
deals concluded this year,” he says. “These have included the former National Bank Centre at 205
Queen St, AECOM House in Quay Park, the Lumley Centre as buyer’s agent, Chorus House, and the
former Telecom Headquarters at 8 Hereford St.

“While there have been some major sales that have hit the headlines, there are also other
transactions that are not yet public.”
AECOM House was sold to underlying landowner Ngati Whatua Orakei Whai Rawa Ltd while the “twin
towers” sold for $103 million. Another Queen St deal was the April sale of the BNZ tower at 125
Queen St for $57 million

McGregor, with colleague Warren Hutt and CBRE’s Christchurch managing director Mark Macauley,
brokered the sale of the $84 million Chorus House on Wyndham St in the Auckland CBD to a private
Christchurch-based investor.
In mid-July, through CBRE, noted Wellington property investor Caniwi Capital acquired a portfolio of
six Inghams Enterprises chicken farming properties for $57 million from private equity owners. The
properties include four breeder farms, a hatchery and a processing plant, all in the Waikato region.
The latest big news for CBRE was the confirmation by Dexus Property Group on August 15 that it had
sold the Lumley Centre at 88 Shortland St to German pension fund Deka Immobilien Investment
GmbH for a 7.08 per cent yield at $146 million, subject to Overseas Investment Office [OIO] approval.

“This was CBRE’s 11th deal with Deka but their first in New Zealand,” McGregor says. “To bring this
German purchaser to New Zealand, CBRE’s local team worked together with their Sydney-based
International Investments team, led by Rick Butler.”

Butler says a Kiwi colleague working in the off-shore team based in Sydney has helped with attracting
new capital to New Zealand.

Page58of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“Deka has €16 billion [$25 billion] of property assets under management and is an active property
investor,” McGregor says. “Much has been written recently about the attractiveness of New Zealand
property to overseas investors.

“While some of the press hits the nail on the head — and it is undeniable that New Zealand yields are
attractive to European and Asia-Pacific institutions with a net $188 million inflow of foreign funds into
New Zealand property in the first half of 2014 — it’s also worth remembering that many local investors
are active too.
“For example, AECOM House was sold to Ngati Whatua Orakei Whai Rawa. Maintaining long-term
New Zealand ownership was certainly a key factor in the sale from the perspective of its previous
owner, Harbour 5, which continues to retain other holdings in the precinct and sees this transaction as
a further positive step in its strong relationship with Ngati Whatua. Chorus House was also acquired by
a New Zealand investor.”

McGregor says that AECOM House can in many ways be seen as a case study of some of the current
market threads — the link between increasing development and investment sales.

“The previous owners of AECOM House, Harbour 5 Ltd, part of a family owned business which
purchased the land in 2008, progressed the eight-level, five-star, green-rated building in 2011 with the
intention of holding the asset long-term. However, when an opportunity arose for a negotiated sale with
the underlying land owner, Ngati Whatua, the directors felt this was an excellent prospect for both
entities, the building’s tenants and the wider precinct in general. The opportunity also made real sense
for the local iwi which picked up the ‘marriage value’ benefit from combining the lessee’s and lessor’s
interest.”

McGregor says that the buoyancy of the development market is evident.

“Towards the end of 2016 we expect the completion of over 85,000sq m of newly built and substantially
refurbished office space. These projects include new campus-style city fringe office premises like
Mansons TCLM’s new 18,600sq m building on Victoria St and Fonterra’s new head office in Wynyard
Quarter which will fill a number of market niches.

“Wynyard Quarter is becoming a major focus for new office supply. Aside from the Fonterra building,
an additional four projects are expected to add over 20,000sq m by the end of 2016 to Wynyard
Quarter’s office stock. Unlike the large campus-style buildings, some of these new Wynyard premises
will offer occupancy options for smaller to medium-sized occupiers, some of it in ‘character’ style
premises.

McGregor says another market niche being filled by new supply is core CBD refurbished secondary
buildings.

“For example, the refurbishments of 125 Queen St and potentially 22 Fanshawe St will bring on the
market about 25,000sq m of good quality occupancy options in 2015 for those seeking core CBD
tower-style office space.

“However, the main market niche that is not currently being addressed by new supply is premium
quality CBD office towers. This market sector has been inactive for new development during the past
five years, and no new meaningful supply is expected until the latter part of this decade.”

McGregor says investor interest is being driven by office buildings being converted to apartments as
well as by yields.
“We are seeing quite a few local and offshore groups wanting to buy into development sites — city and
suburban — with mostly residential underpinnings. For this reason and others, we are observing a
rising number of conversions, typically from secondary grade office buildings into residential uses.”

One prominent building undergoing such a transformation is the former Telecom headquarters building
at 8 Hereford St in Freemans Bay that was purchased by the Tawera Group, an award-winning
developer.

“A significant number of the 121 apartments now being planned in the new Hereford Residences
development have been pre-sold, leading to more than 10,000sq m of B-grade office floor area being
withdrawn from office stock,” McGregor says.

“All this conversion work is undoubtedly putting pressure on existing stock and thus on vacancy, which
is already low in Auckland. The city has been the popular investment destination in the year to date but

Page59of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.investor focus is now shifting to include other centres, including Wellington, where good buying
opportunities exist.”

McGregor says Ryan Johnson, CBRE’s Wellington managing director, recently returned from a visit to
Singapore, where interest in New Zealand commercial property continues to be strong.

Johnson says the Singapore government is trying to cool the market locally using tools such as
increased stamp duty and putting in place more loans-to-value restrictions.

“So foreign capital is looking elsewhere to invest and Australia and New Zealand are attractive
options.”

Johnson says this has led to a noticeable jump in investor interest in Wellington. “Three months ago
there was little institutional interest in Wellington but now that yields are more attractive, at around 8.5
to 9.5 per cent, interest is rising from institutional Australian, Singaporean and Chinese investors.”

Johnson says the outlook in Wellington is good in the second half of the year. “The interest shown is
translating into activity already with our office working on 10, mainly sole agency, sales campaigns at
the moment totalling around $225 million.

“CBRE has control of a lot of stock. Our sole agency on the IBM/Datam house in Petone had more
than 10 offers, half of which were offshore investors. Other Wellington properties currently on the
market and generating significant interest are 1 Victoria St, being sold on behalf of ANZ bank, and
Trade Me’s headquarters, which are generating significant interest.”
In Christchurch, a fully leased five-storey office building redevelopment is being marketed for sale at
104 Victoria St by Mark Macauley, managing director of CBRE Christchurch. The property occupies a
net lettable area of 3473sq m with typical floor plates of 676sq m.

The building has four floors of tenanted office accommodation and the ground floor contains a Tony
Astle restaurant and gym.

RF
NS

RE

PUB
AN

CBRE30
c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
nz : New Zealand | auckl : Auckland | victor : Victoria (Australia) | well : Wellington | apacz : Asia Pacific
| ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
W & H Newspapers Limited
Document NZHLD00020140829ea8u0003i

Page60of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.