Phoenix Gold stake leaves options open for Norton

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB

WestReg
Phoenix Gold stake leaves options open for Norton

Jasmine Bamford and Nick Evans
309 words
10 December 2014
Kalgoorlie Miner
KALGOO
First
1
English
(c) 2014 West Australian Newspapers Limited

Chinese-backed Norton Gold Fields Limited has announced the acquisition of a 10.7 per cent
stake in Kalgoorlie-based Phoenix Gold, refuelling speculation of a surge in Chinese investment in
the gold sector.
Norton Gold Fields, which was acquired by China’s biggest producer, Zijin Mining Group, for $229
million in August 2012, released an ASX announcement yesterday afternoon confirming the move.

The statement said Norton had no present intention to make a takeover bid for Phoenix’s remaining
shares, but reserved the right to do so in the future.
There has been persistent speculation about the Chinese closing in on Phoenix since 2012, when
Phoenix signed a deal valued at $54.4 million with Norton to develop the Catherwood mine, about
25km west of Kalgoorlie-Boulder.
Norton Gold Fields managing director Dianmin Chen yesterday played down suggestions the move
onto Phoenix’s register could be a prelude to a full-blown takeover of Norton’s near-neighbour.
Mr Chen admitted the acquisition of the 10.7 per cent holding of Phoenix could also be seen as a
blocking stake, in case other regional predators were considering a move on the company, but
added that Norton saw no direct threats on the horizon.

“Really our key point is that it is a strategic holding for us, which is going to give us an opportunity
to work with Phoenix closely to develop the region more efficiently and more cost effectively,” he
said.

But Phoenix managing director Jon Price told the Miner yesterday he “wouldn’t be surprised” if
Norton made a future bid for an increased holding.

“It’s really no great surprise, for Norton to take a greater interest in Phoenix, I don’t think that’s a
surprise to anybody,” Mr Price said.

nogofe : Norton Gold Fields Ltd
igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
West Australian Newspapers Limited

Page178of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document KALGOO0020141209eaca0000n

Page179of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.