Paladin OKs bid for 25pc of Langer Heinrich

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Paladin OKs bid for 25pc of Langer Heinrich

Peter Ker
494 words
21 January 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
15
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Paladin Energy shareholders should be spared another dilutive equity raising this year, after the
company reached a preliminary deal to sell a stake in its flagship mine for $US190 million.
In a significant step for the uranium miner, a subsidiary of the influential China National Nuclear
Corporation has offered to buy 25 per cent of Paladin's Langer Heinrich mine in Namibia, under a deal
that would link Paladin to one of world's most important nuclear entities.

The announcement comes after months of speculation about the health of Paladin's balance sheet,
and should allow the loss-making miner to pay down debt and significantly ease its balance sheet
pressures for the immediate future.
The sale will not be confirmed until China's National Development and Reform Commission gives
approval, and Paladin boss John Borshoff said he hoped to see that approval within six months.
The NDRC has refused to be a simple rubber stamp for Chinese acquisitions in Australia over recent
years, having interfered with – and ultimately helped to block – Sichuan Hanlong's takeover bid for
ASX listed Sundance Resources in 2012.
But Mr Borshoff said a $US20 million ($22.7 million) non-refundable deposit on the sale made him
confident the NDRC would give its blessing to the deal.

''If they don't come to the party they lose that money, and I can assure you they are not going to try
and lose that, so we are confident that this deal will happen,'' he said.
''There is hardly anybody else in the world available with operations like Paladin, and they know it.''

After rising strongly in early trading, Paladin shares finished 0.5¢ higher at 56.5¢.
RBC analyst Chris Drew said Paladin would have started the sale process expecting to value Langer
Heinrich at more than $US1 billion, rather than the $US760 million valuation that Monday's deal
implied.
But with both uranium prices and Paladin's balance sheet under pressure, Mr Drew said it was
reasonable to expect ''a degree of opportunism'' to come into the bidding process.

''The price they have got is certainly toward the lower end of expectations, but given the
circumstances i think it's good to see them do the deal rather than not," he said.

"It's not wildly below expectations, but it's towards the bottom end of the range that people would have
been looking for.''

Paladin's next debt deadline falls due in November 2015, and Mr Drew said the miner will need a
uranium price of $US45 per pound – rather than the $US36.7 per pound it averaged in the December

Page125of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.quarter – to be able to cover that maturity of close to $US300 million. ''With a significant amount of
cash now on the balance sheet, they are not going to have any liquidity issues until they need to pay
that November 2015 maturity,'' he said.

chinuc : China National Nuclear Corp. | palrs : Paladin Energy Limited
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | iuran : Uranium Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16101 : Electric Power Generation | i1610109 :
Electric Power Generation - Nuclear | ieutil : Electric Utilities | iutil : Utilities
c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140120ea1l0002p

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page126of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.