Condor Blanco Mines ( ASX:CDB) Funds Marianas and Coal Acquisition

Condor Blanco Mines (ASX:CDB) Funds Marianas and Coal Acquisition

HD
WC 763 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

5 February 2014
12:01
ABN Newswire
ABNENG
English
Copyright 2014. Asia Business News Pty Ltd.

TD

Sydney, Australia, Feb 5, 2014 - (ABN Newswire) - Condor Blanco Mines (ASX:CDB) has made a share
placement at $0.008 to a fund backed by a boutique UK mining investment consultancy. The fund is to be
managed by Beaufort Securities Limited (Beaufort), a leading UK corporate broker. Beaufort will promote
and distribute stock to the global investment market, particularly in the UK, Hong Kong and Singapore.
With over 83 million shares issued today, the placement resolves Condor's immediate cash
requirements.

Under the agreement Condor has the right to place stock of up to $2,000,000 in total into the fund that is
to be managed and operated by Beaufort. Such stock is to be placed at a 5-day Volume Weighted
Average Price, allowing no discount to market. Further placement is subject to a floor restriction and usual
shareholder approvals. The first tranche has been placed under the approval received in advance at the
last General Meeting of Shareholders on 29 November 2013. The decision not to discount issues under
the facility reflects Condor's unwillingness to enter into dilutive issues that might undermine market
perceptions.

Beaufort Securities Limited was formed in 1992 and over the last two decades has established itself as
one of the UK's leading independent private client stockbrokers. Beaufort is notable for its positions in
corporate and private client broking, wealth management and capital markets. Beaufort's Capital Markets
division supports corporate clients through Corporate Broking, Corporate Finance and Dealing desks who
deal with a global network of investors. This enables it to provide the broadest range of corporate
services, from fund raising, to promotion and acquisition finance. http://www.beaufortsecurities.com/

Heads of Agreement for Debt Financing
Condor has also applied for debt financing of up to EUR10 million. This is to be borrowed from a
European financial institution, with bank bonds of the same face value being provided as security to the
financial lender. These bonds have in turn been securitised against the upcoming cash flows of the
Marianas Iron Ore Project (Marianas). The funds are to be committed to two projects: bringing Marianas
to operations, either solely or as a joint venture under the Heads of Agreement already signed with
Lacerta Finance and Mining Spa, and potentially Condor's commitment to the drilling program for The
Duel Joint Venture.
Condor Chairman, Dr Paul Crosio, commented on the combined debt and project acquisition heads of
agreements: "As Condor moves focus to highly prospective and near term assets we have had to
leverage our near production asset Marianas and access the debt market. This means we can
concentrate on high quality tenements where there is a clear sight to production or sale to a major in the
next two years." Dr Crosio continued: "Marianas has allowed us to use the prospective cash flows from
this project to access European debt markets and not return to the equity markets".
Coking Coal Acquisition in South Africa
Condor has entered into a Heads of Agreement with Hong Kong company Signet Coking Coal Limited
(Signet) that will see it have the right to acquire a majority stake of up to 50.3% in The Duel and Tshipise
2 projects held by Signet's South African subsidiaries Subiflex Proprietary Limited and the Universal
Annex Project held by Exotic Coal Exploration Proprietary Limited. The acquisition is subject to several
conditions precedent including 60 days technical due diligence and upcoming shareholder approval.

Page192of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Signet has large, well-documented and highly prospective coking coal assets which are close to
infrastructure and allows Condor to have a significant presence in the energy market in South Africa to
complement our position in South America. By participating in two well established mining continents we
can diversify our position and reduce risk. Signet, and in particular The Duel tenement, is planned to
complete a full Bankable Feasibility Study in the coming year. We see tremendous upside in participating
in this project and further potential in the other tenements that are included in the joint venture.

To view tenements, and figures, please visit:

http://media.abnnewswire.net/media/en/docs/76592-ASX-CDB-666532.pdf

About Condor Blanco Mines:
Condor Blanco Mines Ltd (ASX:CDB) holds exploration investments in high growth mining and
exploration opportunities in the Maricunga Belt of the Atacama Region of Northern Chile, South America.

Contact:

Mr Glen Darby
Managing Director
Condor Blanco Mines Limited
Office: +61 (02) 8064 3624
Email: info@condormines.com
Source:

Condor Blanco Mines

ABNEN76592

RF
CO cbmine : Condor Blanco Mines Ltd
IN

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
c18 : Ownership Changes | c184 : Joint Ventures | npress : Press Releases | cacqu : Acquisitions | c181 :
Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | uk : United Kingdom | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
| eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | nswals : New South Wales | weurz : Western Europe

NS

RE

PUB Asia Business News Pty Ltd.
AN

Document ABNENG0020140205ea250002t

Page193of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.