Investors Chronicle - magazine and web content: BHP courts private equity approaches.

HD Investors Chronicle - magazine and web content: BHP courts private equity approaches.
BY Mark Robinson
WC 878 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

3 April 2014
Investors Chronicle - Magazine and Web Content
INVR
English
Copyright (c) 2014 Investors Chronicle

TD

Separate announcements from BHP Billiton and former Xstrata chief Mick Davis could herald an upsurge
in mining deals over coming months.
Last week, a report from Australia's Bureau of Resource and Energy Economics (BREE) predicted that by
the end of 2019, iron ore prices would fall by around 30 per cent from last year's average of $126
(GBP76) a tonne. It capped a volatile month for industrial metals, in which doubts grew over the
sustainability of global demand levels, or to be precise, those of China's.

Prices for a range of industrial commodities slipped back in the first quarter of this year due to China's
burgeoning inventory levels, but that's a regular cyclical phenomenon. The underlying reason why some
analysts have expressed doubts over China's ability to soak up any excess capacity in metals markets is
the heightened risk profile of its credit markets. Beijing has given assurances that enough liquidity will be
pumped into the economy to underpin domestic capital flows, but the People's Republic experienced its
first corporate bond default in recent history at the beginning of March - and its second followed barely a
month later. The fear is that if a trickle of corporate defaults transforms into a steady stream, then lenders
will take flight - and the consequent squeeze on short-term financing could perpetuate the process.

The consequent risk to bulk and base metals prices is exacerbated by the fact that around 60 per cent of
China's warehoused copper is used as loan collateral (see 'Copper's Collateral Damage' IC 28 March
2014). And if you throw in expectations of tougher environmental regulations that could precipitate the
closure of some of China's aging steel mills, then the BREE report could well prefigure the shape of things
to come.

Yet for all the negative sentiment towards industrial metals, it has emerged that X2 Resources, an
investment vehicle established by ex-Xstrata chief Mick Davis, has secured up to $3.75bn from a handful
of institutional investors to finance the creation of a mid-tier diversified mining and metals group. The
backers are made up of three unnamed sovereign wealth and pension fund investors, together with US
private-equity group TPG Capital and the Singapore-listed commodity trader Noble Group.

The involvement of heavyweight backers such as Noble Group is more a nod to Mick Davis' industry
pedigree, rather than a reflection that mining assets can be picked up on the cheap at the moment. The
Xstrata business model was transformed in the early part of the millennium due to a number of low-ball
acquisitions, most notably the 2003 deal that secured the Australian copper, zinc and lead miner MIM
Holdings for just A$2.9bn (GBP1.6bn). It's no longer a buyers' market, but there's certainly no shortage of
quality assets up for grabs. Most of the big diversified miners have been trying to hive-off non-core assets
to reinforce their balance sheets, while many small caps and Aim stocks are struggling to push ahead with
development projects through want of financing - step-up the likes of Mick Davis and his crew.

Curiously, the details of the X2 funding preceded an announcement from BHP Billiton (BLT), in which the
Anglo-Australian mining giant effectively confirmed that it might consider canning its existing divestment
programme in favour of a potentially chunky $20bn demerger. What this could mean for shareholders is
anyone's guess, but in reality we believe that BHP's revelation simply represents a 'come hither' stance -
for want of a better expression. After all, it's hard to imagine that institutional shareholders would
countenance any spin-off that would entail them holding a stake in a demerged entity partly comprised of
underperforming - and essentially disparate - mining assets. True, the newly merged miner would enjoy a
diversified portfolio with some strong performing assets like the Cerro Matoso nickel mine in Colombia, but
collectively these assets currently deliver an operating return well below the group average.

Page78of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It's more likely that BHP's chief executive Andrew Mackenzie is sending out a signal to a hitherto reticent
private equity industry that is reportedly sitting on billions earmarked for commodity-backed investments.
BHP intends to clear the decks and focus its attention on just four commodities - iron ore, copper, coking
coal and petroleum - with potash a possible fifth strand. It means that BHP's nickel businesses in Australia
and Colombia must go, along with its aluminium interests in Australia and Africa. Its manganese plants
and thermal coal assets will be sold off, along with the Cannington silver/lead/zinc mine in Queensland.

The aggregate book value of the non-core assets is well short of the $20bn demerger figure that is being
mooted, but a spin-off would at least guarantee that BHP would not be left holding less desirable assets
that couldn't attract buyers under separate unit sales. The suspicion is that BHP would prefer to sell these
assets on a piecemeal basis, as it would generate enough cash to bolster the group's balance sheet and
facilitate another substantial buy-back programme or a special dividend for shareholders.

111088447

RF
CO bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC | march : Glencore Xstrata PLC
IN

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i8150203 : Private Equity |
imet : Mining/Quarrying | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | ialtinv : Alternative Investments |
ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
cspin : Spin-offs | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
| ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC
Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
PUB FT Business Publications Limited
AN Document INVR000020140415ea4300014

NS

RE

Page79of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.