Comeback kid: can Tinkler revive a dead mine — and his own fortunes?

Comeback kid: can Tinkler revive a dead mine — and his own fortunes?

by Paddy Manning

HD
BY
WC 1,191 words
PD
20 May 2014
SN
Crikey
SC
CRIKAU
LA
English
CY
(c) Copyright 2014 Private Media Partners Pty. Ltd. All Right Reserved.
LP

TD

Nathan Tinkler has somehow raised $150 million to buy a mothballed coal mine. But will he manage to
stump up the cash to actually operate it?

John Howard once quipped another comeback to the leadership would make him “Lazarus with a triple
bypass”.

Former billionaireNathan Tinkler looks set to repeat the performance, with confirmation last week that his
Singapore-based shelf company Bentley Resources has somehow raised $150 million to buy a
mothballed coal mine, Wilkie Creek, in Queensland’s Surat Basin.

Put aside for a moment the other distracting dramas Tinkler has on right now: his brazen performance last
week at the New South Wales Independent Commission Against Corruption, his brinkmanship over the
Newcastle Knights, and the looming sale of what’s left of his Patinack Farm horse stud.
The fact that Tinkler is trying to mount a mining comeback in today’s tough coal market with an unloved
asset that has been for sale for the best part of two years, despite a blizzard of negative publicity, is
simply astonishing. If he can manage it, it would be one of the all-time feats.
But on what we know now, it simply doesn’t add up. Since at least June last year, when his 19% stake in
listed miner Whitehaven Coal was taken off him, Tinkler has lost one asset after another. His share in a
lucrative coal royalty, his stake in the old Aston Metals, his former mansion at Newcastle. All sold up by
secured lenders, none generating Tinkler a cent.

Hanging over his head all that time has been an outstanding debt to his main lender, hedge fund
Farallon — impossible to know exactly, but in the vicinity of $100 million-plus.

That outstanding liability was referred to explicitly in the deed that accompanied the June 19
announcement that Tinkler had “sold” his 189.5 million shares in Whitehaven to Farallon at an agreed
price of $2.96 each — some 40% above market — or a total $561 million. There was no dollar figure put
on the liability under the deed, but the principal amount of Tinkler’s loans from the Farallon-led syndicate
was US$634 million, after more than a year racking up interest at 15% pa, his total liability was reckoned
to be up to US$730 million.

Showing that both sides of the deal hoped for an imminent bounceback in Whitehaven’s share price, the
deed had a clause allowing Tinkler’s outstanding liability to be reduced if the company’s shares rose over
$2.96 within nine months of the sale — that is, by the end of March this year. Nothing of the sort has
happened, of course. Whitehaven has been bouncing along in the $1.50 range lately amid depressed
coal prices and ongoing controversy at its crucial Maules Creek project in the Gunnedah Basin, where a
blockade against clearing of the Leard State Forest was recently smashed by police.
Tinkler did have some equity in Whitehaven up his sleeve, however. The sale last June did not include
Tinkler’s parcel of 34 million so-called “milestone shares” in Whitehaven, which were part of the
consideration for the 2012 merger with his private companyBoardwalk Resources. Those were ordinary
shares subject to restrictions on entitlement to dividends, voting rights and transfer, which would be
“released” to the Boardwalk vendors in certain conditions: if development milestones on its projects were
reached (they haven’t been) or if there were a change of control of Whitehaven (ditto).

Page130of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It’s a whole other story, but it is possible Whitehaven is undervalued. Malaysia’s super-wealthy Kuok
family, substantial shareholders and former Tinkler backers, certainly think so: on Friday their Hong
Kong-based vehicle Kerry Group popped up with a 5% stake, which may be a prelude to a bid. Chinese
companies are bidding aggressively for Australian miners. China’s Shenhua, behind the equally
controversial Watermark project not far from Maules Creek, has held merger talks with Whitehaven
before.

Tinkler’s milestone shares are almost certainly secured to Farallon, which at one point had a personal
guarantee covering almost everything Tinkler owned. The milestone shares could not have been
transferred yet to Farallon, which would need to disclose any change in its holding, as Whitehaven’s
largest shareholder. Whitehaven won’t comment on ownership of the milestone shares. Even if a
Whitehaven bid were to emerge at (say) $2.96 a share again — a thumping premium to the market
price — it would only be worth some $83 million to Tinkler, still short of the outstanding amount.

Say that’s Farallon’s problem. A new lender weighing up Tinkler’s creditworthiness has to overcome not
just his other debts, but his track record. Tinkler has borrowed part of the purchase price from New
York-based hedge fund Leucadia, which once backed Andrew Forrest’s Fortescue. Leucadia knows
Tinkler well, having recently merged with Jefferies, which extended him an emergency $US24 million
loan in late 2012, secured against his coal royalty and his Merewether mansion. Which only makes the
new loan even more remarkable. Tinkler’s negotiating position is not strong, and Leucadia will be
demanding sharp terms: the loan will almost certainly be at exorbitant interest rates, come with an equity
stake, and allow Leucadia to take control — for example, through an explosion of warrants — if there is
any failure to stick to timelines or production targets. Those will almost certainly be ambitious: Tinkler has
already been quoted saying Wilkie will be back in production by the end of the year.

In all likelihood, Tinkler has not raised all the money yet. Throughout his career, Tinkler has been willing
to take huge gambles: putting down small deposits (even with other people’s money) in staged deals that
give him time to scrape together the rest of the equity. This is what happened in the original Middlemount
deal that made his fortune, the Maules Creek deal, and even the failed share placement he took up in
listed junior Blackwood in 2012.

Unlike those deals, Wilkie Creek is not a speculative project that can be drilled and flipped into a rising
market before it enters production. Wiikie Creek is a mothballed mine with variable coal quality and rail
and port capacity capped at 4 million tonnes per annum. When operating, it had a cost base of some
$100 a tonne — thermal coal is now fetching about $75 a tonne — so Tinkler will have to almost halve
costs to make money, and he has never run an operating mine before. Now it is shut. The trucks are
gone, the plant has been disassembled, and a $30 million cash bond had to be paid to the state
government to cover remediation. Other potential buyers baulked at the environmental liability, and
thought it might be worth as little as nothing. Peabody was said to be willing to accept $50 million. Tinkler
may have overpaid again.

It could be a stunning comeback, or the perfect way to lose yet more money.

RF
NS

http://www.crikey.com.au/?p=438561
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Private Media Partners Pty Ltd.
AN

Document CRIKAU0020140520ea5k00005

Page131of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.