Press Release: GPM Metals Inc . announces signing of Earn-in / Joint Venture Agreement with Rio Tinto Exploration Pty Limited forr the Walker Gossan lead -zinc-silver project, Northern Territory, Australia

HD

WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Press Release: GPM Metals Inc. announces signing of Earn-in / Joint Venture Agreement with Rio
Tinto Exploration Pty Limited for the Walker Gossan lead-zinc-silver project, Northern Territory,
Australia
1,078 words
28 January 2014
01:00
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

GPM Metals Inc. announces signing of Earn-in / Joint Venture Agreement with Rio Tinto Exploration Pty
Limited for the Walker Gossan lead-zinc-silver project, Northern Territory, Australia

Canada NewsWire

TORONTO, Jan. 27, 2014

TORONTO, Jan. 27, 2014 /CNW/ - GPM Metals Inc. (TSXV:GPM) ("GPM") through its wholly owned
subsidiary DPG Resources Australia Pty Limited ("DPG") announces that it has entered into, an
Earn-In/Joint Venture Agreement with Rio Tinto Exploration Pty Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of Rio
Tinto Limited ("Rio Tinto") (NYSE:RIO); covering base metal exploration and development rights, in
relation to certain granted exploration tenements and tenement applications in McArthur Basin Mining
District, Northern Territory, Australia (The "Walker Gossan project").

Rio Tinto and GPM have entered into a definitive Two Stage Earn-In / Joint Venture Agreement granting
GPM an initial 51% interest under certain conditions that include;

Stage One

1. Payment of A$1,000,000.00 on signing
2. Minimum expenditure of A$2,000,000 within 3 years
3. Combined expenditures of A$20,000,000.00 over a 10
4. Milestone payments within the combined expenditures

of effective date
year period
as follows:
(i)
(ii)
(iii)

million tons of greater

A$100,000.00 upon the grant of licences to all of
the properties;
A$1,000,000.00 upon the completion of the first drill
hole on the Walker Gossan
A$4,000,000.00 upon the completion of a JORC Code
Compliant resource study that shows an
indicated status for minimum 20
than 8% combined lead and zinc, or lead,
zinc and silver, within the licenced area or a Decision
to Mine being made.

Stage Two

GPM may increase its interest to 75% by completing a Feasibility Study within 3 years of completing
Stage One.

Page174of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Rio Tinto may elect to contribute pursuant to its participating share, not contribute and be diluted or
convert its interest into a Net Smelter Return (2.5%) royalty.
There are rights of first refusal on purchase and sale of interest for both parties at fair market value.

GPM will be responsible for all negotiations with the Northern Land Council for consent to issue the
exploration licence applications and work programs to be conducted by GPM under its sole rights or as
operator.
DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY

The 166,000 hectare Walker Gossan project is located within the Walker Trough, a package of Middle
Proterozoic carbonate sediments, situated in Arnhem Land in the Northern Territory of Australia.
Geographical maps and geological setting illustrations are available on the company's web site.
(www.gpmmetals.ca/projects/australia).
The primary area of interest is the Walker Gossan. Gossanous outcrops with highly anomalous lead
values were discovered by CRA - Conzinc RioTinto of Australia (predecessor to Rio Tinto Limited) in
1970 and a tenement application was made to the Government of the Northern Territory in 1972. An
agreement under the Aboriginal Land Rights Act is required prior to grant of the tenement. To date the
area has been held under tenement application and no exploration has been undertaken within the 40
years which have followed the discovery of the gossan.

The Walker Trough is part of an extensive Middle Proterozoic carbonate sequence which occurs from
South of Mount Isa through to Darwin over an area of approximately 600,000 square kilometres which
hosts one of the great metallogenic belts of the world.
The region includes a number of major silver, lead, zinc and copper deposits. These include the Mount
Isa, George Fisher and MacArthur River mines owned by Xstrata; the Cannington Silver Mine, regarded
as the largest silver mine in the world, owned by BHP; the Century zinc deposit, one of the largest zinc
mines in the world and owned by MMG Mining of China; and several other deposits.

The Walker Trough region was identified by the Northern Territory Geological Survey team as being a
direct analogy of the Pb-Zn endowed Batten Fault trough which contains the MacArthur River Zinc mine.
Further, it was considered the "hottest untested exploration play in The Northern Territory" in a 2004
publication of the Northern Territory Geological Survey.
"http://www.nt.gov.au/d/Minerals_Energy
/Geoscience/Content/File/Docs/CORE/NTExplnOpportunities.pdf"

Peter Mullens, President, DPG Resources (Australian subsidiary of GPM Metals), states "We are excited
to have signed this agreement with Rio Tinto and to partner with them in this project area. The Walker
Gossan project has the potential to be a company maker".

The Qualified Person ("Q.P.") for GPM is Mr. Peter Mullens P.Geo, who is a member of the Australian
Institute of Mining and Metallurgy. Mr. Mullens has reviewed and approved the contents of this release.

ABOUT GPM METALS
GPM METALS is a Canadian based mineral exploration and development Company, with a current
portfolio of 5 exploration properties in 3 countries.
The Company board of directors, management and exploration personnel have demonstrable skills in
all aspects of mineral development; from grass roots exploration to capital markets and mine builds
globally.
The Company treasury is well funded going forward (approximately $4.6 million as of 20 January 2014);
and has a strong shareholder base. President and CEO J. Patrick Sheridan currently owns approximately
17% of issued and outstanding shares.

Forward Looking Statements

All statements, other than statements of historical fact, included in this release are forward-looking
statements that involve various risks and uncertainties. There can be no assurance that such statements
will prove to be accurate and actual results and future events could differ materially from those
anticipated in such statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from
the Company's expectations are exploration risks detailed herein and from time to time in the filings
made by the Company with securities regulators.

Page175of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Neither the TSX Venture Exchange nor its Regulation Services Provider accepts responsibility for the
adequacy or accuracy of this release.

SOURCE GPM Metals Inc.

/CONTACT: CANADA

J. Patrick Sheridan

President/CEO

301-141 Adelaide

Street West

Toronto, ON. Canada

M5H 3L5

Phone 416.628.5904

info@gpmmetals.ca AUSTRALIA

Peter Mullens P.Geo 18 Teneriffe Drive,

Teneriffe, QLD 4005, Australia

Phone 61.7.3254.2273

info@gpmmetals.ca www.gpmmetals.ca

Copyright CNW
Group 2014

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

January 27, 2014 09:00 ET (14:00 GMT)

CO
IN

NS

RE

minsie : GPM Metals Inc. | craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd | rtz : Rio Tinto PLC | rtzcra : Rio Tinto Group
i2113 : Lead Ore/Zinc Ore Mining | i22472 : Precious Metals | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i211 : Metal Ore
Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i2114 :
Copper Ore/Nickel Ore Mining
cnatrd : Natural Reserves/Resources Discovery | c184 : Joint Ventures | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
| ncmac : Commodities Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | npress : Press Releases
| c18 : Ownership Changes | c24 : Capacity/Facilities | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types |
nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | cana : Canada | caon : Ontario | nterry : Northern Territory | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz
: Australia/Oceania | namz : North America

PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020140127ea1r001sn

Page176of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.