Entrepreneurs keen to tap Asian boom

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Entrepreneurs keen to tap Asian boom

Nigel Bowen
664 words
5 May 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
26
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

MY SMALL BUSINESS

We've had the mining boom and are in the early stages of the "dining boom".

But it's not only resource-sector multinationals and agribusiness behemoths that are poised to siphon
off a fraction of Asia's exploding wealth; small to medium-size Australian businesses, some without so
much as a local shop or office to their name, are gunning for a piece of the action.
Gary Gregory, a senior lecturer at the University of NSW's Australian School of Business, reels off a
series of statistics to quantify just how big a market Asia will become.
"By 2025, China's middle class is expected to number 520 million and India's 600 million. By the end
of this decade, 60 per cent of Indonesian households - 250 million people - are expected to be middle
class. By 2030, it's estimated 66 per cent of the world's middle class will be located in the Asia Pacific."

And what will all those newly cashed-up Asian consumers be in the market for? "Financial services,
insurance and luxury goods to name just three of the biggest growth areas," Dr Gregory says.
Especially in China, the Asian population will be growing older and continuing to crowd into often
polluted megacities and Dr Gregory predicts "there will also be lots of opportunities for SMEs in the
healthcare field, as well as those marketing green products and services".

Carolyn Palliardi figures it takes blood, sweat and tears to crack any market, so you may as well
concentrate on one with plenty of free-spending consumers. "I'm trying to export premium Australian
skincare products to Asian consumers at the same time Australians are overwhelmingly opting to buy
cheap skincare products imported from Asia," Ms Palliardi says. "My brand, 808 Dude, is aimed at
males aged 10 to 16 and unfortunately there are only 1 million of them in Australia. It's as hard,
arguably harder, for a small brand to be successful in Australia as an Asian market, so why not
concentrate on making it big overseas in an age where the internet has created a global marketplace?"

"Mass-produced French perfumes aren't highly esteemed by Asian consumers," notes Bud Parfums
founder Howard Jarvis. Jarvis has been selling his product, handmade in his Warburton perfumery, to
Asian consumers since launching his business in 2010.

"We always planned to target Asia and it currently accounts for 10 per cent of our sales," he says.
"Independent perfumes made from natural ingredients are highly regarded in the region - wearing a
custom scent makes customers feel special and gives them bragging rights."
Ron Bensimon's plans to disrupt the jewellery industry with the eponymous company he launched in
2012 always included a big focus on increasingly bling-hungry Asian consumers. "Around 15 per cent of
Bensimon's customers come from Asia, predominantly Hong Kong and Singapore," says the
Melbourne-based jeweller. "Our business model revolves around cutting out middlemen and allowing
customers to go online to purchase the jewels they want. Asian customers have proven more willing to
transact online than Australians."

Page38of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Of course, there are also plenty of gaps in emerging Asian markets for those peddling more prosaic
wares. AstraZeneca, one of only a small number of global pharmaceutical companies manufacturing in
Australia has experienced what it describes as "exponential growth" over the past five years by selling
respiratory medication to smog-afflicted Asian consumers.

"It's not widely recognised, but Australian pharmaceuticals generate more export income than either the
wine or automotive industries. In 2012, for example, they brought in $4 billion," an AstraZeneca
spokesman says.
"Most of our growth has come from Japan and particularly China. AstraZeneca is selling respiratory
treatments in China, which allows access to the emerging middle class of newly diagnosed patients.
And only 8 million of the 95 million Chinese who suffer respiratory issues are currently being treated."

RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140504ea550002d

Page39of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.