(AEREA) Rea Group announces sale of Hong Kong business to iProperty

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

(AEREA) Rea Group announces sale of Hong Kong business to iProperty

337 words
14 October 2014
Ralph Wragg Australian Business News
AAPRAW
English
Copyright 2014 RWE AUSTRALIAN BUSINESS NEWS PTY LTD. All Rights Reserved.

Sydney - Tuesday - October 14 (RWE) - Rea Group Ltd (ASX: REA) today announced the sale of its
Hong Kong business, Squarefoot, to iProperty Group Limited (ASX:IPP) for a consideration of 5 million
iProperty ordinary shares, subject to iProperty shareholder approval.
At an agreed market value of AUD$3.00 per share, this represents a sale price of AUD$15.00 million.

Completion is expected to occur before the end of the 2014 calendar year and the transaction will
increase REA Group's iProperty holding from 17.22% to approximately 19.43%.
Following completion, Squarefoot's print and online assets, including the squarefoot.com.hk site, will be
operated by iProperty, alongside its GoHome.com.hk site.

iProperty will also be offering employment to all local Squarefoot team members.
REA Group CEO Tracey Fellows said: "This transaction is a great outcome for both REA Group and
iProperty, and further strengthens our relationship and commitment to each other.
Once complete, our shareholders will continue to benefit from Squarefoot's growth in Hong Kong
through our increased shareholding in iProperty.
"I am also very pleased that to confirm that REA Group has been invited to appoint a representative to
the iProperty Board.

This will provide an opportunity to make a contribution to iProperty's strategy and bring us closer to the
management team," Ms Fellows added.
iProperty Group CEO and Managing Director Georg Chmiel said: "As a result of the acquisition of
squarefoot.com.hk and its popular property magazine, iProperty now owns two leading property
portals in Hong Kong.

This gives us a dominant position in a highly strategic market".
Commenting on the transaction, REA Group Chairman Hamish McLennan said: "South-East Asia is
one of the fastest-growing property markets in the world and this transaction is a clear signal of the
Board's confidence in iProperty.

"We see terrific advantages in partnering with iProperty and its strong local management team to create
value for our shareholders".

CO

IN
NS
RE

ipgalt : iProperty Group Limited | rlesta : REA Group Limited | newsli : News Limited | nnewz : News
Corp
i834 : Real Estate Agents/Brokers | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest : Real Estate
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
hkong : Hong Kong | austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

Page238of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd
Document AAPRAW0020141014eaae0015r

Page239of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.