Barnaby 'bulldozer' Joyce on the future of agriculture

Barnaby 'bulldozer' Joyce on the future of agriculture

25 July 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) News
ABCNEW
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

David Claughton

HD
BY
WC 760 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Federal Agriculture Minister Barnaby Joyce was typically blunt about some sensitive issues in an address
to the NSW Farm Writers gathering in Sydney.

Asked to outline his vision for Australian agriculture ahead of the release of the Agricultural
Competitiveness White Paper, he described his own approach to policy making as 'bulldozing through',
and he did just that as he dealt with issues relating to animal welfare groups, foreign investment and the
environment.

On PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals), he described its campaign against cruelty in the
shearing industry as 'unethical' and 'inadmissable in court' and he warned they are 'not the police, not the
RSPCA', but a 'quasi vigilante group... who want to close down the industry'.

On dams, and in the context of widespread concern about their impact on the environment, he listed
several that he considers the most likely to get approval.

Mr Joyce warned that the amount a water held in storage per person in Australia has been declining.

"We are going to build dams," he said.

"The Prime Minister doesn't put you in charge of the dams committee if he doesn't want you to build
dams...but making the Minister for Agriculture in charge of the dams committee is a very dangerous
thing", he joked.

He was scathing of the previous Federal Government's decision to suspend the live trade.

"The idea that overnight you cease trade to your nearest neighbour, which they rely on to keep food
inflation down in Jakarta...you couldn't have done something more silly."

Under his stewardship, the live trade has been re-opened in Egypt, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia and Iran.

"We have to go back and mend all these bridges to get these relations going and get the product moving
again."

Mr Joyce summarised his approach as fundamentally about doing things that produce a better return at
the farm gate.

That includes resuming the live cattle and live sheep trade, signing free trade agreements with Japan and
Korea (and working on another with China), and developing the Agricultural Competitiveness White Paper
to identify more ways of boosting agriculture's contribution to the economy.

Despite the importance of foreign investment in developing agriculture in Australia, Mr Joyce is firmly in
favour of Australians owning farming land.

"12 per cent of Australia's land is foreign owned. In NSW, 12 per cent of the state's agricultural land is
foreign owned.

"That's 2.2 times the size of Victoria in agricultural land, so we have every right to ask questions.

Page274of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.He wants to see tighter controls on foreign investment and remains a firm believer in the family farm.

"I truly believe the family farm is still the fundamental unit of economics in regional Australia because it
has the capacity...to survive the long haul, and because of the core belief.. that the Australian farm needs
to belong to the Australian people."

Mr Joyce highlighted some strong returns in a number of commodity sectors, including the sheep industry,
citing one farmers comment that he'd sold a B-Double of sheep recently and pocketed a cheque for
$100,000.

He said there is a rising trend in cattle prices overseas that he predicts will translate to the Australian
market within a few months, as well as strong milk prices, with some very profitable emerging markets for
dairy such as the fresh milk market in China, but he warned that the country had to stay focussed.

"Our nation has a great chance, but it's not set in stone, it's not our birthright. We have to become really
focussed.

"Brazil and Argentina are out there waiting in the wings to come in.

"We have a real advantage because of our proximity and our relationships but we have to be focussed."

Mr Joyce is looking well into the future, beyond the term of the current government, which he joked could
be short if recent polls are an indicator, and he's working with his Labor counterpart.

"We've got to make sure that agricultural policy in this nation is not [making] these wild oscillations, that
you can hand across the manual to the next minister and say if you follow this you're going to be pretty
right...so that we look after our people whoever is in government, so we can bring real prosperity back."

For Mr Joyce, the key is 'making a lot of money...to get a better return back through the farm gate'.

CO pletam : People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals | rspca : Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty

to Animals
i5020011 : Dam Construction | i01001 : Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i502 : Heavy Construction | iconst :
Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction

IN

NS mcattl : Beef/Dairy Cattle Markets | c314 : Pricing | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |

m14 : Commodity Markets | m141 : Agricultural Commodity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market
News | mlvstk : Livestock/Meat Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E
Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania

RE

IPD Barnaby
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCNEW0020140725ea7p000e3

Page275of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.