Leighton deal a Mirvac coup

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Leighton deal a Mirvac coup

Mercedes Ruehl
423 words
12 August 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
36
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Mirvac Group is poised to buyLeighton Properties' interest in Sydney's $1.1 billion Green Square
Town Centre urban renewal development.

The majority of the 14 hectare town centre is being developed by Mirvac Projects and Leighton
Properties - known as the Green Square Consortium – on behalf of Urban Growth NSW. A clause in
the joint venture agreement allows Mirvac to take up its pre-emptive option over the high-profile
precinct if there is a change of control. This is believed to have been triggered when an intended
sales process of Leighton Properties was announced.

Sources on Monday said discussions had ramped up last week and over the weekend and an
announcement is expected as early as Tuesday.

The Green Square Town Centre project, located four kilometres from the CBD, is considered to be
one of the most sought after residential projects in Australia. The consortium's section of the Green
Square Town Centre will deliver about 2000 apartments, a retail shopping strip and about 50,000
square metres of commercial space.
The deal would be a coup for Mirvac, which has been riding the wave of a strong residential sector in
Australia. Instead of a tri-party venture, Mirvac and Urban Growth will deliver the project going forward.
The change might help accelerate work at the precinct, which has been a drawn-out process thus far,
sources said.

An idea first raised nearly 20 years ago, the town centre in its entirety, will house more than 6800
residents and 8600 workers, in addition to an aquatic centre and a sports park. Ten major buildings in
the town centre are expected to be under construction by the end of the year. In total, about 3700 new
apartments are expected. In May, the Mirvac and Leighton Consortium unveiled some of the first
early stage images and plans for its development, with a value of about $150 million.

Plans submitted to the City of Sydney Council are seeking approval for a 28-storey tower in the shape
of an ellipse, with 246 apartments.
Next door, the group plans a 10-storey mixed-use building with 64 apartments. Other developers
including Meriton, Crown Group, Lateral Corporation and China-backed group Bridgehill Projects –
will also deliver hundreds more apartments at the precinct.
Crown Group will build a 20-storey tower with 416 apartments as well as a retail component. Bridgehill
Projects and Lateral Corporation are also in planning. Mirvac, Leighton and Urban Growth declined to
comment when contacted.

CO
IN

mirva : Mirvac Group
i5010022 : Residential Building Construction | ireest : Real Estate | i501 : Building Construction | iconst
: Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i85 : Real Estate Transactions

Page159of239©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE

PUB
AN

gplan : Urban Planning/Development | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News
| gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140811ea8c00010

Page160of239©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.