Yancoal reboot unacceptable

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Yancoal reboot unacceptable

Matthew Stevens
1,175 words
16 December 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
28
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Matthew Stevens
Yanzhou's arch little plan to re-capitalise its financially stressed Australian coal outpost, Yancoal, while
stripping the rights of minorities en passant has thankfully been deemed unacceptable by the
takeovers regulator.

Reduced to its basics, the Yanzhou plan was to raise $US2.3 billion ($2.8 billion) through an
expensive note issue that offered the owners of 22 per cent little incentive to support beyond risking a
dilution of heroic proportions.

Yanzhou owns 78 per cent of Yancoal and the most likely result of the now partially scuttled
subordinated capital note issue was that the Chinese coal company would have been given a call to
move to 98.8 per cent of the business.

The Takeovers Panel has slapped an unacceptable circumstances ruling on proposal and ordered that
Yanzhou can continue only if the notes are not convertible into Yancoal shares. The ruling obviously
sets out to test fully the motivation of the issue.

On the one hand, if conversion proves critical to Yanzhou and it pursues other less sustaining options,
then critics will be furnished with proof of their view that something sinister was afoot here.

But if, as Yanzhou and Yancoal claimed, this was all about taking the most sensible pathway to
re-capitalisation, debt reduction and fulfilment of Foreign Investment Review Board obligations to
sustain a solvent Yancoal, then the capital notes issue can still happen.

All Yancoal and Yanzhou need to do is either accept that the notes cannot convert or seek approval for
any conversion of the notes at a shareholder meeting that offers 50 per cent vote of support. Of course,
given Yanzhou would not be able to vote at that meeting, then routinely winning a mandate seems
unlikely.No guarantees against dilution

We can say that with some certainly only because Noble Group owns 13.4 per cent of Yancoal and it is
not a fan of an idea that would see it needing to throw $308 million into the company with absolutely
no guarantee that it would not endure crippling dilution anyway.

The way the original plan worked, there was every chance that, on full conversion, Noble would have
been diluted to less than 10 per cent. And at that point compulsory acquisition would have been both
possible and likely.

For whatever reason, the panel was called to decide on this one not by Noble, but by another rather
smaller Hong Kong-based owner in the form of Senrigan Capital and its very angry founder Nick
Taylor. Taylor asked for either the note issue to be subject to a vote or that the scheme be withdrawn.
Technically, he didn't quite get there, but effectively he did enough to achieve his ambitions. Which all
leaves the pressure right back on the independent directors at Yancoal who decided that an idea baked

Page60of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.by Goldman Sachs, but ultimately delivered by Deutsche Bank was the most appropriate way to go
here.

As we have previously noted, for reasons that remain its own, Goldman's worked on this one until only
weeks before Yancoal went to market. When it walked, DB picked up the mandate.

Before heading to the panel, Taylor of Senrigan made it known to the Yancoal independents that he
believed they had failed in their obligations to act in the interests of all shareholders.

That position would seem to have been endorsed by the panel, which observed that the notes were "a
complex security, which require a significant capital contribution and are unattractive to Yancoal
shareholders other than Yanzhou".

In the end, the panel accepted the argument that the net effect of this arrangement could be that
compulsory acquisition may occur at a cheaper price than would be the case through ordinary
acquisitions of shares. Which all leaves Yancoal and Yanzhou pondering where they go next. Those
options stretch from formal contest on the panel ruling to renewed reconsideration of the other five
recapitalisation plans originally considered by the independent directors. They also include the potential
for some pretty hard decisions on the active shape of a mining business patently left under critical
pressure by the fact that it is a collection of tier two coal mines in a tier one coal mining world.
The really odd thing about the way our iron ore and coal pricing shock has so befuddled Treasury is
that these deficit exploding events were so actively anticipated by the miners themselves.
A rapid reversal in bulk commodities prices sits a root cause of a $7 billion shortfall in Commonwealth
revenues.

The result is a budget in even bigger revenue crisis than imagined as recently as May and a
government now prudently, if belatedly, banking on worst case pricing outcomes rather than hoping for
the best. The May numbers were built, for example, on iron ore pricing that would fall from over $120 a
tonne to range around the $90 mark by May next year. Plainly the price has surprised on the downside,
which is what commodities prices tend to do. So, arguably rather too late, Treasury is running a quite
reasonable worst case flatline estimate of $US60 a tonne on its estimates through to June 2016. If
anything, this number is sensibly over-cautious.
As we keep identifying, iron ore's majors believe that the price will be set by the highest cost major
seaborne trader and that is Brazil's Vale. It is still the world's biggest single producer and its average
costs range around $US65 a tonne.

It might not surprise then that $US65 was the base case when BHP Billiton began preparing for old
pricing decks to be new again.

Let's be very clear here.

BHP called the end of the boom in October 2012 when then chief executive Marius Kloppers delivered
the concept of "mean reversion" to the modern business lexicon. Ahead of that BHP has canned two
long-mooted mega-projects, Port Hedland's Outer Harbour and South Australia's Olympic Dam
expansion. By then the company was also well into a re-basing [of] the cost of contracted goods and
services through Project Reset.

Now, given the nature of big business, what we see is always months in the making. So the likelihood is
that BHP was began re-cutting its fiscal cloth from, maybe, the first quarter of 2012. The Rudd-Gillard
government's disastrous attempts to earn a fairer share of the resources boom through two vastly
different mining taxes accurately reflected the dismal state of dialogue between the Commonwealth
and its mining industry. With the RSPT, the Rudd administration thoroughly misunderstood the danger
its was inviting by initiating such a fundamental shift in investment settings and legacy ownership.

With the MRRT, the Gillard administration thoroughly misunderstood how the changed design offered
by the miners would effectively neuter the potential windfall.

So, instead of anticipating this most profound and worrying erosion in terms of trade and the even more
worrying growth in our fiscal deficit, the government is left chasing the tide.

CO

IN
NS

yaptyl : Yancoal Australia Limited | yankua : Yankuang (Group) Corp | ynzmn : Yanzhou Coal Mining
Co Ltd
i112 : Coal Mining Support Activities | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News

Page61of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141215eacg0001o

Page62of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.