Mercy saved

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

news
Mercy saved

DANIELLA WHITE
793 words
29 May 2014
Young Witness
FYOWIT
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

After being approved for demolition last year, the old Mercy Care Hospital has been given a new lease
on life, boosting industry and education in Young in the process.
In a coup for the town, the site has been sold to investors to establish a college for agricultural
education.

A joint venture partnership between Australian and Chinese investors exchanged contracts for the
purchase of the historic site on Tuesday, Roz Faulkner from Jamieson Real Estate announced
yesterday.
The group said all the buildings on the site will be retained, including the old hospital, and they would
be mindful of the historical significance of them.

The new college, called the Australia Agriculture Academy, aims to make Young a centre of innovative
agricultural education, creating future leaders of agriculture in Australia.

Chairperson for the academy Dr John Troughton said they had big plans, aiming to cater not just to
locals but to attract international students from Asia.
He said they had been looking for a site to launch the academy and the vacant Mercy Care Centre
was a perfect fit.

"We were looking for a rural area" the facilities there are already half made and there's also
accommodation," Dr Troughton said.

"We had explored Camden, in Wollondilly but it's still very much a city environment, we were looking
for a rural environment to build education for rural children so we didn't have to teach them basics of
agriculture, they already know it."

Dr Troughton said they aimed to be offering short courses to primary and secondary students by the
end of the school year, before introducing longer courses for post high school students, both locally
and internationally.

"It's just the start of the journey," he said.

"There will be a period where activities will be minimal as the college develops and buildings are
upgraded to the right quality."

Dr Troughton said the college would create global opportunities for Young, putting the town on the
map as an agricultural hub.

"We see it from Young's point of view as strengthening and expanding the already good educational
institutions in Young, we"re adding value to what's already there, including potential for locals to get
involved," he said.

Page70of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."It's also possible to really develop agro tourism, making Young a destination for tourism and events
which we can build around the college."

Often seen as at a disadvantage to their city peers, Dr Troughton said the college will give rural
students an unprecedented chance to engage in agricultural science.

It will focus on exploring new and innovative technologies such as 3D printers, drones, minecraft,
utilisation of Lego and Lego robotics, precision agriculture and GPS technology.

"We have the potential to lift the capacity of rural children above city children," he said.

"Hopefully Young will be seen as a leader, agricultural examples are at their back door to advance
their education and learn their science behind it."

He said the college will focus on linking students to experts worldwide.

"Because of changes in technology, the opportunity is there to become involved with international
centres of excellence like Cornell University, Stamford and the Punjabi Agricultural College in India,
whereby we can get better knowledge of international markets," Dr Troughton said.

"We plan to utilise social media which will provide us with world class topics run by world class leaders,
brought to Young through the Internet.

"It will also allow us to have direct communication through regional NSW."
After months of uncertainty over the future of the site, the news was the best possible outcome for
local heritage consultant Joseph Kinsela.
Not only will the site be preserved, but it has the possibility of facilitating a thriving industry for Young.

"It's the very best thing to have made use of it, people will be thrilled to hear the outcome," he said.

"There was a huge groundswell of support from the community following the council's decision last
year."
Mr Kinsela said the site, built in 1910, was the first Catholic hospital ever built in NSW, outside of
metropolitan areas.

"I just hope they get a good heritage study done and fully restore the old hospital," he said.

Dr Troughton's interest in developing rural education do not stop at the agricultural College.

He is focused on continuing regional minded education programs and hopes to help establish a
culinary academy focusing on using local produce.

"If not precisely in young, we"d like to see a culinary academy," he said.

"We would also associate with it the use of local fruit and vegetables and served to people to
demonstrate not only how they are produced, but best way to use them."

NS
RE
PUB
AN

guni : University/College | gcat : Political/General News | gedu : Education
nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FYOWIT0020140624ea5t0003c

Page71of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.