Tintri Raises $75 Million to Bring Application-Aware Storage to Every Data Center and Cloud ; Oversubscribed Pre-IPO Round Will Accelerate Global Expansion and Product Innova...

HD

Tintri Raises $75 Million to Bring Application-Aware Storage to Every Data Center and Cloud ;
Oversubscribed Pre-IPO Round Will Accelerate Global Expansion and Product Innovation

WC 1,206 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

13 February 2014
22:00
Marketwired
CCNWS
English
© Marketwire L.P. All rights reserved.

TD

MOUNTAIN VIEW, CA--(Marketwired - February 13, 2014) - Tintri, Inc., the leading producer of storage
for virtualization and cloud environments, today announced it has closed an oversubscribed $75 million
Series E funding round led by Insight Venture Partners, with participation from existing investors
Lightspeed Venture, Menlo Ventures and NEA. The new funding brings the company's total capital raised
to $135 million and puts the industry's only application-aware storage pioneer on-track for a future initial
public offering. The funding will accelerate continued global expansion and technology innovation as well
as help the company further scale operations and support its rapidly growing customer base.

Tintri also announced that Jeff Horing, co-founder and managing director of Insight Venture Partners has
joined the Tintri board of directors. "We meet with thousands of companies each year, selecting a handful
to invest in," said Horing. "Tintri stands out as a company that has turned a bold thought-leading vision
into an exceptional market-leading product. We are pleased to partner with Tintri to help the company
scale and make application-aware storage ubiquitous in the datacenter and the cloud."

"Much has been said about how flash is the disruptive technology in the storage industry these days,"
said David Cheriton, a Tintri investor who is also renowned as one of the earliest investors of Google
(NASDAQ: GOOG) and VMware. "Flash is great, but it's only one of the ingredients to making storage
more useful to end-users. Far more important is whether flash-powered storage has the intelligence to
make applications run better. This is where the Tintri application-aware storage is in a league of its own.
As the only application-aware storage platform, Tintri storage is intelligent, self-learning and adaptive to
the needs of the virtualized applications it supports."

Since launch, Tintri has consistently exceeded triple digit growth year over year and has an expanding
global enterprise customer base of hundreds of companies, close to half of which have revenues of $1
billion or more. The company completed 2013 with 115 percent year over year growth while more than
doubling its enterprise customer base worldwide.

Tintri achieved 99.999 percent uptime in 2013. With a 330 percent increase in number of VMs in one
year, customers have deployed more than 100,000 VMs. Storing more than 7 petabytes of user data,
these VMs are running large scale private cloud deployments, business critical databases, enterprise
applications and VDI environments that host tens of thousands of desktops and mobile devices.
Additionally, close to 70 percent of Tintri customers made repeat purchases averaging 2.5x of their initial
order.

"We are honored to be partnering with such a high-quality investor group that has previously invested in
category setting companies such as Box, Salesforce.com (NYSE: CRM) and Twitter (NYSE: TWTR),"
said Ken Klein, chairman and CEO for Tintri. "It's our strong belief that applications drive business and
infrastructure exists only to support applications. The concept of application-aware storage goes way
beyond merely replacing some disks with flash. As more customers discover the "yellow brick road" to
freeing them from traditional storage or generic flash solutions, there is no going back. For Tintri
customers, the unmistakable passion they have expressed for our products borderlines NPS perfection.
With the additional funding, we are excited to offer our solutions to an ever larger audience."
Tintri is aggressively expanding its global presence and establishing operations in numerous new
countries. In a separate announcement today, Tintri and the Victorian Government in Australia announced
the company's new Australian headquarters in Melbourne.

Page17of29©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.About TintriTintri Zero Management Storage(TM) helps IT organizations eliminate storage complexity, and
minimize costs and scale their virtualized environments. Designed from the ground up for virtualization
and cloud, Tintri addresses the mismatch between storage and virtualization with the industry's first
VM-Aware Storage architecture. Tintri VMstore(TM) and Tintri Global Center(TM) together improve
performance by as much as 10x, make virtualization predictable and easily scalable, and enable higher IT
productivity -- all while slashing costs. Production-proven in hundreds of global enterprises, Tintri helps
customers such as AMD, F5 Networks and Kawasaki Motors maximize their virtualization investments.
For more information, visit www.tintri.com and follow us on Twitter: @tintriinc.
About Insight Venture Partners Insight Venture Partners is a leading venture capital and private equity
firm investing in eCommerce, Internet, on-premise and SaaS-based software and data-services
companies. Founded in 1995, Insight has raised more than $7.6 billion and made more than 200
investments worldwide. Our mission is to find, fund and work successfully with visionary executives who
are driving change in their industries. We provide founders with practical, hands-on growth expertise to
foster long-term success.
About Lightspeed Venture Partners Lightspeed Venture Partners is a leading global venture capital firm
with over $2 billion of committed capital under management. Lightspeed's investment professionals and
advisors are located in Silicon Valley, India, Israel and China with Lightspeed China Partners. Over the
past two decades, the Lightspeed team has backed more than 200 companies, many of which have
become leaders in their respective markets, including Blue Nile, Brocade, Calista, Ciena, DoubleClick,
eHealth, Fusion-io, Galileo Technology, Growth Networks, Informatica, Kiva Software, Kosmix,
Link-A-Media, LivingSocial, Lucky Pai, Maker Communications, Phone.com, Playdom, Pliant, Provigent,
Riverbed Technology, Solazyme, TutorVista, Virsa Systems, Waveset, and XtremIO. For more
information, visit www.lightspeedvp.com.

About Menlo Ventures Menlo Ventures provides capital for seed through growth technology companies in
the consumer and enterprise sectors. For decades, the firm's market-driven research analysis has led to
the identification of and successful exits in innovative technology markets. Notable research areas of
investment include Mobile (Siri, MobiTV, Telenav), Enterprise Storage (3Par), Communications (Acme
Packet, Cavium Networks), and Consumer (Carbonite, Roku). Founded in 1976, Menlo's portfolio
includes 70 public companies and more than 100 mergers and acquisitions. Menlo Ventures has $4
billion under management and is currently investing Menlo Ventures XI, a $400M fund with $20M
allocated to the Menlo Talend Fund for fast seed funding. For more information, visit www.menlovc.com.
About New Enterprise Associates (NEA) NEA is a leading venture capital firm focused on helping
entrepreneurs build transformational businesses across multiple stages, sectors and geographies. With
about $11 billion in committed capital, the firm invests in information technology, healthcare and energy
technology companies at all stages in a company's lifecycle, from seed stage through IPO. NEA's long
track record of successful investing includes more than 170 portfolio company IPOs and more than 290
acquisitions, including investments in technology leaders like Advertising.com, Data Domain,
CareerBuilder, Diapers.com, Fusion-io, Groupon, Juniper, Macromedia, Millennial Media, Salesforce.com
and TiVo. For additional information, visit www.nea.com.

Additional Resources

Download the Tintri VMstore Technology Validation by the Taneja Group View the Tintri "Virtualize More
with Less" Infographic Follow Tintri on Twitter Like Tintri on Facebook Read the Tintri blog

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION PLEASE CONTACT: Press contact Katie Halloran SHIFT
Communications tintripr@shiftcomm.com +1 415 591 8459

CO
IN

pesvmg : Tintri Inc. | insivp : Insight Venture Partners | melov : Menlo Ventures
i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150203 : Private Equity | i8394 : Computer Services | ialtinv :
Alternative Investments | iappsp : Cloud Computing | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ifinal :
Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | iventure : Venture Capital
npress : Press Releases | ncat : Content Types
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

NS
RE
PUB Marketwire L.P. (Canada)
AN

Document CCNWS00020140213ea2d000mc

Page18of29©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.