Heathley goes global

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Heathley goes global

Robert Harley
575 words
23 October 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
42
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The Sydney-based Heathley Asset Management has teamed up with the US-backed Resource Real
Estate Global Securities to offer a global property securities capacity.
For Heathley, which has offered real estate products to high-net worth investors since 1977, the link
with Resource, adds global property to direct property funds in the office, warehouse and medical
sectors.

For Resource, which was formed 18 months ago by the well-regarded fund managers Scott Crowe
and John Snowden, the link will add a retail channel to the $250 million of institutional funds already
under management.

Heathley's managing director, Andrew Hemming, said investors were actively seeking to diversify
their portfolios and could now take advantage of global real estate opportunities with a highly skilled
and experienced management.
Before joining the $US17 billion ($19 billion) Resource Real Estate operation, Mr Crowe was the
global portfolio manager for New York-based investor, Cohen & Steers and Mr Snowden headed
global property securities for Colonial First State Asset Management. In the past 18 months, their
fund has outperformed the global benchmark, the FTSE, EPRA, NAREIT index.

In the past 12 months, they beat most of the Australian rivals with a 16 per cent total return. Mr
Crowe said Resource did not try to pick thematics. "Our speciality is bottom-up, rigorous stock
selection.We pick good companies that deliver a consistently high level of return," he said.
"We choose companies in strong real estate markets, and with strong management. Over time those
two ingredients will create intrinsic value growth.
"We step back and look at a company's quality. If the answer is yes, we want to buy it as a discount.
And then we want a concentrated position."Crisis generated a new economy
Resource holds only 40-50 positions, far fewer stocks than most global property securities funds.
The group likes the big global cities. "They have supply constraints because they have high barriers
to entry," Mr Crowe said.

"And on the demand side, we see a change in the way people live and work.

"We have come out of the financial crisis with a different economy, being driven by technology-based
workers whether they are in IT or energy.

"That is driving where the jobs are being created. They want to be more urban, at a more walking
scale, and closer to public transport.

Page199of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The best mix seems to be in the larger capital cities." In Europe, Resource likes Derwent London,
which Mr Crowe described as a niche player focused on a sweet spot of London where the creative
job are located, and with excellent management and a strong balance sheet.
In the US, Kilroy Realty Corp is a favourite because it targets office and mixed-use real estate on the
West Coast in strong markets such as Seattle and in parts of the city where "people are urbanising".
In Australia, Goodman Group is a favourite as a "world-class logistics developer. And in Japan, the
pick is Mitsui Fudosan, which is focused on the 23 wards of Tokyo, and benefits from the improving
supply demand position in Tokyo.
Mr Snowden said the fund had done better than many of its peers by avoiding China residential.

Mr Hemming said the Resource and Heathley had similar approaches to investment.
The minimum investment in the Heathley Global Property Securities Fund in $2500 and the fee is
"an incredibly competitive" 120 basis points.

IN
RE
PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141022eaan0003q

Page200of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.