Stud in big coal battle

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Stud in big coal battle

John Farmer john.farmer@thechronicle.com.au
526 words
13 June 2014
The Chronicle (Toowoomba)
APNCHR
Main
29
English
Copyright 2014 APN Newspapers Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

Cattle breeders say CS Energy has moral obligations

David v Goliath

VETERAN Darling Downs cattle breeders want to retire with something to show for 27 years of
life on the land.

But they say that dream has been ruined by a state government-owned energy giant.

Bill and Lynne Dahlheimer have owned and run the Tangalooma Brahman Stud on the
455-hectare property Campbell’s Camp, near Brigalow on the western Downs, since 1987.
In 2009, they decided it was time to sell up and retire to a smaller block near Chinchilla.
But after five years on the market and despite the efforts of eight property agents, Campbell’s
Camp remains unsold.

Mr Dahlheimer only has to look to the near horizon to a massive smoke stack that rises over the
treeline to catch sight of what he believes has ruined his retirement dreams.

In 2005, just 3km from the Dahlheimers’ home, the state government-owned CS Energy started
construction on the Kogan Creek Power Station and a coal mine that fed the coal-fired
generator.

Since it started operating in 2009, a black shadow has literally been cast on the Dahlheimers’
lives.

They say their home is constantly covered in black dust, their water has been contaminated and
noise from the mine – including explosions – rattles the timber walls of their homestead.

The Dahlheimers claim the power station and coal mine have devalued Campbell’s Camp and
sent potential buyers rushing away.
“People should be rushing to buy our property ... but who is?” Mr Dahlheimer asked.

“(CS Energy) has taken away our life savings.

“We could be made to walk off here absolutely penniless.”

Mrs Dahlheimer agreed, adding “they’ve taken our future – we don’t have a future now”.

Mr and Mrs Dahlheimer believe CS Energy has at least a moral obligation – if not a legal one –
to help them sell the property for what it was worth before the power station arrived.

Page82of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Dahlheimers have suggested several options, including for CS Energy to purchase
Campbell’s Creek or to make up the difference between the sale price and the property’s
market value.

But CS Energy claims it has no obligation to assist the Dahlheimers because Campbell’s Creek
is outside the power station’s footprint and buffer zone.
CS Energy CEO Martin Moore said while the company “empathised” with the Dahlheimers’
situation, there was no commercial justification or legal obligation to purchase the property.

“As a Queensland government-owned corporation, our shareholders are effectively the people of
Queensland and it is critical that we make commercially sound decisions in their interests.”

Mr Moore said CS Energy had always strived to be a “good corporate citizen”.
He said the company had monitored dust levels at Campbell’s Creek, arranged for the cleaning
of the Dahlheimers’ home and replaced filters in the couple’s drinking water.

“In each case investigated to date, it has been found that CS Energy has met all of its
environmental obligations,” Mr Moore said.

i5020044 : Power Station Construction | i502 : Heavy Construction | iconst : Construction | icre :
Real Estate/Construction
gcat : Political/General News
queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Agriculture - Rural Interests
APN Newspapers Pty Ltd
Document APNCHR0020140610ea6d001e2

IN

NS
RE
IPD
PUB
AN

Page83of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.