NZ may lead rates rise Our Reserve Bank is expected to soon be the first...

HD
WC 608 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

NZ may lead rates rise Our Reserve Bank is expected to soon be the first...

11 January 2014
Hawke's Bay Today
APNHBT
English
Copyright 2014 APN New Zealand Ltd - Regionals. All Rights Reserved

TD

NZ may lead rates rise Our Reserve Bank is expected to soon be the first developed world central bank to
lift interest rates. HSBC Australasia chief economist Paul Bloxham says New Zealand is likely to
out-perform other OECD economies except Chile, Israel and Mexico. He says our economy is already
operating at close to capacity, which means strengthening demand could translate quickly into cost
pressures.

China imports increase China's export growth slowed in December while imports accelerated, helping to
temper fears of a slowdown in the world's second-largest economy. Customs data yesterday showed
exports in December rose 4.3 per cent, slowing from the previous month's 12.7 per cent expansion. Toll in
IRD dispute Toll Holdings' New Zealand unit recognised a provision of almost $22.9 million in its dispute
with the Inland Revenue Department over its use of convertible notes in 2013, a year that saw its annual
loss widen by 69 per cent as it wrote down its Express Logistics acquisition. The Australian logistics
group is one of a group of companies being chased by the New Zealand IRD for claiming deductions on
interest on convertible notes. $65m bribery settlement Aluminum giant Alcoa will pay US$384 million
($465.5 million) to settle charges that it bribed Bahrain officials to secure business in the Gulf nation, US
Justice officials have announced. Alcoa unit Alcoa World Alumina was accused of paying millions of
dollars in bribes in an arrangement made ``at the request of certain members of Bahrain's royal family''.
Oil boom for Dunedin? Planned oil-drilling in the Great South Basin could give Dunedin the boost it needs
to fix its ailing economy. Shell New Zealand and its partners have announced they will potentially base
themselves in Dunedin in 2016, when it begins drilling for gas. Mayor Dave Cull says any economic
benefits will depend on how much natural gas is found.

German industry rallies German industrial production picked up in November, rising by a
bigger-than-expected 1.9 per cent compared with the previous month. The rise reported yesterday by the
Economy Ministry followed two consecutive drops, with a 1.2 per cent drop in October.

EU approves big merger The European Union's antitrust authority has approved the merger of Omnicom
and Publicis, clearing a deal that will create the world's largest advertising firm. The European
Commission, the 28-nation bloc's competition watchdog, yesterday said the merger raises no big antitrust
concerns due to the presence of other large competitors and the advertising market's bidding nature.

Ford lifts payout again Ford is raising the quarterly dividend it pays shareholders for the second time since
restoring the payout in 2012. The second-largest US automaker says its board declared a first-quarter
dividend of 12.5 cents per share, a 25 per cent increase from the previous 10-cent payout. The dividend is
payable on March 3. Fox to pull Aussie shares Twenty-First Century Fox, the media entertainment giant
controlled by Rupert Murdoch, plans to delist its shares in Australia. Listing its shares solely on the
Nasdaq should reduce the regulatory burden and boost share liquidity, Fox said. PC sales plummeting A
new report says personal computer sales slipped further during the holiday season, capping the worst
annual decline in the PC's history. Gartner Inc estimates global PC shipments for the three months ending
in December dropped 7 per cent from the same time in 2012. For all of last year, PC sales plunged 10 per
cent.

CO oecode : Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development | tolhld : Toll Holdings Ltd
IN

i81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | i77002 :
Freight Transportation Arrangement | icargo : Freight/Cargo Transport | itsp : Transportation/Shipping

Page113of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

c34 : Anti-Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
nz : New Zealand | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB APN New Zealand Ltd - Regionals
AN

Document APNHBT0020140110ea1b0002t

Page114of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.