South Korea free trade deal released

HD
BY
Ashley Hall
WC 978 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

South Korea free trade deal released

17 February 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation Transcripts
ABCTRS
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

TD

The Federal Government has released details of its free trade agreement with South Korea. It shows 99.8
per cent of exports will be free of duty under the deal. Critics say the inclusion of Investor-State Dispute
Settlement provisions could expose Australian governments to lengthy and costly legal battles.

MARK COLVIN: The Federal Government has released the details of the free trade agreement it's signed
with South Korea.

The Trade Minister Andrew Robb says it will provide a strong boost for Australian exporters, with tariffs to
be eliminated on 99.8 per cent of exports to South Korea.
That will make it much cheaper for Koreans to buy Australian produce, including beef, sugar, dairy and
seafood, as well as services like education, engineering, accounting.

Critics are warning about the potential cost of including a clause that allows foreign companies to sue
Australian governments over policies that harm their investments.

Ashley Hall reports.

ASHLEY HALL: In the five months or so since Andrew Robb was appointed Trade Minister, he's travelled
to many parts of the globe and, he says, a dominant theme has emerged among public policy makers.
There's disillusionment with what he describes as the failure of the interventionist policies adopted after
the global financial crisis.

ANDREW ROBB: The disillusionment is about the capacity of, you know, more and more spending and
more and more intervention to deliver sustainable economic growth.

ASHLEY HALL: Mr Robb says they're looking for a fresh approach to drive growth to a level that will
sustain job creation.

ANDREW ROBB: In that regard all eyes really are on trade investment as a major component of driving
sustainable growth and jobs.

ASHLEY HALL: He says the Korea-Australia Free Trade Agreement will do exactly that.

ANDREW ROBB: This agreement fundamentally it backs those things that Australia does well and it
backs those things that Korea does well.

ASHLEY HALL: The deal was struck in December with the full details released this morning.
Big winners include the beef industry, sugar, dairy and seafood exporters. The 20 per cent tariff on
Southern Rock Lobsters will end shortly.

Gary Morgan is the chairman of Southern Rock Lobster Limited, which coordinates research for the
industry.

GARY MORGAN: We see enormous potential in Korea. Six, seven years ago we were in a similar position
with China where only small quantities were being exported to China and China has grown to be a $300
million a year market.

Page28of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.ASHLEY HALL: Mr Robb is also keen to also stress that Australia's service sector will benefit the
agreement, including legal, accounting, engineering, telecommunications and education.

Angel Calderon is a principal adviser at Melbourne's RMIT University.

ANGEL CALDERON: This agreement is comprehensive. It provides the market access for Australian
institutions to be able to do more business with South Korea.

ASHLEY HALL: He says because both countries' education markets are quite mature, that won't mean a
big surge in Korean students coming to Australia.

ANGEL CALDERON: But what it does it creates the environment that is more conducive to fostering
closer relations between the two countries and I think that's something positive.

ASHLEY HALL: Trade Minister Andrew Robb says the agreement will eliminate tariffs on 99.8 per cent of
Australia's exports.

What makes up the rest? A handful of items South Korea remains committed to protecting, including rice,
walnuts and honey.

Yeonsoon Bourke and her husband Lindsay run 3,600 bee hives in Tasmania.

About half the honey they produce is exported. In South Korea, it attracts tariffs of about 250 per cent. So
she says the exclusion of honey from the free trade deal is devastating.

YEONSOON BOURKE: Bitterly disappointed I have to say because we have been banking on it and we
just waited on the wings but this curtails, you know, expansion.

ASHLEY HALL: The deal will see Australia drop import tariffs as well, with 75 per cent of tariffs on cars
from Korea scrapped as soon as it starts. However tariffs on cars with six and eight cylinder engines will
be phased out over three years in recognition that there'll be no Australian car industry to protect by then.

The Australian Manufacturing Workers Union's national president Andrew Dettmer says Australian
manufacturing workers will lose from the new agreement.

ANDREW DETTMER: Ford, Holden and Toyota, which have said that they'll be departing in 2016 or 2017,
have already indicated to us that if their market deteriorates further that they will not hesitate to accelerate
the decision to close down operations to, you know, just vehicle assembly.

ASHLEY HALL: Some critics remain concerned about the inclusion of Investor-State Dispute Settlement
arrangements in the agreement.

Patricia Ranald is the convenor of the Australian Fair Trade and Investment Network.

PATRICIA RANALD: The disputes are heard in international tribunals which don't have the legal
protections on national legal systems. There's no independent judiciary, arbitrators can be practising
advocates and there's no pre-system of precedence and there's no appeals and so you can get quite
inconsistent decisions.

ASHLEY HALL: But the Trade Minister Andrew Robb says there's no cause for concern.

ANDREW ROBB: There are currently 28 countries that we now have investments and or trade
agreements in which the ISDS is a component. There's been one case in 30 years taken against Australia
and that is the case against the tobacco plain packaging right, and that's also being challenged in WTO
(World Trade Organisation) which is another matter altogether right, so, and it's not certain in any sense
that they'll be successful.

MARK COLVIN: Andrew Robb, the Trade Minister, ending Ashley Hall's report. Both the South Korean
and Australian parliaments have to ratify the agreement before it comes into effect.

NS

RE

c312 : External Markets | e512 : Physical Trade | gpol : Domestic Politics | ntra : Transcripts | c31 :
Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News |
gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
austr : Australia | skorea : South Korea | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
easiaz : Eastern Asia

IPD free

Page29of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCTRS0020140217ea2h0005r

Page30of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.