Asia Iron sheds more staff amid losses

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Asia Iron sheds more staff amid losses

Nick Evans
283 words
12 May 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
First
1
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

The axe has again fallen at Asia Iron only months after a dramatic shake-up that led to the departure
of the bulk of its staff and long-term senior management.
It is understood Asia Iron has cut 10 to 12 former Forge Group employees called in to review earlier
engineering and design work on its Extension Hill magnetite project. Sources suggest the decision
was a result of moves to again curtail spending on the $3 billion project.

It is the second major shake-up in six months at Asia Iron.
After months of tension between its Australian management team and Chinese majority owner
Chongqing Iron and Steel, the Mid West magnetite hopeful dumped the bulk of its executive team
last November.

Casualties included long time managing director Bill Mackenzie and most of the executive team
responsible for developing its $3 billion Extension Hill project. The rest of its project team departed in
January, replaced by the Forge Group employees.
Last year Asia Iron Australia chairman Guo Deyong told the company’s Australian staff its Chinese
parent expected to be able to make a $US240 million equity injection into the project by February. In
late March, Asia Iron said a technical team had presented positive results from the new design work
to senior executives of its parent company in China.
It is understood the promised equity injection did not arrive, with limited funds made available to the
new team.
Sources say the latest group of Asia Iron staff were axed this month, just after the Hong Kong-listed
arm of Chongqing Iron and Steel declared a $127.8 million first-quarter operating loss.

RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140511ea5c00005

Page64of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.