Sunday Funday

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Sunday Funday

2,422 words
3 October 2014
Coastal Views
APNCOV
Main
14
English
Copyright 2014 APN Newspapers Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

Sunday Funday

THIS Sunday will double as the October ‘Sunday Funday’ for the Anglican Parish of Maclean.

Once again at Yamba and Maclean the format will be the popular ‘cafe-style church’ with delicious finger
food, reminiscent of the way early Christians worshipped.

The reading for the day will be from Matthew Chapter 3 about the Baptism of our Lord Jesus. There will
be the usual very easy quiz, with rewards of course, and lots of songs for everyone to enjoy.

Service time at Yamba’s All Saints, cnr Yamba and Church Sts, is 8am, at St James, Wharf St, Maclean
at 10am and at St Peter’s in Charles St, Iluka at 3pm.

Although Iluka won’t have ‘cafe-style church’ the reading, quiz and songs will be conducted. Everyone
can be sure of a very warm welcome, so please come along and enjoy a different style of worship.

Tartan Brushy Day Club

SADLY our first member, Bonnie, has passed away. A minute’s silence was held.

We have had some good entertainment during the past weeks. Live Wires gave us a great morning’s
music. Gavin and Rhonda danced for us. Lovely ballroom dancing, so graceful and they were beautifully
dressed. Members joined in some old-time dancing. Exercises are being carried out and everyone is
joining in. We are now including some simple Tai Chi. Country Ramblers presented another happy
program of country music. Our trading was well supported. Our monthly birthday cake was cut and a
group photo was taken. We much appreciate the provision of a hand basin in the kitchen.
Our trip to Wooli for a lovely Chinese lunch was enjoyed and we were entertained with some belly
dancing by Larissa and beautiful harmonised singing by her group of vocalists.

Our leaders have attended the annual conference in Sydney for co-ordinators and administrators.

Our special nonagenarian celebration took place last week for the new 90-year olds and over. It was a
special day for them.

We thank the Maclean RSL sub branch for their ongoing support.

For inquiries re joining Tartan Brushy Day Club, please contact Jenny Blanch on 66447006 or Marie on
66476257.

Maclean VIEW Club

THE September meeting was held in Iluka. It was a pleasant drive out and some members chose to
come over on the ferry.

Page275of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It was a Trivia Day with guest Leslie McFarlane at the helm! With scores tallied up, two groups tied. A
playoff was held to see who were the winners. Unfortunately there can only be one winner.
Congratulations to the winners, it was a great day and a lot of fun.

Guest speaker for October will be Judy Thomas from Maclean Community Health.

Date and time for bus trip in November will be confirmed at October meeting.

A Candle Party morning tea, will be held on Friday, October 31 at Denise Hope’s residence at 5
Riverwood Terrace, Maclean. The morning tea is set to commence at 10am, cost is a gold coin donation.

Apologies for October meeting by Monday 13 to Denise Hope on 0439414796.

Lawrence Museum

THERE has recently been some interest expressed in the radio equipment that is displayed at the
Lawrence Museum.

As most people would be aware, the Lawrence Museum is situated in the former 2NR Broadcasting
Station at Lawrence.

The station had been empty and unused when transmission became automatic and was given to the
Lawrence Historical Museum to be used as a museum.

The display includes a number of items connected to radio, as is fitting given the former use of the
building.

There is a large collection of radios, from very old to quite modern.

The old radios recall the days when not every household owned a radio and neighbours would gather at
the home of a fortunate owner to listen to the news, serials and sport that was broadcast.

There are also gramophones and radiograms and a crystal radio set. Every young lad once owned a
crystal radio which he had put together and, although reception was far from good, each one boasted
when he was able to pick up a scratchy broadcast.

An item of interest is the large map of Australia fashioned from a single sheet of maple. This map was
displayed at the Grafton Show in 1957 and depicts all of the radio transmitters in Australia at that time.
Originally, different coloured lights showed the regional transmitters, shortwave transmitters and
metropolitan centres. These lights are not working now, but it is hoped that they will be restored.

A broadcast console has quite a history. It was first used at station 2NR, then at radio 2GF in Grafton,
then it travelled to the FM Radio station at Coffs Harbour, before being returned to 2GF and then donated
to the Lawrence Museum.

A high frequency communication transmitter which had been used at station 2NR during times of
emergency, such as floods, to broadcast to outlying centres is also part of the collection.

There are also valves from station 2GF from the time when this radio station was situated in Turf Street,
Grafton.

The building is now the Community Centre for Ozanam Villa.

Visitors can view all of these items at the museum, which is open from 9am to 1pm on Tuesdays and
from 1pm to 4pm on Saturdays and Sundays. Special arrangements can be made for groups who wish to
visit at other times.

– Vois Bancroft
Maclean Patchwork & Quilters Group

CRANES Accommodation Services manager Nicole Secomb was overwhelmed and incredibly
appreciative when presented with the generous donation of 35 individually designed and made quilts for
the young homeless people of the Clarence Valley.
The donation was organised by the Maclean Patchwork & Quilters Group with the quilts donated from
across the North Coast by the various quilters’ clubs.

The quilts have designs from denim themes to sunflowers, every quilt different and special in its own way.

Page276of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Most young homeless people are forced to live independently at a young age and without any skills or
knowledge of how to do it. Homeless service staff provide holistic support, meeting with them frequently
to assist with their personal and property management skills, life skills and future planning.

When young homeless people come into a homeless service, they usually have very little, if anything.
Some may be receiving Youth Allowance but others will initially have no income. The properties they may
be accommodated in will only have basic furniture and kitchen items. Those that receive an income,
which is always considerably less than a pension amount, are still required to cover all of their rent, living
and education costs. Most are also required to attend education or a specialist education/employment
service in order to receive their Youth Allowance payment.

The quilts will give not only warmth, but hopefully also instil some self-worth and hope, with the
community making a display of support and caring to these homeless young people.

The Maclean Patchwork & Quilters hosted the far north Zone day this year at Yamba Bowls Club, as
there wasn't a venue available in Maclean able to accommodate the anticipated 300 people from the Far
North Coast’s Quilt groups.
The Maclean group is celebrating its 25th anniversary and over that time has supported many charities,
so when CRANES was suggested as the recipient of the donated quilts at this year’s Zone day gathering
it seemed ideal.
The Maclean group also raised $1600 with a raffle. Among the raffle prizes was a beautiful quilt made by
the Maclean ladies as well as many more gorgeous donated items. The raffle proceeds will be divided
between Maclean Auxiliary and two young boys with cerebral palsy. Both grandmothers of these boys
are members of the Lower Clarence Arts & Crafts Association which the Maclean Patchwork group is
part of.

For more information and photographs go to: www.ferrypark.org or follow us on facebook at Lower
Clarence Arts & Crafts Assoc.

– Alison Merrin

Grafton Floral Art Society

MEMBERS of the Grafton Floral Art Society congratulated President Doreen on her achievement of
excellence by an individual in floral art from the Garden Club of Australia.

A welcomed guest to the meeting was Leone Roberts and discussion centred around the Festival of
Flowers to be held at Christ Church Cathedral during Jacaranda Week and confirming allocation of areas
for the displays.

Owing to the bereavement of a close friend of the Society, it has been a month since our last meeting
and much correspondence had accumulated.

Invitations were received from the VIEW Club and Grafton Inner Wheel to functions, but unfortunately
both dates clash with preparations for the Festival of Flowers which the Society is involved with.

The September newsletter was received from the NSW Floral Art Association and was circulated to
members. Advice notice was received from the Garden Club of Australia together with their Annual
Report, with regard to re-affiliation for 2015, and the Department of Fair Trading documentation re being
incorporated. The Commonwealth Bank offered support, should it be needed.

The demonstrator for the meeting was Doreen and using a square container, massed foliage in a
horizontal design and lastly added orange single marigolds through the foliage.

Floral artists are always searching for plant materials and also containers and accessories. Should it be a
favourite one, and not the right colour, it is easy to change it with paint or some other medium.

Members are reminded that the next meeting to be held on October 9 is a hands exercise.

Grafton Vintage Motor Vehicle Car Club

SEPTEMBER has been a busy month for the club, beginning with a number of cars attending the Rusty
Iron Rally as part of the Macksville and Urunga Food Fest. Saturday morning was fine but became
inclement in the afternoon. From all accounts, a good range of vehicles on show.

Page277of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Many members attended the gardens of a club member at Whiteman Creek. The shade house and
gardens were open for viewing. Morning tea was provided by the hosts, scones and home made jam
enjoyed by all. The club barbecue trailer was on site for members to cook their meals.

Fine weather encouraged a good roll-up of vintage vehicles attending the Maclean Swap Meet. There
were a large number of stalls selling that item that one was looking for. Maclean Lions supplied food and
drinks for the occasion and did a brisk trade.

We had a guest speaker attending the monthly meeting discussing chroming techniques with some
samples for members to view.

Activities: October 5 – Dorrigo swap meet, October 11-12 – 100 years Dodge National Ralley at Forbes,
October 13 – club meeting Brushgrove Hall.
Ferry Park Gallery

THE Artist of the Month for October is Josie Priddle. Josie paints onto handsaws, cross cuts, diamond
blades and other metal objects. The previous rusty objects are transformed into colourful, durable fun
works that offer something different for yourself or as a gift. The theme for this display is “Animals” and
features cows, horses, dogs, cats and some wild animals. Three cross-cut saws depict Australian rural
scenes. A cream can shows cows in various angles with the title “Welcome To Our Herd”. The theme
continues with some works for young children with a toy box, table and stools and treasure boxes, which
feature bears. There are a variety of clocks, some humorous, some on frying pans and a baking dish.
Don’t discard anything which can be painted. An occasional table is constructed from a metal mesh base
with a diamond blade top, black and white and finished with a durable resin. This display will also have
some of Josie’s handmade bears, one fox fur, one mink, with an acrylic one hand embroidered on felt.
Josie’s work can be seen at Ferry Park Gallery throughout October so why not pop in to view the works
of a talented lady who is a first-class recycler.

The Gallery is situated on the Pacific Highway at the southern turn-off to Maclean and is open every day,
9am to 5pm. Entry is free.

For more information, go to www.ferrypark.org or follow on Facebook at Lower Clarence Arts & Crafts
Assoc

– Alison Merrin

Grafton Art Club

OUR Jacaranda Art Exhibition and Youth Art Exhibition will be held at the Grafton Community Centre,
Duke Street from Saturday, October 25 through to Saturday, November 1.

The exhibition will be open daily 9am to 5pm. There will be a fine display of original artwork on display
and for sale. The cafe will be serving light refreshments from 10am to 3pm each day. It will be a chance
to not only enjoy the wonderful art but to relax with a coffee and cake surrounded by the exciting work of
our local artists.

Opening night will be held Sunday, October 26 at 6pm and the Youth Art Award Presentations will be
Saturday, October 25 at 1pm. Everyone is welcome.

The new sections – photography and abstract – are proving to be of interest to many members. Each
class is now working on their exhibits for what is a popular part of Jacaranda Week. Details available
from www.graftonartclub.net.

Grafton Red Cross

PRESIDENT Maureen reported at our recent meeting that our Fashion Parade was successful both
financially and socially even though the rain was pouring down outside. She thanked community
organisations for braving the weather to support Red Cross and members for their work providing a lovely
morning tea and for modelling Miller Fashions as well.

We also incorporated a birthday theme in keeping with the Red Cross centenary this year, with balloons
and a birthday cake. The cake was cut by Leslie McFarlane, as her husband Bob, one of our Patrons,
couldn’t be with us.

Members also helped with Daffodil Day by selling merchandise at Coles Mall. This has become a yearly
event for Red Cross and supporting the Cancer Council is important to all.

Page278of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Trauma Teddy co-ordinator Eve reported we had a good supply of teddies ready to be distributed and
thanked those community members who had been knitting this year.

Red Cross Summer Appeal starts October 2 with a table at Shoppingworld and next week at Coles Mall.
On October 17 we will hold a Street Stall in Prince St, near the Link, selling biscuits, cakes, pickles etc as
part of the Appeal. This will conclude at the TAFE Markets on November 1 when the raffle will be drawn.

NS
RE

grel : Religion | gcat : Political/General News | gcom : Society/Community/Work
nswals : New South Wales | tasman : Tasmania | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr :
Australia

PUB APN Newspapers Pty Ltd
AN

Document APNCOV0020141001eaa30005n

Page279of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.