Morning Headlines

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Morning Headlines

1,295 words
29 May 2014
Business News
WABN
English
© Copyright 2014 Business News Pty Ltd.

MUA bid to disrupt Chevron meeting

WA maritime unionist Will Tracey was last night planning to upstage Chevron's annual meeting in
Texas in a bid to accuse the US giant of mismanaging the $US54 billion ($58.4 billion) Gorgon LNG
development. The West

Leighton steps into Roy Hill for Forge

Leighton Holdings subsidiary Thiess has joined NRW Holdings in benefiting from the demise of
contractor Forge Group at Gina Rinehart's $10 billionRoy Hilliron ore development. The West

Telstra-NBN deal tipped to miss deadline
The renegotiation of Telstra's $11 billion deal with NBN Co is likely to miss the mid-year deadline set
by Communications Minister Malcolm Turnbull, sources familiar with the talks said. The Fin

Striking workers' homes on line

The Abbott government has backed an "unprecedented" legal assault on individual construction
workers, including court action preventing the sale of houses and cars where employees have not
paid penalties for taking unlawful strike action. The Aus

'We need to fix this,' says PM adviser

Prime Minister Tony Abbott's top business adviser has urged the Opposition and the minor parties to
propose alternatives to balance the budget or pass the government's spending cuts and tax
increases. The Fin
Home building surge to ease mining blow

Falling prices and rising costs are drawing the curtain on the resource boom, prompting cancellation
or delay of up to $70 billion in major projects. The Aus

Wesfarmers puts shares on table
Almost seven years after splurging $20 billion in cash and scrip on the Coles Group, Wesfarmers
has not ruled out using its high-priced shares to fund new deals as it scours local and overseas
markets for potential acquisitions. The Fin

Iran deal to boost live exports

WA's livestock export industry looks set to enjoy a new boom with the Abbott Government opening
trade with Iran. The West

The Australian Financial Review[QQ]Page 1: Prime Minister Tony Abbott's top business adviser has
urged the Opposition and the minor parties to propose alternatives to balance the budget or pass the
government's spending cuts and tax increases.

Page103of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Federal Education Minister Christopher Pyne plans to increase diversity and choice in higher
education by allowing universities to opt out of research and concentrate on teaching.
Page 3: The renegotiation of Telstra's $11 billion deal with NBN Co is likely to miss the mid-year
deadline set by Communications Minister Malcolm Turnbull, sources familiar with the talks said.

Page 4: Rio Tinto Australia's new managing director, Phil Edmands, has blasted unions for
demanding extra holidays, compassionate leave for dead pets and breakroom cushions when their
members' jobs are at risk of being "eradicated forever".

Page 5: The resources sector is heading for a long investment slump, with falling commodity prices
and rising costs causing a surge in projects being mothballed, says a leading forecaster.
A $20 billion medical research fund will save money over the long-term by finding cures for
diseases, the government claimed, after the policy came under attack from within its own ranks.

Page 12: NBN Co chief executive Bill Morrow is under growing pressure over allegations of
mismanagement at US utility Pacific Gas and Electric Company that contributed to two deadly
explosions, after more shareholders joined a growing lawsuit.

Page 16: A Western Australian organic farmer lost a landmark case for compensation against a rural
neighbour for allegedly contaminating his farm with genetically modified canola.
Page 25: Almost seven years after splurging $20 billion in cash and scrip on the Coles Group,
Wesfarmers has not ruled out using its high-priced shares to fund new deals as it scours local and
overseas markets for potential acquisitions.
Page 27: Heavy haulage rail giant Aurizon has all but ruled out investing in the $US13.5 billion
($14.6 billion) greenfield infrastructure project underpinning Rio Tinto's Simandou high-grade iron
ore mine in Guinea.

Page 31: Nine Entertainment Co has boosted its budget for a subscription video-on-demand service
to $65 million and extended its potential launch date, as investors welcomed a broader update from
the company.

The Australian[QQ]Page 1: The Abbott government has backed an "unprecedented" legal assault on
individual construction workers, including court action preventing the sale of houses and cars where
employees have not paid penalties for taking unlawful strike action.

Page 2: The standard method that governments have applied for the past 25 years to make the
public service more efficient has proven a failure, with the cost of running the bureaucracy surging in
the past decade to $57 billion a year.

More than 41,000 people will lose up to $1622 a year with the axing of a little-known pensioner
education supplement.

Page 3: Tony Abbott last night slapped down ABC chief Mark Scott's claim that budget cuts could
see the axing of popular children's television shows and regional services, saying that instead of
"butchering Peppa Pig" the public broadcaster should trim management fat.

Page 4: Employers have recruited 37,620 foreign managers, professionals and tradespeople this
year, despite a growing pool of 191,000 unemployed Australians qualified for the same jobs.

Falling prices and rising costs are drawing the curtain on the resource boom, prompting cancellation
or delay of up to $70 billion in major projects.

Page 19: John Durkan, the incoming boss of supermarket giant Coles, has pledged to fix the
supermarket chain's underperforming liquor business after years of underperformance, while
maintaining a focus on lowering shelf prices and expanding the store network.

Page 20: The continued decline in exploration expenditure has flowed through to the number of new
projects being announced, with a $29 billion drop in potential mining and energy projects.

The West Australian[QQ]Page 1: Doctors are worried more WA parents are refusing to immunise
their children, despite the overwhelming evidence about the benefits of vaccination.

Page 4: WA's livestock export industry looks set to enjoy a new boom with the Abbott Government
opening trade with Iran.

Page104of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Page 6: WA Labor MP Peter Tinley has ended his self-imposed exile from the frontbench and
confirmed a tilt at the party presidency in moves which some have interpreted as positioning for
future leadership.

Page 14: WA senator-elect Dio Wang came to the defence of his Palmer United Party boss
yesterday, insisting Clive Palmer is a "strong friend of China" despite Colin Barnett's claims
otherwise.
Business: Elders general manager David Goodfellow has quit the company just weeks after being
controversially overlooked for the position as chief executive.

WA maritime unionist Will Tracey was last night planning to upstage Chevron's annual meeting in
Texas in a bid to accuse the US giant of mismanaging the $US54 billion ($58.4 billion) Gorgon LNG
development.

Fortescue Metals Group is expected to use its transition from a reliance on diesel power to becoming
one of the State's biggest gas users by urging the Federal Government to enforce a 'use it or lose it'
approach to owners of undeveloped gas resources.

Leighton Holdings subsidiary Thiess has joined NRW Holdings in benefiting from the demise of
contractor Forge Group at Gina Rinehart's $10 billionRoy Hilliron ore development.
Concerns about the solvency of embattled Collie coal miner Griffin have deepened after full-year
results showed its losses had risen to more than $70 million.

Talk of a recovery in its key markets sent Iluka Resources shares surging yesterday but managing
director David Robb says a major reshuffle of the company's senior management structure reflects
the fact the mineral sands industry still faces fundamental structural shifts.
Stockland says its sweetened $2.5 billion takeover bid for fellow property developer Australand is
final and as good as it will get.

leiho : Leighton Holdings Ltd | nrwpl : NRW Holdings Ltd | socal : Chevron Corporation | hocht :
Hochtief AG | ocisa : ACS Actividades de Construcciones y Servicios SA
i6560011 : Shopping Malls/Superstores | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i656 : Mixed Retailing | iretail :
Retail | i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | i502 :
Heavy Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil
Extraction
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Business News Pty Ltd
Document WABN000020140528ea5t0012x

CO

IN

RE
PUB
AN

Page105of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.