Prime property sold

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Good Taste
Prime property sold

John Lewis
666 words
28 May 2014
The Newcastle Herald
NEHR
First
30
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

DRINKS

A Hunter vineyard's future is uncertain, writes John Lewis.

IT'S ironic that last week the French-owned liquor giant Pernod Ricard announced the closure of the
Branxton Wyndham Estate cellar door, restaurant and function centre, while in far-off London, the
Wyndham 2009 Black Cluster Hunter Shiraz won a gold medal in one of the world's most prestigious
wine competitions.

There was further irony in the fact that Pernod Ricard last week confirmed that agreement had been
reached, but no contract yet signed, for the sale of its prime Black Cluster vineyard in Mistletoe Lane,
Pokolbin.

The 2009 Black Cluster red was one of 11 Hunter wines to last week claim gold medals at the 2014
International Wine Challenge (IWC), the British-based competition that attracts about 10,000 entries
from around the world.
Two of the 11 gold-medal Hunter wines, the Leogate Estate 2011 The Basin Reserve Shiraz and the
McGuigan 2007 Shortlist Hunter Semillon, were awarded trophies.
The sale of the Black Cluster vineyard to Chinese interests has been rumoured for months but last
week, Pernod Ricard Australia global corporate communications manager Sarah Descher told me the
name of the proposed purchaser and the price to be paid were confidential.
She said the sale contract would provide for Wyndham to continue to source grapes from the Black
Cluster vines and from the vineyard at the Branxton cellar door site. Pernod Ricard would retain the
Wyndham Estate and Black Cluster trademarks.
The long-term future of the historic Branxton property was yet to be determined but for the next two
years, Pernod Ricard would maintain the site, appointing a resident operations co-ordinator.

The Branxton cellar door would not close until the end of October but the Olive Tree Restaurant, run by
chef Andy Wright, would shut next month.

The closure is expected to result in the loss of nine jobs. For the time being, the IWC gold medal 2009
Black Cluster Shiraz will be available at $90 a bottle at the cellar door.
Along with the Jacob's Creek, Orlando and Gramp's brands, Wyndham Estate is a key part of Pernod
Ricard's Australian portfolio.
Pernod Ricard ceased winemaking at Branxton 17 years ago and Wyndham Estate wine production
has been centred on South Australia.

Page141of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Wyndham Estate at Branxton has been a tourism showplace and a regular venue for open-air operas
and performances by international stars. In 2011, it was judged the national best tourism winery at the
Qantas Australian Tourism Awards.

Sparks at Mount Pleasant

McWILLIAM'S senior winemaker Adrian Sparks is moving to the historic Mount Pleasant winery at
Pokolbin to work alongside chief winemaker Jim Chatto in the Hunter Valley.

A graduate of Charles Sturt University, Adrian joined McWilliam's in 2002, and has risen to the position
of senior winemaker, with responsibilities for the successful Tumbarumba chardonnay projects, the
Barwang and Armchair Critic wines, the Tightrope Walker wines from Victoria's Yarra Valley and the
Last Horizon wines from Tasmania.

During 2013, Adrian's wines collected some major show awards. These included the NSW Wine
Awards, Wine of the Year with the Armchair Critic 2012 Chardonnay, the Brisbane Wine Show best
pinot noir of show with the Last Horizon 2012 Pinot Noir and the Melbourne Wine Show best young dry
white table wine trophy with the Tightrope Walker 2012 Chardonnay.

Adrian, who worked on the 2014 vintage at Mount Pleasant, is excited about his new role.

"The history and getting to work with fruit from vines planted by arguably Australia's greatest ever
winemaker is something to treasure and something you can never become complacent with," he said.

"I want to learn about the history of Mount Pleasant, the vineyards, the winery and the story of Maurice
O'Shea."
In addition to his role at Mount Pleasant, Adrian will continue to oversee the McWilliam's Group's
Tasmanian and New Zealand portfolios.

RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document NEHR000020140528ea5s0001r

Page142of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.