Mining magnate Gina Rinehart close to finalising deal to buy more Kimberley cattle stations as she expands Western Australian beef empire

HD

BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Mining magnate Gina Rinehart close to finalising deal to buy more Kimberley cattle stations as
she expands Western Australian beef empire
Babs McHugh
303 words
26 November 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) News
ABCNEW
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

Mining magnate Gina Rinehart is weeks away from completing the purchase of in Western Australia's
Kimberley region in the state's far north.

There are several conditions yet to be met before the deal is signed off, and ABC Rural understands the
main sticking point is a request to increase the allowable number of cattle to be run on the properties.

The request to increase stocking densities is being assessed by the WA Pastoral Board.

The stations are Moola Bulla, Mt Amhurst, Beefwood Park and Shamrock Station.
These will become part of , the company born when Ms Rinehart's companyHancock Prospecting
bought into the Liveringa and Nerrima stations in July.
That company, which is joint owned with WA companyMilne AgriGroup includes an abattoir at Waroona
in the state's south-west.

Milne AgriGroup is owned by the Laitt family, and when the joint-venture was struck Graham Laitt said it
was expected that cattle production on those two stations would double.

"It's targeting growing beef production in the north of WA and positioning ourselves, and the state, for the
opportunities in Asia and the north-Asian markets," Mr Laitt said.
Last week, Hancock Prospecting announced plans to spend nearly half a billion dollars on a dairy
venture in

The latest acquisition is another development in the so-called 'mining to dining' boom, a term coined
when fellow billionaire mining magnate in May.
The Harvey Beef business also includes an abattoir in WA's south-west, the only one in the state
accredited to send boxed beef to China.

Mr Forrest has developed a collaboration between 100 private companies, corporate entities and
governments both here and in .

hkpros : Hancock Prospecting Pty. Ltd.
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
gina

CO
IN
NS
RE
IPD
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCNEW0020141126eabq0009k

Page207of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.