Chinese investor pays $11m for the Kirketon

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Chinese investor pays $11m for the Kirketon

Mercedes Ruehl and Larry Schlesinger
517 words
13 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
36
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

A Chinese private investor has swooped on the Kirketon Hotel in Sydney for $11.3 million,
demonstrating the substantial offshore interest in hotel opportunities.
Asian investors are actively seeking commercial property assets, thanks to the lower dollar and low
interest rates. Hotel investments are a strong lure, in part because of the sector's typical long leases.

Located on Darlinghurst Road, the iconic Kirketon Hotel, which is leased to 8Hotels, sold on a yield
of 8.2 per cent.
The deal, negotiated by Knight Frank's Dominic Ong and Andy Hu, was an off-market purchase.
"There are a lot of investors looking for hotel opportunities but there is not a lot on offer," Mr Hu said.

The asset is a freestanding three-level building with 1720 square metres of space, including a
cocktail bar and Asian restaurant.

8Hotels, which operates boutique hotels around the world, has a seven-year lease at the Kirketon
Hotel, expiring in 2016 with one seven-year option.
The buyer will take on and run the hotel business if 8Hotels decides not to take up its option, and the
building can keep its name.

Knight Frank's Mr Ong said that while Asian investors tend to focus on assets in the CBD market, an
increasing number of investors have been moving away, mainly because of the lack of assets. He
said they were now looking for fringe CBD assets such as The Kirketon.
The Kirketon purchase follows hot on the heels of the biggest hotel deal of the year so far.
Listed Singapore property group Frasers Centrepoint, owned by Thai billionaire Charoen
Sirivadhanabhakdi, finalised the purchase of the Sofitel Sydney Wentworth over the weekend for
$202.7 million – flagged last week by The Australian Financial Review. The sale was brokered by
McVay Real Estate and JLL's Hotels & Hospitality Group.

Sofitel Sydney Wentworth is in Phillip Street, in the financial heart of the city and close to the Sydney
Opera House, Circular Quay, The Rocks and the Royal Botanic Gardens.
Elsewhere another Singaporean group bought an office block in North Sydney, which has approval
for more than 200 hotel rooms, for $12.5 million.
Karen Wales, a research executive at JLL Hotels & Hospitality, said hotel groups were differentiating
their offerings in a more crowded marketplace.

Page50of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.She said operators such as Ascott Group and Frasers were expanding into the serviced apartment
market, which offers greater segmentation across luxury, upscale and midscale markets and
appealed to institutional investors.
Groups such as the InterContinental Hotels Group (IHG) and Accor were expanding into the
sub-budget market through their Holiday Inn Express and Ibis Budget offerings, which appeal to
operators and investors.

Figures compiled by JLL show that the pipeline of new hotels in Australia is at a decade high.

There are 50 new projects proposed or under development across the country, with a value of about
$6 billion. Brisbane has the largest pipeline, with 14 projects (1702 rooms) due to be completed by
2016, followed by Perth, Darwin and Canberra.

IN

RE

PUB
AN

i6651 : Hotels (except Casino)/Motels | ireest : Real Estate | i66 : Hotels/Restaurants | i665 :
Lodgings | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality | itourm : Tourism
austr : Australia | china : China | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140512ea5d00004

Page51of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.