Baosteel renews its push on Aquila

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Market Wrap - Street Talk
Baosteel renews its push on Aquila

Edited by Sarah Thompson, Anthony Macdonald and Gretchen Friemann
385 words
6 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
16
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The pressure-cooker atmosphere that has held sway over Aquila's $7.5 billion West Pilbara iron
ore project finally erupted on Monday, as frustration at years of inaction gave way to a full-blown
takeover bid.

Baosteel has long been viewed as a potential solution to the stasis at the project, although Aquila's
management may have hoped the Chinese giant would play a white knight role rather than launch a
wholesale attack.

Last year the miner's executive chairman, Tony Poli, flew to China to meet the steel makers'
management in the expectation he could negotiate a funding deal for the project.

Baosteel, which has held a board seat on Aquila since 2009, agreed to stump up the cash but talks
abruptly collapsed when the Chinese also demanded control of the mine.

All conversations about funding the West Pilbara project, regarded as the most advanced
direct-shipping iron ore project behind Hancock Prospecting's Roy Hill, ground to a halt.

The hiatus enabled Baosteel to plot its takeover approach.
At around 7am on Saturday, Poli received an email outlining the $1.4 billion joint takeover bid from
the Chinese and Australian freight operator Aurizon. He was asked to meet representatives of
Baosteel on Sunday and provide a board response by Monday.

While that time frame was always unrealistic, many in the market expect Aquila – having battled for
years to retain control of the West Pilbara – will be loath to give up the ghost so easily. A prompt
demand for a higher offer than $3.40 per share may come within the week.

Baosteel is thought to have coveted a slice of the West Pilbara mine for some time. But for the past
three years the project has been bogged down in a dispute between Aquila, which controls 50 per
cent, and the United States-based private equity company AMCI. Korean steel behemoth POSCO
controls the remaining 25 per cent.

There are conflicting interpretations over who is responsible for the standoff, but on Monday AMCI
again quashed speculation that its refusal to co-operate with Aquila stemmed from a desire to exit.
Instead the firm insisted it was a long-term holder of the asset.

CO
IN

NS

hkpros : Hancock Prospecting Pty. Ltd. | baois : Shanghai Baosteel Group Corp
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | isteel : Steel Production
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News

Page188of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140505ea5600010

Page189of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.