APAC to Account for 70% of Global Oil Demand by 2020

HD APAC to Account for 70% of Global Oil Demand by 2020
WC 1,641 words
PD 16 September 2014
SN Energy Monitor Worldwide
SC ENRGYMEN
LA
CY © 2014 Global Data Point. All Rights Reserved.
LP

English

TD

The Asia-Pacific is a huge, growing market for the oil and gas industry -- from 2000 to 2010, accounting
for 56% of the increase in global primary oil demand. The Baker Institute estimates that it will account for
70% of global oil demand from 2010 to 2020. The region will also be boosted by the development of both
onshore and offshore gas markets, driven by growing regional demand and high gas prices in Japan and
South Korea. Countries such as China, Indonesia and Australia are developing shale gas and CBM
projects in the long term, while the offshore market will see FLNG projects and drilling projects at shallow
water gas well and some deep water areas. As the region relies heavily on imports, this growth in demand
is an opportunity for international companies to tap into the burgeonin gAsia Pacific market. In light of
these trends, OSEA2014 International Conference's Opening Joint Keynote and Dan K.

Eberhart, CEO of Canary, one of the largest private oilfield services companies in the U.S. are of the view
that there will be promising prospects for business opportunities in theAsia-Pacific region, and together
they share their views withOSEA2014 on the current and future of the oil and gas landscape. Pegging gas
to oil prices on industry growth -- impact on Asia JW: The impact of low US gas prices is already being felt
in Europe with evidence of some large energy user industries planning to locate new build projects in the
US. At the same time, the cost of building new LNG plant onshore Australia -- a key supplier to Asia -- has
soared to the point where it has become economically unviable. The country stands to loseUS$97 billion
of potential LNG projects toEast Africa and North America unless radical cost reduction is applied.
Furthermore,Russia and China's US$400 billion gas deal could possibly also undermine some of
Australia's gas projects. In order to assure its industrial future, the APAC region needs to be taking a very
long-term view on energy, not only by increasing supplies and their diversity, but by improving energy
efficiency. In this, the need for progressive removal of fuel subsidies in countries such as Indonesia is a
vital element. Asia's foray into foreign energy ventures JW: China has been investing tens of billions of
dollars per annum in foreign energy ventures, effectively forward buying access to oil & gas supplies-- a
situation driven by its growing demand. Others meantime are also facing oil production decline-- Australia,
Brunei, Indonesia and Malaysia were all down last year. According to BP, in 2013 total regional production
fell 1.7% while consumption increased 1.5%. Meantime, regional gas production increased by 1.1%;
however, consumption grew by 2.2%. So yes, expect to see a lot more deal-doing. DE: Asian energy
consumption is skyrocketing, and so is their population. There's really no reason to believe that
state-owned companies won't continue to make deals with foreign oil and gas suppliers. For example, the
biggest deal in 2013 was China National Petroleum Corporation paying US$60 billion as upfront payment
for Rosneft of Russia's crude of 300,000 b/d for the next 25 years. Plus, China Petroleum and Chemical
Corporation, an NOC, recently established a strategic alliance with Exxon, with a goal of establishing a
refinery complex inEastern China and become a major marketer of petrochemicals throughout China.
Japan and Singapore have also made diversified acquisitions. Like China, Singapore is working on
initiatives with Exxon, including an expansion on a refinery and petrochemical facility that will be the
largest integrated manufacturing site in the world. Opportunities for non-oil producing regions in offshore
production JW: Offshore APAC market will see large gains in shallow water gas production with Shell and
Petronas both having FLNG projects planned. High gas prices in Japan and South Korea will further boost
regional activity. This could see shallow water drilling grow 29% over 2013-20. Deep water gas
developments will come mainly from China as CNOOC look to boost production from green-field projects
in order to meet rapidly growing domestic consumption. We expect increasing numbers of development
wells to be drilled offshore Asia-Pacific in 2014, withThailand heading the league table with some 370,
followed by China and India each drilling around 200. In all, we should see annual development well
numbers exceed 1,600 by 2020, a growth of over 30% over 2013 numbers. Amongst the non-oil
producers, Singapore and Korea as the world's major offshore vessel builders face growing challenges
from the on-going development of the Chinese yards and will need to continually review and develop their
strategies, focussing more into high value high technology products such as FLNG, and perhaps growing
their non-vessel activity -- an example has been Korea's work on LNG modules. Singapore is, I think, a

Page243of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.special situation, combining a major commercial centre with a can-do attitude from government plus a
great workforce has made it the de-facto hub for theAsia-Pacific offshore industry -- which is why my firm
has its regional base here. DE: The biggest hotspots are the South and East China Seas. For NOCs, the
biggest challenge in those areas is the territorial disputes between neighbouring countries. The South
China Sea, for example, is shared among Vietnam,China, Philippines, Taiwan, and others. Of course, it's
not much easier for international oil companies there, which also must navigate the aggressive offshore
drilling claims. The growing demand for gas inMyanmar has turned the Bay of Bengal into an offshore
hotspot. There are continuous disputes in that area that will require new arbitration and rules. The role of
international oil and gas majors may be important here, as are opportunities, but the conflicts between
nations on the coast claiming oil and gas assets may retard exploration efforts. Singapore is a good
example, because although it is non-oil producing, the country has attracted multi-billion dollar fixed
capital investments by major oil companies for its oil refining industry, which is in the top three in the
world. The country's transparent business and mature legal and financial systems have made it very
attractive to gas stakeholders. It may be a non-oil producing country, but they've made oil refining central
to their economy. Mergers & acquisitions JW: As Douglas-Westwood makes much of its income providing
commercial due-diligence on deals, I must first declare an interest. That said, M&A is part of the on-going
evolution of any business sector. However, it must be done for the right reasons; in our experience of
having worked on many billions of dollars' worth of deals, to make M&A work, the result must be that one
plus one will equal a lot more than two! On the whole it is beneficial. Many sectors can only compete if
they are of sufficient scale, and indeed international oil companies would prefer to sign one contract with a
big contractor than individual small ones for each country in which they operate. DE: Our core philosophy
with M&A is not buy and sell but buy and contribute. We purchase companies with solid track records and
give them the tools they need to spur healthy expansion-- tools like proven management strategies,
marketing capital and a national footprint. We bring new opportunities to these companies and their
employees-- but, just as importantly, we preserve and honour the legacy, culture, and teams that have
made each company strong. Our acquisitions strategy is equally about our customers. We integrate new
companies with existing services and locations to provide a wider base of national services to existing
customers. We now have operations in every major shale play in the U.S., so our customers enjoy a
one-stop shop for wellhead services. This strategy has been a win-win for our customers, our existing
holdings, new companies under management, and, of course, our overall portfolio growth. Myanmar -- a
rising oil and gas landmark JW: After the historic political and economic reform in 2011 and the lifted
sanctions in 2012,Myanmar has generated serious interest from international oil majors such as Chevron,
ExxonMobil, Shell and Statoil amongst others, to participate in its first offshore bidding round of 19 deep
water and 11 shallow water blocks. Although the outlook for Myanmar gas production remains uncertain
as there is no capacity indication for those offered blocks, DW expects further developments and an
upward trend in the gas sector thanks to operators' confidence based on sound historical performance of
Myanmar's large gas fields such as Shwe, Yadana and Yetagun. DE: I think Myanmar could be the
game-changer for this region. Not only does it have abundant natural resource potential, but the opening
up of its oil and gas sector has generated huge interest internationally. Data from the Myanmar
Investment Commission put oil and gas foreign investments atUSD$14.372 billion last year. The country
has awarded both onshore and offshore exploration tenders to international energy companies, including
major players like Conoco Phillips, Shell, and Total. Asia's potential for exploration activities DE:
Exploration of shale resources in China will require sophisticated multilateral negotiation with Chinese
NOCs which will likely result in technology trade agreements and assistance first rather than outright
drilling/fracking contracts in the Chinese mainland. In other words,China might take a while.Malaysia
might be a better bet: That country has put in substantial efforts to arrest the drop in crude oil production
and accelerate natural gas output. Supported by its NOC, the country has been very proactive in
improving its fiscal regime to attract foreign investments and expertise. OSEA2014 International
Conference: Unlocking the full potential of offshore reserve

IN

NS

RE

i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil
Extraction
e1111 : Industrial Production | m143 : Energy Markets | cnatrd : Natural Reserves/Resources Discovery |
c24 : Capacity/Facilities | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat :
Economic News | m14 : Commodity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter
china : China | russ : Russia | burma : Myanmar | austr : Australia | jap : Japan | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eeurz :
Central/Eastern Europe | eurz : Europe | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | ussrz : CIS Countries

IPD Oil & Gas
PUB Global Data Point Ltd.
AN Document ENRGYMEN20140916ea9g00050

Page244of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Page245of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.