Chinese linked to coastal deal

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PrimeSpace
Chinese linked to coastal deal

Rosanne Barrett, Development
620 words
12 June 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
30
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

The Australian arm of a Chinese developer has won preliminary approval to convert the prime Star of
the Sea convent site on the Gold Coast into a high-density residential high-rise and commercial
precinct.
Development application documents lodged with the Gold Coast City Council show plans for
interlinked apartment blocks, a hotel, retail centres and pedestrian pathways for the 15,000sq m
Southport site.

The Marine Parade site, formerly a campus of Central Queensland University, a church site and bank
block, sold this year for more than $25 million to Garuda GC Corporation, an Australian company
registered in March. It is understood to be the Australian arm of Chinese company Xi’an WenHua
Industrial Co.
The site is among a handful of parcels recently sold to international companies, in a renewal of the
Gold Coast’s central business districts.
Jones Lang LaSalleGold Coast director John Muchall said Asian developers — especially the Chinese
— were eager to secure big development sites across the city.
“The Chinese are here to stay,” Mr Muchall said. “I think the general consensus in the market is it is
different to the Japanese investors of the 80s.

“They’re selective, they’ve obviously got plenty of money, and they’re tending to be here to stay and
live.” Local authorities said half the 22 approvals for developments this year in Southport — recently
designated the city’s central business district — were for Asia-based companies.
These include a 30-storey and 47-storey tower proposal from China-based Sanbano Group; a
41-storey high-rise from the Singaporean Ho Bee Group in Surfers Paradise; and a plan for a five-star
luxury hotel from Singaporean Banyan Tree on the Esplanade, also in Surfers Paradise.
Savills Gold Coast director Kevin Carmody, who managed the Star of the Sea sale, said he had
signed a confidentiality agreement and refused to name the buyers. “It is subject to an unconditional
sale,” he said.

Under the preliminary approval, the city council has sought further information from proponents about
traffic studies, density and heights, before going to public consultation.
Mr Carmody said Chinese investors were becoming increasingly interested in the Gold Coast,
following activity in Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. “They like the Gold Coast as a place,” he said.
“The local market has been hamstrung by a lack of finance. There is opportunity for cashed up
international developers.” Property analysts Urbis reported that Chinese developers were behind 47
per cent of the foreign funds flowing into the Glitter Strip, outstripping investors from Malaysia (10 per
cent), Singapore (8 per cent) and Japan (8 per cent) last financial year.

Page189of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Local councillor Dawn Critchlow welcomed the new developments, especially those destined for
Southport, a designated state government priority development area.

“What it has meant is surety for the person who is prepared to outlay money,” she said. “That has given
confidence for the developers.” The Gold Coast is on track for a slow rebound in growth — albeit just
0.3 per cent in the residential sector — after two years of declines in the aftermath of the global
financial crisis.
Residential sales have increased for the past four quarters in the city and the median house price has
ticked up 4.2 per cent to $500,000 over the March quarter.
Research from PRDNationwide found residential sales for Gold Coast city were rising this year, with
sales volumes double that of the gloomy years following the global financial crisis.
Infrastructure for the 2018 Gold Coast Commonwealth Games is also helping the region’s
development.Almost $1.4 billion in works are under way and almost half the spend will go into
infrastructure or industrial developments.

CO
NS

RE

PUB
AN

gcstty : Gold Coast City Council
greg : Regional Politics | gplan : Urban Planning/Development | gcat : Political/General News | gpir :
Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140611ea6c00020

Page190of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.