Why the Chinese can’t get enough ... Of the good South Aussie oil

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Why the Chinese can’t get enough ... Of the good South Aussie oil

NIGEL AUSTIN RURAL EDITOR
416 words
15 January 2014
The Advertiser
ADVTSR
Advertiser
3
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

CHINESE investors are snapping up South Australian olive groves to help meet a growing demand for
the state’s high- quality extra virgin olive oil.
The need to secure supplies has resulted in major Chinese investor New Mediterranean buying two
South Australian olive groves near Frances and Coonalpyn in the South-East.

Chinese consumers are at the forefront of soaring overseas demand for SA’s olive oil and are helping
put the olive industry on a sound long-term footing for the first time.
The health benefits attributed to high-quality extra virgin olive oil have emerged as the key reason for
China becoming the largest buyer.
Australian Olive Association statistics reveal China became the largest export destination for Australian
extra virgin olive oil in 2012-2013, accounting for 32 per cent of the export total of $14.5 million.

Pendleton Estate managing director Grant Wylie said about 75 per cent of his exported extra virgin
olive oil goes to China.

“It’s another lobster story, Australia is exporting high quality and bringing in cheaper stuff,’’ Mr Wylie
said.

Pendleton has also started experiencing heavy demand from Taiwan following a scandal involving
adulterated European olive oil. It follows the purchase of another substantial olive grove near
Coonalpyn by a Taiwan company.
Association statistics show while the average price of poor quality imported olive oil in Australia is
$4.18 a litre, the average price of exported oil is $15.76 litre.
Australian Olive Association chief executive Lisa Rowntree said the increasing involvement of China is
helping boost the marketing of South Australia’s crop.
“What we’ve learnt about China is it helps to have people there to navigate the marketing because they
have the contacts and knowledge,’’ she said.
“If they can develop a big enough market in China it will help build overall demand and help market
olive oil for other South Australian producers.’’ Ms Rowntree said the health benefits of olive oil were a
very strong focus for Chinese buyers who are prepared to pay for the best extra virgin olive oil. “They
are keen to be involved in both the growing and marketing of olive oil because they are very health
conscious,’’ she said.
Mr Wylie said the falling Australian dollar has helped medium-to-large olive oil producers become
profitable.“Our table olives are also doing very well because (of quality),” he said.

Page268of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE

PUB
AN

medoil : Edible Oils Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m141 : Agricultural Commodity Markets |
mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgroil : Grains/Edible Oils Markets | ncat : Content Types |
nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document ADVTSR0020140114ea1f00055

Page269of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.