Developing Chinese connections

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Features
Developing Chinese connections

GREG BROWN
775 words
6 February 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
28
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

A change to the migration law gave Ethan He and Charles Fan an idea
TWO Chinese-born locals have launched into the property development game spurred on by a
change in the migration laws, with the pair sourcing development funds from Chinese investors
wanting a permanent life in Australia.

Off-the-plan project marketer Ethan He teamed with businessman Charles Fan to start Harman
Global in May last year after realising a new investor migration visa introduced last year would allow
them to undertake lucrative developments backed by capital from wealthy Chinese.

The new visa -- mandating that foreigners who invest more than $5 million in Australia could receive
permanent residency in five years, regardless of English language skills, education, and occupation
-- has led to a surge in applications.

Backed by this tide of funds, Harman Global is completing an $80m development in Sydney's
northwestern Castle Hill, comprising 86 house and land packages, with much of the funding coming
from China.
The company has also spent $5m on a site in Kellyville, which has a development application
lodged for 16 homes. Harman Global aims to invest about $100m this year and is eyeing apartment
developments, Mr He said.

The capital for the projects was provided by Mr He and Mr Fan's contacts, with the partners working
on past business ventures with the investors. The developments have so far only being marketed to
the partners' contacts.
Mr He said that one of the key selling points to Chinese investors was that, if they invested more
than $5m on Harman Global's Australian developments, then they could live in Australia in five
years.

``I saw (the new migration laws) and thought: well that's where I can get my money from,'' Mr He
said. ``My background is in China and I have lots of Chinese connections and Chinese people are
looking to move here. It was a great way for me to help build my business, not just as an agent, but
as a developer.''
Forty homes sold out in two hours in the first stage of sales at Castle Hill last November, with half
sold to Chinese buyers. The next stage is due to be released next month.
Building freestanding homes has not been common among Chinese developers active in Australia,
with Greenland Holdings Group building apartments after its entry to Australia last year..

``I wanted to build freehold homes because that's my dream. Because people in my generation, we
moved to Australia with the hope of living in a freestanding house with space,'' Mr He said.

Page73of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.``Also living near a golf course is one of my dreams as well,'' he said, noting that the Castle Hill
development is adjacent to the local golf course.

Mr He, who came to Australia as a university student, was working as an agent, marketing Australian
apartments to wealthy Chinese, on behalf of companies such as Colliers International and Meriton,
while Mr Fan worked for a Chinese media company.
Mr He sold several Australian apartments to Mr Fan, who immigrated three years ago.
The company will build in other parts of Australia, but Sydney's northwest would be a focus because
the area already attracted Chinese interest, Mr He said.
``It will be a hot area for Chinese migrants because in Norwest you have good education, you have
Norwest Business Park, Castle Towers (shopping centre). You've got everything Chinese people
like,'' he said.
Ethan He learnt property sales from one of Australia's largest apartment moguls: Harry Triguboff.
His description of Mr Triguboff is: ``one word: tough.''

``Every week in the sales meeting was like a nightmare,'' he said, before adding that the billionaire
was one of his heroes.
Mr Fan spent 20 years working in the Chinese media. He eventually rose to become an executive
producer and vice-president of the network Bojie. The network was in partnership with China's
largest network, the state-owned China Central Television (CCTV).
The company also offers migration advice to investors, providing a service which details the exact
requirements and processes involved in moving to Australia.
Another branch of the business markets apartments to Chinese investors on behalf of major
Australian companies, including Colliers International and Meriton.
Chinese offshore investment into Australian real estate grew by almost 60 per cent in the two years
to 2013, with Foreign Investment Review Board figures showing that Chinese property investment
during the 2011-12 financial year totalled $4.2 billion. China is Australia's second-largest source of
migrants.

The Bureau of Statistics says there were 18,030 long-term arrivals in the year to June.

igamsof : Games Software | i5010022 : Residential Building Construction | i3302 :
Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302021 : Applications Software | i501 : Building
Construction | icomp : Computing | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction | itech :
Technology
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | reqrcm : Suggested Reading Computers | redit : Selection of Top
Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140205ea2600032

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page74of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.