Hassad's mark on agriculture

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

agribusiness
Hassad's mark on agriculture

689 words
1 April 2014
Stock and Land
FSTOCL
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

HASSAD Australia's (HA) enormous entry on the country's agricultural landscape has been an
evolution from strengthening Middle East's food security to becoming a powerful conglomerate on the
global ag market.

That was what Hassad southern operations manager Peter Nilon told meat producers at the MLA
Meat Profit Day recently, during his speech which explained the Doha, Qatar-based company's
motivation to invest in 13 agricultural properties in Australia, since November 2009.

The company now own 250,000 hectares of farmland in Victoria, Queensland, NSW, South Australia
and WA, produces 165,000 tonnes of grain annually and exports on average 110,000 Awassi fat-tailed
sheep.

With Qatar spanning just 11,500km2, growing population of more than 2.05 million and an average
rainfall of 75 millimetres, Mr Nilon said it was obvious why the Qatar Government-owned Hassad
Foods had entered Australian shores to strengthen their food security.

"They had this idea of investing in ag world-wide " there has been an evolution in that thought process
that has removed food security as a driver of the investment and has put some commercial tension
making it a fully-blown commercial operation," Mr Nilon said.

"Food security is a fall-out of that but it is no longer the principal driver."

Their strategic land investment is aimed at diversified areas predominantly on the east coast of
Australia, which Mr Nilon said limited exposure to production risk with climate and disease.
The move has enabled the destocking and partial shut-down of the 125,295ha property Clover Down
at Cunnamulla, south-western Qld, which is suffering from severe drought.

Since 2009 they have also acquired Raby Station, Warren, Old Bundemar, Trangie in central western
NSW and Gundurra, Canowindra, in southern NSW.

In Victoria, Hassad now own Barton Station, Moyston, and Strathdownie in the Western District, with
most recently the Telopea Downs purchase in the Wimmera, and Bindi Bindi, near Moora,
Jerramungup and Esperance in WA.

While the initiator to invest in Australia was food security, Mr Nilon said Hassad now had a very
commercial focus so they don't "become one of the train wrecks".

A prominent example of a corporate failure was the demise of Cubbie Station, a 96,000ha cotton farm
in South West Qld that was sold last year to a Chinese and Japanese consortium for $230m " well
below the $400m price tag sought.
Once Hassad acquires a property they undertake more than two years of land testing to develop the
site.
With the purchase of Telopea Downs, in traditionally marginal country, Mr Nilon said research had
found the area was very reliable.

Page263of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Former grain properties that formed Barton Station were radically changed within 12 months to a
perennial pasture farm that supported the current sheep breeding and fattening production hub.

"The farms contained heavy clay-type mixes, too wet one day and too dry the next," Mr Nilon said.
"The advantage to being a corporate is that you have enough muscle in your battleship to do that.

"The strength of a corporate approach means we can move to what we should be doing."

He said Hassad take a 20-year view with the operation with majority of decisions approved by the
six-strong board.
"Until we discover the nuances of the property and learn about what makes the operation tick with the
three critical parts " descriptive section with physical features, the second is the operational part and
the third is what are the long term development needs," Mr Nilon said.

He said the major success of the operations was based on a "support local" approach with hiring
Australian farm managers and operators, buying products and services from local communities,
investment in research and development and ensuring a sustainable farm and environmental
management.

"We understand that the strength of the balance sheet brings about a high level of social
responsibility," he said. "The rules for us are identical to every other business in Australia... because
we are Australian registered, every factor that affects your farming business, affects ours."

IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

i01001 : Farming | i0 : Agriculture
gfdsec : Food Security | gcat : Political/General News | gcom : Society/Community
austr : Australia | saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FSTOCL0020151213ea41004fm

Page264of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.