LNG assets need better protection: Rinehart group

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Finance
LNG assets need better protection: Rinehart group

ANNABEL HEPWORTH, NATIONAL BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT
492 words
14 March 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
17
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

A BUSINESS group led by Australia's richest woman, Gina Rinehart, says the nation must ``get its
head out of the sand'' and think strategically about our role in the Asian region.
The think tank, founded by a small group led by the billionaire miner in 2010, has told a select
parliamentary committee on northern Australia that the area should be a hub within Asia for not just
resources but also a slew of areas including defence, education, medicine and agriculture.

As the government seeks to capitalise on Asia's economic boom, the group is pushing for a special
economic zone, modelled on those used in China and Malaysia, to be created across northern
Australia.

In a submission to the committee, Australians for Northern Development & Economic Vision says
such a zone would lead to projects and investments with Asian neighbours that ``reduce
possibilities of conflict as trade creates a long-term friendly and complementary relationship''.

``The next 20 years within the region will be crucial and Australia must get its head out of the sand
and start thinking strategically about our role in our region in terms of our economy and our strategic
defensive role,'' the submission says.

ANDEV wants cuts to state and federal taxes in northern Australia, lower foreign investment
thresholds for all sectors excluding defence, and infrastructure bonds backed by tax incentives.

``The north requires such policies to act as catalysts to overcome the decades of neglect and its
locational disadvantages that over time can become less significant constraints to development
given the presence of a vast and rapidly growing market in neighbouring Asia,'' ANDEV says.

Mrs Rinehart co-chairs the group with West Australian Imants Kins.
The comments come as the Australian arm of oil and gas giant ConocoPhillips has told the inquiry
that there is significant upward pressure on wages costs in northern Australia as seven liquefied
natural gas facilities are under construction.

``The wage inflation impacts the viability and reputation of the whole industry, raising project costs
and distorting regional economies,'' the submission says.

ConocoPhillips has also said that northern Australia should position itself ``at the front'' of an
approaching wave of floating LNG operations.

This has been a controversial issue in resource-rich Western Australia where Premier Colin Barnett
fears the state will miss out on jobs and investments if the energy giants avoid onshore LNG.

``Concerns have been expressed that FLNG will result in no or minimal returns to onshore states
and territories,'' ConocoPhillips says.

Page136of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.``This is not the case and FLNG, as an emerging technology, should be encouraged rather than
resisted.''
The Coalition has vowed to turn northern Australia into the ``next frontier'', with two million tourists
a year, an energy export industry worth $150 billion and serving as a food bowl.

The committee, chaired by Liberal MP Warren Entsch, will make recommendations for the north
Australian white paper.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140313ea3e0001o

Page137of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.