DATA ROOM

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
DATA ROOM

BRIDGET CARTER, ANDREW WHITE
1,146 words
14 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
20
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Healthy contest for RNS hospital INDICATIVE bids for the buyout of Royal North Shore hospital in
Sydney are due tomorrow, and among the groups to emerge as potential bidders are Cheung Kong
Infrastructure Holdings, InfraRed and Queensland Investment Corporation.

Meanwhile, the National Australia Bank has been drafted in to work as an adviser for Palisade
Investment Partners, which is also expected to lob a bid this week.

Hong Kong-based CKI has been tipped as a likely contender for almost $100 billion worth of
infrastructure to hit the Australian market this year, and is also believed to be vying for the British
Gas-owned pipelines and water treatment plants worth $2bn-$4bn in Queensland.

Palisade, run by Roger Lloyd, was behind the Newcastle Mater Hospital PPP. Previously, The
Australian named Capella Capital as an interested party. AMP, for which CIMB has been speculated
as the likely adviser, and British-based John Laing have also been flagged as suitors.

RBS has InfraShore, which has a contract through to 2036 to finance, design and redevelop the Royal
North Shore through a public-private partnership.

Sources have said they believe the asset is worth about $1bn, but others question whether RBS would
achieve so high a price.

Some analysts are suggesting that margins are tighter than expected and there is a complex indexing
swap arrangement linked to the debt on the asset.

The process is being handled by Goldman Sachs.

While RBS maintains a presence in Australia through its corporate and institutional banking
operations, the financial giant distanced itself from the Australian market in 2012 when it sold its
Asia-Pacific investment banking operation to CIMB for $267 million.

Bridget Carter
IFM seeks to land a Vienna airport stake DESPITE all the talk of infrastructure investment needed at
home, a dearth of local opportunities looks to be driving Australian funds offshore.
IFM Investors, the $15bn group owned by super funds, has gone public with its intention to make a
bid for a non-controlling 20-29.9 per cent stake in Flughafen Wein, the operator of the Vienna airport.

The bid is pitched at €80 a share, a premium of almost 30 per cent over the price of Flughafen Wein,
whose shares were suspended on news of the bid in Europe early last night.

The price suggests an outlay of about €566m ($820.6m) for Airports Europe, the IFM-controlled entity
that is bidding for the asset.

Page273of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It follows the Westpac-backed Hastings Funds Management emerging over the weekend as part of a
consortium with Canadian and European funds buying Porterbrook Rail Finance for $3.7bn.
IFM Investors owns assets including Anglian Water, Arqiva and Manchester Airports Group Andrew
White

Takeover traumas give bankers the blues WITH the collapse of the potential takeovers of SAI Global
and Treasury Wine Estates, the number of major deals failing to get across the line is sure to be trying
the patience of investment banks. Macquarie Capital was working as SAI’s adviser, while the initial
suitor for the $1.1bn business, Pacific Equity Partners and US private equity giant Kohlberg Kravis
Roberts, had Citi’s private equity gun Aidan Allen in its corner.

Sources estimate Macquarie could have locked in an advisory fee worth as much as $10m had the
sale of SAI proceeded, but now the payback was likely to be a few million.

This was based on a consensus among bankers that, typically, advisers secured between 0.5 and 1
per cent in fees on a buy or a sell side of a deal, depending on its size, if it proceeded.

Should the bid not eventuate, the bank typically is paid a far smaller retainer. The fees Citi would have
been earmarked to earn would have been a lot less, sources said.
But the bank would have had more at stake as it would probably have capitalised on the opportunity to
finance the deal as well.
Similarly, Goldman Sachs will be hoping to lock in the mooted $14bn BHP Billion demerger, for which
it is an adviser.

Goldman was defence adviser for Treasury, likely to have also banked around $10m for its role in a
takeover had it got it across the line.
The upside for Goldman is that the BHP deal is tipped to propel the bank to the top of the M&A league
table with an estimated $20m haul of fees.
Last year, the Brambles demerger involving its $1.3bn logistics business Recall earned its advisers 1
per cent of the transaction value.

Packaging giant Amcor, however, paid advisers just 0.42 per cent of the transaction value when it
demerged the $1.4bn Orora business the same year.

Bridget Carter

Investors on a roll as tech stocks rock TECHNOLOGY companies keep rolling on to the Australian
Securities Exchange, and while some question how long the sector’s run can last, many believe the
strong appetite will remain.
Among them is corporate advisory firm Newport Capital, which is launching a fund offering investors
exposure to tech stocks with an international presence.
It’s the first fund launched by the advisory firm, which is chaired by George Bell, and it plans to target
wealthy private families as investors. Among those on its hit list are the Myer family, the Libermans,
the Pratts and the Smorgons. Some corporates, such as Virgin, have been targeted.

While some believe tech companies only attract investors in boom conditions and are about to fall out
of favour in a weaker market, Newport’s sales pitch is that the fund’s lifetime will be long and the
companies it invests in will be well regarded.

Initially, the fund was to be $250m in size when it was thought The Future Fund was an investor, but
that has since been scaled back to $60m after the giant fund walked away.

Investments would be made in privately held venture companies that were already up and running.

Recently floated tech stocks have had some impressive results. The owner of Mathletics, 3P Learning,
was branded as the most expensive float in the IT space after being given a listing price equating to
34.7 times 2015 forecast net profit.

Freelancer, which provides an online platform to connect businesses with freelancers looking for work,
had a spectacular debut on the ASX last year, when its shares listed at 50c and ended its first day of
trade at $2.50. The stock, however, has since retreated.

Page274of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Bankers say tech stocks with international growth opportunities are more popular with investors.

They say the recent reporting season has seen companies with international growth outperform those
with purely domestic operations, citing Seek, Ainsworth and CarSales as examples.

Among the numerous tech companies looking to list in the months ahead are Appen Holdings and
Aussie Commerce, which owns the website deals.com.au.Bridget Carter

chkinf : Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings Ltd | queeic : Queensland Investment Corporation |
hutwam : Hutchison Whampoa Limited
i502 : Heavy Construction | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | iconst : Construction | icre :
Real Estate/Construction | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141013eaae0003p

CO

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page275of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.