Council pays $76m to secure markets

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PrimeSpace
Council pays $76m to secure markets

SARAH DANCKERT, ACQUISITIONS
266 words
16 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
29
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE CITY of Melbourne has been forced to pay $76 million of ratepayers’ money for a development
site nestled next to the Queen Victoria Market to preserve its plans to redevelop the popular
shopping precinct.
City of Melbourne purchased the site, which had a reserve of $60m, from an unnamed family that
had held the property for more than 100 years.

On top of the $76m, the council will also pay stamp duty taxes and transaction costs.
The sale of the 6462sq m plot on Munro Street at a record price for a development site in
Melbourne was handled by Clinton Baxter and Nick Peden from Savills International.
City of Melbourne revealed its plans to redevelop the market a year ago. “This purchase opens up
new possibilities for the QVM renewal process. This may include a different configuration of car
parking and ways to optimise Therry Street retail,” according to a statement by the council.
Melbourne’s first cemetery lies underneath the current car park at the market and the possible
excavation of it is a sensitive issue for the council, residents and businesses in the area.

Mr Baxter said the vendor decided to sell to the council at a price that was below the best offers
they had received.
“After more than 100 years of ownership and a lifelong association with the property, the Vendor
chose to leave a lasting legacy for Melbourne,” he said.According to the agents, the property
attracted 12 firm offers, 10 of which were from offshore groups — five from China.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141015eaag0003y

Page88of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.