Goodman bid wakes Europe food giant

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Goodman bid wakes Europe food giant

Tim Binsted
632 words
10 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
35
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Parmalat has emerged as a potential interloper in Wilmar International and First Pacific's $1.27 billion
takeover bid for Goodman Fielder.
The French-owned dairy group saying Goodman's New Zealand dairy assets are of "strategic
interest".

Goodman Fielder, the maker of Wonder White bread and MeadowLea margarine, was quick to
dismiss as opportunistic the 65¢-a-share offer from Singapore-listed agribusiness Wilmar and Hong
Kong investment manager First Pacific.

As revealed by The Australian Financial Review, Goodman's adviser's Credit Suisse stepped up its
defence this week by kicking off a sale process for the NZ dairy business. Wilmar and First Pacific
have threatened to walk away if Goodman makes any "material asset sales".

Parmalat chief executive Craig Garvin declined to say whether he is considering making an offer, but
he told AFR Weekend that he is watching the process. "Strategically, the NZ dairy business is of
interest and we will keep an eye on it," he said.
Parmalat is a wholly-owned subsidiary of French dairy powerhouse Lactalis and owns the Pauls,
Oak, Ice Break and Vaalia brands. Last month Mr Garvin said he would stay on the hunt for
acquisitions after buying Western Australia's biggest dairy exporter, Harvey Fresh, for $120 million.
CIMB analyst Alexander Beer thinks the dairy business is worth $460 million to $590 million
assuming an 8.5 times to 11.9 times EBITDA multiple.

Goodman Fielder has suffered a series of earnings downgrades and writedowns in recent years and
kicked off a strategic review of its dairy business in February – before Wilmar and First Pacific
lobbed their offer.
Goodman is not chasing a dairy trade sale as its only course. It is also looking for joint venture or
equity partners that can help fund a bigger push into the export market.
As highlighted by the $500 million-plus takeover battle for Victorian dairy Warrnambool Cheese &
Butter, there is red-hot demand for export facing dairy businesses that can feed Asia's hunger for
milk powers, cheeses and infant formula. Credit Suisse will undoubtedly be making its pitch to WCB's
new owner – Canada's Saputo. Lino Saputo Jnr has flagged his interest in making further acquisitions
in Australia and NZ.
Bankers will also be chasing the losers in the takeover scrap, Bega Cheese and farmer co-operative
Murray Goulburn. Before costs and taxes, Bega and Murray Goulburn reaped $100 million and
$92 million respectively from selling their WCB stock to Saputo.

Page146of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Both companies are looking for takeover targets, but it is understood neither Bega nor Murray
Goulburn are interested in the Goodman business.
Goodman's NZ dairy operation generates about $NZ500 million ($462 million) in revenue, with
about 10 per cent of that from exports, which primarily involve shipping long-life UHT milk to Asia
under the Meadow Fresh brand.
The rest of the milk supply is processed into dairy products for NZ retail shelves. As Goodman's
latest financial results show, margins can get squeezed when the cost of milk – which is based on
export products – goes up and price increases cannot be passed onto consumers at supermarkets.
That Goodman's dairy business does not have its own milk pool is also likely to dissaude some
bidders. Goodman has a long-term supply contract with Fonterra, enforced by government legislation,
for 250 million litres of milk a year, but does not have its own farmer-suppliers.
It can source more milk but it is currently understood to be using about 220 million litres only.
Key points Parmalat chief says NZ dairy industry of strategic importance and will keep an eye on
moves. Wilmar International and First Pacific threaten to walk away from bid should Goodman divest
dairy arm.

fdgl : Goodman Fielder Ltd
i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i413 : Dairy Products | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c18 :
Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin
: FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140511ea5a0007h

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page147of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.