Renewed Hopes for Actualising Brass LNG Project

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Renewed Hopes for Actualising Brass LNG Project

by Chineme Okafor
1,525 words
4 November 2014
22:35
All Africa
AFNWS
English
(c) 2014 AllAfrica, All Rights Reserved

Nov 04, 2014 (This Day/All Africa Global Media via COMTEX) -- By appropriating the shares left behind
by American firm, ConocoPhillips, other partners in the project last week rekindled hopes of actualising
the project.

In a show of commitment to the potentials that motivated the conception of the multimillion dollars Brass
Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) project, partners in the LNG project last week disclosed their resolution to
appropriate the 17 per cent shares that were left behind by American firm, ConocoPhillips (COP) when it
opted out of the project.

Coming at a time that the project was perhaps deemed to have stalemated following COP's unexpected
exit with its expected equity contributions and technology, the Chairman of the board of Brass LNG, Dr.
Jackson Gaius-Obaseki, told reporters at a recent visit to the Group Managing Director of the Nigerian
National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Dr. Joseph Dahwa, in Abuja that the project has received a
fresh breath of life from its shareholders.

The new development, Obaseki explained, now rekind the hopes that the project will after all overcome
its challenges, come to fruition and realise its potentials in the growing global LNG market. He also
reiterated that the project is still economically relevant because all the drivers that informed its conception
are still very evident in today's LNG market.
For instance, global management firm, McKinsey reported recently that four factors will be the major
drivers of future market dynamics and prices in the global gas market. These include the pace and
volume of North American LNG exports; demand growth for LNG in Asia; LNG supply from Australia,
East Africa, Middle-East and Russia and the prices of oil.

McKinsey also stated in the report that Asia's fast-growing economies will be the main drivers of growth
in global gas demand in the next decade, it forecasted that demand in Asian countries will grow by 4.5
per cent between 2010 and 2035.
By the report, countries such as China, India and Indonesia would see demand rise from 350 billion
cubic metres per year in 2012 to 870 billion cubic metres per year in 2030, accounting for more than a
third of gas demand in that period.

Obaseki in this regard, noted that after all its setbacks; the renewed commitment of partners in Brass
LNG is now expected to be followed up with the Final Investment Decision (FID), which will then grant it
leverage to attain its promising prospects, even when other regions are reportedly in the lead at the
global LNG market.
Initial Setbacks Reportedly worth about $20 billion in funding, the last minute exit of COP from the
two-train-10 million metric tonne per year (mmt/pa) Brass LNG project meant that stakeholders would
have to be cautious in taking a Final Investment Decision (FID) on it.
For instance, COP's withdrawal of its 17 per cent expected equity finance and technology in the project
had in addition to other earlier challenges, stalled the accomplishment of all conditions precedent to
achieving FID on the project.

Page203of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.There are so many conditions precedent to taking an FID on such major investment project like Brass;
COP's sudden notice of withdrawal from Brass was reportedly served on partners at a time an FID on the
project was in view.

Expectedly, no shareholder would ignore the impacts of a major partner's pull out from such huge project,
especially when such withdrawing partner had some level of comparative stakes in the project. COP's
pull out from Brass could not have been ignored, hence, the setback.

But having considered the past troubles of Brass, Obaseki in expression of the board's delights with the
decision of the shareholders to go ahead with the project, also noted that other reported threats like the
shale phenomenon was the least of Brass' worries.

He said shale, which is majorly driving the United States to shed its huge appetite for foreign fuel
constitutes no threat to Brass and that its existence or not still leaves Brass LNG with its viable character.

"Brass remains a viable and wonderful project. The reasons for conceiving that project are still very
relevant today; the market is still there, that is one of the things, shale gas or no shale gas, the market is
still there with a large appetite.

I don't speculate and I work with data which are fundamentals. For you to build a plant, you must have an
offtaker. COP has left but as we speak today there is no single buyer that has withdrawn, we have MoUs
with all of them, and we have not signed a purchase agreement because we say that we will do that at
FID," adding that, "There are other reasons, Shale gas is different from Shale oil but even before this
came out, we had diverted all our products from the US anyway and so that is where the confidence
comes.

"We have hit the ground running and as we go on, once we can see the end, we will inform all of you but
the important thing is that you have to acknowledge the fact that the shareholders and board are
committed."

Hope in the Horizon Speaking on what appropriating COP's 17 per cent share means to Brass, Obaseki
said by taking over the shares, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and its partners,
Total and Eni have reaffirmed the board's commitment to the project.

According to him, the board is now relieved to keenly concentrate on advancing the project's vital phases
rather than shopping for a replacement for COP. The development, Obaseki posited have also put to
paid expectations that a new partner will be shopped to replace COP.

Though the new shareholding structure is yet to be worked out and could take a while to conclude
because of considerations to extant standards in transfer and acquisition of shares, the partners,
THISDAY learnt are also shopping for new technologies that will replace the one they adopted from COP.

Before now, the shareholding structure of the Brass LNG had the NNPC holding 49 per cent, Eni, 17 per
cent and Total, 17 per cent. The remaining 17 per cent that is being appropriated by the trio was held by
COP.

While declaring that Brass has been revived back to life by the partners, Obaseki said that but for the
resourcefulness of the remaining shareholders; the exit of COP from the project would have perhaps led
to its wind-up.

"We went through a very tough time with the exit of ConocoPhillips because the provision of the
shareholders agreement would have been that we would deadlock and have to wind up the company
and I knew that it would have been a nightmare if we went that way. I had meetings with the honourable
minister and she was just wonderful in this respect and just only took decisions that guaranteed the
continued existence of BrassLNG. So rather than you (Dahwa) being an undertaker, we congratulate you
for presiding over Brass that is alive," Obaseki stated.

He further stated: "One cannot help but also acknowledge the commitment of the remaining
shareholders; NNPC, ENI and Total. It would have been impossible for us to hit the ground running if
they didn't do what they did because they were not ready for it but they just had to do it to keep us going
and also for their tolerance while a few of us were doing the negotiations but the good story is that it all
ended well.

"The easiest way to talk about the commitment of the board to carry on with this is that winners don't quit
and quitters don't win, that is just it, those who were left behind said that we wanted this because the
reasons haven't changed, the market is still there and our offtakers are only asking when we will come
on."

Page204of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.He said: "The board demonstrated this commitment otherwise when COP left, you have had to shop for a
replacement but NNPC, Total and ENI said they will take up the shares, although they were not ready
because shares acquisition is a long process in any organisation and that also encouraged a lot of us in
the board."

Obaseki emphasised the abiding faith the COP had in the project even at the threshold of its exit to agree
to write-off the sum of $140 million it had earlier settled with Oando‎to buy its shares on the project.

"COP listened to our advice not to go ahead with the Oando transaction. This resulted in the outright
write off of the said share sum. COP should be commended for taking our advice.

"The Oando‎too should be commended for taking the wise counsel that the financial outlay the project
requires will be too huge for it to carry on with and therefore backed down from the transaction.

"All stakeholders, including the minister, shareholders and DPR deserve special commendation for
agreeing to work on the same page to see through the project," he added.

nnpc : Nigerian National Petroleum Corp | philp : ConocoPhillips
i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil
Extraction | iexplo : Natural Gas/Oil Exploration
mlpg : Liquid Petroleum Gas Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | mcat :
Commodity/Financial Market News | mcrntg : Crude Oil/Natural Gas Product Markets | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter
africaz : Africa | austr : Australia | china : China | india : India | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | indsubz : Indian Subcontinent |
sasiaz : Southern Asia
accounting

CO
IN

NS

RE

IPD
PUB All Africa Global Media
AN

Document AFNWS00020141104eab4000wc

Page205of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.