Resort boosts Airlie Beach

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Commercial realestate
Resort boosts Airlie Beach

Carolyn Cummins
539 words
11 October 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
40
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

The renaissance of Airlie Beach, on the Whitsundays Coast, Queensland, is under way with more
than $100 million of new developments in the coming year.

The latest is the $70 million ONE Whitsundays Resort & Spa, which is the first resort development
in the area since Airlie Beach was flattened by the global financial crisis. The first sod on the project
was turned this week.

While the bustling township is a backpacker and boatie paradise, the cash coming in from the
surrounding area between Mackay and Proserpine is also attracting a more business-focused
crowd.
As a result, more property developments are earmarked near the Port of Airlie, whose marina has
already undergone an expensive facelift, and the town is now dotted with upmarket bars,
restaurants and fashion stores.

Airlie Beach is also seen as the main gateway to the 74 islands that make up the Whitsundays,
including the Hayman and Hamilton.
Daydream Island, which has an average yearly turnover of about $27 million and whose
replacement value in 2010 was estimated at more than $157 million, is on the market.

Wayne Bunz, senior director of CBRE Hotels, and Dan White of Ray White, and White & Partners,
have been appointed to sell the island, and said both domestic and international tourists, including
the growing Chinese market, are likely to be attracted. The owner is selling due to ill health.

John Zappia is the chief executive of the ONE Whitsundays Resort and significant financier to the
project. Together with Anthony Leenders, the ONE Whitsundays group general manager, they are
in discussions with a major hotel operator to manage the resort, once completed.
It is pitched at investors who can buy one of the 75 strata-titled apartments of one, two, and three
bedrooms or one of the two penthouses, with an asking price of about $3.2 million.

The resort also includes a large-scale conference centre, seating 300 people.

Mr Zappia said he was drawn to the area as it is undergoing a resurgence and lacks facilities and
apartments to cope with the expected boom time around the corner.

"Airlie Beach was hard-hit by the GFC and has been overshadowed by other towns along the
coast," Mr Zappia said.

"But after extensive research, we feel the tide is turning and demand for these resort-style
investments is gaining momentum."

Page172of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Leenders, who manages the Cafe del Mar bar brand in Australia, said the changing
demographics of the Whitsundays meant the bar would be popular at the ONE Whitsundays Resort.

Whitsunday Regional Council Mayor Jenny Whitney added the Airlie Beach town is set to indirectly
reap the benefits of major economic developments taking place in the area.

These include the country's biggest coalmine, Indian mining giant Adani's $16.5 billion Carmichael
Coal and Rail Project in the neighbouring Galilee Basin.

It has an estimated 60-year resource value of $300 billion and has been given federal government
approval.

It coincides with the $6.4 billion coal project in the Galilee Basin, which includes a railway line
running directly to the coal port of Abbot Point.

The author was a guest of ONE Whitsundays Resort.

RE
PUB
AN

queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020141010eaab0006a

Page173of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.