Buyers race to Tinkler auction

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Buyers race to Tinkler auction

LUCY ARDERN LUCY.ARDERN@NEWS.COM.AU
424 words
22 October 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
11
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

BUDDS Beach billionaire Bob Ell is among the cashed-up bidders expected to compete for Nathan
Tinkler’s Patinack Farm assets when they go under the hammer tomorrow.

Until now, Mr Ell’s interest in horses has been limited to the ponies his daughters ride.

But racing industry sources have revealed the Leda Holdings founder was among a select group who
made the trek to Wonglepong, near Canungra, in the lead-up to auction day.
Several potential buyers from overseas plus two other leading Queensland property figures have also
been to Patinack Farm for a look.

Fellow billionaire Gerry Harvey paid a visit as well, but industry insiders indicated his interest was more
keenly focused on the selling of Mr Tinkler’s assets than buying them.

Mr Harvey has consistently refused to detail exactly what Mr Tinkler owes him, but early this month he
confirmed the $33.9 million netted from the Magic Millions Patinack Farm Dispersal Sale would go a
long way towards settling the debt.

Mr Tinkler paid $21.05 million for the Patinack properties four years ago and then sank $4 million into
Wadham Park and $3 million into Benobble.
Yesterday, LJ Hooker Surfers Paradise commercial sales executive Cameron McPhie confirmed
bidders from New Zealand, Hong Kong, the US and UAE were among the 12 parties registered for the
on-site auction.
Rumours emerged at the end of the Patinack horse sale that a deal was about to be done with the
US’s largest thoroughbred racing empire, Spendthrift Farm, for the Patinack property assets.

But Mr McPhie said the level of interest shown in the past three weeks had convinced Mr Tinkler it
would be worth his while going ahead with the auction.

“You don’t do a deal before auction day with one party when you have this level of inquiry,” he said.

“There is a high chance you will do better under the hammer.” Local racing identities Hoss and Gillian
Heinrich also confirmed that they had been out to Patinack in the lead-up to the auction.

Mr Heinrich said yesterday he was still unsure if he would put in a bid for any of the properties, which
he feared would be hard to sell.The farm holding looks likely to be auctioned off as four separate lots:
Wadham Park (33.64ha); the fully equipped Elysian Fields training facility (56.97ha); and Saravale
(73.26ha) and Benobble (283.40ha), the breeding and adjustment facility.

Page260of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE
PUB
AN

c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020141022eaam00017

Page261of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.