Public firm aims to milk dairy strength

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Public firm aims to milk dairy strength

SUE NEALES
489 words
15 August 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
19
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

agribusiness: The first public company to specialise in buying, owning and developing large corporate
dairy farms in Victoria to produce 50 million litres of milk a year has raised $8.5 million from
institutional investors ahead of a scheduled float on October 1.
The Australian Dairy Farms Group — likely to list under the ASX reserved code of AHF — already
owns two large dairy farms at Brucknell, near Warrnambool in Victoria’s southwest, and is looking to
buy 14 more over the next two years if its $14.5m capital raising offer is successful.

Group chairman Michael Hackett said the fledgling company had been overwhelmed by interest and
investment from international and Australian pension funds, private investors and institutions looking to
buy a stake in Australia’s booming dairy future.
Australian Dairy Farms has received commitments of $8.5m from institutional investors in Hong Kong,
Malaysia, New Zealand and Australia, well above the $5m it had initially hoped to raise.

“It is clear that institutional investors share our view that there is a significant opportunity to consolidate
Australia’s fragmented dairy sector,” Mr Hackett said. “The capital raising will provide a strong platform
to deliver our vision to use scale via the acquisition of additional quality farms to deliver revenue and
cost synergies to produce 50 million litres of milk a year within two years of listing.” The public
bookbuild undertaken by Bell Potter Securities, which will open to investors on August 26 after a
prospectus is published next week, is offering 72.5 million shares in the Australian Dairy Farms Group
at 20c each.

Together with shares held by directors and other exiting entities, a fully subscribed capital raising would
see the company debut on the ASX with 85.5 million shares and a capital value of $17.1m. The
company also announced a sweetener to new investors buying shares ahead of listing, confirming it
would offer a one-for-two bonus share option within four weeks of the company float to every eligible
shareholder.

The loyalty offer entitles shareholders to convert each option to a full-paid share within the next six
months at a price of 25c, potentially raising a further $9m in capital.
Founder and director Adrian Rowley said the focus of the Australian Dairy Farms group was clear: to
buy and develop large corporate dairy farms with herds of between 500 and 1000 cows each, focusing
on the premier “golden triangle” milk production region of western Victoria between Warrnambool,
Camperdown and Timboon.
Mr Rowley thinks there is a strong case for longer-term growth in the dairy industry and good returns
from investing in dairy farms, with larger farm aggregates able to build efficiencies of scale that cannot
be reaped by family farms.Mr Rowley wants ADFG to become the largest producer of milk in Australia,
delivering the company market power and influence with processors.

Page94of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i413 : Dairy Products | i0 :
Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
c1711 : Initial Public Offerings | c18 : Ownership Changes | c02 : Corporate Changes | c14 : Stock
Listings | c17 : Funding/Capital | c171 : Share Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140814ea8f0001d

Page95of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.