Tempting China ’s big fish to bite

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PrimeSpace
Tempting China’s big fish to bite

EXCLUSIVE: LISA ALLEN, INVESTMENT
579 words
4 December 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
26
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

BILLIONS of dollars worth of Australian real estate is being eyed by some of China’s wealthiest
entrepreneurs as the federal government attempts to meet self-imposed infrastructure investment targets
by the end of the decade.
A delegation of some of China’s wealthiest entrepreneurs, with a combined net worth of $US82 billion
($98bn), were offered 10 multi-million-dollar projects in Sydney this week, including the $400 million
Hilton Hotel, as well as development opportunities in Brisbane’s Queens Wharf, Sydney’s Barangaroo
and Perth’s City Link.

Macquarie Group, Goodman and the local arm of Chinese developer Greenland helped Austrade and
Tourism Australia promote the assets to the 31-member China Entrepreneur Club. Established in 2006,
members of the CEC include Frank Wu, chairman of Central China Real Estate (assets $US5bn) and
Ma Weihua, chairman of the Wing Lung Bank, (assets $US32bn).
Following the meeting, instigated by Tony Abbott, the Chinese delegates said they were planning to buy
more local real estate. “It was clear that some of the Chinese attendees had specific intentions in
relation to additional investment in Australia. There was a cross-section of people who had existing
investments and some were looking for new investment,” said one delegate.
Mainland Chinese investors have purchased nearly $1bn of Australian commercial property this year,
according to JLL.
The chairman of private equity group China Equity Group, Wang Chaoyong, said he was in Australia
to learn, study and understand more about investment opportunities. “We are looking for marinas in
major coastal cities and we also want to invest in wineries,” Mr Wang said.

He said Australia was well known for its natural resources and agricultural sector.

“(But) this trip we learned Australia is a very good tourist destination with many opportunities to invest in
infrastructure related to the tourist industry such as new hotels, upgrading hotels, travel agencies, and
better hospitality programs,” Mr Wang said.
“With the growing sailing community in China, we are looking for investment opportunities in marinas and
yachting industries, which could make sail boats for export to China.” Commenting on China’s Sunshine
Insurance Group, which has just paid a record $463m to buy Sydney’s Sheraton on the Park Hotel, Mr
Wang said “insurance companies in China are looking for low but steady income. We have an insurance
company ... I believe they may have a similar idea in the future.” He added: “I had a good meeting with
the Prime Minister and we were very encouraged and share the same sentiment as the free trade
agreement. I think Chinese customers will have a great opportunity to enjoy the lower cost and higher
quality Australian agriculture and dairy products.” Austrade chief executive Bruce Gosper said a focus of
the meetings was on the economic relationship and tourism given the Chinese were Australia’s
second-largest source of tourist income and the highest spending. “They are going to be very important
for our tourism sector and we are very interested in facilitating investment in tourism infrastructure. If we
want to reach some of the projections that industry and government have set for the tourism sector we

Page185of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.need big improvements for our tourism infrastructure.”Under the Tourism 2020 plan the government
wants to increase investment in tourism, noting that in the decade to 2010 investment in tourism grew at
just half the pace of investment in the rest of the economy.

CO

IN

NS
RE

ccreld : Central China Real Estate Limited | mcqbnk : Macquarie Group Limited | wlb : Wing Lung Bank
Ltd | cmsnbk : China Merchants Bank Co Ltd
i501 : Building Construction | i5010022 : Residential Building Construction | i814 : Banking | i81402 :
Commercial Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit |
iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv :
Investing/Securities
gtour : Travel | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle
austr : Australia | china : China | queensl : Queensland | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz :
Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales

PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document AUSTLN0020141203eac40006e

Page186of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.