Data Room

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Data Room

Edited by Bridget Carter
1,058 words
17 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
20
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Speculators chase Woodside target AS Woodside Petroleum upwardly revised its full-year production
guidance yesterday, there were market rumblings that it is in the throes of preparation for a major
acquisition.
Some are questioning whether the target that has caught the attention of Australia’s $33 billion energy
giant could be the London-listed Ophir Energy, given that there was a sense among sources that the
group was busy examining a big takeover target offshore.

Ophir, listed in London and close to investment bank JPMorgan, has a market capitalisation of about
£1.1bn ($2bn). It would be attractive to Woodside for its acreage in the region surrounding Tanzania
and Mozambique, where there are some of the most lucrative gas opportunities available globally.

Other analysts have been saying Canadian assets are on the group’s radar. A less likely possibility is
Papua New Guinea, familiar ground to InterOil, which has also fuelled previous speculation that the
company is among Woodside’s targets.
There was talk Woodside could buy Apache’s stake in the Kitimat LNG project in Alaska, which would
make sense as it has flagged some interest in North American exposure. Woodside, which has
previously had Credit Suisse bank in its corner, is certainly under pressure to do something, given it is
sitting on a growing pile of cash and does not have any near-term development opportunities.

It has already been very active in picking up exploration acreage around the world, entering at least
eight new countries to date. They have been less expensive acquisitions for the energy giant, but are
long-dated and uncertain options.

Woodside has also been rumoured to be looking at Apache’s interest in Western Australia. Apache is
selling its $2.4bn stake in the under-construction Wheatstone LNG project through Macquarie Group
and Goldman Sachs, and flyer documents for the sale have been sent to about 10 interested parties,
including Woodside, Santos, Origin, the China Investment Corporation, Temasek and Japanese groups
Mitsui and Osaka Gas. Apache’s other profitable WA gas assets may also be in Woodside’s sights,
given they generate solid cash and could help ease state government concerns about Woodside’s
commitment to supplying the WA gas market.

Packer under the pump JAMES Packer said it all yesterday when he acknowledged at the Crown
Resorts annual general meeting that recent trading in Macau had been “difficult’’.
Shares in Crown’s one-third owned Asian gaming company Melco Crown Entertainment hit a year-low
this week in trading on the Nasdaq following a number of analysts’ downgrades of the stock, including
Wells Fargo and Morgan Stanley.

The sentiment towards Macau gaming stocks has been poor since June, when gross gaming revenues
fell for the first time since 2009, and they have been on the slide ever since.

Page305of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Todd Jordan, managing director at Hedgeye Risk Management, didn’t help sentiment in New York
trading on Wednesday when he signalled out the premium mass-market segment as a pressure point in
Macau.
This is one of Melco Crown’s key markets, and the company is planning to open its 60 per cent owned
Studio City project next year, which will be focused on this previously booming market category.

Jordan’s comments were supported by the weak mass-market numbers recorded during the recent
Golden Week holiday season.
The average daily table revenue for the first six days of the holiday season came in at $HK1.2 billion
($177 million) per day, down 33 per cent from $HK1.68bn recorded last year, missing consensus
estimates of a 20 per cent decline.

Yet there are still those who believe in the Macau story — seven investment analysts still have a buy
rating on Melco Crown, while six have the stock on a hold rating.
Ingham sale delayed COMMONWEALTH Bank’s plans to float the holiday park portfolio belonging to
the wealthy Ingham family could be placed on the backburner, with suggestions the banks attempts to
lock in two cornerstone investors is proving frustrating.

The family, which amassed its fortune through its poultry empire, has embarked on plans for an initial
public offering or trade sale for a portfolio of six to eight holiday parks on Australia’s east coast.

The properties are owned by the relatives of the late Jack Ingham, who, with his brother, Bob,
expanded the chicken and turkey empire Inghams Enterprises.
Should the IPO of the holiday parks proceed, the company would compete with other groups already
invested in the manufactured housing space. These include the listed retirement operator Ingenia and
Alceon, a company backed by investment bankers Trevor Loewensohn and Phil Green.
Crescent cashes out PRIVATE equity firm Crescent Capital last night was looking to exit travel
insurance company Cover-More by selling its 13 per cent stake at $2.13 a share. The $87.3m block
sale continues the trend of private equity selldowns.

Talk around the market last night was that QBE Insurance could be a willing buyer to get exposure to
the fast-growing travel insurance business.
Investment bank Goldman Sachs is managing the sale, which will see the shares sold at a 2.2 per cent
discount to the stock’s closing price yesterday. Following the sale, Cover-More management will hold a
combined 4.6 per cent stake in the insurer.
Crescent floated the company last year, after raising $521m in an initial public offering. The remaining
41 million shares held by Crescent came out of escrow after the company reported full-year results in
August.
Pacific Equity Partners got the ball rolling for private equity sell downs in August when it sold nearly
$600m of shares in the listed credit bureau Veda. Investors are becoming more used to the idea of
large block sales hitting the market on newly listed companies. This suggests there is a greater
alignment of investor interests.

Cover-More in August posted a 20.1 per cent jump in pro-forma gross travel insurance sales to
$369.1m and a 27 per cent increase in pro-forma EBITDA to $51.9m — this was nearly 10 per cent up
on the prospectus figures from last December’s listing.

While travel is its mainstay, Cover-More is pushing deeper into medical insurance and expanding in
Asia.

Edited by Bridget Cartercarterb@theaustralian.com.au

CO
IN

NS

oenrcl : Ophir Energy PLC | wodpet : Woodside Petroleum Ltd
i831 : Financial Investments | iinv : Investing/Securities | ifinal : Financial Services | i1 : Energy | i13 :
Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iexplo : Natural Gas/Oil Exploration |
iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
c18 : Ownership Changes | cacqu : Acquisitions | reqris : Suggested Reading Investing/Securities |
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |

Page306of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | redit : Selection of Top
Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
macao : Macau | china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141017eaah0001q

RE

PUB
AN

Page307of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.