Leighton Sells Half of Services Arm to Apollo Global

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY

LP

TD

Leighton Sells Half of Services Arm to Apollo Global

429 words
18 December 2014
Cihan News Agency (CNA)
CINEWA
English
Copyright © 2014 Cihan News Agency. Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com Company All
Rights Reserved.

Australia's biggest construction company, Leighton Holdings Ltd. , has agreed to sell half of its services
arm to private-equity firmApollo Global Management for 700 million Australian dollars (US$570 million)
in cash.

Leighton said Wednesday it will form a 50:50 joint venture partnership with Apollo comprising the
combined operations of its Thiess Services and Leighton Contractors Services units, which build and
manage communications, energy and infrastructure projects across Australia.

Apollo's purchase will help it further expand its focus on construction and engineering services firms,
branching out beyond its traditional focus on real estate and debt. In May Apollo invested US$500
million in CSV Midstream Solutions Corp., a Canadian engineering and construction firm servicing oil
and gas projects.

Leighton, controlled by Germany's Hochtief AG , which is run by Spain's Actividades de Construcción y
Servicios SA, has been selling off assets this year as it looks to shore up its balance sheet following
years of financial losses and steep write-downs.
The company had previously been a large beneficiary of Australia's mining-fueled economic boom,
which saw a raft of spending by firms and government on new mines, infrastructure and property.
Though Leighton has a market capitalization of A$7.1 billion, its shares have lost about two-thirds of
their value since 2007, when shares briefly topped A$60.
The deal gives the services business an enterprise value of A$1.075 billion and will reduce Leighton's
gearing by about 10 percentage points, the company said in a statement to the Australian Securities
Exchange .
The sale of Leighton's services business comes just days after it offloaded its John Holland building
division to China Communications Construction Co. for about A$1.15 billion. The company is also
looking to sell its property division, and has been chasing money it is owed for construction work,
particularly in a Dubai-based joint venture Habtoor Leighton Group, which has suffered significant
write-downs.

Leighton Chief Executive Marcelino Fernandez Verdes announced the asset sales in June, saying he
wanted to streamline the business and restructure its sprawling group of companies to avoid overlaps
and bring similar operations together. The strategic review came soon after owner Hochtief upped its
stake in the business to 70%, and then swiftly moved to oust the company's chairman and chief
executive in an attempt to stem losses.

The deal with Apollo is subject to regulatory approvals including from the Foreign Investment Review
Board and the New Zealand Overseas Investment Office.

CO

IN

apolmn : Apollo Global Management LLC | hocht : Hochtief AG | leiho : Leighton Holdings Ltd | ocisa :
ACS Actividades de Construcciones y Servicios SA
i502 : Heavy Construction | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150203 : Private Equity | ialtinv :
Alternative Investments | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ifinal : Financial
Services | iinv : Investing/Securities

Page195of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE
IPD
PUB
AN

c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Financial Services
Cihan News Agency
Document CINEWA0020141218eaci001xm

Page196of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.