New era for iconic modernist house

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Domain
New era for iconic modernist house

EMILY POWER and DAVID ADAMS
1,092 words
19 July 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
6
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

PRIVATE PROPERTY

Exquisitely designed and a national treasure - the Boyd Baker House is going under the hammer.

A new chapter is ahead for one of Australia's real estate icons, the mid-century modernist Boyd Baker
House in Bacchus Marsh. Designed by revered architect Robin Boyd, the house is considered of the
utmost architectural importance and has had only two owners in the past 50 years.

Top Armadale lawyer Peter Mitrakas, a Boyd fanatic, bought the house seven years ago after the
original owner, Dr Michael Baker, made an emotional decision to auction it.

The Boyd Baker House was commissioned by Dr Baker, a mathematician and academic, and
completed in 1965. The house bears Boyd signatures, including an internal courtyard and local stone
finishes. It appears unremarkable from the outside but that's the point - Boyd designed it to be in
harmony with surrounding scrubland.

Inside, the floor plan is uniquely square, sketched by Boyd to precise mathematic principles. There are
two master bedrooms with en suites, water tanks in the property's 12 cylindrical columns and a
classroom, which was built for the Baker's home-schooled children.
The Mitrakas family at first used the property as a holiday home and more recently opened it up for
weddings and functions.

Agents Andrew Macmillan of Jellis Craig Bennison Mackinnon and Kay & Burton's Alex Schiavo are
handling the sale. The auction is on Sunday, August 31, at noon and price hopes exceed $1.3 million.

- - -

The former president of the Church of Scientology in Victoria, businessman Emmanuel Foundas, is on
the move from his renovated period home in Albert Park.
A selling point for the property is stunning landscaping by last year's Chelsea Garden Show winner,
genius Australian green thumb Phillip Johnson.
Foundas represents US-based software companyCondusiv Technologies in Asia-Pacific and was
formerly a banker with Macquarie and Saloman Smith Barney. His wife Kate is a former state-level
dressage rider.
The couple bought the property at 390 Ferrars Street about two years ago and enjoyed adding their
personal flourishes, including the landscaping designed by Johnson. They are now looking for another
project.

Page21of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The three-level home has up to four bedrooms, studio with bathroom and bar, family room opening to a
deck and garage with two car stacker. It is under private sale. Michael Szulc, of Cayzer Real Estate, is
looking for offers of more than $2.7 million.

- - -

Moving house hasn't been the usual headache for interior designer Lisa Gray.
The co-owner of Blackburn South-based business Interior Living and her husband Grant, who works in
hotel management, have relocated from their home at 28 Craig Street to a property across the road.

The couple, who have an 11-year-old daughter, bought number 28 about 11 years ago after returning
to Australia from Canada and, as you might expect, overhauled the interior.

The three-bedroom home comes with rear living and dining opening to a deck, while the backyard
features an above-ground swimming pool.

It goes to auction on August 9 at 1pm. Tim Heavyside and Albert Hazelden, of Fletchers, are quoting
$650,000 -$720,000.

- - -

For prospective buyers who fancy acquiring a portion of Melbourne's history, a former stables and
coach-house has gone on the market in Hawthorn East.
Widford Mews was built in 1883 as an outbuilding for the nearby property of Widford, which was the
home of the honorary Greek consul during the 1920s.

The two-storey, four-bedroom home at 1A Wiseman Street (the street is named after one of Widford's
earliest owners) features views of the city from a rooftop deck. It has two living spaces, a study or
possible fifth bedroom and off-street parking.
Danielle Waterton and Chloe Quinn, of Jellis Craig, are quoting $1.5 million plus. It goes under the
hammer on August 2 at 1pm.

Shhh!

Brighton agent Nick Johnstone must be up at all hours of the night taking international calls, with a slew
of ex-pat Aussies on the hunt for bayside family pads.

With the northern hemisphere summer holiday period looming, Mr Johnstone said a number of CEOs
and multinational bosses based across Europe, America, Singapore and China want to rent in the
blue-chip beach suburb when they return. These discerning tenants are happy to spend $2500 or more
per week and he said demand for swish rentals is outweighing supply.

Liberta, home beautiful

Having graced the pages of Home Beautiful on several occasions, Coburg show home Lilberta is now
on the market.

Civil engineers Joanne and Russell Bourke, who have three children, bought the late Victorian-era
property at 77 Munro Street in 2007 and have since renovated. They added a rear open-plan kitchen
and living/dining area.

The block-fronted house has four bedrooms, separate lounge, a rear deck and carport accessed via a
rear right-of-way as well as plenty of period charm.

For auction on July 26 at 11am. Bev Adam, of Jellis Craig, expects $850,000-$925,000.

Landscaped Toorak gem
Landscaper Patrick Manenti has put his Toorak home on the market with expectations of a sale price
around $5 million.
Manenti and his wife Gayle, who run a residential and commercial landscaping business, were not
afraid to roll up their sleeves and do some DIY. They bought the property at 8 Evans Court seven
years ago and, says Gayle, have "totally renovated inside and out".

Spanning three levels, the 1930s home has four bedrooms plus study, multiple living spaces and, on
the lower ground floor, an office/study, teenage retreat and 600-bottle wine cellar.

Page22of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Jeremy Fox, of RT Edgar, is running an expressions-of-interest campaign closing on August 29 at 3pm.

Warehouse has spirit
Hong Kong-based banker Richard Lee (pictured) is selling his home in an historic Collingwood
warehouse.

Lee, chief operating officer of the investment banking division of CLSA, and his wife Peta, bought the
property in 2010 and spent the next 18 months renovating.

"We loved the fact that we were buying a real piece of history, a part of the 150-year-old Victoria
distillery," he says.

The four-level warehouse at 14/21 Northumberland Street has expansive living, three bedrooms,
including one with mezzanine retreat, and balconies at the front and rear.

The house goes under the hammer on August 9 at noon. Sarah Sharp, of RT Edgar, expects $1.8
million-plus.

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

irreal : Residential Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest
: Real Estate
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140718ea7j0006h

Page23of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.