Apollo Minerals marks busy year, set to ramp up drilling

HD
WC 751 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Apollo Minerals marks busy year, set to ramp up drilling

25 August 2014
ENP Newswire
ENPNEW
English
(c) 2014, Electronic News Publishing. All Rights Reserved.

Release date - 22082014
Apollo Minerals (ASX: AON) has in the last 12 months secured over $10 million in joint venture and
equity financing while progressing its South Australian IOCG and African iron ore projects.

TD

Chairman Richard Shemesian has played a key role in building shareholder value with a number of
companies and looks set to repeat this with Apollo to start drilling in the two areas.

Companies which he helped transform into producers or were acquired included ASX listed Redport that
was taken over by Canada’s Mega Uranium for $125million in 2006 and iron ore producer Aztec
Resources which was acquired by Mount Gibson Iron (ASX:MGX) for $300 million in 2007.

Financing
One of the key achievements was the company entering into a $3.4 million joint venture with the Robert
Friedland-controlled High Powered Exploration Inc (HPX) to find major Iron Oxide Copper Gold deposits
at the Commonwealth Hill joint venture project in South Australia’s Gawler Craton. Notably, HPX has also
acquired around 10% of Apollo’s stock, its first investment in an ASXcompany after a review of over
1,000 projects worldwide.

As a result Eric Finlayson formerly Global Head of Rio Tinto Exploration has boosted the Apollo board’s
expertise which also includes former MD of Iron Ore Holdings Ltd (IOH) Matthew Rimes. It has also
secured $4 million from major international group Zoradox Limited to fully fund exploration at the Kango
North iron ore project in Gabon in return for a 50.01% interest in the project. The company has also
arranged over $3 million in equity raisings this year with strong support from its major shareholders.

Past Activity

Apollo activity has resulted in an unprecedented level of activity in the Gawler Craton since the 1990s.
This includes the largest induced polarisation survey ever conducted in South Australia of over 140
square kilometers using HPX’s proprietary Typhoon’ technology that identified several large-scale, high
priority IOCG drill targets. HPX has also carried out test drilling at Commonwealth Hill while rotary air
blast drilling and gravity surveys have been completed in the separate Mars Aurora Tank and Eaglehawk
joint venture areas.

Field work has also commenced at Kango North.

The Road Ahead
With funding in place and previous exploration work and multiple targets identified at the SA copper/gold
projects, Apollo has built the foundation for further activity in its IOCG-focused play in South Australia and
the Kango North Iron Project in Gabon. The company is about to commence gold-copper drilling at the
Mars Aurora Tank JV project, which has similarities in size and style to the nearby Prominent Hill IOCG
deposit about 110 kilometres to the east.

Apollo also intends to carry out drilling of major targets at the Bundi South prospect within the EagleHawk
JV where Apollo is earning a 75% interest from nickel producer Mincor. HPX is continuing work on review
of the large recent Typhoon IP survey at the Commonwealth Hill JV area. In West Africa, Apollo is

Page69of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.preparing to start an initial $750,000 drill program to delineate a major exploration target and DSO iron at
the Kango North project. Positive results from this iron ore drilling would be a bonus to shareholders.

Analysis

The upcoming drilling on two projects in Australia and another in West Africa will unlock the potential of
Apollo Mineral’s IOCG assets in South Australia and the Kango North Iron Project in Gabon. In addition,
its joint venture with Robert Friedland’s HPX for Commonwealth Hill provides not only a partner with
technical know-how, but also the financial muscle to exploit the next Prominent Hill or Carrapateena or
even Olympic Dam.

Share price catalysts ahead include:

Mars Aurora Tank drilling results;

HPX review of the recent Typhoon IP survey and

Kango North drilling results.
In short, success with any of these programs will make Apollo’s market cap of circa $11.3 million look
decidedly low moving forward.

Proactive Investors Australia is the market leader in producing news, articles and research reports on
ASX ‘Small and Mid-cap’ stocks with distribution in Australia, UK, North America and Hong Kong / China.

Contact:
Apollo Minerals Limited Suite 1503B, Level 15 Gold Fields House, 1 Alfred Street Sydney, NSW, 2000
Australia Tel: +61 2 9078 7665 Fax: +61 2 9078 7661 Email: info@apollominerals.com.au

[Editorial queries for this story should be sent to newswire@enpublishing.co.uk]

CO
IN
NS

apomin : Apollo Minerals Limited
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c184 : Joint Ventures | cnatrd : Natural Reserves/Resources Discovery | npress : Press Releases | c18 :
Ownership Changes | c24 : Capacity/Facilities | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial
News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Electronic News Publishing Ltd.
AN

Document ENPNEW0020140825ea8p000c1

Page70of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.