Thodey's anniversary gift to shareholders

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Thodey's anniversary gift to shareholders

Tony Boyd
889 words
17 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
56
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Chanticleer

When Telstra's David Thodey marks his fifth anniversary as chief executive on Monday he could
well contemplate the gift he will give shareholders later this year.

The presents are likely to be heading the way of shareholders because of the combination of
excess free cash flow of about $5 billion and the $2.1 billion in proceeds from the sale of Hong
Kong mobile company CSL.
CSL was sold because of a view within Telstra that the company's earnings had peaked and the
regulatory settings in Hong Kong were about to get much tougher.
There is plenty of speculation about what Thodey will do with the $7.1 billion in cash. However, it is
hard to see him using it to buy a business to replace the $700 million in annual earnings from CSL.

It is far more likely that he will distribute the cash by way of dividends or capital management. Some
believe that this has already been factored into the Telstra share price, which is sitting near the
highest level since 2002.

Bullish analysts such as Sameer Chopra at Bank of America Merrill Lynch reckon the stock has a
long way to run. His share price target is $5.85.

The stock is a classic yield play. The grossed up yield is about 6 per cent including dividend
imputation.

Telstra is a steady earner. There is a potential long term growth option in Asia through managing
the telco networks of enterprises and governments.

Telstra is a world leader in that field and it makes sense to offer that service in Asian countries,
particularly China, which is global player in telco equipment but not telco services.
At home, Telstra is set to receive $11 billion in net present value from the federal government's
national broadband network transaction.

Also, it is likely to be the biggest winner from the revamped NBN deal because of its reach and its
control of the copper linking homes to proposed fibre connection boxes on street corners.

Its star business has been mobiles.

Thodey can thank former CEO Sol Trujillo for that. Trujillo not only rolled out the 3G network on time
and within budget, he made sure it covered more territory than any other network.

However, Trujillo's financial legacy was not a good one for shareholders.

Page255of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.A 10-year share price chart for Telstra shows how well Thodey has performed on behalf of
shareholders. Also, it shows how much shareholders suffered before he arrived. The stock is up
67 per cent since he became CEO. It was down 35 per cent under Trujillo.

Thodey did not just deliver a higher share price and consistent dividend payouts, his stock price
beat the market. Telstra shares out performed the S&P/ASX 200 by 71 per cent over the past
five years. The stock is at or near its highest level since 2002.

The biggest obstacle to the IOOF Holdings takeover of financial planning group SFG Australia was
fitting into the expansion by acquisition strategy of IOOF chief executive officer Chris Kelaher.

Kelaher is the serial acquirer in the financial services sector. He barely takes a breath before
moving on to the next deal.

That is not to say that he is piling up problems in the back office from poor execution of the
integration of each new business that is acquired.

But the advisers to SFG, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, had to wait in the queue to get a deal done
with Kelaher because he was busy last year pursuing a transaction in the trust industry when
the proposed merger of SFG and WHK collapsed.
IOOF's bid to take over Trust Company failed after it was bought by Perpetual. The SFG merger
with WHK fell over because WHK's business was under pressure. The numbers did not stack up for
the financial planners at SFG who control about 40 per cent of the issued capital.

It is a measure of their financial nous that the controlling shareholders of SFG abandoned the WHK
deal and put their future personal wealth creation in a proven financial services industry leader
in Kelaher.

The marriage of IOOF and SFG makes sense. The two businesses are complementary. Only 14 per
cent of IOOF's revenue comes from financial advice whereas 49 per cent of SFG's revenue comes
from that source.

IOOF gets 49 per cent of its income from its platform business while SFG gets 30 per cent of its
revenue from portfolio management and administration.

The combined entity will be a powerful player with the third largest financial planning network after
AMP and Commonwealth Bank of Australia.

The business is well placed to capitalise on the increasing complexity of the superannuation
system, social security rules and personal taxation laws.

The deal comes at a difficult time for the financial planning industry. It has been collateral damage
in the fight between the industry funds and retail funds over the Future of Financial Advice and the
introduction of a mild form of competition to default funds in modern industry awards.

However, Kelaher is confident that rising professional standards in the industry will ensure the
provision of quality advice will become the norm.

tony.boyd@afr.com.au Twitter @TonyBoydAFR

Tony Boyd

RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140516ea5h00026

Page256of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.