Spotless pie shout after $1b float

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Spotless pie shout after $1b float

Inside the deal
850 words
24 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
38
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

It's fitting that Spotless Group chief Bruce Dixon commemorated the cleaning and catering services
company's float on the local sharemarket by demolishing a Four'N Twenty pie at a pub in Melbourne
on Friday night.

Dixon was flanked by his management team, and likely made the decision to keep the festivities simple
after media outrage that he would rake in a $20 million payday as the company floated, while punters
were ripped off for pies and chips at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. That story earned Dixon the
nickname "pie man" inside the Spotless camp.

But the process to float Spotless after two years as a private company, has not been all beers, pies
and easy goals. Those who remember the rambunctious former Spotless chairman Peter Smedley –
and the nine-month battle by Pacific Equity Partners (PEP) to acquire the troubled company – knew
an initial public offering would require some lateral thinking.

Investment bankers started approaching and pitching ideas to vendor PEP about a year ago, as it
became clearer the local float window would be nudged ajar. Cost cuts were achieved sooner than
expected, allowing for an accelerated timetable for Spotless to rejoin the local sharemarket.

PEP's Anthony Kerwick, Rob Koczkar and Geoff Hutchinson turned to boutique adviser Highbury
Partnership and law firm Gilbert + Tobin. Highbury co-founder Matt Roberts worked under senior PEP
executives at consultancy Bain & Co. It wasn't until February and March that the ball really got rolling.

There was a formal pitching process including the likes of Macquarie Capital and Goldman Sachs, and
some bankers donned broom and mop cufflinks for the occasion. Spotless, originally established in
1946 as a domestic dry cleaner, was now a truly diversified facilities management and services
provider.

For the IPO mandate, existing relationships and experience won out. UBS, which had helped to float
Danish peer ISS, was on deck as were Citigroup and Deutsche Bank. Evans & Partners become the
retail broker. Coincidentally, David Evans's father Ron Evans ran Spotless from 1992 to 2004.
Investec and Citigroup advised PEP on the protracted acquisition four years ago. It resulted in a
$723 million deal after the Spotless board was pressured to back down.
Deutsche spearheaded PEP's financing of the acquisition and has also subsequently aided the
company on the debt side last year. UBS was led by Andrew Stevens and Simon Cox, while
Deutsche's deal team included Justin Dwyer, co-head of industrials and financial sponsors, Hamish
Whitehead, head of the equity capital markets syndicate, and ECM boss Michael Richardson. Over at
Citigroup, investment and corporate banking chief Tony Osmond, head of ECM John McLean and
director Dragi Ristevski were on hand.

From early on the joint managers anticipated some hostility locally. Some domestic fund managers,
still baring scars from Spotless Mark 1, were sceptical. Comparable domestic companies were few and

Page72of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.far between and it became clear that offshore marketing was key. Overseas-based rivals ISS
and Aramark were noted as comparable companies. And the float was dubbed "Project Halley",
perhaps after the comet.
Former Qantas chair Margaret Jackson was recruited to lead the Spotless board and PEP's
Hutchinson and Koczkar (who is leaving the buyout firm) will also have board seats.
Three global roadshows in April, more than usual, took on the well-travelled route – Singapore, Hong
Kong, London and New York. After the first trip a London-based investor reportedly rang the
managers asking for $350 million of stock. That interest provided some encouragement, even as the
Australian contingent peppered Spotless about the earnings trajectory.

PEP's contentious advisory fees, paid to itself, and linked to the IPO pricing, were also again a talking
point .

As the process moved forward, the greenshoe after-market support mechanism – which is common in
other markets like the US – became a real option.

A greenshoe – where book runners effectively short-sell stock in order to buy it back if it falls below the
issue price – was also used when QR National floated. A good old-fashioned coin toss was used at
PEP's Sydney offices to decide that UBS would manage the greenshoe. With the usual game of cat
and mouse occurring among domestic fund managers, the offer was priced at the bottom of the range.
On Wednesday, PEP kicked off the IPO, raising $994.6 million by selling 621.6 million shares at
$1.60 apiece. A consortium of PEP, the firm's co-investors and management retained a 49.4 per cent
stake in the company.

The allocation meeting was conducted remotely. Talk that the book was seven times over-subscribed
inflated the outcome, but needless to say the offer was multiple times covered.

Close to 130 institutions picked up shares, but some investors received substantially less than 10 per
cent of their preferred allocation. After a strong rally in the stock on Friday, the PEP team and some of
the bankers retired for a late lunch, perhaps a pie, at the Beresford in Surry Hills.

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

peprt : Pacific Equity Partners | spless : Spotless Group Ltd
i661 : Restaurants/Cafes/Fast Food Places | i66 : Hotels/Restaurants | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality |
i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150203 : Private Equity | i981 : Dry Cleaning/Laundry
Services | ialtinv : Alternative Investments | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ifinal : Financial
Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | iscsv : Specialized Consumer Services
c1711 : Initial Public Offerings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c02 : Corporate Changes | c14 :
Stock Listings | c17 : Funding/Capital | c171 : Share Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140523ea5o00028

Page73of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.