A NEW partnership between Fonterra and Chinese infant

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

ON THE LAND
A NEW partnership between Fonterra and Chinese infant

250 words
28 August 2014
The Warrnambool Standard
FWARST
18
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

A NEW partnership between Fonterra and Chinese infant food manufacturer Beingmate will
revolutionise the supply chain into China.
The Darnum processing plant in Gippsland will play a key role in the deal, worth $NZ615 million.

Fonterra New Zealand will form a fully integrated supply chain deal with Beingmate, which has a
10 per cent share of China's infant formula market.

Announcing the deal in Melbourne yesterday, Fonterra Australia managing director Judith Swales
said the Darnum plant could be expanded to produce 100,000 tonnes per year with minimal
investment.
Ms Swales said the partnership was a "game changer" for dairy in Australia.
Fonterra is planning to buy a 20 per cent stake in Beingmate then establish an Australian joint
venture that will buy the Darnum plant to supply infant formula to Beingmate for its brand in
China.
The deal is subject to approval by the Foreign Investment Review Board.

Under the deal, Beingmate would own 51 per cent of the Darnum plant.
Fonterra's own infant formula brand, Anmum, will become more readily available in China
through an exclusive distribution agreement with Beingmate.
The infant formula market in China is worth $NZ18 billion today and expected to be worth $NZ33
billion by 2017.

Fonterra also announced infrastructure investments in New Zealand that will increase its
processing capacity by 10 per cent to meet growing production.

shynes@fairfaxmedia.com

CO
IN

RE

PUB
AN

foncop : Fonterra Co-operative Group Limited
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy Products | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood : Food
Products
china : China | austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FWARST0020140827ea8s00010

Page14of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.