Free-trade pact to open doors in China

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Free-trade pact to open doors in China

Glenda Korporaal
1,318 words
23 September 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
22
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

A huge market awaits Australian food and wine exports
Nanning businessman He Lining is looking forward to Australia signing a free-trade pact with China.

As a senior executive in the Investment Promotion division of the Guangxi Beibu Gulf Investment
Group, the Western-educated He has already been to Australia several times to negotiate deals to
import Australian wine and other food products into China — including dairy, mineral water and
lobster.

In the foyer of his office, in central Nanning, the capital of the Guangxi Autonomous Region in
southwestern China — a state of 53 million people — there is a store selling wine from Australia,
California and Chile. It is one of 15 wholesale outlet stores his company has around China.
“Australian wine and food has a great reputation in China,” he says in an interview at the headquarters
of the giant investment company, which is owned by the state government of Guangxi.
“If the tariffs on Australian wine and food can be eliminated there will be a lot more demand.” At the
moment, he says, Chilean wine is popular as there is no tariff on its importation.
But if the tariffs on Australian wine and food products come down, he says, prices will come down and
the demand will go up.
A “sea turtle”, Mr He came back to China three years ago after living for many years in the US where
he studied and then lectured in economics.
He is excited about what he sees as the new China with an increasingly affluent middle-class now
trying new food such as wine and dairy products. His office is surrounded by modern high-rise
apartment blocks and office towers.

“All of this is new in the past five years,” he says.
If there is an economic slump going on in China, no one has told the people of Nanning, the
prosperous capital of Guangxi with a population of more than seven million people. Cranes still dot the
skyline of rows of high-rise apartment blocks and hoardings surround new developments.
Unlike many of the big cities on China’s east coast, Nanning has managed to keep its air pollution
down with the use of electric motor scooters as well as cars.

It makes for a strangely silent feeling on the roads despite the steady streams of motorcycles, which in
many instances have their own lanes, separate from the cars Once the centre of a vast agricultural
province, which still produces 70 per cent of China’s sugar, Nanning is now very much a modern city
which is becoming a growing centre for Chinese business with Southeast Asia.

Page66of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.This week it hosted the 11th annual China-ASEAN expo, a giant trade fair that attracts thousands of
businesses from across the region.
Electronic manufacturing company Foxconn is building a new $800 million plant on the outskirts of
town to manufacture tablets and smart phones for Apple.

It was part of a deliberate move by the state government to attract more manufacturing to the region
and a decision by Foxconn to move inland where labour is a lot cheaper than its home base in
Shenzhen, across the border from Hong Kong.
Mr He takes us to an upmarket supermarket opposite his office that is selling Australian wine, including
Rosemont Estate, Lindemans, Wynns Coonawarra Estate, Brown Brothers, Penfolds Bin 407 Cabernet
Sauvignon and Moss Wood from the Margaret River.
There is also a small selection of Australian meat and UHT milk produce, including packs of
Devondale full cream milk and Bega cheese.
He can see the changing demand of Chinese consumers now wanting to buy foreign-made wine and
food products, particularly dairy, and is keen to see more Australian food products come into the
southwest region of China, where he now lives.

“Maybe I should come and talk to your senators to tell them to sign the free trade pact,” he jokes “Ten
years ago in China, nobody drank wine. Now they are trying wine and high-end food products. Bottled
water was a luxury in China many years ago. Now you can buy it anywhere.” At the moment a bottle
of imported wine can easily sell for about $100, but Mr He points out that if the price can come down,
more middle-class Chinese would be willing to try more as their tastes are changing and they are
becoming more adventurous.

Mr He admits that the crackdown on corruption has seen a cutback in the demand for luxury goods
including wine by public officials in China. But he argues that this is more than offset by a big increase
in demand for wine by business people and others in the private sector.
The most popular brand of Australian wine sold by the Beibu group is a Cabernet Sauvignon called
The Corker, produced by the Salena Estate. It also sells a much sweeter Pink Moscato, which is
popular with young women, and a Moscato Bianco.
Mr He argues that Australia needs to appreciate that there are many regions in China with significant
market potential, not just the big eastern cities of Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou.

“We are more diverse than what a lot of foreigners think,” he says. “Nanning is a modern,
well-managed city which needs more visibility.” Subtropical Nanning, which is a sister city with
Bundaberg in Queensland — a relationship going back to the earlier days of the sugar industry — has
a coastal region and a deep sea port and a border with Vietnam.
Mr He, who points out that the Guangxi coast is the closest distance between China and Australia,
says the installation of cold storage plants on the ports would make it easier for Guangxi to import
more food products from Australia.
“The installation of more cold storage facilities would see more and more Australian dairy products in
China,” he says.
Nanning has not been on the map for most Australian business but it is starting to change. Mr He says
he has met four delegations of Australian business people this year, including those involved in baby
food and meat products.

Mr He says Australia has a good reputation for both its clean food and other products, adding that he
has friends in Nanning who ask their friends in Australia to send Australian baby food formula as well
as baby strollers and car seats. Mr He argues that there is also a market in Guangxi for snack
products, such as peanuts, macadamia nuts and dried fruit.
Part of the new breed of internationally educated Chinese businessmen, Mr He acknowledges the
slowdown in the Chinese economy but argues that an economy growing at about 7 per cent is a lot
more sustainable than the 10 per cent a year the Chinese economy has been recording in the past.
“China is in a new normal at this stage,” he says.
“In the past we had growth rates of up to 14 per cent a year. Today 7 per cent for a country of China’s
size is strikingly well. We do see a slowdown but I feel more comfortable now than in the ‘golden days’

Page67of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.when growth was at 13 and 14 per cent.” Mr He argues that foreigners often don’t appreciate the
potential market in the more inland parts of China, including Guangxi.

Nanning is about to be connected to five high-speed rail lines from eastern cities such as Beijing and
Wuhan. “It will change people’s lives,” he says.
Mr He hopes that the trade pact between Australia and China is signed soon and that Australian
companies take the initiative to sell more food to China.
“More and more foreigners are tapping into the Chinese market. Australia can work with us on food
products. There is huge potential here.”Glenda Korporaal was in Nanning as a guest of the
China-ASEAN trade expo.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

c315 : Conferences/Exhibitions | e512 : Physical Trade | gdip : International Relations | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News | gcat :
Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations
china : China | austr : Australia | guanx : Guangxi | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140922ea9n0002u

Page68of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.