Toll Holdings backs out of Asian expansion

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Toll Holdings backs out of Asian expansion

By business reporter Stephen Letts
370 words
25 November 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) News
ABCNEW
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

Logistics business Toll Holdings has reversed its aggressive expansion into Asia as part of $100 million
asset sale to boost profits.

The corporate restructure includes selling Toll Global Express Asia, an Indian trucking business and
shipping businesses in northern Australia and Asia.

As well, Toll is looking at selling the land its Singapore oil and gas depot is built on and an airport
services unit, Toll Dnata.

"These decisions reflect our drive to improve sustainable shareholder returns through our focus on return
on capital employed," Toll managing director Brian Kruger said in a statement to the ASX.
He said the sales will have multiple benefits for the company including "releasing significant capital
presently tied up in real estate, exiting loss making businesses, and selling businesses that are non-core
to Toll to more natural long term owners."
Global Express Asia is based in Singapore and operates in the key markets of China and Hong Kong.
It was purchased from Qantas for more than $40 million in 2010 as part of Toll's ambitious attempt to
break into the Asian parcel market and establish a global logistics and freight network.
However, the company now concedes that the business lacks the critical mass to be competitive in the
region.

Toll will also sell the remaining 37 vessels in its Marine Logistics Asia business which primarily operates
tugboats for bulk commodity carriers in Indonesia.
The company says given the ongoing deterioration in the Indonesian market, the business faces up to
$60 million in write-offs and exit costs.

Toll also plans to sell its northern Australian shipping assets that operate out of Darwin and Cairns and
service remote communities in the Gulf of Carpentaria and Torres Strait.
The $45 million sale to another operator in the region - Sea Swift - remains subject to ACCC approval.
Mr Kruger said the cash proceeds from the deals - excluding the sale of the Singapore oil and gas depot
land – are expected to exceed $100 million.

The sales are expected to be finalised by July next year.

At 11:30am (AEDT) Toll shares had risen 0.4 per cent to $5.45 against a generally weaker market.

CO
IN

dnata : dnata | tolhld : Toll Holdings Ltd | emrgru : Emirates Group
i77002 : Freight Transportation Arrangement | iairtr : Air Transport | icargo : Freight/Cargo Transport | itsp
: Transportation/Shipping

Page44of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Toll

RE
IPD
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCNEW0020141125eabp0000p

Page45of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.