Hotel starts things moving

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Hotel starts things moving

IAN KIRKWOOD
738 words
2 June 2014
The Newcastle Herald
NEHR
First
17
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

hunterbusiness

NEWCASTLE Airport takes another step towards maturity today when construction starts on an $18
million Mercure hotel.

The four-storey hotel, being built by Hunter firm GWH Build, is going up on the corner of Nelson Bay
Road and Williamtown Drive and should be finished a year from now.

GWH Build partner Hilton Grugeon has long been bullish about development opportunities at
Williamtown, believing privately held land around the airport will be steadily transformed from farmland
to commercial space.
Newcastle Airport Hotel consortium chairman Geoff Barnett says "the vision of Hilton Grugeon and
Port Stephens Council on rezoning this land for this hotel highlights their commitment to making this
airport a huge success".
Accor Pacific chief operating officer Simon McGrath says it will be the 40th Mercure hotel in Australia.

HARDWARE STORE OPENING

THE march of the big hardware stores continues with Bunnings soon to open its Wallsend outlet.

Complex manager Alan Harvey says 190 people have already been signed on as employees at
Wallsend.

Hunter Business has been told an official opening is scheduled for this week, with the store set to open
next week.

HUNTLEE APPOINTMENT

LWP has hired University of Newcastle civil engineering graduate Glenn Swan as its inaugural
development manager for Huntlee.

Swan has more than 15 years' experience under his belt with Newcastle engineering firms including
Worley Parsons.

DAY OFF FOR MINERS

THE second Voice for Mining Family Day is at Hunter Stadium next Sunday with the Newcastle
Knights taking on the Wests Tigers.

Last year's event generated a lot of publicity for its sponsor, the NSW Minerals Council, and the
council's chief executive, Stephen Galilee, expects 5000 miners, family and friends to take part again
this year.

Page125of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.For the first time, the Knights will turn out in a special one-off jersey inspired by the mine workers'
high-visibility vests.

The Mining Family Day is dedicated to "the 15,000 mine workers and their families who live in the
Hunter and love their footy".

HOSPITAL IMPROVEMENTS

NEWCASTLE Private Hospital, in the grounds of the John Hunter Hospital campus at New Lambton
Heights, is part way through a $6.5 million program of renovations.

Hospital general manager Michael Mitchell says the improvements include a new operating theatre, a
new five-bed coronary unit, a larger surgical admission unit and seven new patient rooms.
CHINESE INTEREST PIQUED

PRDnationwide Newcastle and Lake Macquarie managing director Mark Kentwell says the University
of Newcastle's new $95 million inner-city campus will push up inner-city apartment prices.
It will also "galvanise Chinese investment in the city".
Mr Kentwell says Chinese investment in Newcastle real estate is negligible but "they are obviously
aware of the city".
"Typically, the Chinese like to buy close to tertiary institutions and project marketing offices on the
Gold Coast are reporting up to 70 per cent of new apartment sales are to Chinese buyers who are
purchasing close to local universities or in areas that are readily accessible to them."

FIGHT FOR RECOGNITION

HUNTER Business Chamber president Richard Anicich says Maitland and Cessnock should benefit
from inclusion in the Resources for Regions program but there was still "work to do" to have Lake
Macquarie recognised for its "significant connection" to the industry.

Mr Anicich says the chamber formed the Hunter Coal Industry Alliance last year and through it has
fought for a "clear public statement of clarity regarding the industry" from the state government.

The Minerals Industry Action Plan should help, he says.

DID YOU KNOW

COAL exports from Newcastle are likely to level out in the coming year as the final wave of new and
expanded mines in the Upper Hunter and Gunnedah come on line.

Source: HVRF economic indicators.

From the Hunter Valley Research Foundationwww.hvrf.com.au

DIARY

DATES

Wednesday, June 4: Start your own business, the Business Centre, King Street, Newcastle, 5.30pm

Friday, June 6: HVRF economic breakfast, Wests New Lambton, 7am.

Tuesday, June 10: Hunternet Defence Forum, 251 Wharf Road, Newcastle, from 8am. Singleton
Chamber of Commerce, chamber meeting, 12.30pm.

THEBIZ
"We have not seen the likes of China and never seen the emergence of civilisational power in such a
compressed period of time with a value system so different to the West with an open market oriented
economy and central command socialist political structure." Australian Foreign Minister Julie Bishop

RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document NEHR000020140602ea620001o

Page126of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Page127of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.