Closure looms large for Otter Juan

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

WestReg
Closure looms large for Otter Juan

Jarrod Lucas
524 words
28 March 2014
Kalgoorlie Miner
KALGOO
First
3
English
(c) 2014 West Australian Newspapers Limited

Kambalda’s oldest producing nickel mine will close within days, but Mincor Resources says there
could be another chapter for its Otter Juan mine.

The underground mine is a link to nickel’s boom days and has been in near-continuous operation
since 1970, producing more than 315,000 tonnes of nickel over four decades.

Mincor squeezed out as much life as possible with plans to close in mid-2012, but Otter Juan and
the neighbouring McMahon mine received a lifeline last year when they moved to a single shift.

Both will be placed on care and maintenance, with most of the small workforce absorbed by
Mincor’s flagship Miitel and Mariners operations, which have at least another three years’ mine life.

“It has been a stalwart performer and has been the source of about one-third of Kambalda’s nickel
in just that one mine,” Mincor managing director David Moore said.

“It is really the granddaddy of them all.

“It has been a fabulous performer for Mincor, but for the last several years it has been a fairly small
contributor in terms of overall production.”
Debt-free Mincor has spent $5 million on new underground equipment at Mariners and Miitel and
is well placed with $64.6 million at December 31 as it embarks on a widespread exploration
campaign at Kambalda, including Otter Juan.

“That part of the Kambalda dome has been very prolific and has proved very rich and there are a
number of targets at Otter we still want to test from inside the workings,” Mr Moore said.

Mincor acquired Otter Juan, McMahon and the Durkin mine in 2007 as part of its $68.5m takeover
of Goldfields Mine Management, the private company owned by Kalgoorlie contractors David
Williams, Ross Graham, Peter Bowman and Michael Foulds.
By mid-2008, Otter Juan had generated an operating surplus of $79 million.

“That was a humdinger of a deal for us,” Mr Moore said.
“We got that back on a cash basis in the first year of operations, so it was a great acquisition.”

The dark days of the global financial crisis have long hovered over WA’s nickel sector, but it has
seemingly turned a corner this year, with metal prices rising on the back of Indonesia’s export ban.
It is expected to squeeze Chinese supplies in early 2015, while a changing of the guard could also
be on the cards with ongoing speculation about a sale of Nickel West, where Mincor has a
long-term off-take agreement at BHP Billiton’s Kambalda nickel concentrator.

Page218of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Moore said Mincor was on track to meet its full-year guidance of 8500 tonnes to 9000 tonnes of
nickel-in-ore after a successful first half yielded 5618 tonnes at cash costs of $4.46/lb.

He said extensive cost cutting meant Mincor was well placed in a “bullish” nickel market.

“As the price starts to lift, we are very lean and fit and ready to take full advantage of it,” he said.

Mincor shares closed down 2.1 per cent yesterday at 67 cents.

i2114 : Copper Ore/Nickel Ore Mining | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document KALGOO0020140327ea3s0000h

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

Page219of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.