Future Kids interview: Samantha Malkoun

Neil King

HD Future Kids interview: Samantha Malkoun
BY
WC 1,593 words
PD
2 April 2014
SN
ArabianBusiness.com
SC
ARBUS
LA
English
CY © 2014 IPT Digital. Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com Company All Rights Reserved.
LP

Statistics about the brain are manifold and fascinating.Did you know that the energy used by the brain is
enough to light a 25 watt bulb?

TD

Or that it has one trillion nerve connections based on 100 billion nerve cells, is 75 percent water, and only
weighs about three pounds?It’s one of the most sophisticated and powerful parts of the human body, but
perhaps still one of the least well known, even by experts.And although widely discredited, the
much-repeated maxim that we only use ’10 percent of our brains’ gets us thinking at the very least about
the highly likely possibility that we’re not using them to their full potential.This is something that Samantha
Malkoun is trying to change.The native Australian launched Future Kids late last year - and education
centre for children aged six months to six years designed to give more weight to the training of the right
side of the brain - the side which is too often neglected in conventional education.The right side of the
brain is more focused on emotional, expressive and creative tasks, while the left side of the brain is more
logic driven, believed to be better at analytical thinking and reasoning.Most school systems across the
globe tend to lean towards left sided learning, but Future Kids aims to buck the trend by offering training
for both sides of the brain, with an emphasis on the right.Describing herself as a "creative person",
Malkoun taught adults and children in China for 18 months using a variety of unorthodox methods.Article
continued on next page...She says: "We did things like putting a magazine together - getting the students
to write the different stories, piecing it all together, and so on. It was a lot of fun and they got a lot out of
it."The mother of three also worked with brain training in Australia for six years, and when she moved her
family to Dubai, she decided to carry on where she left off and set up a brain training centre."I always say
the same thing," she says. "What spurred me on is that I had a child who was eight months old, and all the
activities available to us were based around baby groups and coffee meet-ups for mums. There were a
couple of nurseries and things like that, but nothing more."We would go to Melbourne Symphony
Orchestra sessions, book readings from authors, and things like that which gave a greater element of
education. But I found I wanted my children to start school and be ahead of the game. I didn’t want them
to have any difficulties with their learning."Notable differences in her children’s behaviour led to other
parents asking what she was doing differently, which would later lead to Future Kids launching in Dubai’s
Knowledge Village."I would give my fourteen month old daughter an instruction and she’d understand and
follow it," she says. "She was able to speak early as well, and everything I was doing with her was really
helping her development."We had been coming to Dubai on and off for about six years because my
husband owns Arabian horses here. Eventually we decided to move permanently, so I decided to open
Future Kids."With the help of TECOM, Malkoun was able to set up her business "relatively easily",
explaining that she had "a lot of support from my TECOM representative, which really helped a huge
amount."Indeed, she says she had more difficulties starting a bank account.Article continued on next
page...The smooth setting-up process gave her more time and energy to put towards her fledgling
company, ensuring Future Kids made good on its promise to ‘maximise chrildren’s potential development
and skills’."Getting our programmes right was essential," she says."What we do is right brain training. Most
programmes out there are left brain, with an objective, factual approach. We want to create a
balance."Recent research shows children who have balance perform much better than those who have a
weighting to the left brain. It doesn’t mean we don’t look at the left brain, we just try to balance things
out."Developing the right brain can actually help children perform left-brain orientated tasks too, so we try
to link the two sides so they work together."The Future Kids programme includes several sensory, visual,
and observational classes, using music and games to help the children learn."They’re not just fun though,"
explains Malkoun. "Each activity has a reason behind it. For example, we do an imagination activity where
we picture a bubble above our heads and we blow it up bit by bit until it explodes. This is fun, but it also

Page245of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.teaches the children how to control their breath."You really do see the difference. Most babies will come
for about ten weeks, and by the end of that time they will have better focus and concentration. Their
eye-tracking will improve, their observation will be better, and so on."We have a lot of music activities
which help them with sound processing and helps them hear perfect pitch. Much of what we do builds their
general knowledge, and it helps them express themselves better. They have more resources to drawn
on."Article continued on next page...One of the key aspects of Future Kids that Malkoun is proud of is the
way the company promotes parent-child integration.She explains that she doesn’t want parents to "leave
their kids here and that’s it’, but to use the centre as a foundation for improved interaction at home.She
says: "We’re asking parents to take on board the importance of working with their child - especially in the
baby age group."We have a classroom environment, but we like mums and dads to be there. It promotes
such a positive engagement. When their baby counts from one to ten and they know they’ve had a big
hand in helping them, it means so much."The centre opened in October last year, and has already
expanded, taking on two new teachers to take staff numbers to eight.A second centre is also due to open
in Jumeirah imminently."The reaction has been brilliant," says Malkoun. "Mums are glowing and the kids
are learning a lot. It’s really rewarding. They can’t believe that their children are maintaining their
concentration so well, or making such big advances in the way they play and interact. The way the parents
interact with them is really changing."One of the reasons she cites is that Future Kids offers a viable
alternative to the existing options, adding: "Parents tend to like coming here because they don’t want to go
to nursery. What we do isn’t day care - it’s always educational.Article continued on next page..."We also
teach the nannies. Parents often don’t want nannies at home all day, so we teach them how to speak with
the children in a different way to help foster the child’s development."Everything we do has to be focused
on being supportive and positive, whether it’s for the kids, parents, carers, nannies, or anybody else."With
the working culture in the region putting a lot of strain on parents and the time they have available to be
with their children, Malkoun also says she would like to help strengthen familial bonds."Children often
spend a lot of time away from their parents, and it’s something we ned to pay attention to."Speech is one
thing in particular. When parents put their children with nannies all the time, there is usually a difference in
language, and certainly in speech, which is challenging for the child in terms of development, expression
and so on."I’d love to see parents spending half an hour every day with their kids at the very least. The
kids love that connection, and if the parents are helping them learn, they will love learning even
more.Article continued on next page..."Across all groups the key is a love of learning. You can’t instil that
so easily after six years old - you have to do it early. Your brain is fully formed by age of six, so after that
you lose the ability to develop children who love learning. If they haven’t had that focus before they are six
years old, it’s hard to give it to them.""A lot of parents are amazed at how much a baby can pick up at just
a few months old - but they have such an amazing capability. Exposure to specific stimuli can really
benefit them."While the company helps develop children’s brains, it appears young people are the only
ones growing.Having been so well received in such a short space of time, expansion plans have already
come into the foreground."We definitely want to grow," Malkoun says. "We’ve been to Malta to the Ministry
of Education. They’re thinking of having us as part of the national curriculum. Qatar, Oman, Kuwait, and
around the Middle East people are interested. As well as London, South Africa, and even Nigeria."It’s just
a case of doing things in the right way."If the first few months are anything to go by, it doesn’t take a
genius to see that Malkoun and Future Kids are managing that very well already.

RE

dubai : Dubai | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | gulfstz :
Persian Gulf Region | meastz : Middle East | uae : United Arab Emirates | wasiaz : Western Asia

IPD interviews
PUB Arabian Business Publishing Ltd
AN Document ARBUS00020140402ea4200002

Page246of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.