$550m Promenade proves a star attraction for Chinese buyers

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PrimeSpace
$550m Promenade proves a star attraction for Chinese buyers

KYLAR LOUSSIKIAN, RESIDENTIAL
516 words
8 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
28
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

The first stage of Chinese property developer Fuxing Huiyu’s $550 million Promenade project in
Parramatta has sold out after unexpectedly strong demand over the weekend.

Hao Liu, director of Starryland, the subsidiary of Fuxing Huiyu tasked with the development in Sydney’s
west, said the 124 apartments available to buyers sold out after just two days, and a further 153
apartments were to be reserved until displays were finalised in June or July. Savills is handling
pre-sales.

Starryland is developing a 5ha residential estate on land it purchased last year.
The Shanghai-based group has been closely watched after it unveiled national ambitions by
purchasing a Southbank property in Melbourne this year.
The Parramatta apartments sold to mainly Chinese buyers, who were interested in the Australian
market because of restrictions on apartment purchases in China, according to Mr Liu.
“Another aspect is the cultural one,” he said. “Property is a favourite investment, and Chinese parents
are especially buying for their kids.” He said the company was already looking for opportunities in
Sydney’s CBD, but was yet to identify a specific site.

Construction on the first stage of the Promenade project will begin late next month, Mr Liu said.
Starryland is yet to obtain DA approval for the second stage of Promenade.

Although Parramatta Lord Mayor John Chedid was unaware of the specifics of that proposal, he was
broadly supportive of the development. “This project is close to the CBD and that’s where it should be,
close to the university and the foreshore,” Mr Chedid said. “It’s an appropriate location.” Once
completed, the development could include up to 11 towers. “Promenade is in keeping with the style of
residential communities we create in China, and we want it to set a benchmark to establish our
credentials in Sydney as a quality developer,” Mr Liu said.

“We selected Parramatta because it is already a cosmopolitan centre with the potential to become even
better.” There are already several other major projects planned for Parramatta, including the 3ha
Parramatta Square precinct and the twin Altitude Apartments being developed by Meriton.
“These will be a combination of retail, residential and commercial, and over 30 storeys,” Mr Chedid
said. “That’s what we want to see as a city: sustainable development that provides jobs and livelihood.”
Separately, Mr Chedid is still hopeful that a proposed 90-storey, 336m residential tower will be given
clearance by the Sydney Airport Authority. The Mayor said he had spoken to Deputy Prime Minister
Warren Truss about flight risks due to the tower’s height and redirecting flight paths away from the
proposed building. “I’m hoping for a response sooner rather than later. We’d like to know before the end
of June,” he said.

Page52of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In the latest sign of the area’s growth, Colliers International has been appointed to sell a 4.85ha
development site in Melrose Park that was rezoned allowing for mixed use development.Harry Bui and
Guillaume Volz of Colliers International have the property.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

gplan : Urban Planning/Development | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International
Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics
china : China | austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140507ea580003w

Page53of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.