China brings good fortune to winemaker

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
China brings good fortune to winemaker

Kerstin Kehren
421 words
26 September 2014
Courier Mail
COUMAI
CourierMail
35
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

A GROWING taste among Chinese consumers for expensive wine is helping a major Queensland
label boost its exports.
Mt Cotton winemaker Sirromet is tapping the Chinese market through home deliveries – wherever the
consumer lives.

“We’ve had wine on the backs of yaks heading into the hills of Mongolia,” Sirromet’s sales and
marketing director Rod Hill said.
The home delivery service made up 44 per cent of Sirromet’s Chinese revenue last financial year and
growth in the year to date had been encouraging, he said.
Mr Hill said the value of sales in its home delivery business had grown 52 per cent in the September
quarter, compared to the same time last year.
Mr Hill said Sirromet’s Signature premium wines sold in China for about $50, while a bottle of its
super premium St Jude’s wine fetches an impressive $1000. The latter drop carries a price tag of
$390 in Australia. The large pricing disparity comes, in part, from the high taxes China places on
wine imports.
Mr Hill also said Chinese consumers had no preconceptions about Queensland wines and so judged
the product on its merits.
Sirromet’s 2010 St Jude’s Shiraz won gold at the 2013 China Wine Awards and it’s Signature
Collection Merlot won a double gold at this year’s event.
The company’s success in China (the value of its total exports grew by 14 per cent last financial
year) is bucking a wider industry trend in which Queensland wine exports to the Asian nation have
fallen from earlier highs.
According to Australian Grape and Wine Authority senior analyst Mark Rowley, that slump was due in
part to austerity measures introduced in China in late 2012 aimed at putting the brakes on official
corruption.
Mr Hill said the crackdown had affected Sirromet’s business in China. “That said, we are fortunate
that our home delivery business has been built on the back of Chinese inbound tourism, which in our
case is predominantly middle-class Chinese private buyers,” he said.
Mr Hill said a large part of Sirromet’s good fortune was based on its efforts to attract Chinese tourists
to its winery southeast of Brisbane where they could taste the product.Sirromet exported the
equivalent of about 120,000 bottles of wine to China last financial year. Mr Hill said there was huge
growth potential in China where only 19 million people consumed wine and only half of those
Australian wine.

Page31of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

i426 : Wine | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge :
Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods
gwine : Wine | gcat : Political/General News | gfod : Food/Drink | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gwbs :
Wine/Beer/Spirits
china : China | austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document COUMAI0020140925ea9q0004q

Page32of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.