Winners shine at WA Industry and Export Awards

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Winners shine at WA Industry and Export Awards

1,257 words
24 October 2014
ForeignAffairs.co.nz
PARALL
English
Copyright 2014. Multimedia Investments Ltd. All rights reserved.

MIL OSI -

Source: Government of Western Australia - Press Release/Statement:

Headline: Winners shine at WA Industry and Export Awards
The Manjimup-based Truffle and Wine Company has taken out top honours in the 2014 WA Industry
and Export Awards, winning the Premier’s Award for Excellence and Regional Exporter of the Year.
Commerce Minister Michael Mischin said The Truffle and Wine Company - the world’s single largest
producer of highly prized black Perigord truffles - was a true Western Australian success story.
“From humble beginnings in 1997, the company has grown into a world-class business, supplying
Michelin Star chefs and top restaurants in more than 40 countries around the world,” Mr Mischin said.
“The company also produces award-winning wines and truffle products for the delicatessen and tourism
industries and is a prime example of the level of innovation, talent and drive we have here in WA.

Other winners include The Perth Mint, Atlas Pearls and Perfumes, and MetroCount.

“The awards honour the success of Western Australian businesses and acknowledge their contribution
to our State’s economic and social development, prosperity and growth,” the Minister said.

“The diversity of industry sectors represented this year was outstanding, ranging from science and
clinical research to resources, information technology and the pearl industry, and I congratulate all of the
winners on their success.”

Western Australian winners automatically progress as finalists in the national Australian Export Awards,
which will be announced in Sydney on November 27, 2014.

Fact File

*

Now in its 26th year, the awards cover categories including agribusiness, marketing and design,
minerals and energy, biotechnology and small business

*

The awards program is co-ordinated by the Department of Commerce and sponsored by ANZ,
AusIndustry, Austrade, Chevron, EFIC, Fremantle Ports, Rio Tinto, The West Australian and its regional
newspapers

Minister’s office - 6552 5600

Industry Awards

C.Y. O’Connor Award for Excellence in Engineering and Technology

Page69of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Total Marine Technology (Bibra Lake) is unique in Australia as the only company designing and building
world-class remotely operated underwater vehicles (ROVs). The vehicles are a combination of
cutting-edge technologies that require a multi-disciplined engineering team and world-class
manufacturing facility. As the only ROV and underwater tooling manufacturer in the Southern
Hemisphere, Total Marine Technology’s consistent product evolution cycles and expertise positions it for
continued growth in the global expansion of the deep-water underwater intervention market.

Marketing and Design Excellence Award

The Perth Mint (East Perth) has for 27 years been successfully manufacturing and marketing Australia’s
official bullion coin program, comprising a trio of premier metals - gold, silver and platinum. The Mint also
produces a range of custom minting coin programs, issued on behalf of overseas government authorities
for private and corporate clients, and supplies coin blanks to other prestigious mints throughout the
world.

Innovation Excellence Award

Atlas Pearls and Perfumes (Nedlands) operates one of the boldest aquaculture and land-based farming
businesses in the world. It specialises in the production and supply of the highest quality South Sea
pearls to some of the most influential global luxury brands including Mikimoto and Tiffany, as well as
their own pearl jewellery range.

Export Awards

Agribusiness Export Award - Atlas Pearls and Perfumes (Nedlands); Special Commendation: The Truffle
and Wine Company
Small Business Export Award

Vekta Automation (Osborne Park) started in October 2009 when it purchased the intellectual property to
a machine for the timber truss and frame industry. Through innovation, Vekta has been able to break
into a niche market and succeed in a volatile industry. Five years later and Vekta has expanded from
one product to four. With an average of 80 per cent of its revenue derived from exporting, Vekta has the
highest market share of linear saws in New Zealand.
Special Commendation: The Truffle and Wine Company

Creative Industries Export Award

Vue DC Pty Ltd (Bunbury) is engaging in a joint venture to create a 4D cinema attraction in Pudong
Disneyland and more significantly, long-term joint ventures with China’s largest animated movie studio,
Shanghai Hippo Animation. The Bunbury-based company is involved in the most productive Chinese
movie joint venture achieved by an Australian company. It is also partnering in a movie with multi
Academy Award-winning UK company Bedlam Productions, producers of The King’s Speech.

Education And Training Export Award

Scitech (West Perth) has for 26 years, has been creating engaging and interactive science exhibitions in
New Zealand, Asia, the Middle East, Europe and the USA. Scitech has 11 touring exhibitions covering a
diverse range of topics including light, speed, transport, forensics, espionage, dinosaurs and space.

Healthcare and Biotechnology Export Award

Linear Clinical Research (Nedlands) is a Perth-based provider to the global pharmaceutical and
biotechnology industry, specialising in the conduct of first-in-human clinical trials. Linear is the only
organisation in WA, and one of four in Australia, dedicated to early phase clinical trials. Linear has
continued to enhance its reputation as a quality driven, cost-competitive organisation.

Information and Communication Technology Export Award

MetroCount (Hamilton Hill) has since 1987 manufactured traffic monitoring devices that are used
worldwide to provide comprehensive reports on vehicle speed, classification, time, headway and
separation. The company pioneered the airliner black box method of collecting raw data and analysing
it - a method which has now become industry standard. MetroCount’s engineering team has worked
hard to create useful hardware and software, which has consistently performed well in independent
reviews of the system’s accuracy.

Manufacturing Export Award

Page70of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Matrix Composites and Engineering Ltd (Henderson) is an ASX-listed company that provides
engineered products and services to the global oil and gas and mineral resources industries. Matrix has
been successfully exporting to a number of countries throughout Asia, the Americas and Europe for 15
years.

Special Commendation: Total Marine Technology

Minerals and Energy (and related services) Export Award

Atlas Iron (Perth) was established in 2004 with just one employee. It has grown to become one of
Australia’s largest iron ore exploration, mining and export companies, today ranking fourth in iron ore
exports from Australia. In this time, Atlas has started five mines in the Pilbara, a remarkable feat for such
a young company, and has increased its exports every year since it started production in 2008. Atlas
has exported product to China, India and Japan, with the company recently celebrating the export of 30
million tonnes.

Special Commendations: Matrix Composites and Engineering Ltd; Western Areas Ltd
Business Services Export Award

Mining Information Systems (Willetton) is a developer and vendor of mining software solutions to the
resources industry. The main products developed and sold internationally are Mine Management
Reporting Systems (MMRS), Process Management Reporting Systems (PMRS), Cube Data Analysis
Toolset (CDAT) and Corporate Extension Systems (CREX).

Regional Exporter
The Truffle and Wine Company (Manjimup) is the world’s single largest producer of the black truffle,
grown in Manjimup, WA. From the 2014 harvest, the company anticipates selling about five tonnes of
truffles. It also produces award-winning wines in the Shire of Manjimup, as well as truffle products for the
delicatessen and tourism industries. The company aims to have its truffles delivered anywhere in the
world within 24 to 48 hours of harvest and 95 per cent of their truffles are exported to the overseas
market.
Premier’s Award for Excellence - The Truffle and Wine Company (Manjimup)

Hall of Fame:

Matrix Composites and Engineering Ltd - Winners of the Manufacturing Export Award 2010, 2011 and
2014

MetroCount - Winners of Information and Communication Technology Export Award 2004, 2005 and
2014.

atpac : Atlas Pearls and Perfumes Limited
i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i03001 : Fish/Shellfish Farming | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
gpol : Domestic Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Asia Pacific Region

CO
IN
NS
RE
IPD
PUB Multimedia Investments Ltd
AN

Document PARALL0020141025eaao00024

Page71of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.