Housing inquiry's hot potato

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News - Opinion
Housing inquiry's hot potato

Jennifer Hewett
921 words
12 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
2
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Jennifer Hewett
Timing is always key in property – as in politics. And that will only increase the public's interest in the
report of a parliamentary inquiry into foreign investment in residential real estate.

While the committee's recommendations will be carefully phrased to apply to all foreign investment, it is
clearly the level of Chinese investment that underpins the politics – as well as some of the recent price
rises.

And it's now clear that the committee's recommendations will be extremely politically sensitive –
particularly the suggestion the federal government should be able to retrieve "windfall gains" from
property acquired in contravention of the rules and now worth considerably more.
Not that China is the driving force of the Australian property price phenomenon. But for people worried
about the effect of increasingly unaffordable housing, Chinese property purchases make a highly
visible target.
Real estate agents say the fall in the dollar is already increasing Australia's appeal to Chinese investors
despite the high prices. It is considered a safer bet than many other possible investments and an
effective way of getting money out of China and diversifying risk.Convenient delay

So it's very politically convenient that the report from the House of Representatives economics
committee, originally due last month, has been delayed until no later than November 28. This delay puts
it neatly past the visit to Australia of Xi Jinping and the focus on the importance of a free trade
agreement with China.
Recommendations on enforcing the strict rules on foreign (read Chinese) investment in housing – and
stiffening the penalties – are likely to play well domestically. Yet a critical examination of the level of
Chinese investment in Australian real estate, no matter how diplomatically phrased, will be another
delicate moment in bilateral relations with Australia's most important trading partner.

Liberal MP Kelly O'Dwyer, as committee chair, has already made it clear that she doesn't think the
Foreign Investment Review Board has been doing its job adequately. That job is supposed to mean that
foreigners can only invest off the plan – or in new housing construction – as another lever to increase the
supply rather than just he prices. Temporary residents, including students and those on work visas such
as the 457 four years skilled visas, can buy one existing home but must sell within three months of
leaving Australia.
In 2008, the Rudd government lifted the requirement for screening of such purchases by FIRB but
reinstated it two years later. It was too little, too late. These rules are a classic case of being honoured in
the breach. The committee has finally extracted figures showing only 17 FIRB investigations and not one
investor prosecuted for illegally acquiring property since 2006.

Page89of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It doesn't help that it's almost impossible to find information on what is happening. The committee is
likely to recommend a national register of all property purchases by foreign investors, in co-ordination
with the states. It will also demand much stricter checking and enforcement by FIRB, including cross
checking with the Department of Immigration, for example, to see who has left the country. At the
moment, even this is not done. And those who apply for FIRB approval will have to pay a fee that will be
returned to an under-resourced FIRB to help pay for its increased activities. Increase in penalties

But the real sting will come from the recommendations on a new system of fines and penalties. O'Dwyer
told a recent forum that the current fine of $85,000 is considered as merely a cost of doing business,
particularly given it is so rarely applied. The committee wants to see it more closely related to the cost of
the property.

The committee is unlikely to recommend an increase in stamp duties, such as the 15 per cent increase
recently applied to foreign investors in Singapore and Hong Kong.

But a far bigger issue will be the recommendation Australia is owed "windfall gains" from buying illegally.
For example, a temporary resident might have bought more than one existing property or not sold after
leaving. Any profits on properties now forcibly divested should belong to the government, according to
the committee. Given the price rises, these would be substantial, but the committee argues this cannot
be considered retrospective as the rules were in place at the time.

Actually getting hold of the money would be difficult. Just imagine the complaints and legal complexities.
Nor will it change the 1.5 per cent rise in national housing prices for the September quarter, jet propelled
by the 2.7 per cent jump in Sydney and adding up to a 15 per cent increase in Sydney prices over the
past 12 months. State variations still don't obscure the startling increase in Australian house prices
overall, making this a highly contentious issue. Existing home owners may be thrilled at the "wealth
effect" but worried about how their kids can ever afford to buy. The housing construction industry is
booming, when little else is boosting growth. But all those apartment buildings are compounding
concerns about inadequate infrastructure and overcrowded roads. International analysts will continue to
fret about overvalued Australian house prices and maybe – one day – they might even turn out be right.
That would be even more alarming for the economy.

Right now, though, the committee's recommendations will be both popular with the public and another
political hand grenade for the Abbott government to defuse.

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

irreal : Residential Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest :
Real Estate
c182 : Asset Transactions | nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141111eabc00017

Page90of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.