Chinatown set for $100m sale

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Chinatown set for $100m sale

Matthew Cranston
404 words
14 October 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
31
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Private investor Forwin International is selling close to half of Brisbane's Chinatown Mall with
expectations it could fetch more than $100 million.

Known as the Valley Heart Portfolio, the development consists of several mixed-use buildings across
two land parcels along with a code-compliant scheme designed by Nettletontribe for more than 840
apartments.

Brisbane's Fortitude Valley has taken off in the past two years with multiple commercial office and
residential developments along with some big land purchases.
Last month Metro Property Group struck a deal to buy the wealthy Power family's Central Brunswick
retail property near Chinatown for about $35 million. The vendor purchased that property in 2012
for about $20 million.
Johnson Winter & Slatteryproperty partner David Colenso , representing Forwin International, said his
client was an investor who believed the Valley Heart project was an opportunity best suited for a
developer .

"Forwin sees this is the right time for a developer to capitalise on the massive potential this project
has," Mr Colenso said.

"The project is located within the Fortitude Valley neighbourhood plan area which permits 30-storey
code assessable developments."

Colliers International 's Tom Phipps and Jason Lynch have been appointed to sell the project which
includes iconic properties such as the TC Beirne building that Singaporean group SilverNeedle is
poised to operate a 112-room hotel in.

Mr Phipps said the blend of development potential along with the secure recurring income from 19,096
square metres of net lettable area and a 464-bay public car park made the Valley Heart project the
premier development opportunity in the Fortitude Valley. "The size of the parcels, along with their
frontages to both the Chinatown and Brunswick Street Malls offer a never-to-be-repeated opportunity
to create a world-class mixed-use development in the heart of Fortitude Valley," Mr Phipps said.

"The Valley Heart Portfolio offers the flexibility to hold the properties as an investment with future
development upside or immediately commence the development process while enjoying significant
holding income."
Colliers Mr Lynch said the Brisbane City Council was supportive of the redevelopment for the site and
had already granted a development approval for the SilverNeedle hotel.

Page214of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.He said developers, especially from offshore, were turning their focus to Brisbane to seek better value
than Sydney and Melbourne where there had been strong dwelling price growth and competition for
sites.

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

jwsaus : Johnson Winter & Slattery
ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i835 : Legal Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer
Services
ceffic : Corporate Restructuring | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c11 : Plans/Strategy
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141013eaae0004n

Page215of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.