City feels the crane strain as towers rise

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PrimeSpace
City feels the crane strain as towers rise

SARAH DANCKERT, APARTMENTS
341 words
14 August 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
25
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

MELBOURNE’S city centre and immediate surrounds has hit critical crane mass with 44 residential
developments under construction and more projects on the way, with Singapore’s Aspial Corporation
filing fresh plans for a development this week.

According to the City of Melbourne — which covers the CBD, Docklands, Southbank, Carlton, East
Melbourne and parts of North Melbourne, West Melbourne, South Yarra, Flemington and Port
Melbourne — the 44 projects will deliver nearly 10,000 apartments over three years. Scores more
projects are awaiting approval, including Aspial’s new tower in West Melbourne.

Planning documents show Aspial offshoot WCL-King has lodged plans for a 23-level apartment
building on the edge of the CBD. The site, located at 385-405 King Street, was purchased by Aspial
last year for $41.5 million.
Aspial plans to build 392 apartments on the site, with shops on the ground floor. The developer, which
has also recently bought the Tower 108 project in Southbank, is just one of a host of players from
Singapore, Malaysia, Hong Kong and China rushing to get a foothold in Melbourne.
SP Setia, Chip Eng Sang, AXF Group, Greenland, Hiap Hoe, Hygeni, Far East Consortium and
Golden Age have projects either under way or in planning.

The rate of development has seen the number residents living in the CBD and immediate surrounds
grow by 23 per cent to 29,322, according to the Australian Bureau of Statistics.

“Melbourne’s central city area is the nation’s fastest growing area,” City of Melbourne Deputy Lord
Mayor Susan Riley said. “This growth has had a positive impact but requires the City of Melbourne to
look strategically at how we protect our livability. We support smart growth, with an emphasis on
sustainability, a best-practice approach to urban design and enhancing our public open space.”She
said the new residents had been a boon for retailers. “Our transport infrastructure, however, is under
strain as we accommodate this growing population,” she added.

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

leehwa : Aspial Corporation Limited
i5010022 : Residential Building Construction | i501 : Building Construction | iconst : Construction | icre :
Real Estate/Construction | i491 : Jewelry/Silverware | icnp : Consumer Goods
gplan : Urban Planning/Development | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International
Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140813ea8e0005x

Page242of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.