Hang on China , Queensland-grown food is coming

Hang on China, Queensland-grown food is coming

26 June 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) News
ABCNEW
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

Craig Zonca

HD
BY
WC 454 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Convincing the Chinese to eat Queensland meat, grain, vegetables and fruit, is the key to increasing
agricultural profitability in the sunshine state.

At least that's the message delegates to the Queensland Agriculture Conference have heard in Brisbane.

The Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics and Sciences (ABARES) commodity
analyst Jammie Penm, says producers need to start now, if they want to crack the potential of the
booming Asian middle class, particularly in China.

"Queensland is well placed to supply the market but we have to keep in mind there will be also
competition. And lots of it.

"Not only from other agricultural exporters, but also from domestic production in those [Asian] countries,"
said Mr Penm.
The latest forecasts from ABARES show demand for beef in China will more than triple over the next 40
years, while sugar consumption is expected to quadruple and the need for oilseeds will increase 9-fold
during the same time.

Mr Penm says Queensland producers need to maintain their 'clean' and 'high-quality' image to compete in
what will be a highly lucrative market.
"We really need to build-in this changing food demand into our business planning, so we can take the
opportunities presented in Asia."

The Queensland Agriculture Minister John McVeigh says that's why he's set the challenge to double the
State's agricultural production by 2040.
In a report launched today, Queensland agriculture is valued at $14.7 billion for the 2013-14 financial
year, with meat production the largest contributor (38 per cent).
The industry overall is said to support one in seven Queenslanders with 28,000 farm business currently
operating in the state.

Mr McVeigh says the State of Queensland Agriculture Report sets the benchmark for assessing future
production growth.

"The big driver is obviously innovation and entrepreneurship within industry itself and we're certainly
seeing that in beef, horticulture and sugar cane - it's quite an exciting time for Queensland agriculture."

Mr McVeigh points to the 'fascinating array of crops and products in horticulture' as a particular example.

"Whether it's tropical fruits and tree crops, or the vegetables that we're familiar with in the Bundaberg and
Lockyer Valley regions, that sector is going to grow."

However, Mr McVeigh admits there are a number of challenges confronting Queensland primary
producers.

Page128of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Increasing production costs are tightening the squeeze - evidenced best by the dairy sector where more
than 40 farming families have sold up so far in 2014.

Climate variability is also testing the skills, and emotional resilience, of many farmers with the drought
estimated to have cost the $200 million in lost production over the past six months alone.

CO
IN
NS

RE

aubare : Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics and Sciences
i01001 : Farming | i0 : Agriculture
c21 : Output/Production | c314 : Pricing | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries
| dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCNEW0020140626ea6q000ea

Page129of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.