More players tussling for property dollar here

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Top Stories
More players tussling for property dollar here

Lynette Khoo
874 words
18 August 2014
Business Times Singapore
STBT
English
(c) 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

Aussie company opens sales office; China firm launches Iskandar project
[SINGAPORE] The tussle for Singaporeans' property dollar looks set to intensify with the opening of a
sales office here by Australian player Walker Corporation and the initial launch of Princess Cove by
Guangzhou-based R&F Properties over the weekend.

Walker Corp, one of Australia's largest private developers, said that the 1,700 square foot office in Liat
Towers on Orchard Road would promote its domestic projects and its sole project in Malaysia,
Senibong Cove, which it is developing with Iskandar Waterfront Holdings.
Group executive chairman Lang Walker told BT: "The opening of the sales office in Singapore will be
very important to our Senibong project and it gives us a foothold in the Singapore market." But the
billionaire has no interest in developing homes in Singapore where he thinks the market is mature and
"(residential) products are very expensive".

More Singaporeans are snapping up properties across the Causeway, where prices are sometimes
one-third of that back home. Going by central bank estimates in May, slightly more than half of real
estate investments abroad went into Malaysia last year.

Interest from overseas buyers for Senibong Cove, the 220-acre gated project with a marina and retail
precinct, has grown significantly with Singaporeans accounting for over 70 per cent of total overseas
buyers, Mr Walker observed. Overseas buyers make up 40 per cent of sales in phases two and three,
up from 20 per cent in phase one. Mr Walker noted that buyers in phase one are seeing "an 80 per cent
uplift in value" of their properties when compared to prices in phase three. Apartments in phase three
are going for averages of between RM670 (S$265) per square foot to RM860 psf.

Also in the works is an adjoining 16-ha Senibong Hill, which Mr Walker is developing with the Wong
family that is behind Singapore's fashion brand Charles & Keith. According to Mr Walker, both sides
decided to work together after buying the adjacent plots. Their master plan for 2,000 units of landed
homes and high-rise condos - with a gross development value of RM2 billion - will be unveiled in
October.

Several other overseas developers have set up shop here to tap continued demand from Singaporeans.
Last month, Guangzhou's R&F Properties opened its sales gallery at East Coast Road to showcase the
initial 3,200 units of Princess Cove's phase one in Iskandar.

Over the weekend, R&F launched three out of the 15 blocks in phase one, with prices starting from
slightly above RM1,100 psf for a studio and above RM900 psf for a dual-key three-bedder. The Hong
Kong-listed developer acquired the 116 acres of land near the first link in Johor Bahru for RM4.5 billion
in December and is said to be planning as many as 30,000 homes in total.
R&F also held its first seminar here yesterday, where Ho Chin Soon, property analyst and map-maker
for Iskandar Development, spoke on the potential of Iskandar in a ballroom packed with over 150
people at Village Hotel Katong.

Page194of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Meanwhile, despite concern over potential oversupply of homes in Iskandar, Mr Walker said that he
was taking a long-term view. The Senibong project spans 8-10 years, during which one should expect
peaks and troughs, he added. When completed, the US$1.3 billion project would have more than 8,500
villas and high-rise apartments.
While there is bound to be competition, there are differences between the Australian and the Chinese
models, Mr Walker continued. While the Chinese developers are building ahead of demand, Senibong
Cove is "building on natural demand" as it needs to move at least 30 per cent of units in each phase
before building.
"The Chinese are coming to Malaysia and other parts of the world with massive projects where the plot
ratio is in the 6-10, whereas Senibong Cove is at 3.2," Mr Walker added. More than half of Senibong
homes are low-rise landed units, while most Chinese projects tend to be fully high-rise condos.

Walker Corp is well-remembered for breathing life back into heritage sites in Sydney. After listing the
company, Mr Walker sold control to Australand in 1999 to focus on his private property portfolio but
retained the rights to reuse the company name after five years. In 2003, Mr Walker re-established
Walker Corp.

Mr Walker has A$12 billion (S$14 billion) worth of development in the pipeline in Australia, including
some 25,000 residential units and 450-ha of industrial landbank. This is why he is sitting on the
sidelines for further land-banking since "it is hard to beat the Chinese with their cheque books".
The group is also undertaking Australia's largest commercial development, Collins Square in
Melbourne's CBD, in which the Kuok Group was its partner until 2-3 years ago. Walker Corp is now
developing the project on its own.

ART

CO

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Mr Walker: 'The opening of the sales office in S'pore will be very important to our Senibong project ...'
- PHOTO: BLOOMBERG
gzrfpc : Guangzhou R&F Properties Co Ltd | iswhsb : Iskandar Waterfront Holdings Sdn. Bhd. | walcor :
Walker Corporation Ltd
i501 : Building Construction | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | iconst : Construction | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | ireest : Real Estate
c182 : Asset Transactions | c24 : Capacity/Facilities | cprdop : Facility Openings | c18 : Ownership
Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
singp : Singapore | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Singapore Press Holdings Limited
Document STBT000020140817ea8i00004

Page195of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.