World view gives funds a boost

SE
HD
BY

WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
CX

LP

TD

portfolio
World view gives funds a boost

Philip Baker - Philipis a columnist for Smart Investor and former bond trader who identifies
opportunities and threats for investors everymonth.
742 words
21 March 2014
Financial Review Smart Investor
FRSINV
First
52
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

fixed income - ASSETS

The five-year annual return for Bentham Wholesale Global Income Fund, on page 52 of the April
edition, should have been 20.56 per cent, not 9.26 per cent.

BONDS
Top-performing bond funds
FINALISTS IN THE MORNINGSTAR FIXED INCOME AWARD FOR 2013
(Table not available on database. Please check PDF page or contact Library
staff to obtain a copy.)

A dip in global government bond yields has investors looking more at corporate bonds – a narrow
scene in Australia. An international perspective helps, writes Philip Baker.
A Chinese solar-equipment maker has failed to meet interest payments on a bond, so it's been called
China's first corporate bond default. The default is small: the company can't stump up the
$US14 million interest payment, but many investors have been lured to Chinese corporate bonds in
the belief they have an implicit guarantee.
Standard & Poor's estimates China's corporate debt might reach $US13.8 trillion ($15.2 trillion) in
2014, surpassing that of the United States as the largest in the world.

The recent dip in global government bond yields highlights the chase for higher yields which has
investors looking more and more at corporate bonds.

Richard Quin and his team at Bentham Asset Management recently won the Morningstar fixed income
award for 2013. The fund that concentrates on credit risk to generate returns has a very respectable
track record. For example, the Bentham Global Income Fund return performance has been, after fees,
13.51 per cent for the 2013 calendar year, 9.26 per cent a year for five years, and 8.29 per cent a year
for 10 years.

One of the strengths of the fund is the regular monthly income distributed to investors.

The fund tends to look at opportunities in the global space because the local corporate bond scene is
quite narrow.

Quin says he and his team can review the relative value of both the Australian and offshore opportunity
sets to identify the best risk-adjusted returns for clients.

Page259of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."It allows us to build a robust portfolio with higher diversity across regions, types of credit, credit
sectors, issuers and industries than is possible if an investor is Australian-only focused," he says. "For
example, the top three industries in the Australian investment grade credit market account for 81.2 per
cent of the market, versus 32.5 per cent for the US loan market."Very little real return ahead

Quin thinks interest rate yields around the world will remain low and provide very little real return above
inflation.

For that reason, the fund has been able to focus on high-yielding yet short-duration global credit to
generate positive returns for investors.

At the end of February, corporate bond credit spreads over safe-haven US treasuries, a measure of
risk premiums, had narrowed to their tightest levels since the financial crisis in 2007 for both
investment-grade and junk bonds.
Investors got an extra 1.1 percentage points for investment grade corporate bonds and just under 4
percentage points for holding junk bonds, according to Barclays.
In 2013, local investors in government bonds issued by the Commonwealth were lucky if they got
about 2 per cent. That's below the average cash rate in the past 12 months of around 2.9 per cent.
It got a little better if you took some risk and invested in corporate bonds, with the UBS Corporate
Bond Index returning 4.5 per cent. Global investors in government bonds actually lost money in 2013
as the prospect of the US Federal Reserve buying fewer bonds sent bond prices lower.

With yields still close to historical lows, investors are always on the hunt for more.

G8 Education is one of the small but growing number of companies that have recently issued debt for
sophisticated investors in the local corporate bond market.
The company raised $50 million of floating rate notes with a four-year maturity that equates to an
estimated income of 6.55 per cent for the next year and a projected yield to maturity of 7.42 per cent.

The notes are callable after two and three years depending on where they are trading; they are
unsecured and rank behind senior debt issued by the company.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncrx :
Corrected Items | c17 : Funding/Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government
Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin
: FC&E Industry News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FRSINV0020140320ea3l0000b

Page260of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.