Hopes high for zinc but Glencore profits down

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Hopes high for zinc but Glencore profits down

258 words
5 March 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
25
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Mining

Swiss commodities companyGlencoreXstrata suffered declining profits in each of its Australian
mining sectors, according to the company's full-year results.

Despite growing production and achieving efficiencies through the merger between Glencore and
Xstrata, profits in the company's local copper, coal, zinc and nickel businesses were all lower than
the year before.
The company was most upbeat about the outlook for Australian zinc, particularly through the
expansion work at its McArthur River mine in the Northern Territory.
Glencore and Xstrata are close to completing their gradual merger and the company said on
Tuesday that the merger had delivered $US2.4 billion worth of "synergies", many of which would not
be fully realised until later this year.
There was no significant update to the sale process of the Las Bambas copper mine in Peru, the
sale of which is required to satisfy Chinese regulators before the merger can be completed.
Glencore said the sale process at Las Bambas was continuing.
That sale process will have an impact on when ASX-listed PanAust can complete a purchase of
GlencoreXstrata's Frieda River copper and gold project in Papua New Guinea.

GlencoreXstrata's overall financial results were slightly lower than analysts had hoped at $US3.67
billion.
Aside from mining, GlencoreXstrata also has exposure to Australian agriculture, particularly through
grains in South Australia.

It said the grain season had been good in South Australia, but not as good as was hoped.

march : Glencore Xstrata PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i8396 :
Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
cmerg : Mergers | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu :
Acquisitions | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types |
nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140304ea3500045

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page163of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Page164of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.