BHP to close down smelter in S Africa

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Finance
BHP to close down smelter in S Africa

MATT CHAMBERS, RESOURCES
411 words
20 January 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
16
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

BHP Billiton appears set to close its smallest aluminium smelter -- Bayside in South Africa -- as new
division boss Daniel Malchuk takes long-awaited action to shut down unprofitable assets.
The company said that after more than a year of reviewing the Richards Bay smelter which had
been under ``significant and ongoing financial pressure'', formal consultation with employees over
closing it had started.

``We are focused on mitigating the impact of potential job losses while ensuring the existence of a
sustainable aluminium business in Richards Bay,'' a BHP spokesman said.
About 450 jobs are at stake.

At Richards Bay, BHP also operates the Hillside smelter, the largest smelter in the southern
hemisphere and more than six times the size of the 97,000 tonnes-per-year Bayside smelter.
Bayside imports alumina from BHP's Worsley refinery in WA, meaning the closure of the smelter
would allow more alumina exports to China, whose huge growth in aluminium smelter capacity is
the main cause of the depressed prices that have plagued the sector.
BHP's aluminium and nickel units, which lost a combined $US300 million ($340m) before interest
and tax in 2012-13, are businesses the mining giant would like to exit. But a poor market in both
makes a sale at a decent price unlikely and the job of Mr Malchuk, who was made head of
manganese, nickel and aluminium in May, a difficult one.
A sale of the aluminium assets, which analysts value at anywhere from $US3 billion to $US8bn,
could be more likely if BHP closes down loss-making assets in the portfolio.

While BHP has been saying for two years that it has no place in its portfolio for loss-making assets
for nearly, it is yet to shut down any nickel or aluminium operations for that reason.

Last month, Perth-based Mr Malchuk closed down the Perseverance nickel mine in WA because
ground movements made it unsafe.

Chief executive Andrew Mackenzie has said he is in no rush to exit aluminium and nickel, despite
BHP declaring two years ago it would spend no more money growing those business.
Mr Mackenzie recently said the company would be reluctant to spend money even to clear a
production bottleneck in the division.
But the two businesses have played a part in the company-wide focus on productivity and
cost-cutting by coming up with some innovative solutions to save cash.

CO

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC

Page229of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
mnonfr : Non-ferrous Metals | malum : Aluminum Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 :
Metals Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140119ea1k000a8

Page230of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.