Yancoal set for loan despite panel's ruling

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Yancoal set for loan despite panel's ruling

Peter Ker
376 words
20 December 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
39
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Chinese company Yanzhou has vowed to push ahead with a $1.8 billion loan to loss-making
Australian miner Yancoal, despite the terms of a controversial debt offering being largely
emasculated by the Takeovers Panel.

The panel threw the offering into doubt this week when it ruled Yanzhou would not be able to
convert the subordinated capital notes into Yancoal shares beyond its 78 per cent stake.

That ruling ensured Yanzhou would not be able to dilute a group of minority shareholders, including
commodities trader Noble, that have in the past prevented it from fully privatising Yancoal.

But with Yancoal set to breach a number of covenants on existing loan facilities by December 31 if
new debt was not raised, Yanzhou has vowed to push ahead and subscribe for its $1.8 billion
complement regardless.

The offering will, to an extent, become an exercise in circulating money, with much of the proceeds
from the offer paying down debts that Yancoal owes to Yanzhou.Minority shareholders hesitant
Minority shareholders such as Noble and Hong Kong hedge fund Senrigan have been hesitant to
subscribe to the offer, and it remained unclear on Friday whether the panel's intervention would
convince them to participate.
Any excess proceeds would go towards improving Yancoal's operations, including its plan to
expand the Moolarben mine in NSW. Note holders will be repaid with an initial interest rate of 7 per
cent, which will rise on certain milestones, including by 5 per cent if there is a change of control at
Yancoal.
Yancoal lost $832 million last year and another $192 million in the first six months of this year
under depressed coal prices. It has seven producing mines across NSW and Queensland, and in
the September quarter about 54 per cent of its product was thermal coal while 46 per cent was
coking coal.
Thermal coal prices have fallen by 26 per cent over the past 12 months, while prices for coking coal
are down 15 per cent.

Yanzhou has vowed to ensure Yancoal remains solvent under a deal with the Australian
government excusing Yanzhou from having to reduce its stake in Yancoal to less than 70 per cent.

CO

IN
NS

yaptyl : Yancoal Australia Limited | yankua : Yankuang (Group) Corp | ynzmn : Yanzhou Coal Mining
Co Ltd
i112 : Coal Mining Support Activities | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News

Page73of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141219eack0001b

Page74of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.