Chinese spend up big

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Domain
Chinese spend up big

324 words
11 March 2014
Blacktown Sun
FBLACS
First
18
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

CLOSE to one fifth of new properties in Sydney are being bought by wealthy Chinese investors and the
flood of money is set to continue.
Using data from the Australian Bureau of Statistics and the Foreign Investment Review Board, Credit
Suisse estimates that Chinese buyers account for 18 per cent of new property purchases in Sydney,
and 14 per cent of the supply in Melbourne. This does not include second-hand homes.

"A generation of Australians are being priced out of the property market. Many face a life time of
renting," Credit Suisse analysts Hasan Tevfik and Damien Boey said.
There are currently 1.1 million millionaires in China who could easily afford properties in Australia's two
most expensive markets, Credit Suisse says in a research note.
Wealthy Chinese buyers have purchased $24 billion of Australia housing in the past seven years, and
over the next seven years an additional $44 billion will be spent on residential property, Credit Suisse
estimates.
There was $17.2 billion worth of approved residential property investment coming in from overseas in
the year June 30 2013, down from $19.7 billion in the previous period, according to the Foreign
Investment Review Board.
Of the 2013 total, $5.6 billion was approved for residential properties in NSW.
That number may seem large, but across the whole property market the effect dissipates. There is, on
average, a 6 per cent turnover annually in Australia's property, according to the Reserve Bank of
Australia.
The total value of Australia's property market is $5.02 trillion, according to the ABS, so yearly turnover in
the housing sector is roughly $360 billion.
Chinese buyers are currently spending $5.4 billion a year on Australian properties, Credit Suisse said,
with the split relatively even between new settlers and others, which include investors, developers and
temporary residents.

— Max Mason

CO
IN

NS

aubos : Australian Bureau of Statistics
irreal : Residential Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest :
Real Estate
ereal : Real Estate Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators |
ecat : Economic News

Page42of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

austr : Australia | china : China | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries
| dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales

PUB Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
AN

Document FBLACS0020140310ea3b0000v

Page43of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.