Mt Gibson delays Koolan Island shipments

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
VOL
LA
CY
LP

TD

News Stories; Other News
Mt Gibson delays Koolan Island shipments

Paul Bartholomew
328 words
27 October 2014
Platts SBB Steel Markets Daily
STEELDLY
ISSN: 1935-7354, Volume 8, Issue 211
English
© 2014 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

Australian junior miner Mount Gibson Iron said Monday four iron ore shipments scheduled for the
October-December quarter will be pushed back into the new year due to a mining interruption at its
Koolan Island operation.
The Perth-based company said a small section of the seawall at the main pit at Koolan Island, which is
located in the Kimberley region in far north Western Australia, had been weakened by a "slump." The
company estimated it will take around four weeks to repair the seawall affected by the slump and
restart of iron ore mining at the site.

Production at the Acacia East pit on Koolan Island sped up, but this material is generally blended with
ore from the main pit rather than sold as a standalone product. "The plan is that those four shipments
will be pushed into the remainder of the financial year (ending June 30, 2015)," a Mount Gibson
spokesman said, adding that the miner had maintained its full year sales target of 6.6-7.0 million mt for
the full year 2015.
Around 80% of the shipments from Koolan Island go to private Chinese mill Jiangsu Shagang Group,
with the balance sold to trading house APAC Resources.
Koolan Island produces direct shipping lump and fines grading 62-63% Fe and can produce at an
annualized run rate of 4 million mt/year when the weather allows. As the operation is located on a small
island there is not much space to build up stockpiles.

The miner's sales in July-September fell 24% on the previous year to 1.9 million mt, and were down
26% from the previous quarter, it said earlier this month. The lower result was attributed to the closure
of its Tallering Peak mine, north east of Geraldton, in September, following the depletion of ore reserves
after a decade of continuous operation, the company said.

Paul Bartholomew

IN
RE
IPD
PUB
AN

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Shipping
The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Document STEELDLY20141110eaar00011

Page179of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.