Good morning WA | Thursday, November 27, 2014

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

news
Good morning WA | Thursday, November 27, 2014

989 words
26 November 2014
Donnybrook Bridgetown Mail
FDONYB
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

Good morning!

What's been happening in Western Australia and around the country? We have plenty of stories right
here for you.

Welcome to our morning breakfast report with the latest news from the weekend and this morning, as it
happens.

So sit back, scroll down and enjoy your cereal, toast and other breakfast goodies while you catch up on
what's happening in your state.

HARVEY: Harvey Beef has signed a landmark agreement with the Noongar Employment and Enterprise
Development Aboriginal Corporation that will open up employment opportunities for 30 local Indigenous
job seekers.
ESPERANCE: A shark deterrent device has become hot property amongst surfers in Esperance, who
say the technology is bringing them peace of mind.

NANNUP: A tiny elephant is the subject of a new book released by a local Nannup illustrator turned
author.

MANDURAH: Cute alert! Peel zoo animals have come out to play - photo gallery.

BUSSELTON: A Busselton woman is facing court after strangling her sleeping partner with a belt and
then attacking him with a broom.

STATE: WA Police will establish a new strike force to hunt hoon motorcyclists and serial speedsters by
scrutinising speed camera images to track unidentified, revhead riders.

Need a national news snapshot first thing - well, we have you covered.

" To check out the front pages of Fairfax publications for today, click here

It was all about the ARIAs last night as hip young, and not so young, things from the music industry
celebrated 2014 in Sydney. Chet Faker and Sia were the big winners. Find out who won what here.

" Helmets could soon be compulsory in Ballarat cricket in the wake of the tragic Phillip Hughes incident.

" A $1 million zipline course is taking shape on the Illawarra escarpment as tourism behemoth Merlin
Entertainments Group takes off on a dramatic expansion of the Illawarra Fly Treetop Adventures site.

" Farrer MP Sussan Ley has responded cautiously to Albury Council's support for same-sex marriage,
saying she was waiting for legislation to come before Parliament before spelling out her views on the
issue.

" Few people know better than cricketer Rick McCosker what a weapon a new ball can be in the hands of
a genuine fast bowler. The former Test opener had his jaw broken attempting a hook shot against
England's Bob Willis in the 1977 Centenary Test. He reflects on the Phillip Hughes incident.

Page185of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved." Deakin University's Warrnambool campus is worth $53 million a year to the region's economy plus
another $6m to the rest of the nation, according to a commissioned economics report.

" When Debra Tropea's little boy Cruz became severely dehydrated during a traffic jam on Friday, she
never expected the kindness of even one person - let alone 30,000 of them. Read more about the search
for the kind-hearted truckie.

" Struggling graziers have been dealt another blow with the Water Reform and Other Legislation Bill
passed in Queensland Parliament.

" Qantas's new fleet of larger, faster planes will mean 10,000 more passengers can complete the trip
from Wagga to Sydney each year.

MOUNT ISA: A cattle station worker has been flown to Brisbane after she was trapped under more than
1000 kilograms of hay bales while working on Taldora Station near Julia Creek.
LAUNCESTON: The state government has chosen a Singapore-based company as its preferred
operator for a direct international shipping link. Infrastructure Minister Rene Hidding told State Parliament
the government expected to enter into a Memorandum of Understanding with shipping company Swire
''in the near future''.

GOULBURN: Clive Palmer has vowed his party will extend its influence beyond Canberra's Parliament
House. However, they won't be in a position to stand a single candidate at the NSW election next March.

WAGGA WAGGA: Plastic is not always fantastic, especially when it comes to Christmas trees. This is
the message Dennis Blackett is promoting as he urges the community to embrace the festive spirit and
buy real pine trees.

VICTOR HARBOR: The Middleton businessman who slaughtered six miniature horses at Clayton Bay in
December 2013 may be out of jail in 18 months.

REDLANDS: Brisbane's G20 meeting of world leaders, designed to promote economic growth and
peace, has fuelled the Redlands koala wars.

WARRNAMBOOL: A long-time Warrnambool drug dealer who was so desperate to make money he
substituted rock salt for ice has been jailed for six months.

"BENDIGO: With the conclusion of the international exhibition The Body Beautiful in Ancient Greece from
the British Museum, staff at Bendigo Art Gallery have been busy working behind the scenes to install
works from the permanent collection.

" As protests spread around the United States on Wednesday night, reinforced National Guard and police
engaged in a tense stand-off in Ferguson, sparing the township much of the violence that tore through its
streets on Monday.
" Daryl Davies, a retired commercial pilot, paid the equivalent of about $500,000 in Thai baht for his
dream three-bedroom home in Chom Tawan, one of the most prestigious residential developments on
Phuket. But a Thai court has authorised an auction of the homes of Mr Davies and more than 40 other
buyers to the highest bidder if millions of dollars owed to the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China
by the project developer are not repaid by a December 17 deadline.
" Hong Kong police have arrested high-profile student protest leaders Joshua Wong and Lester Shum,
as authorities moved to clear a key protest camp at the heart of a pro-democracy civil disobedience
movement that has swept the financial hub for two months

Life is looking pretty peachy for Gracetown surfer Jacob Willcox. The 18-year-old just celebrated the end
of his high school years, as well as his success in being named this year's hottest surfing talent by
Surfing Life magazine.

RE

austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | victor : Victoria (Australia) | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia
Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | queensl : Queensland

PUB Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
AN

Document FDONYB0020141127eabq00001

Page186of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.