MP spills on Aquis licence

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
MP spills on Aquis licence

NICK DALTON
443 words
23 April 2014
The Cairns Post
CAIRPO
Cairns
5
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

CAIRNS MP Gavin King has revealed that the State Government wrote to the developers of the $8.15
billion Aquis mega-resort to “persuade” them to formally apply for a casino licence.

He said as soon as Aquis chairman Tony Fung announced that he was pulling out of the integrated
resort development application process to negotiate using the Reef Hotel Casino licence to cover the
Yorkeys Knob site, Deputy Premier Jeff Seeney wrote a letter to ask them to continue with the formal
resort submission.

The Fung family has made a $269 million bid to buy the Reef Hotel Casino with Premier Campbell
Newman indicating that there is an option to split the licence to cover the Northern Beaches site.

Mr King told yesterday’s Cairns Chamber of Commerce meeting that the government was concerned
that the Fungs had dropped out of the integrated resort process which proposed two new regional
gaming licences.

He said Mr Seeney had written “a polite letter” asking them to “please come back into the formal
process”.

Mr King said splitting a licence was seen as not being “fair to other proponents”. He said it would have
sent a signal to other casino operators that they also could split their licences to cover other sites.

“It would have made the IRD process redundant,” Mr King said. “It is important that all proponents are
on the same level playing field. “Their Brisbane lawyers wrote back immediately confirming that they
were back in the process and that sent us a strong message to their commitment.’’ Mr King said an
important aspect of integrated resorts – which included two on the Gold Coast, two in the Airlie Beach
area and one on Great Keppel Island – was the proximity of overseas flights.

He said both Aquis and the Gold Coast were close to international airports, while the others were not.

“Aquis is very well placed,’’ Mr King said.
He said the probity stage was now under way with Attorney-General officials travelling to Hong Kong
to investigate Aquis and other proponents.

Mr King said he was “very, very confident”’ that in a couple of months the situation about the regional
resort applications would become clear.

He said with the expressions of interest closing on March 31 it would be known soon “who was serious
and who would drop out’’.
An Aquis spokesman told The Cairns Post the company had written to Mr Seeney confirming that the
company would continue with the integrated resort application.

Page18of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“We don’t have a preferred option to obtain a licence for Yorkeys Knob,” he said.“We are happy either
way.”

NS

RE
PUB
AN

greg : Regional Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol :
Domestic Politics
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document CAIRPO0020140422ea4n0001r

Page19of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.