Roadhouse is rich in potential

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Roadhouse is rich in potential

Nick Dalton
352 words
18 June 2014
The Cairns Post
CAIRPO
Cairns
34
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

A HIGH-profile roadhouse 180km west of Cairns is on the market for $2.7 million. The family-owned
and operated Norwest Gate Roadhouse, Service Station, Motel and Caravan Park complex is being
sold by private treaty.
Nick Prus of Colliers International Cairns said it was competitively priced for “a genuine sale”.

“This is an ideal opportunity to enjoy the regional lifestyle you’ve always dreamt of while at the same
time generating significant income from a well established business,’’ he said.

Mr Prus said the business was in the main highway through Mt Garnet with a well-developed local
clientele and serviced the big volume of passing tourism traffic and trucks.

“Popular with locals and travellers alike, this business stocks a large range of general store items from
ice creams to hot takeaway food, fuel, bait and tackle,’’ he said.

“With an annual multi-million dollar turnover and excellent returns, its convenience store complete with
confectioneries, videos, takeaway food and a full commercial kitchen with an extensive menu and
indoor and outdoor dining is ideal for individual or business partners looking to take on a successful
business operation or investment.’’ Mr Prus said the freehold title to the site was included in the asking
price, with the property also featuring an upstairs owner/manager’s residence.

“This opportunity offers a complete business, home and lifestyle package,’’ he said.

“It’s not often that an opportunity like the Norwest Gate Roadhouse comes around, with its diversified
income streams, supported by a solid reputation which has repeat business returning consistently to
produce above-average revenue.
“With Snow Peak Mining, an Australian company with strong Chinese shareholding operated by
Consolidated Tin Mines, reopening its oper-ations earlier this year, the potential for future growth is
expected to increase revenue opportunities for the business.’’ Mr Prus said the owners were selling
because their children were at school in Cairns and they wanted to move to the city.The asking price for
the established business and freehold is $2.68 million. Contact Mr Prus on 0490 162 300.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document CAIRPO0020140617ea6i0001p

Page107of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.