Chinese interest in Australian farms is high but action is slow as China calls for reduced scrutiny from the Foreign Investment Review Board

HD

Chinese interest in Australian farms is high but action is slow as China calls for reduced scrutiny
from the Foreign Investment Review Board
Sarina Locke

BY
WC 531 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

28 October 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) News
ABCNEW
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

Chinese investment in Australian agriculture has two speeds - the interest is high, but action is slow.
There's no question that after five years of investing about $60 billion in the Australian resources and
power sectors, the focus of Chinese investment is now on food.

TD

China's policy is to invest a further $90 billion in Australia over the next five years, across the board.
KPMG's head of Asia Business, Doug Ferguson, is busy flying to and from China, doing due diligence on
private companies trying to invest in Australian agribusiness.
"A lot of them will be property developers or they'll have different business interest in China, and private
companies, so there might not be as much public information about them.

"A lot don't have a direct track record of experience in agribusiness. So it takes longer for us to meet with
them and make sure they have the bona fides to go ahead with the transaction."

Mr Ferguson says we're witnessing a fascinating development, with State Owned Enterprises
partnerships.
"We've seen recently some major new funds put together out of China to combine Chinese capital and a
state-owned partner to create a global fund.
"And at least 50 per cent is spent trying to improve China's own domestic infrastructure, around cold
storage, logistics, food safety.

"So it's not just investment into Australia or New Zealand or elsewhere. They're trying to solve the logistics
and distribution issue back in China."
Last month, two Chinese investment groups to source the raw products for Chinese processing.

"Beef cattle could be grown and killed in Australia, quartered and maybe deboned to a certain extent, but
then sent back to China. Currently it's frozen, but it could be returned to chilled soon, hopefully, to be
finally deboned in a more cost-efficient manner."
At the offices of VC Group in Sydney, Hui Li helps Chinese find agribusinesses to buy.
"We help clients acquire Australian farm assets, covering grain and oilseeds and sheep and cattle. One
of major clients has cotton farms, and wheat and sorghum.
"We're also helping a Chinese investor in the dairy industry, a joint venture arrangement, and also in the
wine industry. "

She says the investors come from a strategic position, shoring up grain and beef processing in the north
of China, where beef and lamb is produced, and State Owned Enterprises (SOEs) from Beijing.
Dairy farmers complain they've seen a lot of 'tyre kicking', with active inquiries only gradually resulting in
deals.

Page114of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It took three years for an organic dairy in Gippsland Victoria to sell, and across in Western Australia,
weekly inquiries have resulted in just one large dairy sale at Capel for about $8 million.

Dairyman Ross Woodhouse, at Scott River, says there's 'lots of interest but no commitment'.

"We'd call that tyre kicking."
Mr Woodhouse also mentions the farm near Albany, a large 1,000-head dairy farm, which attracted a
deposit before the Chinese pulled out 12 months ago.

IN
NS

RE

i01001 : Farming | i0 : Agriculture
c314 : Pricing | c31 : Marketing/Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | nswals : New South Wales | queensl : Queensland | victor : Victoria
(Australia) | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

IPD chinese
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCNEW0020141028eaas000bs

Page115of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.