Birlas’ Oz copper mine on sale as low price hits

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Birlas’ Oz copper mine on sale as low price hits

Dev Chatterjee Mumbai
506 words
4 November 2014
Business Standard
BSTN
3
English
(c) 2014 Business Standard Ltd.

Aditya Birla Minerals, owned by the Aditya Birla group, has put its Australian copper mine, MT Gordon,
on the block, after copper prices fell by almost 12.5 per cent in the last two years and high cost of
operations.
Bankers say the company has hired ANZ to conduct a valuation of the copper mine, even as the
company’s operations at MT Gordon mine remain under its care and maintenance since April last
year. The company was earlier producing almost 1.4 million tonnes per annum of copper and
supplying it to its parent Hindalco in India.

“As part of the strategic review of the Aditya Birla Mineral’s MT Gordon operations, the management is
presently in negotiations with a third party for the potential sale of 100 per cent of the shares in Birla MT
Gordon,” the company said on Monday.
If the sale takes place, it will be the second sale of overseas assets by the group this year, after it sold
off its business process outsourcing unit to CX Partners and Capital Square Partners in January this
year for $260 million.
The Australian company is facing a crisis of sorts after its copper production fell by almost 80 per cent,
while sales were down by 98 per cent until last week of August mainly due to suspension of its other
mine called Nifty following a sinkhole incident and suspension of operations at MT Gordon. By selling
one of its mines, AB Minerals is cutting its losses in Australia, say bankers. India-listed Hindalco owns
51 per cent stake in Aditya Birla Minerals, while the rest of the stake is held by local shareholders.
The Australian company – with $105 million of cash on its books -- was earlier mining copper
concentrates from its two mines and was shipping it to Hindalco’s smelter in Dahej, in India. Its
competitor Vedanta has also put its mine under care and maintenance in Tasmania, Australia in July
this year. Under "care of maintenance," the mine stops production but the plant site is kept safe and
secure for future mining operations.
A large number of Indian companies are finding it difficult to sustain their operations abroad, as
commodity prices are falling due to slowing demand from China and other emerging economies.
Copper prices are down 6 per cent in the last one year to $6,835 a tonne on the London Metal
Exchange.
Aditya Birla Minerals was established in 2003 for copper production and develop copper in
concentrate sources in Australia. The company acquired the Nifty copper mine and MT Gordon
copper mine alongside adjacent tenements for prospective copper exploration. The Queensland and
West Australian copper production accounts for approximately 20 per cent of Hindalco’s concentrate
requirements. The company was listed on the Australian stock exchanges in 2006.
The company now plans to ramp up production at Nifty mine to produce around 16,000 to 18,000
tonnes of copper till March next year.

CO

abmine : Aditya Birla Minerals Limited | cxpar : CX Partners LLP | aditbg : Aditya Birla Group | hindal :
Hindalco Industries Ltd

Page232of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2114 : Copper Ore/Nickel Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources |
imet : Mining/Quarrying | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150203 : Private Equity | ialtinv :
Alternative Investments | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | iventure : Venture
Capital
c182 : Asset Transactions | mcopp : Copper Markets | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate
Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mcat :
Commodity/Financial Market News | mnonfr : Non-ferrous Metals | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Business Standard Limited (India)
Document BSTN000020141103eab4003pk

Page233of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.