Chinese buyers nab two NSW luxury hotels

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

IN
RE

PUB
AN

Property
Chinese buyers nab two NSW luxury hotels

Samantha Hutchinson
325 words
30 April 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
37
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Two Chinese investment partners quietly building a portfolio of regional tourism assets have
emerged as the new owners of the luxury Milton Park hotel in Bowral and the Jamberoo Valley
Lodge on the NSW south coast.
Guangxun "Michael" Fan and Jianjun Yu, the new owners of Milton  Park, also paid more than
$2.4 million for the Jamberoo Valley Motel in March 2013.

The Jamberoo Valley Motel, formerly known as the Jamberoo Valley Lodge, was put to market as
a mortgagee-in-possession after Illawarra Credit Union took control of the asset before Christmas
in 2012.
The investors nabbed the 45-room hotel on 2.81 hectares with seven conference rooms, a
restaurant and bar, tennis court and 25-metre pool before auction. Sources close to the deal say
the business partners have more purchases in the pipeline.

Agents in the area say they will face stiff competition, with more offshore investors turning their
focus to opportunities on the south coast.

"You've got investors and developers who are realising there's serious value in regional markets
relative to Sydney and other core markets if they're prepared to take a longer term view," Colliers
International agent Viktor Desovski said.
A Singaporean-backed property group paid $2.75 million for a development site at "One Tree
Bay" in Sussex Inlet with potential for more than 400 residential lots in November last year.
Chinese-backed development group PSR Investments paid $5.2 million for the Oxford Tavern on
Crown Street in Wollongong in March 2013.

The iconic live music venue will now be bulldozed within two months, after receiving approval in
March from the Southern Joint Regional Planning Panel for two 14-storey residential and
commercial towers and 135 units.

"It's still very much a secondary market, but it's where they go once they've made an investment in
Sydney," Mr Desovski said.

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric
: BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140429ea4u0004b

Page91of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Page92of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.