GOOD MORNING ARMIDALE: Tues, Oct 21

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

news
GOOD MORNING ARMIDALE: Tues, Oct 21

2,787 words
20 October 2014
Armidale Express
FARMID
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

9AM

DID YOU KNOW

In Armidale snow falls an average of one day every three years.

The city is 980 metres above sea level.

In 2008 Armidale doctor John Nevin said he was so concerned with the level of wood smoke he urged
anyone with respiratory problems to leave.

8.30AM

MOBILE phones and computers were on the wish lists of thieves when four houses were targeted
over the weekend. Read the latest here.

ARMIDALE Dumaresq Ratepayers Association chairwoman Maria Hitchcock will present a petition to
councillors later this month after collecting four pages of signatures calling on Council to Save the
Dam. Click here for full story.

DISABILITY advocates will take their fight for a drive-through street-posting box to Canberra after
Australia Post ruled out installing the utility. Find out more here.
See whats for sale and what jobs are going around this area

How does a beautiful three bedroom Armidale house with plenty of space for only $329,000 sound?
Full details here.

We have a 1994 Ford Panel Van for you. Good condition, no rust and unregistered. Find the seller's
details here.
Cow hide rug for sale for only $400. Find the seller's information here.

Good morning. Need a national news snapshot first thing? Well, we have you covered.

7AM

The New England Art Society's Japanese Brushwork Painting is back by popular demand this
weekend.

The September workshop participants were unanimously impressed by what they achieved, the
material covered, and the teaching approach used by artist and experienced instructor, Trish
Petersen.

Participants will learn the traditional Japanese Sumie approach to painting bamboo, orchids, cherry
blossoms, gum leaves, flowers, insects, fish and other subjects during the workshop. The course is
aimed at both beginners as well as experienced artists seeking to broaden their horizons.

Page67of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Participants learn the traditional Japanese Sumie approach to painting bamboo, orchids, cherry
blossoms, gum leaves, flowers, insects, fish and other subjects during the workshop. The course is
aimed at both beginners as well as experienced artists seeking to broaden their horizons.

The workshop will be conducted at the Armidale Art Gallery on Saturday and Sunday.

Anyone interested can secure a place by calling 6772 9993 or emailing
armidaleartgallery@gmail.com.

Monday night's interview with The Bachelor's Blake Garvey and Louise Pillidge on The Project was
flagged as "the gift that keeps on giving" - and it most certainly is.

The Project's Carrie Bickmore travelled to Thailand, spending just four-and-a-half hours in the country
to interview Garvey and his new love about their burgeoning relationship.

But, that's not all - there's even more to come tonight with his jilted fiancee Sam Frost and runner-up
Lisa Hyde being dragged into the mix to keep fanning the flames of what has inadvertently turned into
Ten's biggest TV story of the year. Read more.

Tweet us your weather pics

6.58AM: PORT MACQUARIE: The power of social media will fuel a campaign aimed to build visitor
numbers from the Central Coast to the Tweed.

Some of Australia's leading travel writers, passionate community advocates and the regional tourism
industry will share their experiences with a broad audience during the #mylegendarydrive social media
campaign.

A team of travel writers will visit major destinations along the Pacific Drive, posting across the social
media platforms of Facebook, Instagram and Twitter and the Legendary Pacific Coast website. More
here.

6.55am: TAMWORTH: The highly addictive drug ice is sinking its claws deeper into Tamworth's
underbelly, driving up crime and sparking a dramatic increase in the number of used syringes being
found on public land.

Workers on the frontline fear the problem could become an epidemic to rival the heroin boom of the
1980s unless drug services and education are bolstered in the region.

It comes as the community of Moree debates whether to establish a legal injection centre in the town.
Read more.

6.50am: GOULBURN: Councillors have ignored the advice of the Roads and Maritime Service in a
move set to cost the State Government more than two million dollars.

They have opted in favour of a straight through building alteration to Lansdowne Bridge " a 1902 De
Burgh truss structure destined for the scrap heap.

Their decision could culminate in the temporary closure of Forbes Street and increase the Roads and
Maritime Service"s bill to the tune of $2.2 million.

The historic structure, which joins Eastgrove to South Goulburn over Mulwaree Ponds, has been in
council's cross-hairs since 2007. More here.

6.45am: ILLAWARRA: He is the blond-haired, blue-eyed larrikin who usually spends his boundless
energy tackling big kids on the footy field, hoping to one day follow in the footsteps of his famous
cousin, Greg Inglis.

But all of that changed for Corey Carlson eight days ago, when the outgoing nine-year-old was hit by
a truck as he rode along a Koonawarra street with his cousin, Joel, on Sunday evening.

Since then he has been confined to his bed in Sydney Children's Hospital's intensive care unit, lying in
an induced coma with a machine to help him breathe, unaware of the never-ending parade of family
members visiting his bedside. Read Corey's story here.

6.40am: NEWCASTLE: Fracking could begin at AGL's Gloucester pilot project as early as today.
AGL delivered hydraulic fracturing equipment to its Waukivory pilot coal seam gas project site in the
early hours of Monday morning, escorted by NSW Police.

Page68of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.A spokesperson for AGL confirmed the equipment had arrived at the 13-well site.

In a letter to residents, AGL said it was finalising construction work for the next phase of its program,
which involved hydraulic fracture stimulation of four wells. Read more.

6.35am: MAITLAND: Police have found a missing East Maitland man safe and well at Muswellbrook.

Guy Ritchie, aged 32, was last seen at his home on Knoll Crescent around 3pm Saturday.

When he didn't show up at a close relative's birthday, family called police. More here.

6.30am: DUBBO: The safety of Dubbo residents could be compromised by the number of dimly-lit
areas in the city, the Dubbo Ratepayers and Residents Association (DRRA) has said.

Merrilyn Mulcahy, the president of the DRRA, said there were a number of areas about Dubbo that
either did not have enough street lights or where the lights were faulty.

"Statistics show one in six street lights are out in Dubbo," she said.

Ms Mulcahy said poorly-lit areas could have dire consequences for residents and visitors. Read more.

6.25am: NOWRA: The Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) has launched an investigation into
a light plane crash west of Nowra on Thursday afternoon.

A 22-year-old man made a forced landing in a 1970s Cessna 206 around 33km west of the Nowra
airfield, in bushland near Touga in the Morton National Park.

The initial investigation report states during cruise, the aircraft engine malfunctioned, the pilot
broadcast a mayday call and activated the emergency beacon prior to conducting a forced landing,
during which the aircraft hit vegetation. More here.

6.20am: TAS: Tasmania has the highest proportion of patients waiting more than a year for surgery
out of all states and territories, according to new figures.

The Australian Institute of Health and Welfare elective surgery waiting times report for the 2013-2014
financial year found that Tasmanian hospital waiting times had increased by almost 10 days.

The report comes as acting Tasmanian Health Organisation North chief executive Helen Bryan meets
with unions to discuss budget savings suggestions.

There are fears that nursing positions are under threat at Beaconsfield, Campbell Town, Deloraine
and George Town. Read more.

6.15am: WHYALLA: A man accused of murdering a Whyalla woman in July last year allegedly
stomped on her face and chest repeatedly after a "blood-shedding event" in the spa bath of the
deceased's family home.

Crown prosecutor Mark Norman told the Supreme Court in Adelaide on Monday that forensic
evidence would be presented to put Bevan Brougham at the scene of the crime at the time Dianne
Rogan died.

He alleged that Brougham, who has pleaded not guilty before Justice John Sulan, had been in the spa
when he first attacked the deceased and continued to assault her in the garden "stomping on the
deceased's face and chest". Read more.

6.10am: WAGGA: "He asked us 'do you want to die?' and I said no, not really".

It was the Macca's run that turned ugly for three Wagga friends who were threatened with knives and
had their ute stolen from the car park of the fast food chain's Fox Street store at the weekend.

Just hours before the horrific ordeal unfolded, about 12.15am on Sunday, the trio had celebrated a
friend's 20th birthday and visited the Victoria Hotel for a couple of drinks.

The designated driver of the Holden Rodeo ute had stopped so they could grab some food when three
figures were seen lurking around the Edward Street side of the car park. More here.

6.05am: BOMBALA: The inquest into the suspected death of Eden grandmother Sylvia Pajuczok in
December 2008 resumes in Bombala this morning.

Page69of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In an opening address before Magistrate Mark Douglass yesterday, Senior Counsel Ian Bourke told
the court that the evidence at the Sydney hearings last year did not support the theory that Ms
Pajuczok had committed suicide or had "wandered off".

Mr Bourke said the evidence pointed to her having met with foul play on or around December 23 or
24, 2008.

Full story here.

6.00am: REGIONAL: Let's start your day with a spin around Fairfax newspaper front pages today.
Click here.

" Michael Cheika has accepted a three-year offer to take on the Wallabies coaching job left vacant by
the resignation of Ewen McKenzie.

A source close to Cheika confirmed he would take up the deal and was keen to bring in Stephen
Larkham as an assistant coach and Michael Foley to work with the forwards.

A smiling Cheika, dressed in a Waratahs tracksuit top and black jeans, confirmed the offer when he
spoke to the media out the front of Waratahs headquarters at Moore Park. "It's a pretty humbling
experience to be asked to be involved in something like that, but we'll see what happens," Cheika
said. More here.

" Non-profit community groups are being forced to pay hundreds of dollars a week in rent, throwing
their viability into doubt, as the NSW government abandons "peppercorn rent" agreements that have
been in place for decades.

In the latest example, the Darling House aged care home at Millers Point has been informed that a
$5-a-week rent agreement struck more than 20 years ago will be scrapped, forcing the facility to close
and leaving residents "stunned".

The Department of Family and Community Services rents about 1200 properties to non-profit
organisations, many on peppercorn rents. It has confirmed it intends to fulfil a direction by Treasury
that "market values ". be realised" on the lease of the assets " a move critics have described as
"cruel". Read more.

" Senior academics at the University of Sydney are waiting in suspense at the prospect of being
named as recipients of racist and sexist emails that were sent by English Professor Barry Spurr.

Numerous academics at the University of Sydney were among recipients of Professor Spurr's insulting
emails, which branded Chancellor Belinda Hutchinson as an "appalling minx" and Prime Minister Tony
Abbott as an "Abo lover", and mocked an apparent sexual assault victim.

While the university has suspended Professor Spurr pending an investigation, the online journal New
Matilda is weighing up the "public interest" in naming university staff on his email trail. Read more.

" A magistrate has questioned the basis of a defence by an American businessman hired and then
sacked by Myer on his first day, after it found he had allegedly falsified his credentials, to charges that
include obtaining a financial advantage by deception.
Andrew Flanagan was appointed earlier this year by Myer as group general manager of its strategic
and business development.

But Mr Flanagan, 46, of Glen Waverley, was dismissed after Myer announced he had falsified his CV
and references to get the job. Full story here.

" Agriculture Minister Barnaby Joyce, who has promised to defend the interests of family farms against
threats from mining companies and supermarket giants, has risked alienating some rural landowners
with an ambitious dam-building proposal.

Releasing a federal government green paper on agricultural competitiveness, Mr Joyce described
working the land as an "inherently noble and good occupation," and said the government wanted to
help farmers get better returns. For a farmer to get "between 10 and 15 per cent of the final price
when they've done the majority of the work is inherently unfair," he said. More here.

" Even before a formal announcement, the deal for Australia to help Iraq battle the so-called Islamic
State which now controls swaths of Iraq and Syria, drew sharp criticism from forces allied to the
Baghdad government.

Page70of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.As Foreign Minister Julie Bishop was finalising the deal for Australian Special Forces to be deployed
in Iraq to "advise and assist the government of Iraq in building up the capacity of the Iraqi security
forces", it was condemned by senior figure in three of the Shiite volunteer militias that now prop up the
Iraqi Army on the battlefield. Read more.
" The Australian Federal Police are poised to seize assets of corrupt Chinese officials within weeks, in
an unprecedented joint operation with their Chinese counterparts.

In an exclusive interview with Fairfax Media, Commander Bruce Hill, the manager of the AFP's
operations in Asia, has confirmed Australia has agreed to assist China in the extradition and seizure
of assets of corrupt officials who have fled to Australia with illicit funds running into the hundreds of
millions of dollars.

The joint operation will make their first forfeiture of assets within weeks, having agreed on a priority list
of alleged economic fugitives who have taken residence in Australia " identified by Beijing as one of
the most popular outlets for corrupt Chinese money.

Among the suspects identified by the AFP are naturalised Australian citizens and permanent residents
who for years have laundered money under the guise of being genuine investment or business
migrants from China. More here.

" A Tasmanian Devil in a US zoo was killed when a block of asphalt was thrown at it this week.
Jasper the devil died when the asphalt crushed his head at the Albuquerque Bio Park Zoo, New
Mexico.

Police so far believe Jasper may have been hit by the thrown piece of asphalt on Tuesday afternoon
and retreated to a log in his enclosure, where he died.

His body was discovered Wednesday morning, US time and an autopsy found the devil's skull had
been fractured. Read more.

" Tony Abbott met the new Indonesian President Joko Widodo late on Monday night and personally
invited him to Brisbane to the G20 meeting next month, but received a non-committal reply.

As foreshadowed in an exclusive interview with Fairfax Media recently, Mr Joko is waiting for advice
before deciding to make the trip to Australia on November 15 and 16. Read more.

" Did you miss this yesterday? If his record 11 world titles haven't convinced you he's one of the
world's best surfers, then take a look at Kelly Slater's latest incredible acrobatics in the waves off
Portugal.

Competition in the Moche Rip Curl Pro Portugal had been called off for the day on Friday, but that
didn't stop Slater, 42, from paddling out into the break where he once again proved his prowess with a
massive manoeuvre that was captured on camera. One surfing magazine has described it as
"arguably the best air ever made". Take a look.

Velma 'Aunty Val' Mulcahy grew up on the Aboriginal mission at La Perouse in the 1930s under
Protection Law.

Her childhood is incomprehensible to today's youth.

"If I go into a school and tell a kid that we never had electricity or Nintendo games and we never had
bathrooms in our little house they can't believe it," she said.

"Our little house was a three-bedroom fibro cottage built back-to-front with the fibro on the inside and
the frame on the outside.

"We had one tap outside and we were real up-to-date Koori's because we had a pull chain toilet up
the back."

Read her story here.

IN
RE

PUB

isocial : Social Media | iint : Internet/Online | imed : Media/Entertainment | itech : Technology
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited

Page71of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document FARMID0020141021eaak00004

Page72of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.