Gold and Gold Stocks in 2014

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Gold and Gold Stocks in 2014

1,395 words
21 January 2014
FN Arena
FNAREN
English
Copyright 2014. FN Arena Ltd.

- Gold price seen as stabilising - Physical demand not to be ignored - Rationalisation and consolidation
amongst miners - Brokers discuss stock preferences  

By Greg Peel

The weakness experienced by the gold price in 2013 came to a head late in December when the US
Federal Reserve finally announced it would begin to taper its QE program. While gold hit technical
support at US$1180/oz on the news, support held. There followed a bit of "sell the rumour, buy the fact"
as the gold price recovered somewhat before the weak US December jobs report prompted some
renewed buying interest. As such gold today is sitting back around the 1250 mark.
There is not a great deal of agreement among gold analysts as to what happens next. Yesterday
Macquarie lowered its average gold price forecast for 2014 by 6% to 1215. A year ago Macquarie set
1250 as its forecast long term floor price and still believes such a level is more realistic than the giddy
heights of prices seen in 2010-12. Impacting 2014, aside from monetary considerations, are current
restrictions placed on domestic gold purchases by the Indian government, the purpose of which are to
protect the rupee. Macquarie believes these restrictions will ultimately be eased, but not until the June or
September quarter.

RBC Capital Markets also believes Indian restrictions will be eased some time in 2014, and furthermore
expects increasing global inflationary pressures to support gold in the second half. RBC has thus set an
average 2014 price forecast of 1300.
China took over India last year as the world's largest consumer of gold. While the Indian restrictions were
one driving factor, RBC notes the fundamental driver was the growth of Chinese bar and jewellery
demand. To focus on investor sentiment towards gold vis a vis monetary considerations alone is to
overlook a more secular and positive trend for the metal, suggests RBC -- that of the emergence of China
as the largest consumer of the metal.
Investor sentiment was best illustrated in 2013 by the solid and persistent fall in gold exchange-traded
fund (ETF) holdings. Net holdings fell to 56.6moz at the beginning of 2014 from 84.6moz at the beginning
of 2013. RBC believes, nevertheless, that 2014 will see a bottoming out of ETF withdrawals to establish a
more normalised post-QE level.

Combine easing ETF pressure and growing Asian physical demand and 2014 should be more supportive
for gold prices, RBC argues. The biggest threat will become Asian currency weakness, driven by a rising
US dollar and a repatriation of risk capital back to a recovering US investment market, which would
undermine Asia's capacity to afford the gold it might otherwise wish to purchase. Here the Indian rupee
is the greatest risk, given the Chinese renminbi is controlled on a managed exchange rate, although the
Indonesian rupiah, Thai baht and Turkish lira are also currencies to watch, RBC suggests.
The other side of the equation for global gold producers is that of costs. If the gold price remains around
current levels there will be flow-through downward pressure on gold input costs, RBC suggests, including
energy and labour. Add in gold companies' own cost-cutting drives and producer margins should at least
be able to stabilise in 2014.
UBS notes gold producers have responded to the depressed gold price environment by instituting
firm-wide cost savings programs focused on efficiency and leaner operations. Australian producers have

Page120of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.further benefited recently from stronger gold sales and a lower Aussie dollar. UBS expects this trend to
continue in 2014, resulting in lower net cash costs for producers.
Not only was 2013 a significant net down-year for the gold price, it was a year of significant price
volatility. The trend was down, but sharp daily and weekly moves in either direction were experienced as
flighty traders responded to a constant flip-flopping of Fed policy assumptions. Goldman Sachs sees
greater stability in global gold producer share prices in 2014 flowing from less volatility in the gold price
and a more rationalised industry.
Lower gold price volatility will allow producers to reconfigure mine plans, maximise cash flows and
reduce losses, Goldman suggests. The majority of producers are carrying low debt levels, and there will
be no urgency to raise funds for capital expenditures. On the other hand, assuming no sharp rebound in
gold prices, some miners will be forced to sell or write down assets that are no longer economic once
they adjust year-end reserve valuations to lower gold prices. Put it all together and Goldman sees lower
volatility not only in the gold price in 2014 but in the share prices of gold producers.
Year-end reserve valuations are a case in point. Gold producers revalue their reserves only once a year
(the equivalent of a stocktake) and at that point mark to the market gold price. As most US companies
report on a calendar year, that process is underway now within quarterly profit results. Given most
Australian producers report on a June year-end, they have another six months before having to bow to
the inevitable, Macquarie notes. That said, Beadell Resources ((BDR)), AlacerGold ((AQG)) and
OceanaGold ((OGC)) report on a December year-end, while Newcrest Mining ((NCM)) chooses to
revalue on a calendar year basis.

Australian producers are nevertheless in the process of reporting their December quarter production and
sales numbers as we speak, and in many cases results have outperformed expectations. This has led to
short-covering rallies for the likes of Newcrest and Perseus Mining ((PRU)) in particular and Macquarie
believes the trend may continue through the reporting season on a combination of short squeezes and
bargain hunting.
Another response among gold producers to 2013's sudden gold price tumble is that of corporate
consolidation. Macquarie is interested to note Goldcorp's recent bid for Osisko Mining Corp's flagship
mine in Canada is the first hostile bid we've seen in the sector since 2010. Once the hostile bidding
merges we can expect a hurry-up to occur amongst gold companies keen for friendly M&A. Macquarie
expects producers with debt problems and explorers with quality assets to be most sought after. The
broker sees Beadell, Perseus, Gryphon Minerals ((GRY)) and Papillon Resources ((PIR)) as potential
targets for the likes of Regis Resources ((RRL)), Oceana and Evolution Mining ((EVN)) as potential
suitors.
In general, Macquarie is targeting those gold producers in 2014 with the best quality assets, coupled with
experienced management teams and strong balance sheets. Cost containment, reserve downgrades,
hedging, limited expansion and good judgement are the key themes the analysts are looking for.

On that basis, Macquarie prefers Beadell, OceanaGold, Northern Star Resources ((NST)) and Papillon in
the sector.
Bell Potter suggests the fall in Australian gold stock prices in 2013 was overdone, with prices for junior
goldminer stocks covered by the broker down between 31% and 79% compared to the 27% net gold
price fall. Working backwards from share prices, Bell estimates the market is pricing spot gold at 1060,
which is a good 10% lower than the broker's base case estimate and more a reflection of negative
investor sentiment than future gold price expectations.

Bell Potter's top picks amongst junior producers covered are those with a relatively high probability of
paying dividends in the near term. On that basis, the analysts' order of preference is Doray Minerals
((DRM)), Troy Resources ((TRY)) and Regis Resources. The other three stocks in the broker's coverage
universe ? Kingrose Mining ((KRM)), Papillon and Phoenix Gold ((PXG)) are all dependent on project
progress, the broker notes, including securing necessary funding and/or approvals.  

Find out why FNArena subscribers like the service so much: "Your Feedback (Thank You)" - Warning this
story contains unashamedly positive feedback on the service provided.

FN Arena is building the future of financial news reporting at www.fnarena.com . Our daily news reports
can be trialed at no cost and with no obligations. Simply sign up and get a feel for what we are trying to
achieve.

Subscribers and trialists should read our terms and conditions, available on the website.

Page121of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.All material published by FN Arena is the copyright of the publisher, unless otherwise stated.
Reproduction in whole or in part is not permitted without written permission of the publisher.

RF
CO
IN

NS

RE

F9C216C7-A6A3-BE90-AF50F71F522B408C
fed : Federal Reserve Board
i22472 : Precious Metals | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals |
ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
m1421 : Gold Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial
Market News | mpcsmt : Precious Metals Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce :
FC&E Exclusion Filter
india : India | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC
Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | indsubz : Indian
Subcontinent | sasiaz : Southern Asia

PUB FN Arena Ltd.
AN

Document FNAREN0020140121ea1l0008d

Page122of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.