Press Release: TVI Announces Members of Project Advisory Group

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Press Release: TVI Announces Members of Project Advisory Group

1,335 words
1 November 2014
00:00
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

TVI Announces Members of Project Advisory Group

Canada NewsWire

CALGARY, Oct. 31, 2014

TSX: TVI OTCQX: TVIPF
CALGARY, Oct. 31, 2014 /CNW/ - TVI Pacific Inc. (TSX:TVI) (OTCQX:TVIPF) ("TVI" or "the Company")
is pleased to announce the members of its new Project Advisory Group consisting of independent,
seasoned mining exploration and project assessment experts who will be assisting TVI in evaluating new
opportunities in the Asia Pacific region.

"I am pleased to highlight the exceptional team of experts that is assisting TVI in evaluating projects
which TVI can hold majority ownership and operatorship in," stated Cliff James, President and Chief
Executive Officer of TVI. "Our goal is to find projects which can be rapidly explored, developed and
ultimately put into production within a relatively short period of time to generate cash flows -- something
the TVI team has previously achieved in the Philippines."
Members of the Project Advisory Group include:

Douglas J. Kirwin -- Independent consulting geologist with 45 years of international exploration
experience. He has held senior positions with Anglo American and Amax during the 1970s and was
managing director of a successful international geological consulting firm during the 1980s and early
1990s. In 1995, he became vice president, exploration for Indochina Goldfields and subsequently
became the executive vice president for Ivanhoe Mines Limited until 2012 after which Ivanhoe was
acquired by Rio Tinto. Mr. Kirwin was a member of the discovery team for the Hugo Dummett deposit at
Oyu Tolgoi in Mongolia as well as the Jelai-Mewet and Seryung epithermal deposits in north east
Kalimantan, the Eunsan-Moisan gold mines in South Korea, the Moditaung gold deposits in Myanmar and
the Merlin Re-Mo deposit in Australia. Mr. Kirwin holds a Master of Science degree in mineral exploration
from James Cook University, Australia.

John Holliday -- Independent geologist with over 30 years of experience in metals exploration mostly with
BHP Minerals and Newcrest Mining, including the positions of Chief Geoscientist and General Manager,
Property Generation. He was a principal discoverer and site manager of the Cadia and Marsden
porphyry gold-copper deposits in NSW, and was a principal geological advisor on the acquisition of many
significant projects, including Namosi and Wafi-Golpu. Mr. Holliday has worldwide experience in
gold-copper deposit exploration and evaluation. He has a geophysics/geology honours degree from
Macquarie University and an economic/politics degree from Sydney University, Australia.

Craig Panther -- Independent consulting geologist with 20 years of exploration and project development
experience and a specialist in Pacific Rim Arc geology and mineralization. He has worked throughout
New Zealand, Indonesia, the Philippines, China, South Korea, Mongolia, Peru, Mexico and Fiji and was
with Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. for 15 years in various roles including China Technical and General Manager;
Senior Project Geologist on the Oyu Tolgoi Project in Mongolia; Senior Project Geologist at the Eunsan
Mine in South Korea; and a Project Geologist in Indonesia. Before Ivanhoe, Mr. Panther held various
minerals exploration positions with companies including Barrick Gold Corporation, Mineral Resources Ltd

Page223of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.and Sigma Gold NL. He holds a Bachelor of Science Degree and a Master of Science Degree with
Honours in Economic Geology, both from the University of Auckland, New Zealand.

Ciceron (Jun) Angeles - Geologist with over 35 years of experience in gold and base metal exploration in
Asia -- mainly in the Philippines, Indonesia, China, Malaysia and Iran. His specializations include
epithermal gold-silver, porphyry copper-gold and Carlin styles of mineralization. He was the Asia
Exploration Manager for Newcrest Mining during which time Newcrest brought the Gosowong Mine into
production. Mr. Angeles obtained his MAppSc in Mineral Exploration from the University of New South
Wales ("NSW"), Australia. He is currently a non-executive director of Medusa Mining Ltd., an Australian
company with a gold mine in the Philippines.

Mike Bue - Mining engineer with over 35 years of experience in the mining industry including
underground and open pit projects and operations; mineral exploration and mineral resource/ore reserve
evaluation; and project and mine management. Mr. Bue has held a senior role with Queensland Nickel
Ltd. (a former subsidiary of BHP Billiton) for eight years and was responsible for the purchase and
supply of nickel laterite ore from mines in New Caledonia, Indonesia and the Philippines. During that
period, he also managed exploration programs and mine development and logistics operations for nickel
laterite from mine ports and rail transport to the Yabulu Nickel Refinery. Mr. Bue holds a Bachelor of
Science in Mining Engineering, University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, and a Master of Engineering
(Mineral Economics), McGill University, Montreal, and is a member of the Professional Engineers of
Ontario and Canadian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy.

About TVI Pacific Inc.
TVI Pacific Inc. is a Canadian resource company focused on the production, development, exploration
and acquisition of resource projects in the Philippines and Southeast Asia. TVI's affiliate, TVIRD, has to
date produced copper and zinc concentrates as well as gold and silver from its Canatuan mine and has
now commenced loading high-iron/low nickel ore with its Agata DSO project. TVIRD also continues to
advance its Balabag Gold-Silver project. TVI is a direct or indirect participant/operator in several joint
venture projects in the Philippines and Papua New Guinea and also has an interest in an offshore
Philippine oil property.

In addition to retaining a 30.66% indirect interest in TVIRD and other Philippine subsidiaries, TVI
continues to directly hold (i) 23.01% equity interest in Foyson Resources Limited ("Foyson") (ii) a 14.4%
equity interest in Mindoro; (iii) its 10% interest in the Amazon Bay Iron Sands project (for which the
exploration license is held by Titan Mines Limited, a company in which Foyson holds 50% shareholding
and has an option to acquire the remaining 50%); and (iv) its 100% investment in shares of TG World
Energy Corp.

Connect with us www.tvipacific.com

Follow us on Twitterwww.twitter.com/tvipacific

"Like" us at www.facebook.com/tvipacific

IMPORTANT INFORMATION REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

Certain information set out in this News Release constitutes forward-looking information. Forward-looking
statements are often, but not always, identified by the use of words such as "seek", "anticipate", "plan",
"continue", "estimate", "expect", "may", "will", "intend", "could", "might", "should", "believe", "scheduled",
"to be", "will be" and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements in this News Release are based
upon the opinions and expectations of management of the Company as at the effective date of such
statements. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking
statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that those expectations
will prove to have been correct. Forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties
(known and unknown) that could cause actual outcomes to differ materially from those anticipated or
implied by such forward-looking statements. These factors include, but are not limited to, such things as
inherent risks associated with the exploration and development of mining properties, ultimate
recoverability of mineral reserves, timing, results and costs of exploration and development activities,
availability of financial resources or third-party financing, new laws (domestic or foreign), changes in
administrative practices, changes in exploration plans or budgets, and availability of equipment and
personnel.
Various risks to which the Company is exposed in the conduct of its business (including mining activities)
are described in detail in the Company's Annual Information Form for the year ended December 31,
2013, which was filed on SEDAR on March 19, 2014 and is available under the Company's profile at
www.SEDAR.com. Subject to applicable securities laws, the Company does not undertake any obligation

Page224of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.to publicly revise the forward-looking statements included in this News Release to reflect subsequent
events or circumstances.

SOURCE TVI Pacific Inc.

/CONTACT:

TVI Pacific Inc., Shirley Anthony, Investor Relations, 778.999.2771, tvi-info@tvipacific.com
/Web site: http://www.tvipacific.com

Copyright CNW
Group 2014

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

October 31, 2014 09:00 ET (13:00 GMT)

CO
IN

NS

RE

travv : TVI Pacific Inc
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2112 : Silver Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncmac : Commodities Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class
News | npress : Press Releases | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters
austr : Australia | phlns : Philippines | caab : Alberta | cana : Canada | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies |
namz : North America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia

PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020141031eaav0025j

Page225of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.