AGL's only option is to appeal MacGen ruling

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Finance
AGL's only option is to appeal MacGen ruling

JOHN DURIE
1,552 words
5 March 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
17
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

AGL has no choice but to appeal the Australian Competition & Consumer Commission's rejection of its
Macquarie Generation bid, relying on NSW Treasurer Mike Baird's patience and the absence of
another bidder prepared to pay more than $1.5 billion for the asset.

AGL's attempt to propose a behavioural undertaking, offering to reserve power in the hedging market,
was rejected by the ACCC for being difficult to police and too uncertain.

Whether the Australian Competition Tribunal agrees remains to be seen, and AGL will also argue its
lower costs translate into cheaper power for consumers. Baird's dream run in privatisations came to an
abrupt end yesterday, and having attempted the sale at what may be the bottom of the market with
demand falling, he now must cool his heels unless ERM comes back with a higher offer.

That was uncertain last night, and Baird, who will come back to market with $30bn of network assets to
sell after next year's election, will want to ensure he is seen as running open and fair sale processes.

AGL has had a long history of disputes with the ACCC and yesterday's rejection was not much of a
surprise.

The ACCC rejected the bid because it would have left NSW as the most concentrated state, with the
top three electricity retailers controlling close to 80 per cent of generation capacity, compared to
Victoria where the share is closer to 70 per cent.

Continued on Page 24

Continued from Page 17

AGL boss Michael Fraser made clear last week he disputed the ACCC's logic, which suggests, subject
to board approval and the willingness of Baird to wait, that he will appeal the decision.

Certainly advisers will be hoping so. Baird told The Australian yesterday, ``I respect the ACCC's
decision and will stick to it,'' adding: ``I won't sell the asset for below fair value.''

The question now is what is fair value, given rival bidder ERM came in at just more than $1.4bn in a
highly leveraged bid, which would have seen the company raise $500m in equity and $900m in debt.
The company talked to underwriter UBS to establish its next move. ACCC chairman and chief
executive Rod Sims is a big supporter of privatisation and has long argued electricity assets are better
run in private hands, but not at any cost, and in this case he argues the cost would be borne by NSW
consumers.

Given falling demand for electricity in a weak economy, many would argue this is the bottom of the
market, and given that a private seller would be tempted to do what Baird has said and withdraw the
asset from the market to wait until the market improved.

Page152of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Politically there are other dynamics at play, which may tend to make Baird bend, particularly if ERM
were to raise its bid a touch.

In the middle of this stalemate, AGL and ERM are likely to see their stock prices under pressure until
there is some clarity.
NSW has three big electricity retailers: AGL, Origin and Energy Australia. The latter two have their
own generation capacity so don't need to be active in the swaps market.

AGL has no generation capacity in NSW but does elsewhere, which means it plays the swaps market,
but if it got control of Macquarie it would be long electricity and hence would withdraw from swaps.

The ACCC fears this would cut liquidity and in doing so raise costs and hence barriers to entry to rival
players such as ERM.

AGL had offered to reserve some capacity for the swaps market but the ACCC worried that this would
be hard to monitor.

The remaining generation capacity in NSW is provided by Snowy Hydro, which has plentiful capacity
but its output tends to be restricted to ``peaking'' capacity.

Delta Hydro, which is also on the block, is small and is not considered to be big enough to provide
meaningful support.

There are a half-dozen rival small players in the NSW market, all of whom strongly opposed the AGL
purchase.

If AGL is blocked and doesn't appeal it will be considered ex growth by the market, which will be a
negative.

Baird must weigh the disappointment of losing the highest bid, which in the ACCC's view would hurt
NSW consumers, against the rational desire to see electricity assets in the right private hands and, of
course, more money in the coffers to invest in infrastructure.

Telstra all talk?

MICHAEL Vertigan and his fellow NBN committee members had a forum last week in Sydney to shop
attitudes to life under the National Broadband Network.
At the meeting, Telstra's Tony Warren was read as going out of his way to say the company had
crossed the Rubicon and was now working to life post its fixed-line monopoly, and structural separation
was very much part of its post-NBN thinking.

Vertigan committee member and former Telstra adviser Henry Ergas is of a course a former mentor to
Warren. The Telstra mantra says it would prefer to maintain its control of the network but if structural
separation is the law then it would proceed accordingly.

This week at a Sydney luncheon, Telstra boss David Thodey talked up the growth path ahead of the
company as he swore off past references to the ``incumbent telco''.

The days of being seen as the best parking lot on the bourse it seems are not in Thodey's future as he
chases more growth to pay higher dividends in the future.
All this growth talk has some wondering whether a major acquisition in the wings. It seems not, but
instead a series of smaller deals designed to plug more traffic into Telstra's Asian network.

In fact, growth is picking up, with revenue up 3.5 per cent in the last half, compared to 2.1 per cent in
the last half of the 2013 financial year and 1.3 per cent in the first half that year. In this context Telstra's
top line growth has more than doubled in a year, which can only be good news, even if the translation
to the earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation line is less certain.
The international business after the Hong Kong CSLsale will be just 2 per cent of earnings, and
network application services not much more. But it is growing.

All this new Telstra talk warms the soul, but at last week's industry forum scepticism ran high, in part
because one day the company says it is fully accepting the days of structural separation, and on the
next it talks up fibre-to-the-node trials and fibre to multi-premise buildings.

Page153of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Vertigan committee is seeking public submissions by March 14. Its role bemuses some, given it is
due to report mid year, around the same time as NBN Co expects to have concluded talks with Telstra
on how to incorporate its multi-technology platform into the existing contract.

The cost-benefit analysis provided by Vertigan will surely have some valuations, which would be
relevant to Telstra and NBN Co.

Others think the exercise is to get more ammunition to throw at the opposition, which at this stage in
the game is at best superfluous.

Certainly when the committee raised the issue of post-NBN regulation without the ACCC the industry
protested loudly at the Sydney meeting.

It wants someone to keep Telstra in line because, as much as Thodey wants to shake the incumbent
telco tag, that is how his opponents see him.

While on telco matters, the departure of Kevin Russell from Optus is an overwhelming negative,
highlighting his frustration at the command and control governance from head office.
Russell was in charge of consumer yet ran the single biggest operation within the group, without the
freedom to manage the portfolio as he wanted. He wanted to be country head and Singtel wanted a
divisional manager.

Ramsay's luck
SOMETIMES trades just work out well, as appears to be the case for AMP when it sold just over one
million Prime Media shares before news broke that Paul Ramsay was about to sell his stake in the
company.

A substantial shareholder notice filed by AMP noted it collected 96c a share on its sales dated
February 27, only to bounce back after market buying big lines in the Ramsay selldown at 87c a share.
In all, AMP now owns 6.4 per cent of Prime or 23.5 million shares, having acquired more than 12
million shares or about 10 per cent of the block trade in deals closed on February 28.
The Ramsay exit was arranged through UBS, which acquired his stake through an underwriting deal at
87c. Sometimes you just get lucky.
Milk price

NEXT week Fonterra is due to unveil its latest farm gate price en route to what is expected to be a final
price of somewhere between $6.60 to $6.80 a kilogram of milk solids. The latest Fonterra price in
Australia was $6.36/kg, and it should be noted a previous reference in this column incorrectly
translated the price into a per litre measure.

CO

IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

astcmb : Australian Competition Tribunal | macgen : Macquarie Generation | agkega : AGL Energy
Limited | auccc : Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16101 : Electric Power Generation | ieutil : Electric Utilities | iutil : Utilities
c34 : Anti-Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140304ea350001v

Page154of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.