Adani, GVK and Lanco seek to cut stake in Australian coal mines

Adani, GVK and Lanco seek to cut stake in Australian coal mines

12 May 2014

HD
WC 318 words
PD
SN Metis Energy Insider
SC METSPO
LA
CY
LP

English
Copyright 2014. Metis Business Solutions Pvt. Ltd.

TD

Business Standard reported that the Adani, GVK and Lanco groups are looking to sell part of their stakes
in Australian coal mining projects to reduce debt and get financial and technical partners on board.

Senior executives of the Adani and GVK groups confirmed they were in talks with contractors and
customers to pick up stakes in their coal, port and railway projects because that would help them get
technical and construction experts on board.

Coal mine stakes are also being offered to companies that have set up power plants across Asia and
want guaranteed coal supplies.
A GVK group executive, who did not wish to be named, said that “We may look at selling a stake in the
railway project to a railway company and a stake in the port project to a port operator.”
Bankers said that the Adani group plans to invest USD 15.4 billion and the GVK group USD 10 billion in
Australia to develop coal mines, railway lines to transport the output, and dedicated ports. Both groups
were over-leveraged which made it difficult for them to raise debt (see chart) for the projects, and hence
the plan for stake sales.

Bankers added added that on the other hand, the Hyderabad-based Lanco group might sell its holding in
Australia's Griffin Coal Mining Company as it tried to lower its INR 34,000 crore debt. The group expects
a valuation of INR 3,100 crore for Griffin Coal Mining Company, which it bought for USD 750 million in
2011. An email to the Lanco group did not elicit a response.

A senior Adani executive who did not wish to be named said the group was looking to sell a 50 per cent
stake in its australian coal mine and railway and was in talks with Chinese and South Korean investors.

i111 : Coal Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i1 : Energy | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i8396 :
Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

CO adexns : Adani Enterprises Ltd
IN

RE
IPD Coal
PUB Metis Business Solutions Pvt. Ltd.
AN

Document METSPO0020140512ea5c0008j

Page111of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.