Apartment splurge for Queen’s Wharf casino site

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CommercialProperty
Apartment splurge for Queen’s Wharf casino site

ROSANNE BARRETT, DEVELOPMENT
621 words
13 December 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
38
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

The Brisbane CBD project will include 2500 apartments

The consortiums headed by James Packer’s Crown Resorts and rival Echo Entertainment will
compete for the rights to build more than 2500 apartments at the multi-billion-dollar Queen’s Wharf
project in Brisbane’s CBD.

Industry sources have told The Weekend Australian the proposals for the riverside city precinct will
include thousands of apartments across five towers around the future casino, luxury hotel and
entertainment and shopping area.

One skyscraper will be a “super tower” set to overtake the city’s tallest buildings.

The Newman government’s competitive tender process for Brisbane’s biggest development is down
to two consortia: Crown Resorts and partner Chinese state-owned developer Greenland, versus
incumbent Brisbane casino operator Echo Entertainment in a joint venture with Chow Tai Fook and
the Far East Consortium.

The winning team will shape the city with control of ten blocks from Alice Street to Queen Street,
from the river to George Street. Three government buildings will be demolished to make way for the
project.
Under the Echo consortium proposal, The Weekend Australian understands the luxury hotel to come
to Brisbane would be the Rosewood brand, owned by Chow Tai Fook. The “six-star” offering would
follow grand openings in Britain and China.

Echo Entertainment holds the licence for the city’s Treasury casino, which grants operational rights
until 2070.
In October, Echo chief executive Matt Bekier said the company had “stretched” itself presenting a
“very robust” bid for Queens Wharf.

Echo’s licence and long-term lease over three buildings within the precinct could stymie plans from
Crown and Greenland.

Likewise, if the Crown proposal gets up, the city of 2 million could have two casinos almost side by
side, with more than double the number of existing poker machines.

This has prompted analysts to back Echo as favourite, despite rumblings of discontent from
government about how they have run their Queensland casinos.

Echo, Crown and representatives from the Newman government declined to comment, citing
confidentiality.

Page235of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It is understood the Newman government wants the project to roll out within an ambitious three-year
time frame.

Details of the proposals are shrouded in secrecy, with confidentiality arrangements binding both
proponents and the state government. The proposals were submitted last month ahead of a decision
expected early next year.
The historical rate of inner-city Brisbane apartment sales before the boom this year was about 1000
sales annually. But Brisbane is seeing a surge in off-the-plan applications and developments. More
than 1400 apartments sold in the inner city, within a 5km radius, in the last quarter.

More than 2500 sales across that area are expected this year, with more than 5300 settlements in
2016.
In the two years to mid-2014, fewer than 1000 apartments were sold in the city’s CBD. In the third
quarter of 2014 there were 18 sales in the CBD, with only three developments available for sale.
A summary of the Brisbane Apartment Essentials report by property analysts Urbis found record
off-the-plan apartment sales in the inner city were leading to the “super tower phenomenon”.
It cites Billbergia and AMP Capital’s 1119-apartment Skytower — set to be the highest in the city —
and the Shayher Group’s twin-tower 428-apartment, hotel and office development on George
Street.

“It is likely that these projects may however be surpassed in 2015, with a number of new
development applications expected to be lodged within the CBD by domestic and international
developers,” the report said.Billionaire Harry Triguboff’s Meriton developed two skyscrapers of more
than 1000 apartments over the last three years.

CO
IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

crncas : Crown Resorts Limited
i97912 : Gambling Industries | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141212eacd0003x

Page236of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.