(AE) Ferret's MOVING FACES

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

(AE) Ferret's MOVING FACES

862 words
22 September 2014
Ralph Wragg Australian Business News
AAPRAW
English
Copyright 2014 RWE AUSTRALIAN BUSINESS NEWS PTY LTD. All Rights Reserved.

Sydney - Monday - September 22: (RWE Australian Business News) - A list of changes of management
within ASX-listed companies.

Moving in ...

* Resource Development Group Ltd has advised of two new appointments to its board - Andrew Ellison
and Richard Eden. They replace Damir Panzich and Chris Ryan, who have resigned. These
appointments follow the acquisition by RDG of Central Systems Pty Ltd, which was formally approved to
proceed at a general meeting that was held on September 18.

Mr Ellison has extensive business experience and a successful track record in delivering business
growth. Mr Eden has an extensive track record in managing business growth and a strong focus on solid
contract and financial management.

* Syngas Ltd has entered into a loan agreement with Chris Low Siak Wei, a Melbourne-based investor.
Mr Low has provided a $700,000 unsecured 12-month loan facility carrying an interest rate of 9.25pc per
annum. He has been appointed as a non-executive director.

Mr Low is the chief executive officer of Sepangar Bay Power Corporation Sdn Bhd, an independent
power producer company which owns and operates a 100MW gas-fired power plant in Sabah, Malaysia.
He is also the president of several companies in Indonesia and Laos which are developing several hydro
power projects. Syngas expects to benefit from his extensive links with ASEAN-based business
companies as well as his ties with the Malaysian, Indonesian and Laos governments and diplomatic
circles through his business networks.

* Xanadu Mines Ltd today announced the appointment of independent non-executive director Barry Lavin.
He is an accomplished senior mining executive who spent 18 years with Rio Tinto until 2009, where his
most recent executive role was in its Copper Group having the responsibility for identifying and
evaluating acquisitions.
Mr Lavin is a mining engineer and while at Rio Tinto was the managing director of the Northparkes
Mines JV, where he helped position the operation as a highly productive, profitable and safe
underground block caving operation. At Rio Tinto, he also held the role of managing director of Global
Technical Services.

* Bin Li has been appointed as a non-executive director of Admiralty Resources NL. He is currently
chairman of the Supervisory Board for An Hui Province Lu Jiang Dragon Bridge Mining Company and
vice chairman/vice manager of the An Hui province Ma Gang Luo River Mining Company. Mr Li is a
senior mining engineer with more than 25 years' experience in metallurgy
* Dart Mining NL has moved to appoint Colin Seaborn as manager Unicorn PFS Project. Mr Seaborn
has been instrumental in delivering experience and expertise to address the complicated Unicorn
mineralogy and achieve, through application of conventional technologies, extraction of marketable
concentrates of molybdenum and copper. He takes over the project management role from John Eltham,
who has retired.
* Structural Systems Ltd announced the appointment of Roger Lee as company secretary, replacing
Stuart Gray. Mr Lee was appointed the chief financial officer on July 14 and has over 20 years'

Page124of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.experience in senior and executive management in Australia. He was an integral part of the
establishment and growth of Broad Group Holdings (part of Leighton Contractors Group) from its
inception in 1991 to a diversified national building and civil construction company with annual revenues
of more than half a billion dollars.

Moving On ...

* Peter Thomas and Michael Robson have resigned as directors of Meteoric Resources NL. Mr Thomas
was a founding director of the company when it listed on the Australian Securities Exchange in 2004.
His invaluable knowledge of junior exploration companies and the laws that govern them has been of
great benefit to Meteoric over a 10-year period. The board wished him well with his other business
endeavours.

The board also thanked Mr Robson for his services as chairman and non-executive director over the past
two years. He has been of invaluable legal assistance to the board but he has decided to focus his
attention on his legal practice at Robson Hayes Legal.

* Matthew Wood has tendered his resignation as a non-executive director of Avanco Resources Ltd in
order to pursue other business opportunities in Brazil. Mr Wood was the founding chairman of Avanco.
* China Integrated Media Corporation Ltd has announced the resignation of Yat Man Lai from his
position as a director.

* Kathmandu Holdings Ltd general manager - Sales and Marketing, Tamalin Morton, has given notice of
her resignation, and her final day with Kathmandu will be on December 17. Mrs Morton is to join
Medibank Pty Ltd in a new role based in Melbourne as general manager - Marketing and Brand.
Medibank is likely to be listed on the ASX late in 2014 or early in 2015. Mrs Morton has been with
Kathmandu since October 2007.

* Richard Ryan has resigned as a director of Kip McGrath Education Centres Ltd. He had been a director
of the company since 2011. Trevor Folsom has accepted an appointment as a director. He has an
extensive business background and experience and he is acknowledged for his ability to engage, invest
and advise growth companies, particularly in the technology sector.

* Garry Lemair has resigned as a non-executive director of Mariner Corporation Ltd.

CO
IN
NS

auscar : Syngas Limited
i1 : Energy | i12 : Coke Products | i14 : Petroleum/Coal Products | iindstrls : Industrial Goods
c411 : Management Moves | c41 : Management | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types
| nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd
AN

Document AAPRAW0020140922ea9m0012x

Page125of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.