Turning point for coal ? Japanese trading firms snap up coal assets

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Turning point for coal? Japanese trading firms snap up coal assets

666 words
22 December 2014
08:00
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.

* Japan is world's second-biggest coal importer
* Trading houses take advantage of depressed coal markets

* Signals some betting market has bottomed

* Assets eyed in Mozambique, Mongolia, Australia and Indonesia

By Yuka Obayashi and Sonali Paul

TOKYO/MELBOURNE, Dec 22 (Reuters) - Only a few months ago, a potential buyer said Japanese
trading house Marubeni Corp was prepared to sell a costly stake in a Canadian coal mine for as little
as $1.
But a flurry of acquisitions of high-quality coal assets by Japanese firms in recent weeks signals that
some trading houses at least are betting a depressed coal market where prices have halved in three
years may be bottoming out.
This vote of confidence comes amid signs that coal demand in Japan and emerging markets such as
India is holding up well despite weaker demand in markets such as China, where coal imports in the
first 11 months fell nearly a tenth.
Japan is the world's second-biggest coal importer behind China, importing almost 200 million tonnes
a year.
Recent acquisitions include the first coal investment by Mitsui & Co in 10 years. It is purchasing a
stake in a Mozambique mine operated by Brazil's Vale, in which the trading firm has an indirect stake.

"The biggest reason for participating in the Moatize project is to retain excellent quality metallurgical
coal that is scarce globally," Tetsuya Fukuda, general manager of Mitsui's coal division, said. "With
the resource supercycle, we had been not able to buy any assets."
The partnership will be welcome for Vale, which incurred a coal loss of almost $500 million in 2013,
mostly from Mozambique.
Mitsui is paying $763 million to Vale for a stake in the mine and port and rail connections, and is also
committed to spending $190 million to expand the mine.

Fukuda said Mitsui also had its eyes on other assets, without elaborating.
Coal prices soared from around $50 to over $200 a tonne between 2005 and 2008, making mining
assets expensive.

But prices have halved in three years and are back below $70 as miners invested in new production
and demand stalled due to alternative fuel sources and slower growth.

CHEAP ASSETS

Page57of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The low prices are now triggering interest in buying cheap assets in anticipation of an eventual market
pick-up.

"If you are interested in buying assets - they're probably going to be more expensive in six months
time from where they are today," said Michael Elliott, global mining and metals leader at consultants
Ernst & Young.

"So it's an opportunity - can they get exposure to more volumes, potentially even better quality assets
than they hold," he added.
Itochu Corp said this month it was interested in joining bidding for the giant Tavan Tolgoicoal project
after Mongolia relaunched an international tender.
"Tavan Tolgoi is one of the next big opportunities. Good quality coking coal projects definitely have
scarcity value," said Richard Gannon, head of metals and mining for Deutsche Bank in Australia,
when asked what Japanese firms may target next.
Joining the buying spree, Idemitsu Kosan Co said in November it more than doubled its stake in
Indonesian thermal coal miner PT Mitrabara Adiperdana,. State-owned Japan Oil, Gas and Metals
National Corp has also invested in the early stages of Australian mines in recent months.

The picture only a few months earlier looked very different.
Sumitomo Corp announced the closure of a coal mine in Australia as part of $2.3 billion of
writedowns, while a potential buyer - Hong Kong-listed Up Energy Development Group Ltd - said
Marubeni was prepared to unload a stake in a Canadian coal mine for as little as $1.
Marubeni, which did not disclose financial terms, jointly paid about $1 billion for the mine in 2012,
according to Thomson Reuters data. ($1 = 118.9200 yen) (Writing by Aaron Sheldrick; Editing by
Henning Gloystein and Ed Davies)

Released: 2014-12-21T22:00:05.000Z
mrubni : Marubeni Corp
i111 : Coal Mining | i1 : Energy | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i8396
: Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
mcoal : Coal Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | mcat :
Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E
Exclusion Filter
jap : Japan | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | easiaz :
Eastern Asia
Business
SERVICE:ABN
Thomson Reuters (Markets) LLC
Document LBA0000020141221eacl00gu2

RF
CO
IN

NS

RE

IPD
IPC
PUB
AN

Page58of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.