Visa screws get tighter for overseas investors

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Visa screws get tighter for overseas investors

Angus Grigg
691 words
12 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
10
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Beijing Wealthy Chinese people seeking residency in Australia will be required to inject money into
venture capital funds under proposed changes to investor visa rules.
Trade Minister Andrew Robb said venture funds could receive a $500 million annual boost from
changes he is proposing, which would stop users of the Significant Investor Visa from parking money
in low-risk bonds.

"If people want to come here [to Australia] they need to make a contribution," Mr Robb said on the
sidelines of the APEC forum in Beijing, where he is also trying to negotiate a bilateral trade deal.
The proposed visa changes come as Chinese property investors also face a tougher regime, with
the parliamentary committee examining foreign investment in housing considering how to recoup
windfall capital gains made by foreigners who don't comply with investment rules.

But the committee's report has been delayed until the end of the month after the conclusion of the
visit by Chinese President Xi Jinping next week.

The Significant Investor Visa, launched by the previous Labor government, offered a passport to
those willing to invest $5 million into a qualifying investment fund, and has been a hit with wealthy
Chinese wanting Australian residency.
The Abbott government has since unveiled a $15 million "platinum visa", which has even fewer
requirements around the number of days an applicant must spend in Australia. But in return
the government will overhaul the entire investor visa program and use it to commercialise
early-stage technology and drive innovation.
Mr Robb believes Australian venture capital and small company funds could see a boost to annual
inflows of $500 million. "If we can put half a billion a year into some of these areas, it will really fire
up innovation," he said.

"In my view if someone wants the fast track [to permanent residency] they need to have some skin in
the game."

When the investor visa program began in November 2012 it was expected to provide a boost to the
local funds management sector, which offered so-called "immigration compliant" products.
But approved applicants, of whom more than 90 per cent are Chinese, have shied away from
higher-risk equity or venture capital investments in favour of low-risk bond products.
"Frankly, just buying bonds does nothing for us," Mr Robb said.

Mr Robb said Australia had a problem marshalling funds to commercialise early-stage technology.

Page91of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In mid-October, when the government announced its new industry policy, it said funds from the
investment visa should be channelled into five priority areas of the economy.
These include: food and agribusiness; mining technology and services; oil, gas and energy
resources; medical technology and pharmaceuticals; along with advanced manufacturing.

At the time, Prime Minister Tony Abbott said the overhaul of industry policy was not about picking
winners, but "playing to our strengths''.

Under the new "platinum" visa, known as the Premium Investor Visa, applicants will be guaranteed
permanent residency within 12 months if they invest $15 million.
The $5 million visa provides residency after four years, while both visas have no requirement
around English language proficiency. Since November 2012 the scheme has seen $2.2 billion
invested in complying funds.
A further $2.9 billion has been committed by applicants awaiting final approval, according to the
Department of Immigration and Border Protection.
The investor visa program has been most popular in China, where many wealthy business people
feel insecure about their wealth and covet Australia's strong rule of law.
The program was also given a boost by Canada's move in August to cancel its "millionaire" visa
program.
Meanwhile, another potential challenge to the flow of Chinese tourists to Australia, the US and
China have used the APEC summit to introduce a new bilateral visa regime, which will make it
easier for Chinese tourists to visit the US.

The plan to lengthen the term of validity of their respective visas for tourists and business travellers
to 10 years, from one year could give the US a competitive advantage in attracting tourists over
Australia, which has a stricter visa process.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gimm : Asylum/Immigration | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141111eabc00011

Page92of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.