TVI TVI Pacific forms project advisory group

TVI TVI Pacific forms project advisory group

HD
CR
Stockwatch
WC 805 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

31 October 2014
Canada Stockwatch
CNSW
English
(c) 2014 Canjex Publishing Ltd.

TVI Pacific Inc (TSX:TVI)

Shares Issued 655,470,372

TD

Last Close 10/30/2014 $0.025

Friday October 31 2014 - News Release

Mr. Cliff James reports
TVI ANNOUNCES MEMBERS OF PROJECT ADVISORY GROUP
TVI Pacific Inc. has released the members of its new project advisory group, consisting of independent,
seasoned mining exploration and project assessment experts who will be assisting TVI in evaluating new
opportunities in the Asia-Pacific region. "I am pleased to highlight the exceptional team of experts that is
assisting TVI in evaluating projects which TVI can hold majority ownership and operatorship in," stated
Cliff James, president and chief executive officer of TVI. "Our goal is to find projects which can be rapidly
explored, developed and ultimately put into production within a relatively short period of time to generate
cash flows -- something the TVI team has previously achieved in the Philippines."
Members of the project advisory group include the following.

Douglas J. Kirwin

Mr. Kirwin is an independent consulting geologist with 45 years of international exploration experience.
He has held senior positions with Anglo American and Amax during the 1970s, and was managing
director of a successful international geological consulting firm during the 1980s and early 1990s. In
1995, he became vice-president, exploration, for Indochina Goldfields and subsequently became the
executive vice-president for Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. until 2012, after which Ivanhoe was acquired by Rio Tinto.
Mr. Kirwin was a member of the discovery team for the Hugo Dummett deposit at Oyu Tolgoi in Mongolia,
as well as the Jelai-Mewet and Seryung epithermal deposits in northeast Kalimantan, the Eunsan-Moisan
gold mines in South Korea, the Moditaung gold deposits in Myanmar, and the Merlin Re-Mo deposit in
Australia. Mr. Kirwin holds a master of science degree in mineral exploration from James Cook University,
Australia.

John Holliday

Mr. Holliday is an independent geologist with over 30 years of experience in metals exploration, mostly
with BHP Minerals and Newcrest Mining, including the positions of chief geoscientist and general
manager, property generation. He was a principal discoverer and site manager of the Cadia and
Marsden porphyry gold-copper deposits in New South Wales, and was a principal geological adviser on
the acquisition of many significant projects, including Namosi and Wafi-Golpu. Mr. Holliday has worldwide
experience in gold-copper deposit exploration and evaluation. He has a geophysics/geology honours
degree from Macquarie University, and an economic/politics degree from Sydney University, Australia.

Craig Panther

Page216of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr. Panther is an independent consulting geologist with 20 years of exploration and project development
experience, and a specialist in Pacific Rim Arc geology and mineralization. He has worked throughout
New Zealand, Indonesia, the Philippines, China, South Korea, Mongolia, Peru, Mexico and Fiji, and was
with Ivanhoe Mines for 15 years in various roles, including China technical and general manager; senior
project geologist on the Oyu Tolgoi project in Mongolia; senior project geologist at the Eunsan mine in
South Korea; and a project geologist in Indonesia. Before Ivanhoe, Mr. Panther held various minerals
exploration positions with companies including Barrick Gold Corp., Mineral Resources Ltd. and Sigma
Gold NL. He holds a bachelor of science degree and a master of science degree with honours in
economic geology, both from the University of Auckland, New Zealand.

Ciceron (Jun) Angeles

Mr. Angeles is a geologist with over 35 years of experience in gold and-base metal exploration in Asia --
mainly in the Philippines, Indonesia, China, Malaysia and Iran. His specializations include epithermal
gold-silver, porphyry copper-gold and Carlin styles of mineralization. He was the Asia exploration
manager for Newcrest Mining, during which time Newcrest brought the Gosowong mine into production.
Mr. Angeles obtained his MAppSc in mineral exploration from the University of New South Wales,
Australia. He is currently a non-executive director of Medusa Mining Ltd., an Australian company with a
gold mine in the Philippines.

Mike Bue

Mr. Bue is a mining engineer with over 35 years of experience in the mining industry, including
underground and open-pit projects and operations; mineral exploration and mineral resource/ore reserve
evaluation; and project and mine management. Mr. Bue has held a senior role with Queensland Nickel
Ltd. (a former subsidiary of BHP Billiton) for eight years, and was responsible for the purchase and
supply of nickel laterite ore from mines in New Caledonia, Indonesia and the Philippines. During that
period, he also managed exploration programs, and mine development and logistics operations for nickel
laterite from mine ports and rail transport to the Yabulu nickel refinery. Mr. Bue holds a bachelor of
science in mining engineering, University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, and a master of engineering
(mineral economics), McGill University, Montreal, and is a member of the Professional Engineers of
Ontario, and Canadian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy.

We seek Safe Harbor.

CO
IN

NS
RE

travv : TVI Pacific Inc
i2112 : Silver Ore Mining | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
npress : Press Releases | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types
austr : Australia | phlns : Philippines | cana : Canada | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | namz :
North America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia

IPD News Release
PUB Canjex Publishing Ltd.
AN

Document CNSW000020141031eaav002s7

Page217of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.