Foyson Executes Term Sheet to Enter Strategic Relationship with Integrated Green Energy Ltd

HD
WC 1,216 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Foyson Executes Term Sheet to Enter Strategic Relationship with Integrated Green Energy Ltd

3 October 2014
ENP Newswire
ENPNEW
English
(c) 2014, Electronic News Publishing. All Rights Reserved.

Release date - 02102014
The Directors of Foyson Resources Limited are pleased to announce that the Company’s previously
announced negotiations with Integrated Energy Limited have progressed to the parties signing a
non-binding term sheet to enter into a strategic relationship.

TD

The Term Sheet allows Foyson to acquire:
exclusive licences in Australia, New Zealand, China, North America, South East Asia, India, Papua New
Guinea and Fiji to commercialise IGE’s plastics to fuel technology and biomass to both fuel and energy
conversion technologies;

one of three non-exclusive technology licences in all other jurisdictions;

IGE’s existing pilot scale plastics to fuel conversion plant at Berkeley Vale on New South Wales’ central
coast;

The Term Sheet states the remuneration for IGE is all performance based. To obtain the maximum
remuneration in terms of Foyson shares and options, the operating facilities utilizing the IGE technology
must earn annual EBITDA in excess of $20million. This arrangement will provide a substantial reward for
current shareholders, if these performance targets are achieved.

The Term Sheet is subject to conditions precedent including completion of due diligence, the agreement
and execution of long form documentation, and all shareholder and regulatory approvals This strategy is
consistent with previous announcements by the Company that it is seeking a cash flow project to assist in
funding the Amazon Bay Project development activities.

This requirement has become more pressing since the announcement by TVI Pacific Inc (‘TVI’) that it will
not be funding Stage 2 of the Amazon Bay Joint Venture and the collapse of the iron ore price to below
US$80 per tonne, which is likely to preclude any short term third party investment in the Project.

IGE Term Sheet

The Term Sheet sets out the terms of the proposed arrangements, as described below. These include two
placements of shares, Foyson’s acquisition of licences to use IGE’s technology, acquisition of IGE’s
existing plant, and the construction and development of new plants based on the existing Plant (‘IGE
Transaction’) over the next four years.

Placements preceding completion of the IGE Transaction

Parties associated with IGE will subscribe for shares representing 14.73% of Foyson’s share capital via a
first Placement of 135,000,000 ordinary Shares at a subscription price of $0.0025 (0.25 cents) to raise
$337,500. These parties will also be issued with 135,000,000 options exercisable at $0.0025 (0.25 cents)
no later than 31 December 2019. Grant of the options is subject to shareholder approval.

This issue of shares in the first placement will be completed using Foyson’s existing 15% capacity under
ASX Listing Rule 7.1, and is not subject to shareholder approval. Foyson will seek shareholder ratification
of the first placement at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 24 November 2014, to refresh its ability

Page252of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.to issue further capital as required and to approve the grant of options in connection with the first
placement.

Funds from this first placement will be used predominantly to complete the due diligence and legal
documentation for the IGE transaction and for the working capital requirements of the Company.

Parties associated with IGE and Foyson will acquire via a second placement a total of 100,000,000
ordinary Shares at a subscription price of $0.0025 (0.25 cents) to raise $250,000. These parties will be
issued with 100,000,000 options exercisable at $0.0025 (0.25cents) no later than 31 December 2019.
This second placement will be put to shareholders for consideration at the Annual General Meeting.
Funds from the second placement will be used for working capital requirements for the Company during
completion of due diligence and final documentation to complete the IGE Transaction.
Acquisition of exclusive licences, Plant acquisition and construction of New Plants Foyson will acquire
exclusive licences to use IGE’s waste conversion technology in Australia, New Zealand, China, North
America, India, South East Asia, Papua New Guinea and Fiji. Foyson will also acquire non-exclusive
licences to use IGE’s technology in other jurisdictions globally, with IGE to grant no more than three
licences to any party in any jurisdiction.

Over the next four years, Foyson will fund the construction of up to four Plants in eastern Australia,
according to the timetable and budget to be finalised in the long form documentation between the parties.

At completion of the proposed IGE Transaction, Foyson will offer positions to those IGE employees
required to manage the Plant and construct the New Plants on terms and conditions acceptable to both
parties. IGE will construct and develop the Plants on behalf of Foyson.

Share consolidation, fundraising initiatives and issue of Performance Shares to IGE Foyson will undertake
a consolidation of its share capital and will issue 1 new share for every 80 existing ordinary shares. This
will result in the exercise price of all Foyson options increasing to or above 20 cents.

Foyson proposes to conduct a Rights Issue to raise gross proceeds of approximately $3,000,000 to fund
its development of the Berkeley Vale Plant. Concurrent with the Rights Issue, TVI will be offered the
opportunity (subject to all approvals necessary) to convert its existing loan of $400,000 to equity, on the
same terms as the two Placements.

Subject to ASX approval of their terms, after the share consolidation and on completion of the IGE
Transaction, Foyson will issue 70,000,000 Convertible Performance Shares and 70,000,000 Convertible
Performance Options to IGE (together, ‘Performance Securities’).

The Performance Securities will be issued to IGE in tranches. The vesting conditions for each tranche will
be linked to each Plant or New Plant generating $5 million EBITDA per annum. The first tranche, linked
to the existing Plant, has a performance period of two years from completion of the IGE Transaction. Each
multiple of $5 million EBITDA generated will result in the vesting of another tranche of Performance
Securities.

The Convertible Performance Shares will convert to Foyson ordinary fully paid shares on achieving the
target set for each Plant and New Plant within the relevant performance period. The target for each plant
is EBITDA of $5 million per annum, pro-rated over any rolling 6 month period within that performance
period.

Subject to the targets being met within the relevant performance periods, IGE may exercise the
Convertible Performance Options on or before 31 December 2019 at an exercise price of $0.20. On
exercise, Foyson will issue one ordinary fully paid share for each Convertible Performance Option
exercised.

The share capital and IGE-related share capital interests are presented on the basis of the following
assumptions:

IGE participates in the second placement to the maximum extent possible;
TVI converts debt to equity;

The Rights issue occurs at 20 cents with 1 for 1 option, with full take up and

no exercise of options by any party.

The column headed ‘Fully diluted’ assumes that all options issued as part of this transaction are exercised
and is otherwise made on the assumptions outlined above.

Page253of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CONTACT:

Doug Halley Tel: +61(0)407 203 050

Mike Palmer Tel: +61(0)418 950 694

[Editorial queries for this story should be sent to newswire@enpublishing.co.uk]

CO
IN
NS

enpiac : Integrated Energy Limited. | wndbul : Foyson Resources Ltd.
i471 : Paper Mills | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | ipper : Paper/Pulp
cexecp : Executive Pay | npress : Press Releases | c41 : Management | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Electronic News Publishing Ltd.
AN

Document ENPNEW0020141003eaa30001y

Page254of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.