Being sued by Clive? Join the club, Premier

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

TheNation
Being sued by Clive? Join the club, Premier

HEDLEY THOMAS, COMMENT
721 words
29 April 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
2
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

CAMPBELL Newman, welcome to the club. That would be the “Being Sued By Clive Palmer Club”.

Like other club members, Premier, you have paid your dues. You had the temerity to speak frankly
about Queensland’s founder of the Palmer United Party, the man who wants to be prime minister, but
who runs to his lawyers to issue legal threats when put under scrutiny in the cut and thrust of Australian
politics.

Not for the first time, you said that Clive, a major political donor when your party was in opposition,
wanted to “buy’’ the new Liberal National Party government to advance his own commercial interests.
And you added that he is now “on a rampage around Australia trying to buy other people and buy other
people’s votes’’.

Thin-skinned Clive cannot handle that sort of talk. Remember that your predecessor as premier, Anna
Bligh, was dragged into the “Being Sued By Clive Palmer Club” because she had the temerity to speak
frankly, too. Her treasurer, Andrew Fraser, the other defendant, would not be intimidated. He said at the
time, “I will call out a bully any day of the week.’’ Fraser also appealed to Clive to “cease and desist
from his baseless legal threats, his wild conspiracy theories and his frankly unintelligible and
unfathomable ranting’’. No joy. Clive simply announced an $8 billion action against the former
Queensland government for alleged breach of confidentiality. Just $8bn. Like hot air, the legal suit
wafted away.

But the double standard in Clive’s parallel universe is always on display. He demands the freedom to
say what he likes no matter how outlandish or offensive the utterances.
He tars News Corp head Rupert Murdoch’s former wife Wendi Deng as a “Chinese spy’’. He brands
Northern Territory Chief Minister Adam Giles a “liar’’. He condemns cabinet ministers in Newman’s
government as “corrupt’’. He accuses Newman of having a mental health condition. Yet when strong
words come at Clive his response is: “I’m going to sue.’’ If Clive were to get his way, reporters,
commentators politicians and other robust critics across the media and business world who dare to
examine inconvenient truths about his record as a businessman and, now, a parliamentarian, would
gag themselves.

Who else made it (or almost made it) into the “Being Sued By Clive Palmer Club”? It is a long list. We
will mention just a few more among the many wrongdoers in Clive’s eyes.
There is the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority, a federal government agency tasked with
protecting the waters of north Queensland from the toxic sludge that Clive’s nickel refinery produces in
vast quantities, which was warned it would be sued for more than $6bn for daring to regulate him.

The authority has been conspicuous in its reluctance to take the refinery on in court over its releases of
hazardous contaminants.

There is Sydney lawyer Shaun McCarthy, who sat as an accredited judge in a Football Federation case.
He was lumbered with a $10 million action for defamation because of his finding in a formal judgment

Page182of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.that the Gold Coast United club Clive controlled (before he ran it into the ground) had “acted
dishonourably’’. McCarthy won the matter along with his costs in the Supreme Court.

There is the Gold Coast Bulletin and its editor, Peter Gleeson, who ran a straightforward story about the
finding that Clive’s football club “acted dishonourably’’.

The story was placed on the same newspaper page as an unrelated story about a playboy “love rat’’ but
Clive was distressed; he thought readers would mistake him for the playboy, so he sued for $10m.
Clive, it’s not always about you.

And there is Nationwide News, publisher of The Australian, and this reporter. We are being sued in the
Supreme Court of Queensland over a handful of articles published last year about his business
interests, finances and legal threats to a major Chinese state-owned company, CITIC Pacific. Clive
wants more than $1m in damages.

The statement of claim and our defences are on the public record. These matters, and many others,
make it difficult to avoid a conclusion that Clive loves attention — and hates scrutiny.Clive, will you sue
us for saying that?

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gpol : Domestic Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations
austr : Australia | nterry : Northern Territory | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140428ea4t00037

Page183of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.