Roc takeover's lawsuit hurdle

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Roc takeover's lawsuit hurdle

Class action Angela Macdonald-Smith and Sarah Thompson
610 words
4 October 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
37
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The $474 million cash takeover of Roc Oil by China's Fosun International has been placed in doubt
by a potential class action against the Australian oil and gas company.

Slater and Gordon has contacted institutional shareholders in Roc that may support a claim for losses
because the company allegedly knowingly failed to inform the market of a reserve downgrade at an oil
and gas field in Victoria as soon as it became apparent.

The claim would seek to recover losses suffered by investors resulting from the purchase of Roc Oil
shares between May 21, 2009 and February 2, 2010. The move for a potential class action several
years later is being seen as opportunistic by some investors because it has apparently been timed to
get in before Roc ends its days as a publicly listed company and is taken over by the Chinese player.

Slater and Gordon said the proposed class action was notified to institutional investors on August 4. It
said the fact Fosun made its offer for Roc on the same day was "entirely coincidental".

But should the action go ahead, it could trigger a material adverse change (MAC) condition in the
Fosun-Roc transaction, involving any event that results in a $US15 million ($17 million) reduction in
asset value or earnings.

The initial deadline for the registration of claims for the class action is October 17, the same day Fosun
could declare its offer unconditional for Roc. Fosun's offer, which has so far gained 29 per cent
acceptances, closes on October 15 and can be declared unconditional two days after reaching the
50 per cent minimum condition.

"The question really is whether Slater and Gordon bring the action against Roc before the offer is
declared unconditional, and whether the quantum of the claim is sufficient to trigger the MAC clause,"
one broker said.

Roc, which is being advised in the takeover by JB North & Co, described the attempt to garner
shareholder support for a potential claim as "purely speculative and highly opportunistic".
'Inflated price'The company said it will "vigorously defend its position and does not consider this matter
to be material in relation to the Fosun takeover".

Slater and Gordon senior class action lawyer Ben Phi said the takeover was "entirely irrelevant" to the
proposed class action, which he said should not be material to the takeover.
She said all information that the company was aware of that was material to the Fosun deal had been
disclosed in the target's statement.Roc shares on Friday fell 0.5¢ to 68¢, 1¢ shy of Fosun's cash offer.

The potential class action is the latest hurdle to arise in the takeover of Roc, after an earlier
$800 million proposal by the mid-cap player to merge with Horizon Oil was knocked off course by the
Fosun cash offer. Controversy also surrounded the Roc-Horizon merger proposal because it was

Page141of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.structured so that Roc Oil shareholders did not get an opportunity to vote on the transaction.The claim
relates to an 80 per cent downgrade in reserves at the Basker-Manta-Gummy venture by Roc in
February 2010, which drove a 31 per cent slump in the share price.

It alleges Roc knew or ought to have known of the issues driving the cut in reserves no later than May
21, 2009, causing losses to shareholders who bought stock in the intervening period.

The claim alleges Roc was therefore in breach of the Corporations Act and engaged in misleading and
deceptive conduct, breaching its obligations of continuous disclosure.

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

fosuni : Fosun International Limited | rocoil : Roc Oil Company Ltd
i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1 : Energy | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs :
Business/Consumer Services
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cclass
: Class Action/Settlements | c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal Action | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter |
nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141003eaa40001b

Page142of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.