NZ may lead rates rise Our Reserve Bank is expected to soon be the first...

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

NZ may lead rates rise Our Reserve Bank is expected to soon be the first...

548 words
11 January 2014
Bay of Plenty Times
APNBPT
English
Copyright 2014 APN New Zealand Ltd - Regionals. All Rights Reserved

NZ may lead rates rise Our Reserve Bank is expected to soon be the first developed world central bank
to lift interest rates. HSBC Australasia chief economist Paul Bloxham says New Zealand is likely to
out-perform other OECD economies except Chile, Israel and Mexico. He says our economy is already
operating at close to capacity, which means strengthening demand could translate quickly into cost
pressures.

China imports increase China's export growth slowed in December while imports accelerated, helping to
temper fears of a slowdown in the world's second-largest economy. Customs data yesterday showed
exports in December rose 4.3 per cent, slowing from the previous month's 12.7 per cent expansion. Toll
in IRD dispute Toll Holdings' New Zealand unit recognised a provision of almost $22.9 million in its
dispute with the Inland Revenue Department over its use of convertible notes in 2013, a year that saw its
annual loss widen by 69 per cent as it wrote down its Express Logistics acquisition. The Australian
logistics group is one of a group of companies being chased by the New Zealand IRD for claiming
deductions on interest on convertible notes. $65m bribery settlement Aluminum giant Alcoa will pay
US$384 million ($465.5 million) to settle charges that it bribed Bahrain officials to secure business in
the Gulf nation, US Justice officials have announced. Alcoa unit Alcoa World Alumina was accused of
paying millions of dollars in bribes in an arrangement made ``at the request of certain members of
Bahrain's royal family''.
Oil boom for Dunedin? Planned oil-drilling in the Great South Basin could give Dunedin the boost it
needs to fix its ailing economy. Shell New Zealand and its partners have announced they will potentially
base themselves in Dunedin in 2016, when it begins drilling for gas. Mayor Dave Cull says any economic
benefits will depend on how much natural gas is found.

German industry rallies German industrial production picked up in November, rising by a
bigger-than-expected 1.9 per cent compared with the previous month. The rise reported yesterday by
the Economy Ministry followed two consecutive drops, with a 1.2 per cent drop in October.

EU approves big merger The European Union's antitrust authority has approved the merger of Omnicom
and Publicis, clearing a deal that will create the world's largest advertising firm. The European
Commission, the 28-nation bloc's competition watchdog, yesterday said the merger raises no big
antitrust concerns due to the presence of other large competitors and the advertising market's bidding
nature.

Fox to pull Aussie shares Twenty-First Century Fox, the media entertainment giant controlled by Rupert
Murdoch, plans to delist its shares in Australia. Listing its shares solely on the Nasdaq should reduce the
regulatory burden and boost share liquidity, Fox said. PC sales plummeting A new report says personal
computer sales slipped further during the holiday season, capping the worst annual decline in the PC's
history. Gartner Inc estimates global PC shipments for the three months ending in December dropped 7
per cent from the same time in 2012. For all of last year, PC sales plunged 10 per cent.

CO
IN

NS

oecode : Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development | tolhld : Toll Holdings Ltd
i81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | i77002 :
Freight Transportation Arrangement | icargo : Freight/Cargo Transport | itsp : Transportation/Shipping
c34 : Anti-Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter

Page115of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE
PUB
AN

nz : New Zealand | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
APN New Zealand Ltd - Regionals
Document APNBPT0020140110ea1b0001r

Page116of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.