COPPER HINGES ON STIMULUS

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
COPPER HINGES ON STIMULUS

ROBIN BROMBY, PURE SPECULATION
971 words
8 December 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
26
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

COPPER is ready for a turnaround — apparently — and producer stocks are (also apparently) looking
cheap.

True, the red metal (the so-called bellwether commodity) has taken a dreadful pasting this year, down
12.1 per cent since January. The Friday close of $US6450 a tonne is hardly the trigger for churches
across the land to ring their bells in jubilation.

So we must defer to ANZ and Deutsche banks. And to Copenhagen’s Danske Bank, too, which is now
expecting a liquidity injection of $US1.5 trillion from the European and Japanese central banks,
something that might help commodity confidence.
ANZ’s Daniel Hynes and Rosey Kaur believe the copper sell-off is overdone, with low inventories and
further supply disruptions providing a base for a rally in 2015 as global growth improves. World mine
output growth has failed to materialise: mine supply this year has been lower than forecast with
disruptions in Indonesia (Grasberg), Zambia and Chile. It’s been a combination of pit wall failures,
strikes, technical problems, lower than expected head grades, bad weather and slow project ramp-ups.
ANZ sees world GDP growth at 3.9 per cent in 2015 and 4.1 per cent in 2016, supportive of copper
demand.
Deutsche argues the heavy sell-off in key copper stocks makes a compelling value opportunity. The
team sees Sandfire Resources (SFR) and PanAust (PNA) as the go-to stocks. Sandfire’s price has
dropped 30 per cent in the past three months but the water problem at the DeGrussa mine is seen as
well in hand. Mining should resume this week. As far as PanAust is concerned, Deutsche sees
cashflow ramping up in 2015 and 2016. The present lower share price “offers an entry point to the only
copper stock offering organic production growth and new project development”, the analysts add.

Even though the US looks likely to lift interest rates, Danske sees the Europeans and Japanese each
injecting about $US700 billion next year, leading to synchronised global growth even with the historic
divergence in monetary policy between Washington, Tokyo and Brussels. Fingers crossed the Danes
are right.
While junior activity generally is subdued, some copper hopefuls are getting on with it. Platypus
Minerals (PLP) says Pilbara drilling has confirmed the presence of copper and molybdenum. Rox
Resources (RXL) reports good grades from the Northern Territory including 8m at 7.6 per cent while
Regal Resources (RER) keeps striking copper in the DR Congo, including 103.3m at 4.25 per cent,
along with cobalt.
Graphite doubts ANOTHER miner has found deals with Chinese entities can fall over at any stage of
the negotiating process. Back in July graphite hopeful Lamboo Resources (LMB) revealed it would
merge with China Sciences Hengda Graphite Co. It sounded so promising: Hengda was said to
operate three graphite mines in China and a plant making anodes for lithium-ion batteries and had
invested heavily in producing graphene.

Page17of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.But Lamboo has discovered that the ownership of Hengda was “materially different” from what it
thought and there were other loans held by the Chinese company of which it was previously unaware.
So the deal is off, and LMB shares took a 44 per cent hit on the news. The junior is now trying to get
back its $US2 million deposit. Regular readers will know that Pure Speculation has become a little less
than enthusiastic about the graphite story — not through any doubts about graphite itself, but rather
concerns about the entry of so many players into what is a relatively small market.

Oh, argue the proponents of the graphite surge, just wait until graphene finds its feet, that will open up
a whole new world for graphite. After all, as Cambridge Nanosystems, an advance materials spin-out
from the university of the same name, puts it, “graphene is both stronger than diamond and more
conductive than copper, yet can be transparent in its appearance and weighs almost nothing. It has
the potential to improve the strength and performance of materials in nearly every industry”.

We mention this because Cambridge Nanosystems now claims to have been able to manufacture
graphene without — wait for it — graphite. Instead, they use their patented plasma system to turn
methane gas into graphene.

“No metals catalysts, solvents or surfactants are required as the process relies solely on advanced
plasma chemistry,” the company says. They are building a plant that will make five tonnes a year of
graphene, with the potential to expand to 500 tonnes. This, as they say, could be a game-changer.

Meanwhile, the local graphite space continues to expand. Oakdale Resources (OAR), the former listed
property management company Teys, has just relisted under its new name after raising $3.78m to
explore Eyre Peninsula, where it hopes to prove up as much as 15 million tonnes of graphite
mineralisation. And Green Rock Energy (GRK) — soon to be known as Black Rock Energy — is
rattling the tin for $2.5m at 5c a share for its graphite hopes in Tanzania. Nearby in the same country
IMX Resources (IXR) reports more intersections at its Chilalo graphite prospect.

Saving grace MEANWHILE, belt-tightening continues in the junior sector. Newera Resources (NRU)
had $1.02m at the end of the September quarter and wants to keep its powder dry. The need to pay
more hefty Mongolian fees and the winter close-down in said country has led to the decision to drop its
Ulaan Tolgoi coal project and save its money for a new venture.
Cabral Resources (CBS) has called in the voluntary administrators but says its Brazilian iron ore
interests are carrying on.

robin.bromby@news.com.auNo investment advice is implied and investors should seek professional
guidance. The writer does not own shares in any company mentioned.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
nterry : Northern Territory | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141207eac80000k

Page18of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.