Singapore firms selling off Australian assets as resource boom fades

HD
WC 390 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Singapore firms selling off Australian assets as resource boom fades

24 July 2014
Nikkei Asian Review
NIKARE
English
© 2014 Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Inc. All rights reserved.

TD

SINGAPORE -- Companies here are actively selling off large amounts of Australian assets. These
companies are trying to adjust their portfolios to reduce risk, amid growing signs that Australia's economy
is slowing as the resource boom fades.

Olam International, Singapore's leading agricultural products trader, announced in late June that it will sell
80% of outstanding shares in its subsidiary Olam Grains Australia to Japanese trading giant Mitsubishi
Corp. for $64 million. Although Olam will continue to hold the remaining 20%, the risk will be reduced
substantially compared to the sole investment.

Last year, Singapore-based budget carrier Tiger Airways Holdingssold 60% of its outstanding shares in
its Australian arm to Virgin Australia Holdings. This sale was also intended to limit the risk of unprofitable
operations.
Demand for resources in China has slowed amid its efforts to shift toward a domestic demand-led
economy. Accordingly, Australia's economic growth, which had been led by resources exports, has
slowed as well.

Australia-based assets accounted for 10% of the portfolio of Temasek Holdings, the Singaporean
sovereign wealth fund, as of the end of March, down 3 points from a year earlier. Meanwhile, the ratios of
Chinese and Singaporean assets rose.

Australia has long been a promising market for Singaporean companies due to its proximity and high
growth potential. There have been moves, however, to shift funds to Southeast Asia and China, in hopes
of greater growth potential and economic growth.
The sale of Australian property firmAustraland Property Group by CapitaLand, Singapore's largest real
estate developer, is a case in point. CapitaLand has decided to withdraw from Australia by selling all of its
59% stakes in Australand last November and this March. The real estate developer has prepared to focus
on the development in its core markets of Singapore and China by making CapitaMalls Asia, its
commercial facility-related subsidiary, private.
Nevertheless, Frasers Centrepoint, a Singaporean property developer, has moved ahead with the
acquisition of Australand. Lim Ee Seng, CEO of Frasers Centrepoint, said that the acquisition of
Australand will enable his company to attain its goals, including the increase in its overseas revenues and
strengthening of its bases in Australia, more quickly.

Australia appears to be maintaining its attraction for companies that emphasize the diversification of their
portfolios.

CO mtsubc : Mitsubishi Corp | olamil : Olam International Limited | tgrgr : Tiger Airways Holding Limited |

IN

NS
RE

vrbair : Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd
i61 : Wholesalers | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i75 : Airlines | i7501 : Scheduled Passenger Airlines | i8396 :
Diversified Holding Companies | iairtr : Air Transport | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ifodwh : Food
Wholesaling | ilowair : Low Cost Airlines | itsp : Transportation/Shipping
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
singp : Singapore | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
seasiaz : Southeast Asia

IPC EG001000

Page8of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB Nikkei Inc.
AN

Document NIKARE0020140724ea7o0000h

Page9of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.