Chinese buyers to invest $44b in Australian real estate : analysts

HD
BY
WC 761 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Chinese buyers to invest $44b in Australian real estate: analysts

By business reporter Michael Janda

5 March 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) News
ABCNEW
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

TD

Global investment bank Credit Suisse expects Chinese nationals to sink around $44 billion into Australian
residential real estate over the next seven years.
Combining what information is available from the Foreign Investment Review Board, Department of
Immigration and Bureau of Statistics to estimate Chinese residential property investment, the bank puts
it conservatively at more than $5 billion per annum.

The Credit Suisse report estimates that Chinese investors and newly arrived immigrants have spent
about $24 billion on Australian property over the past seven years.
Given the restriction on non-permanent residents forcing them to buy newly built properties, Credit Suisse
estimates that Chinese buyers are currently purchasing around 12 per cent of new homes in Australia.

However, the report's authors say that buying is concentrated in Australia's two largest cities, meaning
that an estimated 18 per cent of new dwellings in Sydney and 14 per cent in Melbourne are being
purchased by Chinese nationals.
The level of Chinese buyers in other markets is estimated to be 7 per cent or lower.
While Chinese buyers are still a relatively small proportion of the overall property market - especially
since non-permanent residents cannot buy established homes - the report's authors say they have a
large influence on prices.
"The marginal buyer of Sydney and Melbourne real estate has changed, as have the drivers of property
prices," the report observed.

Translated from economic jargon, a "marginal buyer" is the bidder that trumps everyone at an auction,
when most think the price has gone too high.

Such buyers, even if a minority, often set a benchmark for expectations in the market - 'my neighbour got
X, Y, Z, so I want X, Y, Z plus one', being a mentality in rising property markets that real estate agents
are only too familiar with.

The analysts point out that Sydney is fourth and Melbourne fifth in Demographia's list of the least
affordable cities for home prices relative to incomes - only Hong Kong, Vancouver and San Francisco
rank higher.
However, they warn the increase in Chinese property investment could worsen this situation.
"While Australia has some of the most unaffordable housing in the world, further strong Chinese demand
can push prices even higher," they forecast.
"A generation of Australians are being priced out of the property market. Many face a lifetime of renting."

Home prices decoupled from incomes

Credit Suisse says the existence of a significant number of cashed-up foreign investors has the potential
to decouple home prices from the normal factors that restrict them, such as local income levels.

Page174of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."The emergence of the global property investor means that valuation methods like house price to local
income ratios are becoming obsolete," the report states.

"Residents of central London have known this for some time. Many of which are well paid investment
bankers but are still struggling to buy in the capital where many of the owners are wealthy individuals
from the Middle East, North Africa and other parts of Europe."

The Credit Suisse analysts warn Sydney residents, in particular, that they may be headed for the same
fate.

"While the differences in recent house price and wage inflation in Sydney has not been as extreme as
London just yet, we think the two cities have plenty in common," they observed.
"In both cities property rights are protected. Both cities are in transparent democracies and within an
overnight flight away from less democratic countries with less transparent governments. And both the UK
and Australia have their borders open to new immigrants, especially if they are rich."

However, the point of the Credit Suisse report is not to warn of the danger of local residents being priced
out of their home cities, but rather to highlight investment opportunities.
The obvious one being property developers, which the investment bank says are already increasingly
reliant on Chinese buyers.
"Australand and Mirvac have noted that foreigners (primarily Chinese) are buying 10 to 20 per cent of
new supply. Meriton (unlisted) has stated foreigners (mostly Chinese) are buying 12 to 15 per cent of its
apartments," the report noted.
"We don't discount the possibility of a Chinese entity taking over an Australian developer."
The Credit Suisse analysts say that building materials makers, banks and real estate advertisers are also
good bets while the inflow of Chinese property investment continues growing.

They say the bank already holds Mirvac, CSR, National Australia Bank and Fairfax (owner of the Domain
real estate website) in its long-term portfolio.

IN

NS
RE

ibnk : Banking/Credit | irreal : Residential Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | ifinal : Financial Services | ireest : Real Estate
ereal : Real Estate Markets | ecat : Economic News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators
austr : Australia | china : China | melb : Melbourne | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | victor :
Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries |
chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz :
Eastern Asia

IPD real
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCNEW0020140305ea350005q

Page175of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.