TITLE DEEDS Likely buyer for Sheikh's Sydney stud | INSIDE STORY visits Mittagong

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Domain
TITLE DEEDS Likely buyer for Sheikh's Sydney stud | INSIDE STORY visits Mittagong

TOBY JOHNSTONE
1,418 words
4 October 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
6
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

The ruler of Dubai was hoping for about $12 million for his North Richmond estate, Belmont Park.

The ruler of Dubai, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum, looks like he has a buyer for his North
Richmond horse stud.

Belmont Park was listed a year ago with a $12 million guide ahead of last October's auction, and is
currently under offer to an unknown buyer through Cutcliffe Real Estate's Neville Rava.
The Sheikh's global racing company, Darley, bought the stud in 2008 as part of a deal worth just over
$93 million that included a handful of properties and thoroughbred horses, from billionaire racehorse
owner-breeder Bob Ingham.

The 119-hectare Grose Wold property includes five houses, an office complex, 150 stables, 130
paddocks and yards and equine swimming pools. Darley Australia listed the property following its
purchase of another stud across the Hawkesbury River in Agnes Banks for $5.5 million in 2010.

- - -

Justin Cameron has come a long way from working out of a garage on Sydney's northern beaches.
The BRW young rich-lister, who with his business partner, Lex Pedersen, was worth an estimated $45
million last year, has just dropped $2.9 million on a four-bedroom home in the Byron Bay hinterland.
The 37-year-old co-founded surf brand website SurfStitch, which in recent years has drawn in big
name surf wear brands including Billabong.
The Bangalow Queenslander called Cedargrove was sold by the co-founder of CanPrint, David Daniel,
and his wife Debbie. The couple paid $2.35 million for the 4.5-hectare estate in 2009. The property
features a home theatre, gym and an infinity-edge swimming pool, though you would expect a keen
surfer like Cameron will spend most of his time down at The Pass.
Cameron listed his three-bedroom Mona Vale house earlier this year for $1.85 million but it has since
dropped off the market. Cedargrove sold through Nicolette van Wijingaarden of Unique Estates.

- - -

Restaurateur Peter Doyle is offloading his farm Twin Pines Station near Goulburn ahead of his move to
Adelaide. Doyle and his wife Fiona have been living at the 48-hectare estate since they sold their
Watsons Bay home in early 2013 for about $4.3 million.

In June Doyle announced the closure of his restaurant Peter Doyle @ The Quay because of the
upgrade of the overseas passenger terminal. But he told Title Deeds he is excited about moving to a
city that he has visited "three times a year for the past 25 years either buying seafood or wine". Now
that his eldest daughter and grandson have moved there it made sense for the couple to pull up
stumps.

Page150of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The farm they purchased in 2001 for $215,000 is now listed for more than $600,000 through David
Medina of Elders.

- - -

Thor (the god of thunder, otherwise known as Hollywood hunk Chris Hemsworth) has struck a lightning
fast deal in Broken Head. The Australian actor and star of the popular Marvel franchise has already
settled on his new $7 million retreat just two weeks after the deal was made.
Last week the local papers were sent into a spin when rumours started emerging about the sale of
Kooeloah - a luxury Balinese-style retreat set back from Seven Mile Beach.

The private eight-bedroom home is made up of a series of villas and has 11 bathrooms in total. When
the property was first listed in 2012 by retired television producer Suinee Lomas and her husband Eric,
who previously ran a broadcast business in Singapore, it reportedly had price expectations of more
than $15 million. But Hemsworth and his wife, Spanish actor Elsa Pataky, are known to be able to
sniff out a deal - last September they bought the Malibu home of Paul Hogan and Linda Kozlowski for
US$4.8 million ($5.5 million). It was initially listed for $6 million.

- - -
A historic Southern Highlands homestead has been listed for sale for the second time in its 150 year
history. Located near Wingello, Clyro was built by the Young family in 1865 and purchased by, then
Baker and McKenzie partner Michael Coyle and his wife Rosalind in 1998. The 290-hectare estate is
listed for $4.8 million through David Newgrosh from David Newgrosh Real Estate and Bill Carpenter of
W M Carpenter & Associates.

- - -
The former Central Coast property of INXS bass player Garry Beers is up for sale with a $1.5
million-plus price guide through McGrath's Mat Steinwede. The current owners bought the three-level
MacMasters Beach home for $1.3 million in early 2007.

Diehard fans will be disappointed to see that Beers' recording studio has is no longer featured in the
floor plans.

Lucy Macken is on leave and returns next week.

INSIDE STORY visits Mittagong

A resurgence in the Southern Highlands property market looks increasingly on the cards, with another
prime piece of Mittagong real estate listed.

Since bookmaker Robbie Waterhouse, the husband of champion horse trainer Gai Waterhouse,
shelled out $4.94 million for a Mittagong homestead at the start of the year, agents have been
chattering about a possible resurgence in the Southern Highlands prestige market.
That chatter became louder in April when businessman Peter Holmes a Court secured $6.3 million
from a Hong Kong company for his Mittagong estate Chain of Ponds.

Now the attention of agents and homeowners alike has turned to what is currently Mittagong's most
expensive listing, Woodvale. The substantial double-brick country homestead on 40 hectares is listed
with Howard McMillan of McMillan Real Estate for more than $3.65 million.

The current owners, dentist Paul Sibraa and his wife Pam, bought the block in 1999 for $395,000 and
built the four-bedroom home and surrounding gardens.
The home also features a billiard room, gym, art studio, library, media room and wine cellar, which will
come in handy if the buyer puts the 5.6 hectares of unused vineyards to work.

Woodvale is scheduled for auction on October 21.

Southern Highlands estate
Artist Janice Liley and husband, private equity investor and former Australian rower Will, are taking
Rosehill Farm in Kangaloon to auction with expectations of about $6 million.

Unhappy with the weather in Britain, the couple moved back to Australia in 2004 and bought the
45-hectare block in the Southern Highlands for $1.45 million. They then enlisted local architect

Page151of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Richard Rowe to design a six-bedroom, seven-bathroom home with a gym, home office and a large
kitchen with a walk-in cool room.

The sprawling estate is going to auction on November 18 through Angus Campbell-Jones of Campbell
Jones Property and David Newgrosh of David Newgrosh Real Estate.

Retreat high on hill
Having dropped $5.9 million on a Wategos weekender, property developer Greg Crane and his wife
Philippa are looking to sell their Lennox Head retreat.

Set high on the hill about two kilometres from the coast, the contemporary five-bedroom home is listed
with Barton Slattery of Unique Estates for $2.1 million.
The couple bought the home in 2009 for $2.1 million, short of the previous owner's initial $2.55 million
asking price. And it looks like they've got themselves a deal at Byron too - the joint directors of the
Australian College of Massage, Robert and Deborah Wild, were initially looking for more than $7
million for their Peter Stutchbury-designed pad, Wing House.

South coast weekender

Chanel Australia and New Zealand's national retail manager, Kathleen Bennett, and her extradition
lawyer husband Stephen Parkes, have been busy downsizing their property portfolio, and next up for
sale is their south coast weekender.

The Kiama Heights home has been listed through Marnie Beauchamp of McGrath Kiama for more than
$690,000 - a modest mark-up considering they bought the two-bedroom house overlooking Loves Bay
in 2003 for $580,000.
The listing comes hot on the heels of the sale of their five-bedroom Chatswood home for $1,900,008 in
July.
Having bought the north shore home for $1.4 million in late 2011 it seems the couple made a tidy
profit.

Shh!
Which finance guru is about to list his Wategos beach house for more than $8 million?
Which well-known Sydney milliner is about to list her Coasters Retreat getaway for $1.25 million?

IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

irreal : Residential Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest
: Real Estate
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | dubai : Dubai | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Region | meastz : Middle East | nswals : New South Wales |
uae : United Arab Emirates | wasiaz : Western Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020141003eaa40008j

Page152of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.