On The Radar

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

On The Radar

--
1,766 words
23 June 2014
The Edge Malaysia (Weekly)
EDGEWK
English
© Copyright 2014. The Edge Communications Sdn Bhd. All rights reserved.

Domestic

Ministry withdraws controversial IRB bill

The government has postponed the tabling of the controversial bill and proposed amendments to the
Inland Revenue Board of Malaysia Act 1995 to enable it to be reviewed, after it drew criticism and
questions about the purpose of an investment panel to be created and managed within the IRB.

CPI up 3.2% in May

Headline inflation moderated to 3.2% year-on-year in May from 3.4% the previous month, as the effects
of subsidy rationalisation measures by the government gradually faded. Month-on-month, the Consumer
Price Index (CPI) rose 0.1% in May.

Najib: Possibility of MAS closure does not arise for now
The possibility of Malaysian Airline System Bhd (MAS) ceasing operations does not arise for now
because a decision has not been made on its direction and the financial implications on the government,
said Prime Minister Datuk Seri Najib Razak. Khazanah Nasional Bhd, the airline's biggest shareholder
with a 69.4% stake, is to undertake a due diligence assessment to identify the causes of its losses and
the best possible solution.

PJD to acquire Melbourne land for A$145m
PJ Development Holdings Bhd (PJD), through its 75%-owned subsidiary Yara Park City Pte Ltd, has
entered into a put and call option deed with an Australian developer for the purchase of 2.026ha of
freehold land in Southbank, Melbourne, for A$145 million (RM438.8 million) cash.

SapuraKencana bags 2 EPCIC jobs worth RM1.34b

SapuraKencana Petroleum Bhd has bagged two engineering, procurement, construction, installation and
commissioning (EPCIC) contracts worth a combined US$415 million (RM1.34 billion), boosting the
group's order book to RM28.7 billion. The contracts were awarded by Carigali-PTTEPI Operating Co
Sdn Bhd and Hess Exploration and Production Malaysia BV.
Malaysia eyeing RM6.43b annual investments from China
Malaysia is eyeing US$2 billion (RM6.43 billion) worth of annual investments from China for the next
few years, said International Trade and Industry Minister Datuk Seri Mustapa Mohamed. This was
despite the recent Flight MH370 tragedy.
Gamuda to acquire 20% stake in Kesas
Gamuda Bhd has inked an agreement with Permodalan Nasional Bhd to acquire a 20% stake in Kesas
Holdings Bhd for RM290 million. The company said the offer price for each share in Kesas not owned
by Gamuda has also been revised to RM3.08 from RM2.97.

Brahim's in talks to sell sugar business

Page81of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Brahim's Holdings Bhd is in talks with several parties to sell its sugar venture. The company is
reassessing the viability of the business due to intense competition in the market. Through its
60%-owned subsidiary Admuda Sdn Bhd, the group holds the licence to produce sugar for Sabah and
Sarawak. It has also configured plans to complete a RM150 million sugar refinery in the Demak Laut
Industrial Park in Sarawak in 2015.

UMW allocates RM400m capex for automotive unit
UMW Holdings Bhd has allocated RM400 million in capital expenditure (capex) for its automotive
division this year. This forms part of the group's RM2.7 billion total capex - its highest in history - for the
financial year ending Dec 31, 2014.
Taliworks: Grand Saga not for sale
Taliworks Corp Bhd, which holds a 55% stake in Cheras-Kajang highway concessionaire Grand Saga
Sdn Bhd, says it is not planning to sell the highway operator. As the highway is strategically connected to
SILK's Kajang Traffic Dispersal Ring Road and that the toll highway has not been the core business of
Taliworks, there is talk that the company may dispose of the toll road.

YTL Power pulls out of Project 4A
YTL Power International Bhd says it has decided not to participate in the RM3 billion power plant,
known as Project 4A, in Pasir Gudang, Johor, under the present arrangement, to dispel any misgivings
over the government's commitment to transparency and good governance.

Malaysia well placed to be bioeconomy hub

Malaysia is well positioned to be a bioeconomy hub in Asia-Pacific following the approval of over US$4.5
billion (RM14.48 billion) in investments from US biotech firms, which have selected the country as their
regional headquarters.

El Nino to stabilise CPO price to RM2600-RM2,700 per tonne
Crude palm oil (CPO) prices, which have softened to an average RM2,400 per tonne, are expected to
stabilise to between RM2,600 and RM2,700 per tonne in the second half of this year due to the El Nino
phenomenon, said Felda Global Ventures Holdings Bhd president and CEO Mohd Emir Mavani
Abdullah.

Chai denies owning more than 33% of Harvest Court
Datuk Eddie Chai Woon Chet has denied that he and several other parties have more than 33% equity
interest in Harvest Court Industries Bhd, stressing that there is no truth to the claims by the company's
managing director and CEO Datuk Raymond Chan Boon Siew.
UMW Oil & Gas' overseas revenue to overtake local earnings
UMW Oil & Gas Bhd, which has a market capitalisation of RM8.73 billion, expects contributions from its
overseas operations to overtake that of its local business and make up more than half of the group's
revenue by year-end. This is fuelled by its mission to reach a wider geographical area. Overseas
operations accounted for 40% of the group's revenue as at March 31 this year.

Sasbadi expects IPO to help fast-track growth

Sasbadi Holdings Bhd, which is involved in the publishing of education materials, expects its initial public
offering (IPO) to help fast-track its growth. It is en route to a listing on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia
this year.

International
On Friday, Siemens AG and Japanese firmMitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd simplified the structure of
their offer for Alstom SA and proposed to inject an additional cash contribution of €1.2 billion (RM5.25
billion), increasing their total valuation of the company's energy business by €400 million to €14.6
billion. This follows General Electric Co's revised offer.

Myanmar's Minister of Religious Affairs Hsan Hsint has been fired and Hla Maung Tin, chief minister of
the country's troubled Rakhine state, has retired, state media announced Friday, as religious tensions
continue to grip the country. On Thursday, it was announced that a new religious affairs advisory group,
led by a former religious-affairs minister, has been created.

Page82of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.China Securities Regulatory Commission confirmed that it is investigating highly regarded Citic
Securities Co analyst Zhang Mingfang, who is suspected of disclosing inside information.

Samsung Electronics is ratcheting up its investments in Vietnam as it seeks to diversify its business and
dominate sales in the country, which is growing rapidly. It is planning to build a massive US$1 billion
home appliance plant in Ho Chi Minh City's Hi-Tech Park.

US president Barack Obama will be deploying military advisers and reconnaissance planes to help repel
a Sunni insurgency in Iraq for a few weeks and give the country's Shiite leaders time to form a new
government that can command support across sectarian lines.

PVH Corp, the owner of apparel brands Tommy Hilfiger and Calvin Klein, is said to be overpaying its
CEO Emanuel Chirico, although shareholders had approved his compensation plan. Chirico received
US$18.4 million during the company's financial year ended February.
Another Chinese oil rig arrived in the South China Sea last week as Beijing and Hanoi traded
accusations in an increasingly heated territorial row. The move marks a fresh escalation of the dispute,
which has seen a wave of deadly anti-Chinese riots in Vietnam.

BlackBerry Ltd is close to announcing a deal with Amazon.com Inc that would allow the latter to offer its
mobile users access to Amazon's Appstore. The company is hoping the move will make its products
more appealing to customers and boost the sale of its latest smartphones.

Japan's annual exports declined for the first time in 15 months in May as shipments to Asia and US fell,
threatening to hit its economy hard when domestic consumption is being crimped by a national sales tax
increase.

High-end French skincare brand L'Occitane is in final negotiations to open a virtual store on Alibaba
Group Holdings Ltd's Tmall site. L'Occitane plans to open the virtual store by year-end and is also in
discussions with at least one other e-commerce platform in China.

The US' consumer price index increased a seasonally adjusted 0.4% in May from a month earlier, the
fastest pace in more than a year and above economists' expectations of a 0.2% rise. Investors took this
as a sign that the economy has found its footing.
Hong Kong's Chow Tai Fook Jewellery Group Ltd has agreed to buy US-based diamond jeweller,
Hearts On Fire Co, for US$150 million in a move to extend its high-end product range. Chow Tai Fook is
the world's largest jewelry retailer by market value. Hearts On Fire was established in Boston in 1996
and sells its products in 31 countries.
Non-oil domestic exports (NODX) in Singapore contracted 6.6% year-on-year in May, due to a decrease
in electronic and non-electronic NODX. The fall comes after a 0.9% year-on-year increase in April.

Cambodia has accused Thailand's new military rulers of fomenting an exodus of migrant workers, which
it claimed had caused at least eight deaths and economic hardship for both countries. Some 188,000
Cambodians have streamed across the border since the junta warned last week that undocumented
foreign workers faced arrest and deportation.
Royal Dutch Shell has launched a sale of most of its stake in Australia's Woodside Petroleum Ltd, which
is valued at US$5.7 billion, as it moves to focus on developing its own gas assets Down Under. The
selldown will see Shell's interest in the company decrease to 4.5% from 23.1%.
With help from China's Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co, Sweden's Volvo Car Corp plans to make the
republic an export hub and beat its 2014 sales target for the country by at least 13%. Volvo plans to
export Chinese-made cars to the US and Russia late next year.
General Motors Co recalled three million more cars because of ignition switch issues last Monday. The
motor company's engineers first noted the Cobalt problem more than a decade ago but the company's
slow response has triggered investigations within the company and by Congress and federal agencies.

CO

IN

RE

khzinv : Khazanah Nasional Berhad | masys : Malaysia Airline Systems Bhd | honfci : Hearts on Fire
Company LLC
irdops : Highway Operation | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | irailtr : Road/Rail Transport | itsp :
Transportation/Shipping | i491 : Jewelry/Silverware | i75 : Airlines | i8396 : Diversified Holding
Companies | iairtr : Air Transport | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifinej : Fine Jewelry | iluxgds : Luxury Goods
malay : Malaysia | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | seasiaz : Southeast Asia

Page83of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB The Edge Communications Sdn Bhd.
AN

Document EDGEWK0020140625ea6n00002

Page84of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.