1 David ThodeyTelstra

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Boss
1 David ThodeyTelstra

1,425 words
14 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
28
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

THE MOST RESPECTED COMPANIES 2014
It is an extraordinary turnaround for Telstra to be named 2014's Most Respected Company. After the
tumultuous reign of former chief executive Sol Trujillo, David Thodey's five years in the job have been
marked by a steady doubling of the telco's market capitalisation to $68 billion, a share price trading at
nine-year highs and skilful negotiations with the federal government over the national broadband
network.

The 60-year-old father of three now faces the monumental challenge of transforming the
telecommunications giant into a technology business, as it acquires start-ups and healthcare
companies and pushes hard into Asia.

Thodey doesn't expect it to all be smooth sailing. But he has shown an uncanny knack for building a
more customer-centric culture and defusing potential controversy.

"All of us [in the Most Respected Companies list] run big, complex businesses. There are always
issues but you have to set the right culture, be transparent and have the freedom to talk about issues
when they come up so you can deal with them," Thodey tells Boss in his unflappable style.

"If you've got integrity and are clear on what you stand for, what you believe in and what the issues
are, you can stand with much greater strength."

Many of this year's runners-up are stalwarts on the Most Respected Companies list. Last year's
winner, Wesfarmers, second this year, continue to be admired for the turnaround of Coles and the
dominance of home improvement arm Bunnings.

Commonwealth Bank of Australia has been recognised for the transformation of its core banking
infrastructure, and rose two places to third.

BHP Billiton, which rose from ninth to fifth spot, has benefited from the efficiency and productivity drive
of new chief executive, Andrew Mackenzie, who has been tasked with selling the company's
controversial $16 billion spinoff.

Rio Tinto is a new entry as shareholders warm to chief executive Sam Walsh's turnaround mission.

Australia Post's Ahmed Fahour is leading a high stakes strategy to shift the national mail carrier from
letters to other services. And Cochlear has bounced back from a global product recall to launch a
series of new products.

Thodey meanwhile, has won admirers for his swift handling of last year's asbestos scare: Telstra shut
down work sites, set aside compensation and agreed to an independent government taskforce.

He has also been careful not to make enemies in the highly regulated telecommunications sector,
rarely rising to the barbs of ministers, regulators or his competitors in the media.

Page245of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Most recently, SingTel-Optus chairman Paul O'Sullivan has been vocal in urging the government "to
break up" Telstra's wholesale and retail arms to avoid conflict in maintaining the NBN and suppress
Telstra's market dominance and rising prices.

Thodey still won't bite. "My first reaction is to try and understand what they are saying and take the
emotion out so I am clear about the issues, because it is too easy to respond to the emotion. And
sometimes you just have to give it time because the emotion can take over in the moment," he says.

Thodey's tenure has run in concert with his chairwoman, the influential president of the Business
Council of Australia, Catherine Livingstone, who lists Thodey's determination and values as his key
attributes. "He's very persuasive; he has that resolute determination and is driven by what he believes
is right," Livingstone tells Boss,.

Despite cementing his reputation as a steady hand – and taking flak in the gossip columns over his
preference for driving a modest Toyota Corolla – Thodey insists that doesn't mean he isn't a risk-taker.
"Innovation and entrepreneurship are often equated with flamboyance and enormous risk-taking and
I'm not sure that is true at all," he says.

"I am a considered person but I would also say that Bill Gates is a very considered person as are a lot
of great risk-takers. But the question is, can you make big bets and do you get returns from
them?"Future in e-health

Having navigated the worst of the political turmoil over the NBN, attention has turned to Thodey's
appetite for risk as he finds himself in the enviable position of being cashed up and looking to diversify
the business for a "new period of growth".

The former IBM executive has successfully negotiated a deal with the federal government of at least
$11.2 billion, which will equate to as much as $90 billion over 30 years in today's money, to help
build the NBN. Current negotiations involve replacing Labor's 2011 agreement to allow the NBN to
acquire Telstra's copper infrastructure to build the cheaper fibre to the node network. Telstra will get
the same cash or more, possibly more quickly.
Thodey also has a windfall from the 70 per cent sale of the Sensis directories business for
$454 million and the $2 billion sale of its 76.4 per cent stake in Hong Kong mobile services
business CSL.
But he must now determine how best to deploy Telstra's billions to position the company for the
coming decades.
Telstra invests $1.2 billion each year to maintain and grow its technology in the lucrative mobile
network, now contributing 38 per cent of revenue. Telstra's 3G and 4G mobile network has grown
from 10.2 million customers in 2009 to 15.8 million, although its growth is now slowing.

However, Thodey may well be remembered for the new course he has set in making a series of
careful acquisitions of technology start-ups, healthcare services such as Swiss eHealth
provider Medgate and DCA Health, Chinese car sales website Autohome and US internet video
provider Ooyala.

"We are right in the heart of this whole digital transformation and we feel very strongly that we've got
to really be a part of that," Thodey says.

"I think what shareholders would always say is go to where you have core strengths; don't go into
unknown territory and don't go and spend money in an irresponsible way, which we would never do.

"Moving into e-health is really important because it is about building an information ecosystem and
building better efficiency in health information flow and better outcomes for patients. We have been in
Asia for 70 years, so how do we take what we already do today and expand it?"'Stand for something'

Thodey, an early riser and keen walker, also points to a concerted effort to instil innovation and a
customer-centric culture within his 40,000-strong workforce as his proudest achievement.

He has tied the remuneration structures of his team to customer service standards and insists on
reading customer complaints. Even top executives are required to make customer calls.

Telstra has also established a start-up incubator called muru-D as well as a venture capital arm known
as Telstra Ventures.

Page246of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."We do take enormous risks," Thodey says. "We have invested over $4.1 billion in the mobile
network in a little over three years; we have invested in Telstra Ventures; we have set-up muru-D and
we've completely changed the culture."

But he doesn't try to oversell it. "Some people are very effervescent and talkative about those things.
That is not my style."

Not everyone is convinced. Business commentator Alan Kohler warns that the current strategy of
"buying lots of little businesses is a train to nowhere". But Thodey argues that innovation and cultural
change isn't always reflected through the big, sexy acquisition of the next tech start-up or social
media phenomenon.
"I have not bought a $5 billion or $10 billion company – I don't think that was what the company
needed at this time," he says.

"We are taking reasonable bets on e-health and setting up a software division and they hopefully will
yield enormous results in five years. They are not high-risk bets – no, they are very considered steps
in the right direction."

Thodey says he is enjoying himself too much to consider retirement and hasn't thought about
what sort of legacy he will leave.

"My job's difficult but it doesn't stop me trying. I think you've got to stand for something and then you
get rated on how you go. You've got to stand for something in life and business."

You've got to stand for something in life and business.

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

tcoma : Telstra Corporation Ltd
i7902 : Telecommunications
cspin : Spin-offs | c41 : Management | c411 : Management Moves | cslmc : Senior Level Management
| ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c02 : Corporate Changes | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c18 : Ownership
Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | cncc : New Companies Creation | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141113eabe0004b

Page247of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.