New Treasury Wine CEO Signals Changes Ahead; Michael Clarke Says Brand Sales Are Possible as He Seeks to Turn Vintner Around

SE
HD

BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
New Treasury Wine CEO Signals Changes Ahead; Michael Clarke Says Brand Sales Are
Possible as He Seeks to Turn Vintner Around
By Ross Kelly
777 words
8 April 2014
21:15
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

SYDNEY—Treasury Wine Estates Ltd. took on the world's biggest vintners with an 80-strong portfolio
of wine brands targeting everyone from casual drinkers to connoisseurs willing to pay $1,000 a bottle.
Now, the Australian company is considering a new strategy, where less is more.

Treasury Wine's new chief executive, Michael Clarke, said the company's future marketing would
focus mainly on the most-profitable brands in a stable that includes Penfolds, one of the world's more
sought-after wine brands among collectors. Mr. Clarke also pledged to look closely at Treasury Wine's
U.S. operations, where poor sales of brands such as Beringer last year led the Australian company to
destroy thousands of gallons of wine past its prime.

In doing so, Mr. Clarke is following a path similar to his overhaul of U.K.-based Premier Foods PLC,
where he sold less-profitable lines to focus on eight main brands.
"I'm fact-based—very practical—and if I have to be cold on selling a particular brand then that's what
we will do," Mr. Clarke said in an interview.
Treasury Wine took a write-down of 155 million Australian dollars (US$144 million) largely because
of the company's problems in the U.S. last year. The wine destruction, which involved crushing
bottles with steamrollers, contributed to the departure of former CEO David Dearie in September.
Since then, the company has contended with further setbacks. An attempt to raise prices in Australia
before the holiday season, for instance, hurt sales. In China, demand for Treasury Wine's bottles has
been dented by an economic slowdown and as Beijing clamps down on extravagant gift-giving among
businesses and government officials as part of an anticorruption drive.

"We need to prioritize our brands and make sure the top-end ones get the lion-size chunk of our
marketing spend," said Mr. Clarke, who once steered Kraft Food Group Inc.'s European business and
has held senior positions at Coca-Cola Co. Some of Treasury Wine's other brands are Castello di
Gabbiano, Chateau St. Jean, Greg Norman Estates and Pepperjack.
Treasury Wine's shares closed 7.2% higher in Sydney as investors took heart from Mr. Clarke's
approach.

The new CEO also said he would complete a cost review within weeks to free up funds for additional
marketing. A company spokesman declined to comment on whether that review would result in job
losses. Some analysts and investors have called on Melbourne-based Treasury Wine to sell its U.S.
business, or even look to create a new company for premium assets such as Penfolds that could be
listed on the Australian Securities Exchange.
Selling the U.S. business would unshackle the group from a poorly performing asset that has
hampered its profit for years. Problems have plagued Treasury Wine since it was spun off from global
beverage maker Foster's Group Ltd. in 2011. Back then, a glut of Australian grapes and weak sales in

Page100of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.the U.S. and other overseas markets weighed on profit. It made a US$900 million write-down of the
business before the spinoff.
Merrill Lynch analyst David Errington said the U.S. business hadn't generated an acceptable return for
more than a decade. "I often wonder if the board wants to hold on to the asset for the trips overseas
and things like that," Mr. Errington told Treasury Wine's management during an investor call. Mr.
Clarke responded by saying that all options are on the table.
However, Mr. Clarke later said in an interview that he would try to turn around the U.S. business.
"The U.S. is a keeper," he said. "It's a platform for growth. I'm trying to be respectful to people who
have been commenting on the company for a long time, longer than I've been around."
Mr. Clarke said Treasury Wine would continue a recent strategy of focusing on wines sold at higher
prices in the U.S. to meet the changing tastes of consumers away from mass-market brands.
Previously, the company relied heavily on sales of cheaper labels with a limited shelf life.
He added that Penfolds, Treasury Wine's most valuable brand, is a "gem" that the company plans to
keep investing in.

Corrections & Amplifications

The name of Coca-Cola Co. was given incorrectly as Coco-Cola in a previous version of this article.

Write to Ross Kelly at ross.kelly@wsj.com

CO
IN

NS

RE
IPD
PUB
AN

prpfd : Premier Foods PLC | trzwn : Treasury Wine Estates Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods | i426 : Wine | ialco : Alcoholic
Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | ifood : Food Products
c182 : Asset Transactions | c31 : Marketing | cbrand : Branding | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
gwine : Wine | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | gcat : Political/General News |
gfod : Food/Drink | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gwbs : Wine/Beer/Spirits | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Michael Clarke
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document WSJO000020140408ea47000p7

Page101of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.