Loss-making Yancoal to get $1.8bn debt injection

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Loss-making Yancoal to get $1.8bn debt injection

Peter Ker
388 words
20 December 2014
Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
4
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Resources
Chinese company Yanzhou has vowed to push ahead with a $1.8 billion loan to loss-making
Australian miner Yancoal, despite the terms of a controversial debt offering being largely
emasculated by the Takeovers Panel.

The panel threw the offering into doubt this week when it ruled Yanzhou would not be able to
convert subordinated capital notes into Yancoal shares beyond its 78 per cent stake.

That ruling ensured Yanzhou would not be able to dilute a group of minority shareholders,
including commodities trader Noble, which have in the past prevented it from privatising Yancoal.

But with Yancoal set to breach covenants on existing loan facilities by December 31 if new debt is
not raised, Yanzhou has vowed to push ahead and subscribe for its $1.8 billion complement.

The offering will, to an extent, become an exercise in circulating money, with much of the
proceeds from the offer to be used to pay down debt that Yancoal owes to Yanzhou.
Minority shareholders such as Noble and Hong Kong hedge fund Senrigan have been hesitant to
subscribe to the offer.

Because of this, it remained unclear on Friday whether the panel's intervention would convince
them to participate.
Any excess proceeds would go towards improving Yancoal's operations.

This includes its plan to expand the Moolarben mine in New South Wales.

Note holders will be repaid with an initial interest rate of 7 per cent, which will rise on certain
milestones, including by 5 per cent if there is a change of control at Yancoal.
Yancoal lost $832 million last year and another $192 million in the first six months of this year
under depressed coal prices.

It has seven producing mines in New South Wales and Queensland, and in the September
quarter about 54 per cent of its product was thermal coal while 46 per cent was coking coal.
Prices for thermal coal have fallen by 26 per cent over the past 12 months, while prices for coking
coal have also fallen, by about 15 per cent.

Yanzhou has vowed to ensure Yancoal remains solvent.

It reached a deal with the Australian government that excused Yanzhou from having to reduce its
stake in Yancoal to less than 70 per cent.

Page75of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO

IN

RE
PUB
AN

yaptyl : Yancoal Australia Limited | yankua : Yankuang (Group) Corp | ynzmn : Yanzhou Coal
Mining Co Ltd
i112 : Coal Mining Support Activities | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020141219eack0003i

Page76of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.