Apollo Minerals targeting major IOCG discovery in South Australia

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Apollo Minerals targeting major IOCG discovery in South Australia

805 words
30 May 2014
ENP Newswire
ENPNEW
English
(c) 2014, Electronic News Publishing. All Rights Reserved.

Release date - 29052014

Apollo Minerals (ASX: AON) is progressing exploration programs at its new IOCG frontier in the Northern
Gawler Craton in South Australia.

The first phase of exploration is utilising High Power Exploration’s (HPX) proprietary Typhoon’ Induced
Polarisation survey technology over large scale gravity and magnetic targets at the Bundi North and
Wirrida Intrusive Complex prospects.
This survey is designed to test for copper-gold and base metals and is one of the largest IP surveys ever
undertaken in South Australia, covering 140 square kilometres and 350 line kilometres.

It has now been completed and results are expected shortly, and subject to results, a maiden drill
program will follow to test identified targets. Under the Strategic Alliance, HPX may earn up to 80% via
exploration expenditures, leaving the small capped Apollo free carries with substantial exposure to what
appear to be global-scale IOCG targets.
HPX is a private metals exploration company indirectly controlled by international mining entrepreneur
Robert Friedland. Under the terms of HPX’s equity investment, HPX acquired an initial stake of 10% of
Apollo by way of a placement of $1 million.

HPX has the right to increase its interest in Apollo to 19.99% by making a further placement in Apollo by
30th June of approximately $1.4 million at a price of $0.024.

Robert Friedland’s interest in Apollo is telling; his record in selecting and developing small explorers into
large producers is enviable.

And Apollo’s other major shareholder, Jindal Steel and Power, is one of India’s largest companies.

Targets
Previous exploration by Apollo in the area has identified widespread copper anomalism directly above
large, high density targets variously associated with magnetic and non-magnetic zones, which are
interpreted to extend from 150 metres to 1 kilometre below surface.

Bundi shares striking similarities to major IOCG deposits in the area including the Prominent Hill, and
BHP’s behemoth Olympic Dam deposit.

An independent review of the Bundi Prospect by geophysicist Chris Anderson, who was instrumental in
the discovery of Carrapateena, has demonstrated potential for a large IOCG system.

The Wirrida Intrusive Complex prospect similarly exhibits features that point to a potentially large scale
metallic deposit.

Analysis
For a small cap company like Apollo with a market cap of $15 million to capture an investment by HPX
and Robert Friedland - which is effectively his re-entry into Australian exploration - is somewhat of a coup.

Page25of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It is an endorsement of the work and review of the Bundi Prospect by geophysicist Chris Anderson, who
was instrumental in the discovery of Carrapateena.

The agreement with HPX is strong validation of the area’s discovery potential, and provides the funding
and technical expertise to rapidly advance the project.

HPX’s geophysical technology can penetrate to great depths with high accuracy and has been
successfully deployed in Australia, Africa and South America.

While early days, but at a similar stage of exploration, the Bundi prospect has some striking similarities to
major IOCG deposits in the area including the Prominent Hill, and BHP’s behemoth Olympic Dam
deposit.

Proactive Investors Australia is the market leader in producing news, articles and research reports on
ASX ‘Small and Mid-cap’ stocks with distribution in Australia, UK, North America and Hong Kong / China.

From time to time, reference may be made in our marketing materials to prior articles and opinions we
have published. These references may be selective, may reference only a portion of an article or
recommendation, and are likely not to be current. As markets change continuously, previously published
information and data may not be current and should not be relied upon.

The contributors make every effort to ensure that the information and material contained in this report is
accurate and correct and has been obtained from reliable sources. However, no representation is made
about the accuracy or completeness of the information and material and it should not be relied upon as a
substitute for the exercise of independent judgment.

Proactive Investors does not accept any liability, including negligence, for any loss or damage arising
from the use of, or reliance on, the material contained in this report. There are general risks associated
with any investment in securities. Investors should be aware that these risks might result in loss of income
and capital invested.
The Company, its directors, associates, employees or representatives may not effect a transaction upon
its or their own account in the investments referred to in this report or any related investment until the
expiry of 24 hours after the report has been published.

Contact:

Apollo Minerals Level 9, 50 Margaret Street NSW, 2000, Australia Tel: +61 2 9078 7665 Fax: +61 2 9078
7661

[Editorial queries for this story should be sent to newswire@enpublishing.co.uk]

CO
IN
NS

apomin : Apollo Minerals Limited
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
cnatrd : Natural Reserves/Resources Discovery | npress : Press Releases | c24 : Capacity/Facilities | ccat
: Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types
austr : Australia | saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Electronic News Publishing Ltd.
AN

Document ENPNEW0020140530ea5u0003n

Page26of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.