Global flavours top takeaways

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Taste
Global flavours top takeaways

Emily Macdonald
569 words
4 November 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
20
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Emily Macdonald discovers everything from satay to seafood is just a click or phone call away IT’S
normally saved for those rare emergencies when you’ve got a sick family member … just kidding, we
know it’s Saturday night and takeaway is the only solution to the problem that is debuting your Disney
pyjamas in public.

But before you start rummaging through your stash of satay-stained menus or weighing up whether the
judging gaze of the teenager in the drive-through is worth it to avoid changing out of your bathrobe,
know that there is another solution.

Pizza shops have long had online ordering and even smartphone apps that tell you how many minutes
until your dinner is ready.

However, it’s no longer the only cuisine you can get with the click of a button, with numerous online
ordering companies popping up on the internet.

One of them is Menulog, which has 135 Gold Coast restaurants on its virtual books, spanning 43
cuisines.
In the past 12 months, 118,000 meals have been ordered on the Gold Coast through the site which,
depending on the restaurant, offers takeaway or pick-up options.

Simply enter your suburb and nearby restaurants, complete with menus, appear and before you know it,
you’ve got a chicken laksa in one hand and half a Moreton Bay bug in the other.

International flavours on offer to-go on the Gold Coast range from Afghan to Turkish, with dietary
requirements including halal also catered for.
Menulog marketing manager Julia Snabl says Indian, followed by Thai, pizza and Chinese, are the most
requested items by Gold Coast diners.

The most popular takeaway as voted by Menulog users in this year’s Tasty Takeaway Awards in
Queensland is the Gold Coast’s own Lummy’s Chinese Restaurant at Mermaid Waters.

Wok in a Box at Broadbeach and Randhawa’s Indian Cuisine at Emerald Lakes received kudos as the
best Chinese and Indian takeaways in the region.
Randhawa’s Indian at Hope Island was crowned Queensland’s best takeaway by another online food
network, EatNow.
The company’s Best Eats awards also revealed the state’s top two takeaway dishes are on the Gold
Coast: cheese and bacon skewers at Dans Dim Sim Kitchen and the butter chicken at Randhawa’s.

Page230of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Although, like most takeaway customers, Gold Coasters have a penchant for pizza, Julia says overall
she is impressed by the healthier choices we make compared with our burger-scoffing capital city
counterparts.

“I think maybe it might be because of the lovely weather, but people are choosing things like salads
more often because it is so hot at the Gold Coast,” Julia says.

“If I was getting takeaway, I’d get fish and chips, which a lot of people wouldn’t realise there are places
that deliver on the Gold Coast. Seafood platters would be another one people don’t know about and
cakes and sandwiches are things people don’t realise they can order because they’re food you’d
normally go into a coffee shop to buy.” While people might get the urge to track down the perfect
wonton online at all hours, for now delivery times are based on the regular operating hours of local
restaurants.Julia says the bulk of the Gold Coast orders come through between 5pm and 6pm Thursday
to Sunday.

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

i6611 : Full-service Restaurants | i66 : Hotels/Restaurants | i661 : Restaurants/Cafes/Fast Food Places |
ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020141104eab40002f

Page231of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.