Morning Headlines

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Morning Headlines

1,345 words
21 March 2014
Business News
WABN
English
© Copyright 2014 Business News Pty Ltd.

iiNet founder tipped to sign off

Michael Malone, the founder and chief executive of the nation's third-largest internet provider iiNet, is
expected to today announce he will leave the company he started in his parent's Perth garage some
20 years ago. The Aus

Rinehart secures $7.2b deal
Gina Rinehart has landed a $7.2 billion financing package for her giant Roy Hilliron ore mine in the
Pilbara, signing off on the deal in Singapore last night. The West

Hedland port plans give hope to juniors

The Port Hedland Port Authority has been quietly working on proposals to increase access to port
space for iron ore miners, considering proposals for new terminals at Finucane Island and Lumsden
Point. The West

Myer banks on sales not merger
As the cracks widen in Myer's $3.2 billion merger plan for David Jones, chief executive Bernie
Brookes is relying on new brands, better stores, online sales and more customers rather than
industry consolidation to reverse a four-year decline in earnings. The Fin

Secret plan to slash bulk billing

A plan to means test bulk-billed GP visits and charge an extra $5 for medicine was estimated to save
the government nearly $2 billion but would upset doctors, who have threatened a mass walk out if it
is implemented. The Fin

Speck in the sea raises hopes of finding MH370

The world's attention is focused on a churning stretch of ocean nearly 3000km southwest of Perth
after a satellite spotted floating debris suspected to be wreckage from missing Malaysia Airlines
Flight 370. The Aus

Move to ban union chiefs from sites

The national building industry watchdog has applied to have four union officials banned from
construction sites, as it moves to publish a national list of banned officials on a federal government
website. The Aus

Abbott accuses Opposition of tax hypocrisy

Labor has blocked repeal of the carbon tax, sparking Federal Government accusations of gross
hypocrisy in its WA Senate election campaign. The West

The Australian Financial Review[QQ]Page 1: A plan to means test bulk-billed GP visits and charge
an extra $5 for medicine was estimated to save the government nearly $2 billion but would upset
doctors, who have threatened a mass walk out if it is implemented.

Page264of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Page 3: Voters do not feel the government is focusing on the areas they consider to be most
important - health, the economy and education - according to a comprehensive new analysis that is a
wake-up call for the Coalition.

Page 4: The departure of Assistant Treasurer Arthur Sinodinos will have no impact on the
government's intention to forge ahead with its plans to repeal Labor's Future of Financial Advice
laws.

Page 5: The Abbott government will keep open the threat of a double dissolution election on climate
change by using as a trigger the Senate's rejection of legislation to repeal the Clean Energy Finance
Corporation.

"Idealistic discussions" about climate change should be abandoned and Australians recognise that
coal will remain an important energy source for decades, according to Rio Tinto's head of energy,
Harry Kenyon-Slaney.

Page 9: Australia may have to change its laws to stop multinationals exploiting differences in the way
countries tax transfers of financial instruments, under a global plan to stop profit shifting.

Page 11: Revenue from LNG project, meant for Sovereign Wealth Fund, appears to be pledged to
finance PNG purchase of 10.1 per cent of Oil Search.
Page 13: As the cracks widen in Myer's $3.2 billion merger plan for David Jones, chief executive
Bernie Brookes is relying on new brands, better stores, online sales and more customers rather than
industry consolidation to reverse a four-year decline in earnings.

Page 15: Supply-chain logistics giant Brambles has been in discussions with Singapore-listed
Goodpack about a potential takeover.

Page 21: Commonwealth Bank has forecast mobile wallets - a virtual repository of money - could
replace their physical counterparts by 2021, based on a survey of 1024 Australians conducted earlier
this year.

The Australian[QQ]Page 1: The agency in charge of the national disability insurance scheme has
been likened to ''a plane that took off before it had been fully built and is being completed while it is in
the air'', in an independent report that questions its ability to roll out the flagship project.

The world's attention is focused on a churning stretch of ocean nearly 3000km southwest of Perth
after a satellite spotted floating debris suspected to be wreckage from missing Malaysia Airlines
Flight 370.

NBN Co's role in connecting new homes to super-fast fibre could be scaled back and more such
premises handed to private operators, under proposals Treasury is pushing for the nation's biggest
infrastructure project.

Page 3: Embattled National Gallery of Australia director Ron Radford will step down after 10 years at
the helm amid continued questions over his handling of antiquities at the nation's premier visual-art
institution.

Page 4: The national building industry watchdog has applied to have four union officials banned from
construction sites, as it moves to publish a national list of banned officials on a federal government
website.
Lawyers for Chinese state-owned Citic Pacific have questioned whether Clive Palmer's Mineralogy
is playing a ''big game'' in their dispute over royalties from the $10 billion Sino Iron project after it
again changed strategy and took the court case back to where it was a year ago.

Page 17: Australia's largest dairy processor, Murray Goulburn, is believed to be mulling a $400
million purchase of the Peters Ice Cream business as it forges ahead with its ambitious plan to
consolidate the local dairy industry.

Michael Malone, the founder and chief executive of the nation's third-largest internet provider iiNet, is
expected to today announce he will leave the company he started in his parent's Perth garage some
20 years ago.

Page 19: Rio Tinto will today call for increased Australian government investment in carbon capture
and storage as a way to reduce greenhouse gases while still tackling energy poverty.

Page265of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Wholesaler Metcash has warned of a 13 to 15 per cent decline in its earnings outlook because of
poor food and grocery sales as it prepares to release its annual results today.

The West Australian[QQ]Page 12: Banks are slashing interest rates on loans to farmers in a bizarre
twist that has put the spotlight on their role in Australia's $66 billion rural debt crisis.

There is more pressure on banks to cut mortgage rates after the Reserve Bank found the cost of
money is coming down.

Page 15: Australians do not have a cost of living crisis; it is more a case of keeping up with the
Joneses, according to the Reserve Bank.

Page 16: Labor has blocked repeal of the carbon tax, sparking Federal Government accusations of
gross hypocrisy in its WA Senate election campaign.

Page 20: Tony Abbott has stonewalled Labor attempts to force him to explain what knowledge he
had of stood aside frontbencher Arthur Sinodinos' role in a company embroiled in a corruption
probe.

Business: The Port Hedland Port Authority has been quietly working on proposals to increase access
to port space for iron ore miners, considering proposals for new terminals at Finucane Island and
Lumsden Point.
Gina Rinehart has landed a $7.2 billion financing package for her giant Roy Hilliron ore mine in the
Pilbara, signing off on the deal in Singapore last night.

Myer boss Bernie Brookes says David Jones' withdrawal from a northern suburbs retail development
is an unexpected fillip for his company's coming Joondalup store.
The Australian Securities Exchange has queried financial advisory company Crowe Horwath over
the leaking of a takeover approach from a private equity group.
Phoenix Gold was last night joining the rush of mid-tier mining stocks rattling the tin seeking to raise
up to $18.2 million through a placement and an entitlement issue to fund development of its
Goldfields mine.

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

phpa : Port Hedland Port Authority | ntaust : iiNet Ltd
i763 : Port/Harbor Operations | i83944 : Internet Service Providers | iint : Internet/Online | iship :
Water Transport/Shipping | itech : Technology | itsp : Transportation/Shipping
cslmc : Senior Level Management | c41 : Management Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | perth : Perth | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Business News Pty Ltd
Document WABN000020140320ea3l000m9

Page266of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.