TVI's Amazon Bay Iron Sands Joint Venture Partner to Enter into Deal for Plastics to Fuel Conversion Technology

HD

CR
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

TVI's Amazon Bay Iron Sands Joint Venture Partner to Enter into Deal for Plastics to Fuel
Conversion Technology
Distributed by Contify.com
614 words
11 November 2014
India Energy News
ATENER
English
Copyright © 2014. Contify.com

Nov. 11 -- Canada-based TVI Pacific Inc. issued the following news release:
TVI Pacific Inc. (TSX: TVI) (OTCQX: TVIPF) (TVI or the Company) announces that Foyson Resources
Limited ("Foyson"), a company in which TVI holds a 20.04% equity interest and is TVI's joint venture
partner on the Amazon Bay Iron Sands Project in Papua New Guinea, has entered into an agreement
with Integrated Green Energy Limited ("IGE") to acquire exclusive licenses to commercialize initially
IGE's plastics to fuel technology and then its biomass to both fuel and energy conversion technologies.
As announced by Foyson, this agreement reflects their strategy of acquiring a cash flow project to assist
in funding development activities at the Amazon Bay Project.

Clifford James, President and Chief Executive Officer of TVI, stated: "Given that TVI holds a significant
stake in Foyson, we are pleased to see their intention to enter into a potential cash flowing business
with IGE, which could increase the value of our investment and represent a potential source of funding
for our Amazon Bay Iron Sands joint venture project."
IGE is an Australian company with a focus on the development of its waste conversion technologies to
produce sustainable energy resources. The technologies are applicable to both processing
non-recyclable and waste plastics-to-fuels and for power generation in remote locations by processing a
hybrid biomass. IGE currently operates a semi-commercial demonstration plant producing industry
standard diesel suitable for use in conventional diesel engines.

As set out in the non-binding term sheet signed between Foyson and IGE in September 2014, Foyson
intends to acquire exclusive licenses to use IGE's waste conversion technology in Australia, New
Zealand, China, North America, India, South East Asia, Papua New Guinea and Fiji. Secondly, Foyson
intends to acquire non-exclusive licenses to use IGE's technology in other jurisdictions globally, with
IGE to grant no more than three licenses to any party in any jurisdiction. Thirdly, Foyson intends to
acquire IGE's existing pilot-scale plastics to fuel conversion plant at Berkeley Vale on New South Wales'
central coast. The intention of the term sheet is that Foyson will be required to construct and operate
new plants based on the existing Berkeley Vale plant over the next four years.

The term sheet also required Foyson to carry out two private placements with parties associated with
IGE for a total of 235 million shares. The first of these placements, involving a placement of 135
million shares at $0.0025 per share, was completed in October 2014, resulting in TVI's original equity
interest of 23.01% being diluted to 20.04%.

The term sheet states that the remuneration to be paid by Foyson for IGE will be performance based.
To obtain the maximum remuneration in terms of Foyson shares and options, the operating facilities
utilizing the IGE technology must earn annual EBITDA in excess of $20 million.

In order to complete the arrangement, Foyson plans to undertake a consolidation of its share capital and
issue 70 million convertible performance shares and 70 million convertible performance options to
IGE. The performance securities will be issued to IGE in tranches, with the vesting conditions for each
tranche linked to each plant or new plant generating $5 million EBITDA per annum. The first tranche
will be linked to the existing plant and has a performance period of two years from completion of the IGE
transaction. Each multiple of $5 million EBITDA generated will result in the vesting of another tranche
of performance securities.

Page145of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Source: TVI Pacific Inc.

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

travv : TVI Pacific Inc | wndbul : Foyson Resources Ltd.
irenewf : Renewable Energy Facility Construction | i502 : Heavy Construction | i5020044 : Power Station
Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm :
Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c184 : Joint Ventures | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | india : India | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | indsubz :
Indian Subcontinent | sasiaz : Southern Asia
Athena Information Solutions Pvt. Ltd.
Document ATENER0020141112eabb0003a

Page146of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.