Penfolds targeted by company firmly in the red

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Penfolds targeted by company firmly in the red

By Eli Greenblat
464 words
21 May 2014
Canberra Times
CANBTZ
A005
English
(c) 2014 The Canberra Times

Penfolds targeted by company firmly in the red

By Eli Greenblat

BusinessDay - Times2, Page 7

It is one of Australia's few successful globally recognised luxury brands, but could soon be rendered a
glistening prize that sits aside Toys 'R' Us, Oreo cookies and Samsonite luggage in the bulging trophy
cabinet of rapacious US corporate raider Kohlberg Kravis Roberts. Penfolds, the Australian wine
company founded in 1844 by a young English doctor, could soon fall into foreign hands after New
York-based KKR made a $3.1 billion takeover bid for the company that owns Penfolds, as well as a
swag of other well-known wine brands, Treasury Wine Estates. KKR, a US private equity firm that
specialises in using mountains of borrowed money or debt to buy
companies, and then once it gains control, slashes costs, often before breaking the business up to flip to
someone else, approached Treasury Wine last month with an offer of $4.70 a share. KKR is the master
of what is called in financial circles "leveraged buyouts", but it is unclear what its plans are for Treasury
Wine, which owns Penfolds and a large portfolio of other well-known Australian brands such as Wolf
Blass, Rosemount, Lindeman's and Seppelt. But it is Penfolds which is the jewel of its crown, a name
that sits comfortably alongside global luxury logos such as Armani, Gucci, Porsche and Cartier and
which can truly call itself Australia's only luxury brand. Treasury Wine, which in 2011 was
split off from brewer Foster's to become the world's largest listed pure-play wine company, has rejected
KKR's initial offer but analysts believe it could start an avalanche of offers that could eventually mean the
company is sold, most likely to a foreign investor. Mitchell Taylor, the managing director of Clare Valley
winemaker Taylors whose family vineyard is two hours north of Penfolds' spiritual home in South
Australia's Magill Estate, said he would be saddened to see Penfolds sold to overseas owners. "I believe
it would be very sad to see jewels like Penfolds that was originally set up by a family
business, that this brand could be in the hands of overseas multinationals or private equity," he said.
"As a family business I believe the wine industry works best with family businesses, we have got
long-term vision and that's what the wine industry needs." Jacob's Creek wine, one of the biggest wine
labels in the world and the second-most imported wine into China, is owned by French drinks giant
Pernod Ricard. The 160-year-old wine- maker Hardys has passed through multiple owners and is now
controlled by a private equity firm.

RF
CO
IN

RE

56869132
kkr : KKR & Co. L.P. | toyrus : Toys R Us Inc | trzwn : Treasury Wine Estates Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i426 : Wine | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i654 : Specialty Stores | i6540030 :
Hobby/Toy/Game Stores | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150203 : Private Equity | ialco :
Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ialtinv : Alternative Investments | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | iretail : Retail
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

Page88of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty Ltd
AN
Document CANBTZ0020140520ea5l0002f

Page89of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.