Take-or-pay contracts hurting Yancoal as coal prices slump

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Take-or-pay contracts hurting Yancoal as coal prices slump

Mining Peter Ker
524 words
15 April 2014
Canberra Times
CANBTZ
B009
English
(c) 2014 The Canberra Times

Take-or-pay contracts hurting Yancoal as coal prices slump
Mining Peter Ker

'Yancoal has substantial port and rail capacity.'

Another Australian coalminer has revealed it is suffering under its "take-or-pay" rail and port contracts,
with Yancoal conceding it took on far more rail capacity in the boom times than it needs today. Yancoal's
admission comes after revelations by Fairfax Media that numerous Australian coalmines are operating at
a loss because fixed rail and port contracts would impose much greater losses on the owners if the
mines were closed. The trend is exacerbating the malaise in the coal sector, which is struggling under
high costs and depressed prices for thermal and coking coal.
According to Yancoal's annual report, the Chinese-controlled coalminer had a $61.5million liability for its
take-or-pay contracts at December 31. Yancoal, formed through the consolidation of Felix Resources,
Gloucester Coal and Donaldson Coal, indicated it was tied to take- or-pay contracts at port and rail level
in NSW and Queensland. "Yancoal and its predecessor businesses made significant contractual
commitments to ensure long-term strategic access to the coal chain," the company said. "Yancoal has
substantial port and rail capacity contracted from 2014 to 2018, well in excess of the planned production
profile."

Anglo American has also bemoaned the impact of take-or-pay deals on the industry and warned it could
be more than a year before some of those contracts expired. Most Australian coalminers are believed to
have at least some take- or-pay commitments, and Yancoal hinted the problem was common. "There is
both a short-term and a long-term focus in reducing Yancoal's port and rail excess, however, with most
coal suppliers holding

contracts in excess to requirements, potential for avoidance of take-or-pay is very limited," it said. BHP
Billitoncoal president Dean Dalla Valle said recently his company was comfortable with its take- or-pay
exposure. "We are managing all our contracts to our capacities quite well," he said. Yancoal spokesman
Greg Foulis said the planned expansion of a thermal coalmine in NSW within the next one or two years
would help offset the problem. "Part of our long-term strategy at Yancoal is to grow production at the
Moolarben mine, which will in turn take up some of that unused take-or-pay capacity," he said. The
Moolarben expansion could

be granted final approval as early as 2015 if all approvals are obtained. A sizeable proportion of
Yancoal's take-or-pay liability stems from the 2012 acquisition of ASX- listed Gloucester Coal, which
was completed when thermal coal prices were about 25 per cent higher than today and coking coal
prices were close to double today's price. Yancoal made an $832 million loss in the year to December
31, and Yancoal shares were steady at 40ï¿½ on Monday. Yancoal's major shareholder, Yanzhou Coal,
of China, recently sought to take the company private in a bid to stem its losses, but was thwarted by
fellow shareholder Noble Group.

RF

55886952

Page173of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO

IN

NS

cenim : Gloucester Coal Ltd | mkthra : Felix Resources Ltd | yaptyl : Yancoal Australia Limited | yankua :
Yankuang (Group) Corp | ynzmn : Yanzhou Coal Mining Co Ltd
i1 : Energy | i111 : Coal Mining | i112 : Coal Mining Support Activities | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm :
Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
mcoal : Coal Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial
Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty Ltd
AN

Document CANBTZ0020140414ea4f0000u

Page174of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.