Foreign buyer fee unlikely

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Foreign buyer fee unlikely

Foreign investorsJacob Greber
260 words
25 September 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
10
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

A backbench proposal to slug foreign property buyers with an application fee to fund a crackdown
on illegal purchasing is unlikely to be taken up by the government, senior sources said.

Members of a parliamentary committee have been actively considering whether to recommend
offshore buyers seeking Foreign Investment Review Board (FIRB) approval be charged as much as
$1500 per purchase.

Modelling by the independent Parliamentary Budget Office suggests a fee of just $500 would
generate $34.6 million over four years. If set at three times that amount, it could bring in $106 million
by 2017-18.

But the community concern over foreign buying comes at a sensitive time for the Abbott
government. Negotiators are working to complete an historic foreign trade deal with China in time
for the November G20 summit in Brisbane, due to be attended by Chinese Premier Li Keqiang.

Under a proposal being considered by some committee members, the funds would be used to
improve monitoring and policing of offshore buyers by the FIRB – which has itself come under
criticism from Liberal MP Kelly O'Dwyer for failing to enforce restrictions and for a "failure of
leadership".

Work is also being done on whether to hit offshore buyers with extra stamp duties to ensure their
participation in the market doesn't worsen housing affordability.

Industry groups have argued against extra fees on foreign buyers because they would restrain
residential dwelling approvals, which are at the core of the Reserve Bank of Australia's efforts to
spur economic growth.

RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140924ea9p0001n

Page110of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.