Apache goes on the warpath

Apache goes on the warpath

The Australian

HD
CR
WC 523 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

28 August 2014
00:00
theAustralian.com.au
NLAUSW
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

TD

SEVEN Group Holdings is being sued over the $US63.7 million purchase of some of Apache Corp’s
best Texas ground.

The Kerry Stokes-controlled media and resources conglomerate yesterday revealed it had broadened the
oil and gas push that began with its controversial takeover of Nexus Energy.

But the previously undisclosed acquisition of a non-operating stake in the booming US onshore oil
sector has been clouded by a legal challenge from Apache, the field’s operator.
Seven Group, which is still in the process of buying Nexus, now has its first energy asset, after buying an
11 per cent stake in Apache’s onshore Bivins Ranch ground from a minority partner in June.

“We have acquired a direct interest in an operated oilfield in the United States to supplement the
long-dated reserves we hope to gain via the acquisition of Nexus,” said Mr Stokes, who owns 68 per
cent and is executive chairman of Seven.

Apache is seeking damages from Seven Group, which it claims “wilfully and intentionally interfered” with
Apache’s rights to pre-emptively acquire the stake at a higher price of $US65m, and the seller NextEra
Energy, according to a report by US legal news service Law360.

In its annual report, Seven Group said the suit was for “tortious interference” by Seven and breach of
contract by NextEra Energy.

“The group believes the action to be without merit and is defending its position,” Seven Group said.
Seven Group could be dealing with legal action on both of its attempted moves into oil and gas if legal
threats from Nexus shareholders flagged in an administrator’s report this month translate into action.
Seven Group’s $191m purchase of Nexus from administrators is expected to take up to three months as
it waits for Australian Securities & Investments Commission approval, court approval and settlement of a
Nexus legal claim.

“We look forward to a resolution of the situation,” Seven Group chief operating officer Ryan Stokes said
yesterday.
Seven Group, whose assets include the WesTrac mining equipment business and a 35 per cent stake in
Seven West Media, said full-year net profit slumped 37 per cent to $251.8m as the mining sector
continued to cut costs, production and expansions.
“As commodity prices like iron ore remain under pressure, the miners are very focused on reducing or
deferring costs,” Mr Voelte said.
“There is very limited demand for new equipment at this time, even though record coal and iron ore
export volumes will have to support service, parts, and ultimately lead to capital replacements.”
The company paid a 20c-a-share final dividend, unchanged from last year and representing a $41m
payout to Kerry Stokes.

The full-year dividend was double this.

Page76of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Seven Group said the outlook for its WesTrac business in Australia and China was flat or declining while
its Coates Hire business was expected to strengthen slightly.

Group underlying earnings before interest and tax were expected to be flat at about $374.4m (down 40
per cent from 2012-13), subject to no further deterioration in market conditions.

CO
IN

apche : Apache Corp | entity : Nexus Energy Ltd
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil
Extraction
gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

NS
RE
PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document NLAUSW0020140827ea8r000jq

Page77of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.