Bellamy's float rises like cream

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Bellamy's float rises like cream

Sally Rose
581 words
6 August 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
14
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Tasmanian baby food maker Bellamy's Australia, which is targeting the booming demand in Asia for
dairy infant formula, has been embraced by investors jumping more than 30 per cent on its
sharemarket debut.
The company, formerly Tasmanian Pure Foods – which sells in supermarkets as Bellamy's Organic –
has ambitious growth plans to ramp up exports of its certified organic Australian product to an
emerging middle class in Asia who are thirsty for dairy.

Shares surged as much as 34 per cent after listing on Tuesday, closing 30.1 per cent above the $1
offer price at $1.31, giving the company a market cap of $124 million. The offer raised $25 million.
"It's a cracking start as a listed company, with institutional investors really backing our plan for
sustained growth in China and other major markets around Asia," Bellamy's managing director Laura
McBain said. "It was a fortunate piece of timing that on the same morning of the float we were able to
announce that a key supplier, Tatura Milk Industries, has been accredited to export infant formula to
China," she said.
In May, China announced a new accreditation system for all infant formula manufacturing facilities
importing into the country. A two-month hiatus on exports from the Bega Cheese-owned Tatura Milk
Industries had temporarily halted Bellamy's ability to deliver orders into China.
Lead brokers Wilson HTM marketed the float as a way to gain exposure to the growing worldwide
fashion for certified organic foods and an increased appetite for dairy products in Asia.

The IPO was priced at 19 times pro forma estimated earnings for the current financial year. Tuesday's
closing price values the shares at 24.7 times forecast earnings. Annual revenue growth has averaged
55 per cent since 2010.
It emerged on Tuesday that Quality Life, the family company of BRW Rich Lister Bruce Neill, was the
biggest buyer into the float and now controls 8.62 per cent of the company. Hobart-based Mr Neill
made his fortune when a financial services company he founded, Select Managed Funds, was
swallowed by IOOF in 2009. Other fund managers that bought stock in the IPO included Wilson Asset
Management, Schroders, Thorney Group, and Karara Capital.
One investor who participated in the float said it was attractive for a company with strong growth
potential to also forecast dividends. The prospectus flagged an annual dividend yield of 1.6 per cent,
based on a payout ratio of 30 per cent.

Local stockists of the range, which is expanding into products for infants and school-aged kids, include
Woolworths and Coles. Offices in Singapore and Shanghai manage distribution into China,
Singapore, Hong Kong, Malaysia and Vietnam. It is estimated that 15 per cent of revenue for the year
ended June 30 came from offshore.

Page182of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.More than one food sector analyst told The Australian Financial Review they had concerns about
Bellamy's lack of ownership of its supply chain.
"I am more comfortable players that have more control over production, such as Bega Cheese or
Tassal Group," one analyst said.
But Ms McBain hit back at this criticism of the business model.

"Bellamy's has built strong relationships to ensure the sustainability of an organic supply chain that
extend right down to the farmgate level," she said.

The listing allowed Bellamy's early backer, retail entrepreneur Jan Cameron, to sell down her 55 per
cent stake.

CO
IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

tapufl : Bellamy s Australia Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ibabyf : Baby Food | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
c1711 : Initial Public Offerings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c02 : Corporate Changes | c14 :
Stock Listings | c17 : Funding/Capital | c171 : Share Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140805ea860000p

Page183of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.