KKR borrows $1.4b for Treasury bid

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
KKR borrows $1.4b for Treasury bid

Simon Evans
665 words
6 August 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
16
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

United States private equity firms Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and Rhone Capital have a debt package
worth about $1.4 billion all but finalised for the proposed $3.4 billion buyout of Treasury Wine
Estates. They will run the company with lower gearing than in normal private equity investments.

The two firms also have teams primed to spend most of their due diligence period on the troublesome
United States operations of Treasury because they regard this business as the biggest potential
swing factor in formulating a final, binding proposal.

KKR and Rhone are thought to have signed agreements with several firms for the debt package,
including Credit Suisse, Nomura and Bank of America Merrill Lynch. They are all predicated on
satisfactory due diligence. KKR and Rhone plan to use a conservative gearing ratio compared with
traditional private equity investments because wine is an agricultural industry subject to seasonal
conditions and fluctuating earnings.

The debt component is thought to be about 40 per cent. The introduction of New York-based Rhone
Capital into the bidding vehicle with an intended 15 to 20 per cent Treasury stake if the offer is
successful, has reduced the level of equity required by KKR, but combined, it will be about $2 billion.

Treasury, which owns brands including Penfolds, Wolf Blass, Rosemount, Lindemans, and Saltram,
got a higher buyout offer from KKR and Rhone on Monday, pitched at $5.20 a share. It was 50¢
higher than a previous offer from KKR in mid-April of $4.70.

Treasury shares jumped more than 4 per cent on Monday after the higher bid was revealed and
gained a further 2¢ on Tuesday to close at $5.17.

Advisers and lawyers for both sides are close to finalising a confidential agreement to allow KKR and
Rhone to begin due diligence. They are likely to get access to the inner workings of the company
later this week.

The Beringer Vineyards operations in California and the broader United States operations are a major
focus for KKR and Rhone, given the major blunders at Treasury have been in the US, including the
infamous mis-reading of the market in 2013 which resulted in overflowing stock levels in third-party
US distributor warehouses of cheaper commercial wine. This resulted in the destruction of 6 million
bottles of wine.

Treasury chief executive Mike Clarke was in his Melbourne head office on Tuesday working on his
own strategic plans. China's Bright Foods has ruled itself out as a Treasury buyer. US drinks giant
Constellation Brands is an unlikely rival bidder after chief executive Robert Sands signalled in July
when the company released its quarterly results, that the focus was on paying debt and not large
acquisitions.

It comes as debate rages about the potential impact of a change in ownership of some of Australia's
most prestigious wine brands to private equity firms. The private equity model generally revolves

Page178of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.around owning a business for between five to seven years, before it is sold again in either a public
float or a trade sale.

Mitchell Taylor, the chairman of Australia's First Families of Wines, an umbrella body of 12
family-owned wine companies with long histories, said the wine industry needed long-term planning
and decisions that may not pay off for a decade.
"In the wine game I don't think it's good for the industry if there's that short-term quick-buck,
in-and-out mentality. You do need that patient capital," he said.

Mr Taylor is managing director of Taylors Wines, based in Clare Valley, South Australia. It belongs to
Australia's First Families of Wine which also include companies such as Brown Brothers, Henschke,
Yalumba and Tyrrell's Wines. He said the family-owned groups would invest in the business, knowing
the benefit may not flow fully until the next generation took over.

"We're looking at generational investments and decisions."

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

kkr : KKR & Co. L.P. | rhcap : Rhone Capital LLC | trzwn : Treasury Wine Estates Ltd
i8150203 : Private Equity | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | ialtinv : Alternative Investments |
ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i426 : Wine |
ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods
cacqu : Acquisitions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 :
Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North
America
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140805ea8600022

Page179of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.