Trade pact a boon for all groups

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Trade pact a boon for all groups

Samantha Hutchinson and Su-Lin Tan
424 words
20 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
40
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Local and international developers have called the free trade agreement a boon for business with
the capacity to lower building costs and lift demand.

"For companies like Greenland, the signing of the FTA means a larger and better opportunity,"
Greenland Holdings chairman Zhang Yuliang told The Australian Financial Review.

"There will be more and more Chinese investment . . . and with more foreign companies entering the
market of Australia, there will be more demand for offices."

The state-owned developer is broadening its Australian investment base to extend into the office
and retail property sectors, in anticipation that more Chinese companies will set up shop locally
following the signing of the agreement.
"And all of this needs the support from real estate developers," he said.
Rival large-scale Chinese residential developer Country Garden was also buoyed by the
agreement and said it would help boost investment in the property sector.

"We know that the free trade agreement would bring huge benefits . . . in industries such as
agricultural produce, imports and exports," chief executive Johnson Zhang said, adding that the
group had no plans to venture outside of the property sector following the new agreement.

But some analysts believe that aside from the agricultural industry, the new agreement will have
only a limited impact on real estate.
"Previously purchasers of real estate have had to go through the FIRB process, but approval has
generally been forthcoming," Citi real estate head Phil Cheetham said.

"Lifting the approval limit will reduce red tape, but is not expected to lead to any more [or] less
transactional activity."

But the new agreement will stoke investment in hotels and restaurants from Australian businesses,
Mr Cheetham said, for the reason that it paves the way for Australian businesses to build and
operate hotels and venues in China.

Local developers also told The Australian Financial Review the new free trade agreement would
likely boost business among local players.
Sydney based apartment developer Bridgehill – which is backed in part by wealthy individuals
across Asia – believes the trade agreement will bring building costs down.

Page199of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."There are many things, like building materials and techniques, that are new and interesting that
maybe we can bring back to Australia," Bridgehill chief executive Xu Yibin told The Australian
Financial Review.

"And obviously, the free trade agreement means bringing those things back here could be cheaper."
According to Mr Xu, many builders and developers test new ideas and building concepts in China
first before replicating them in Australia.

IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
e512 : Physical Trade | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141119eabk0000y

Page200of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.