Big Deal Eludes ANZ's Chief

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Big Deal Eludes ANZ's Chief

By Enda Curran
658 words
14 January 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
27
English
Copyright © 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

HONG KONG -- When Mike Smith took over as chief executive officer of Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. in 2007, he mapped out bold ambitions to expand the bank across Asia, including
what he hoped would be a "transformational acquisition."

Now, approaching seven years at the helm of the country's biggest lender, Mr. Smith says the
opportunity for a large buy has likely passed, leaving ANZ to focus on the nuts and bolts of banking,
such as trade finance, to expand its regional operation.

"We passed that point," Mr. Smith said in an interview. "It would be nice to have what I have always
called a transformational acquisition, but I have always said the stars have to align."

The ANZ chief has been frustrated in his ambitions to capture a large target. The bank's last major
acquisition was in 2009, when it paid US$550 million for some of Royal Bank of Scotland Group
PLC's Asian banking operations.
In September, it was said to be interested in buying Hong Kong's Wing Hang Bank Ltd. but ultimately
didn't make an offer. Also last year, it withdrew a US$900 million bid for the main Australian business
of U.K. lender Lloyds Banking Group PLC.

"We continue to look, but there isn't a lot out there," Mr. Smith said. "I have always been patient.
Something will happen at some stage. I still believe that some of the European bank assets will have
to be sold off," Mr. Smith said.

Some analysts expect that a fresh round of stress tests by the European Central Bank will force some
of Europe's lenders to raise new capital and sell assets in places like Asia, potentially throwing up
opportunities for ANZ.

Since assuming the CEO role, Mr. Smith, who was once shot in the leg in Argentina while working for
HSBC, has pushed for ANZ to hit a target of making between 25% and 30% of its earnings from the
Asian-Pacific region outside its home markets, plus Europe and the Americas, by 2017. Currently
around 20% of the bank's revenue comes from outside its home markets.

Like Australia's other large lenders, ANZ emerged from the global financial crisis and economic
slowdown relatively unscathed. That strength has allowed the bank to expand Asian operations such
as transactional banking and trade finance, the type of lending and credit guarantees that grease the
wheels of the region's economy.

Mr. Smith cited growing competition in this sector and pointed to an increased presence of Japanese
banks, which are buoyed by the extra liquidity pumped into the system by the Bank of Japan's
ultraloose monetary policy.

"They have been very competitive in terms of pricing," Mr. Smith said. "You are having to run to stay
in one place because in trade finance everybody is playing the game. But it is still good business
even if it is a lower return."

Page291of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The liquidity in the market from Japan is helping to offset the gradual winding down of the U.S.
Federal Reserve's bond-buying program. The U.S. program has pumped cash into Asia as investors
sought higher yields, sparking fears the tapering of the bond buying could trigger a sharp slowdown in
emerging Asia.

Transactional banking in Asia remains a key focus, too, Mr. Smith said: "That is a strategic no
brainer."

Mr. Smith said business confidence in Australia is showing signs of stability. ANZ's profits in the
country have been helped by lower bad debts and a round of cost cutting. He played down fears of a
hard landing for the nation's economy, pointing to what he said are still historically high prices for key
commodity exports such as iron ore.

"For a country like Australia, that is still pretty good news," Mr. Smith said.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

CO

IN
NS

RE
IPC
PUB
AN

aanzb : Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited | rbsct : Royal Bank of Scotland Group
PLC | wingb : Wing Hang Bank Ltd
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c41 : Management Issues |
cacqu : Acquisitions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
AEQI
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document AWSJ000020140113ea1e0000o

Page292of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.