China eyes infrastructure deals

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
China eyes infrastructure deals

Michael Bennet
585 words
7 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
18
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

CHINA is set to be a major player in state government privatisation sale processes as the booming
nation eyes stable infrastructure assets delivering returns that outpace those on offer in other nations.

Hansong Zhu, who runs Goldman Sachs’s natural resources division for Asia-Pacific with the
Melbourne-based rainmaker Richard Phillips, also flagged that China might selectively use the falls in
commodity prices to its advantage and snap up assets on the cheap.

Morgan Stanley’s head of investment banking in Australia, Richard Wagner, last month told The
Australian it was “nearing that point in the cycle” when China would pounce on buying opportunities.
Ahead of state elections in Victoria, NSW and Queensland next year, Mr Zhu said China was
increasingly seeking infrastructure assets generating long-term returns and Australia was a “very
attractive” place to deploy capital.
In the past year, Chinese state-owned company State Grid bought 19 per cent of electricity supplier
SP AusNet and 60 per cent of energy infrastructure company SPI Australia, while China Merchants
Group joined forces with Hastings Funds Management to buy Port of Newcastle.

Infrastructure has dominated the Australian mergers and acquisitions market, helping push announced
deal flow up 55 per cent in the first nine months of the year compared with last year, according to
Thomson Reuters.
Mr Zhu said the “serious issue” of overcapacity in many industries in China weighed on opportunities
to deploy capital in the Asian nation.
“Definitely it will attract interest from the Chinese,” Mr Zhu said of the potential raft of government
assets coming to market, such as ports and electricity poles and wires.
“If you compare the infrastructure opportunities in China like transmission distribution grids, actually
Australia would provide a better return for the investment.” Despite waving several foreign investments
through, the federal government’s blocking of Archer Daniels Midland’s $3.4 billion takeover of
GrainCorp soon after taking office created uncertainty for offshore buyers.
West Australian Premier Colin Barnett has claimed Clive Palmer’s public legal battles with Hong
Kong’s Citic Pacific have damaged the relationship with China.
Debate has also raged about China’s role in Australia’s soaring residential property prices, an issue
being explored in a federal inquiry.
Mr Zhu said Chinese investors were aware of Mr Palmer’s spat with Citic, but mostly viewed it as a
one-off rather than highlighting a “big risk”.

Mr Phillips added there was greater “stability” in the government’s position. “Overall, I think compared
to other mature markets, the Chinese still feel Australia is a relatively friendly hosting country to
accept Chinese inbound investment,” said Mr Zhu.

Page59of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.He said Chinese investors had learned from prior investments that developing greenfield projects was
difficult, and they were “more and more interested” in mines nearing production or already pumping out
resources.
Baosteel teaming up with Queensland-based Aurizon for the $1bn purchase of West Australian miner
Aquilla Resources also showed China’s increasing desire for local partners.
Mr Phillips said despite the dour mood in the mining sector in recent months as the iron ore price fell
to $US80 a tonne, China’s interest in some assets and commodities had increased. “There is a
fundamental strategic need for those underlying assets and in some ways they become more
attractive, particularly as the Aussie dollar weakens,” he said.“I think coal and iron ore will continue to
be really interesting areas … and we’ll continue to see things happen in that space.”

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

spauen : AusNet Services | sinpow : Singapore Power Ltd | tmasek : Temasek Holdings Pte Ltd
i831 : Financial Investments | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | i16 : Electricity/Gas
Utilities | iutil : Utilities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141006eaa70003a

Page60of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.