Echo links with HK groups in casino bid

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Echo links with HK groups in casino bid

Jamie Freed, James Thomson
460 words
24 June 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
24
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Gambling
Echo Entertainment Group's decision to partner with two Hong Kong groups in its bid to develop a
multibillion-dollar casino, hotel and residential project in Brisbane could boost the chances that rival
Crown Resorts will seek a partner of its own, analysts say.

A previous four-horse race to win the development rights to the Queen's Wharf site from the
Queensland government has been whittled down to three contenders after Echo signed a binding
memorandum of understanding with Chow Tai Fook Enterprises (CTF) and Far East Consortium
(FEC).

If awarded, Echo will now contribute 50 per cent of the capital to the development of the resort and act
as the operator under a long-dated gaming operator agreement. CTF and FEC would each hold a 25
per cent stake in the venture and also undertake the residential component of the broader project.

Before the deal was reached, CTF and FEC had been on the government's shortlist with a joint bid.
The remaining contenders are James Packer's Crown and China's Greenland Investment, a property
developer yet to line up a casino operator partner.

It is understood Echo held discussions with Greenland and Lend Lease about potential joint ventures
before selecting the Hong Kong partners in part because of their deeper experience in the hospitality
and tourism industry.

Lend Lease, which put in an expression of interest of its own but did not make the Queensland
government's shortlist, has not ruled out pursuing a partnership with Crown.
A gaming analyst said Echo's decision to partner with the Hong Kong companies had derisked its bid
significantly. Echo shares closed 3 per cent higher at $3.16 on Monday.

The analyst added the expectation was Crown would also be in talks with potential partners about a
joint bid. "Why wouldn't they be?"

Crown declined to comment.

Echo said the confidential nature of the bid process meant it could provide little additional information.

Echo chief executive Matt Bekier said in a statement that the Queensland market, including its
Brisbane and Gold Coast properties, was a priority for Echo. The company already operates casinos
in Brisbane and on the Gold Coast, but is limited in how it can redevelop its Brisbane property, which is
housed in a heritage-listed building.

CTF is controlled by Cheng Yu Tung, whose family owns property, hospitality and retail interests
across Asia, including Chow Tai Fook Jewellery, the world's largest jewellery retailer. FEC, listed in

Page16of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Hong Kong, has been operating in Australia since 1994 and has a management team in Melbourne. It
is developing the $1.2 billion Upper West Side project in Melbourne.

CO
IN
RE

PUB
AN

crncas : Crown Resorts Limited | ekoee : Echo Entertainment Group Ltd.
i97912 : Gambling Industries | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality
austr : Australia | hkong : Hong Kong | china : China | brisbn : Brisbane | queensl : Queensland | apacz
: Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140623ea6o00020

Page17of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.