Call for private sector-led infrastructure

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Call for private sector-led infrastructure

Tony Boyd
1,306 words
13 March 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
64
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Chanticleer

Boral chief executive Mike Kane will be shocked to read the Productivity Commission report on public
infrastructure which recommends adopting the Victorian guidelines for building codes. Kane has little
time for Victoria's construction industry because the Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union
has stopped Boral supplying cement in the Melbourne CBD.

Boral was favoured in a recent tender on a Melbourne CBD site when the word came back to Kane
that the CFMEU had stepped in and stopped the head contractor awarding the contract to Boral.

Kane sent a message back to his man there to offer to supply the cement for free just to get a Boral
cement mixer on black-banned ground. But the head contractor was too scared to go ahead with the
arrangement no matter how financially advantageous it was to his business.

The Productivity Commission analysis of public infrastracture in Australia finds many reasons for the
high costs involved ranging from excessive tendering costs to lack of competition in a market
dominated by Lend Lease and Leighton Holdings.

When it comes to industrial relations, the report closely examines the concerns that union and
employer behaviour is not only fuelling unlawful conduct but also frustrating productivity and raising
costs. IR was not raised by stakeholders as a major source of cost pressures and the commission
notes that days lost per employee are "very low" by historical standards.

When the analysis turns to the sort of issues that have made Kane scream in frustration, it recognises
there is widespread unlawful conduct, most of it concentrated in Victoria and involving the CFMEU.

The problem for companies like Boral is that dealing with these issues involves long, drawn-out court
action. Kane welcomes the Royal Commission into the building industry but it will do nothing to bring
down the barriers to Boral doing business in the Melbourne CBD.

The commission says the unlawful conduct is mainly in general construction rather than civil
construction. But there are broader problems highlighted by a review of a sample of enterprise
bargaining agreements "including inexplicable variations in terms and conditions, potentially excessive
powers for some union officials and constraints on workplace flexibility likely to be inimical to
productivity".

It warns against having an over-optimistic aspiration for large industry-wide productivity increases
thanks to IR reform, and recommends the Australia-wide adoption of the Victorian guidelines for
building codes, which allow for the disqualification of contractors from tendering for public
infrastructure projects if they mismanaged industrial relations arrangements or reached sweetheart
deals with unions. It also advises raising the ceiling for penalties for unlawful conduct.

Peter Harris, chairman of the Productivity Commission and arguably the busiest public servant in
Australia, says governments have it in their power to attract greater private sector financing of

Page181of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.infrastructure. Many projects will still need public funding but private sector financing can deliver new
efficiency gains.

ANZ Banking Group will on Thursday publish a new analysis of the opportunities for investors in
Australian infrastructure. It recommends governments follow NSW's lead by recycling the capital from
asset sales and use it to kick-start new projects.
ANZ estimates opportunities for investors in Australian infrastructure of around $175 billion over the
next five years including $110 billion from the sale of state-owned infrastructure assets. This pipeline
could exceed $220 billion in the period to 2020.

ANZ's global head of utilities and infrastructure David Byrne says banks will have to recycle their
infrastructure funding from bank balance sheets to bond markets.
One of Australia's most promising integrated mining and ore processing companies Lynas Corp is
being smashed in the Australian sharemarket as it struggles to transition from start-up phase to
world-leading rare-earths producer.
Lynas has spent about $800 million building a rare-earths oxide production facility in Malaysia to
process the resources from Mount Weld in Western Australia. Mount Weld is one of the highest-grade
rare-earths oxide deposits in the world, with 23.9 million tonnes at an average grade of 7.9 per cent.

But after the release of qualified interim accounts on Tuesday, the question that must be asked now is
whether the shareholders of Lynas will end up owning the company or if the price of refinancing its
heavily geared balance sheet will mean a change in control.
There is added intrigue because of the apparently invidious role of China, which has about 90 per cent
of all the world's rare-earths oxides and supplies about 95 per cent of all processed rare-earths
minerals.

When Lynas started down the path of building the largest rare-earths processing plant outside of
China several years ago, the price of rare earths was at heady levels. Rare earths, which are used in
electronics, military and in the automotive industry, hit a price of about $US80 a kilogram.

In the December quarter Lynas was receiving about $US23 a kilogram. But when you load in the costs
of its debt of about $500 million, the rate of production is well below the level for break even.Chinese
restricted rare-earths exports UBS analyst Jo Battershill says cash break-even for Lynas is a
production rate at the Malaysian plant of 12,000 tonnes a year. Lynas has previously guided to a cash
cost of $US14 to $US15 a kilogram once the plant reaches its nameplate production target of 22,000
tonnes.
The Chinese restricted exports of rare earths and that pushed up global prices. It encouraged the
world's processing companies to set up facilities in China. That has helped Lynas because it now
supplies product to customers inside China.
However, after squeezing the rare-earths supply chain, the Chinese appear to have turned on the
supply taps and the price of rare earths has plummeted. This collapse in prices has coincided with a
critical period in the Lynas production ramp-up.

Lynas has experienced production bottlenecks at its plant but directors, led by chairman Nick Curtis,
are confident the company can reach its target run rate of 11,000 tonnes a year during the June
quarter. Production in the six months to December was 994 tonnes and total sold was 627 tonnes.
The company has about $74.7 million cash at bank and is burning cash at about $50 million every
six months. It has admitted it will need to refinance its debt possibly through a capital raising. The
board of Lynas was recently strengthened with the appointment of Amanda Lacaze, who has much
experience in working with start-up companies and companies facing financial distress.
Margaret Jackson is close to being appointed to the chairmanship of facility management company,
Spotless. The appointment would be one of the last significant moves before the owner Pacific Equity
Partners sells the bulk of the company in an intital public offering.
PEP bought Spotless in August 2012 for $US741 million. It is expected to be valued at about
$2 billion when it lists on the ASX. The negative attitude towards private equity-selling companies to
the sharemarket has diminished recently thanks to the strong performance of stocks such as Nine
Entertainment Co.

Page182of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.While shareholders in Qantas and Virgin cringe while Alan Joyce and John Borghetti threaten each
other with increased domestic airline capacity, Rod Sims at the Australian Competition and Consumer
Commission wants more regulation.

Sims will tell the National Consumer Congress on Thursday that the recent statements by Joyce and
Borghetti show why the price signalling laws in banking need to be extended to aviation. Shareholders
in both companies know the best outcome will be when market equilibrium occurs. But there is no
need for price signalling for the duopoly to figure out how to make more money.

tony.boyd@afr.com.au Twitter @TonyBoydAFR

Tony Boyd

CO
RE

PUB
AN

cufymu : Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140312ea3d0002n

Page183of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.