Arguments for new flag show paranoia

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Arguments for new flag show paranoia

1,491 words
24 March 2014
The New Zealand Herald
NZHLD
A024
English
(c) 2014 The New Zealand Herald

The three arguments in favour of changing our flag are that the present one is indistinguishable from
the Australian flag, that we need a flag to better reflect the country's unique characteristics, and that a
new one would represent our individualism and freedom from the shackles of British colonialism.

All three fail because they fall under the national identity crisis banner, which is manifested by some
New Zealanders displaying a deep sense of paranoia and parochialism.

Being a small country alongside a much larger, economically prosperous neighbour probably explains
the national pastime of comparing and denigrating things Australian, but it does not stop there. The
same small-minded jealousy is exhibited towards the United States.

Another lot believes in an exceptionalism that makes us stand out from other people, and goes beyond
national identity. Ingrained in the psyche of those is a belief that we are a clever bunch.
The other group loathe our British heritage and favour modern-day New Zealand, where
multiculturalism is favoured over contribution.

But, indisputably, our nation was founded as a result of Britain's expansion throughout the world, not by
the recent migrants from the Pacific or Asia.
J. Stark, Cambridge. Trade with China Misleading and fraudulent use of the Prime Minister's
photograph, drugging of kindergarten children, dead pigs polluting waterways, a surge in elephant and
rhino poaching for the Chinese market. All this in Friday's edition of the Herald.
While not underestimating the importance of the Chinese market, is this a country with which we really
want to develop closer ties, let alone allow virtually unfettered immigration and property acquisition?
There has been much bowing and scraping by both business and politicians over the Fonterra
botulism fiasco but not a word has been said about the breach of contract by China over the asbestos
in train carriages.
The contract should not have gone to China in the first place, but why are we not holding them
responsible for losses, both actual and consequential, as a result of their breach?

Have payments been withheld? What penalty clauses are there in the contract? We have a right to
know.

Ray Gilbert, Avondale. Problem gambling funding So the Government has cut funding for the Problem
Gambling Foundation, a decent organisation that has provided counselling for some 25,000 problem
gamblers over the years.

At the same time, John Key is allowing international gambling corporation SkyCity to increase its
massed ranks of addictive pokie machines, and apparently increase its in-built profit margin to more
than 3 per cent.

The loser, of course, is the average New Zealand taxpayer. Gambling is a nasty disease that fleeces
money from the gullible, usually the least able to afford it, at terrible social cost.

Page4of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Of course, the back-slapping deal over the unneeded convention centre in Auckland played no part,
according to the Ministry of Health.
This is another building block in the Government's remorseless sale of New Zealand to powerful
overseas corporate interests.

Jeff Hayward, Remuera. The Government's decision to cut funding to the Problem Gambling
Foundation is an outrage. It reflects a callous disregard for the fact that the Problem Gambling
Foundation is the largest provider of problem gambling services in the world, having served more than
25,000 clients over the past 20 years.

It is especially alarming that the decision to award the foundation's contract to the Salvation Army was
reportedly a complete surprise to the Salvation Army. There had been no proper process of tendering
and evaluation of competing proposals from the two organisations.

This constitutes incontrovertible evidence that this decision is indeed reprisal against the foundation for
their advocacy role, which despite Minister Peter Dunne's denials appeared to have been clearly
confirmed by Tau Henare on Twitter.

The lack of proper process in this decision must be investigated by the Auditor-General. Peter
Matthewson, Avondale. NZ Post service NZ Post appears hell-bent on driving customers away by yet
again ramping up charges.

There is even more incentive now for people to use electronic means to get their message to
customers or friends and family. At least they know delivery will be immediate, which is more than can
be said for NZ Post's abysmal performance.

An organisation with which I am associated has experienced several recent examples of five working
days to get a 70c letter to Wellington or Christchurch and three to four days just to get across greater
Auckland. It is now forced to use courier services.

A much smarter move would have been to cut the cost of a 70c envelope to encourage a return. While
that would have reduced income per article, increased volume would compensate.

Is it now too late? The trend is for Christmas cards to be sent by email, and corporates encourage their
clients to allow electronic transmission of annual reports and the like, putting the cost on to the recipient
for ink and paper to print.

Graeme McIntosh, Army Bay. Bank funding It was very encouraging to read of Westpac's commitment
of serious funds to the clean tech sector - green buildings, waste reduction, energy efficiency and solar
dairy sheds. These developments are part of a sustainable economy and need capital.

This makes it all the more puzzling that Westpac would undermine its own reputation by continuing to
fund the development of new coal mines.

Despite many hundreds of letters pointing out the damage that Bathurst plans to do to the inspiring and
beautiful Denniston Plateau, and the damage that coal will do to the climate, Westpac steadfastly
continues to lend to Bathurst.
The company plans a suite of mines to dig up 84 million tonnes and put 218 million tonnes of carbon
dioxide into the atmosphere at a time when the threat of climate change is already extreme. No amount
of ``green development'' can ever remedy this.

That is why hundreds of its customers are about to switch to another banker, which does not fund fossil
fuels. There is still time for Westpac to change, and make its sustainability real.

Jeanette Fitzsimons, Thames. Crimean parallel How ironic that Western nations are now so adamant
that Russia should be punished for splitting a sovereign nation when only a few years ago they were
doing exactly the same thing in Kosovo.

For centuries a province of Serbia, Kosovo was split away following threats by Nato and its allies,
invasion and continued occupation by its forces, and a stage-managed vote in the region.

Russia, to this day, refuses to recognise Kosovo as a separate state on the basis that it came after
actions that tore apart a sovereign nation. Now the chickens have come home to roost on an
international scale.

In an extreme case, even New Zealand could fall foul of this dangerous precedent. What would be the
result of a vote on the East Cape aimed at establishing a separate nation there?

Page5of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.David Spratt, Drury. Rescue helicopter For some reason there seems to be a deliberate push to
discredit the Westpac helicopter organisation over funding. The argument advanced over which groups
``need'' funding is largely irrelevant.
There is one significant difference between the helicopter rescue trust and any of the arts group that
are funded through the same channel. None of the arts groups have to buy or maintain twin-engined
helicopters used in life-critical medical evacuation services.

More to the point, we should be asking why arts groups are having to compete for funding from the
same source as the helicopter service, and why central government thinks this is okay. Or is that too
sticky a question in election year? Mark Baker, Papakura. NZ drug laws I came over here for last
week's Pathways to Reform conference on the emerging psychoactive drugs. Because Australia has
taken the opposite route to New Zealand and embraced prohibition and punitive laws to try to regulate
the sale of these products, we are now finding people salting lawn clippings with garden poisons and
trying to pass these highly dangerous compounds off on the black market.

I noted your Saturday story on the poor woman whose son had spun out on these products. That is
regrettable but so is the fact that half a dozen young people will die from alcohol over the next month or
so, but banning alcohol will not stop that.

More will die from tobacco-related causes but banning tobacco will not stop that either. Two packets of
Panadol will probably kill you if you take it all at once and even petrol and glue become highly toxic if
you sniff them to get high. In Australia thousands do this. Do we ban petrol? Of course not.

New Zealand laws on emerging psychoactive drugs are the best in the world. It would be a shame to
derail them because a few people have reacted badly. Robbie Swan, ACT, Australia.

RF
NS
RE
PUB
AN

lettmain24
gdef : Armed Forces | gcat : Political/General News | gcns : National Security
nz : New Zealand | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
W & H Newspapers Limited
Document NZHLD00020140323ea3o00013

Page6of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.