Natural resources - The curse of coal industry graft

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Natural resources - The curse of coal industry graft

Marina Lou
800 words
22 October 2014
Bangkok Post
BKPOST
English
(c) 2014. The Post Publishing Public Company Limited. All Rights Reserved.

Juan Pablo Perez Alfonso, one of the founders of the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries
(OPEC), once compared the world's fossil-fuel use to "drowning in the devil's excrement". There is
certainly plenty of evidence supporting his prediction that the fossil-fuel industry, with its powerful
corrupting influence, will "bring us ruin". Indeed, coal-related corruption stories are breaking worldwide,
shining a light on the murky space between "illegal" and "improper" where the extractive industries work.

Last year, in the Australian state of New South Wales, the Independent Commission Against Corruption
(ICAC) investigated former labour ministers Eddie Obeid and Ian Macdonald for conspiring to defraud
the state over the issuance of multi-million-dollar licenses for coal exploration and mining. Today, the
ICAC is conducting an even more far-reaching and complex investigation into a number of figures from
the Australian Labor Party and the Liberal/Nationals Coalition, including for favouring the interests of
Australian Water Holdings, a major infrastructure company.
Last month, India's Supreme Court found that all 218 coal-mining licenses allocated by the government
in 1993-2009 had been granted in an "illegal and arbitrary" manner, with the committee responsible for
the process lacking transparency and rife with corruption. Following the landmark decision, the
government has cancelled 214 of the coal block allocations - and has fined several companies that
have already begun production.
For its part, Indonesia is set to revoke the contracts of 17 coal producers that failed to pay government
royalties. And, since the beginning of this year, the country's corruption commission has been focusing
on the extractive industry, including the state officials who facilitate mining companies' illegal activities.
Likewise, China's ongoing anti-corruption drive - the largest in its modern history - has begun to focus
on the coal industry. Last month, two Communist Party officials from the coal-rich Shanxi province were
charged with corruption and abuse of power, signalling that Shanxi may well move to the forefront of
President Xi Jinping's quest to eliminate entrenched corruption in the party's ranks. As Gao Qinrong, a
former journalist from Shanxi, recently described the province: "It has coal; coal brought money; that
brought corruption."
These stories highlight a simple truth: Where the coal industry operates, bribery and venality are likely
to be rampant. But this does not have to be the case. In order to reduceÂ â|(94) if not eliminateÂ â|(94)
such corruption, several fundamental weaknesses in the regulation of how mining contracts are
allocated must be addressed.

For starters, instead of conducting fair and transparent open-tender processes, governments often
empower their ministers to decide which companies are allocated lucrative fossil-fuel exploration and
extraction contracts, and conflicts of interest are not disclosed. Indeed, there is an unguarded revolving
door between politics and the extractive industry, and political donations are allowed. Finally, though
states are responsible for regulation, they also receive royalties and levies for the sale of their
resources, which tends to weaken regulators' effectiveness.

The key to addressing all of these problems is, of course, greater transparency. Otherwise, corruption
festers and growsÂ â|(94) with very real consequences. Worldwide, corruption has weakened

Page238of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.environmental regulatory systems, undermined citizens' capacity to effect change, and made a mockery
of democratic processes.

None of this is a surprise. In fact, resource-rich countries, such as Equatorial Guinea and Sudan, tend to
perform worse economically and experience more violent conflict than their resource-poor
counterpartsÂ â|(94) a phenomenon famously dubbed the "resource curse".

Corruption plays a major role in this curse. Natural-resource wealth insulates leaders from
accountability, while offering them the prospect of significant personal financial gain at the expense of
the rest of the country. If foreign multinationals dominate extractive sectors and are allowed to repatriate
their profits, instead of investing them locally, ordinary citizens receive virtually no benefit from what is
often their country's largest and most profitable economic sector.

Furthermore, economies that depend on natural-resource exports are vulnerable to sharp price
fluctuations, making government revenues and foreign-exchange supplies unreliable. For private
investors, this makes involvement in these countries prohibitively risky.

If a country like Australia, with its robust civil society and strong democracy, is struggling with
widespread graft among high-level government officials, no country is safe from the corrupting influence
of the extractive industries.

Worse, as is so often the case, those who suffer the most from the extractive industry's opaque and
unfair activitiesÂ â|(94) not to mention the selfish actions of corrupt officialsÂ â|(94) are those who can
least afford it.â|(89)Â©2014 Project Syndicate $lt;p class="Footnote">Marina Lou is a legal adviser at
Greenpeace International, specialising in financial-market regulation.

CO
NS
RE
PUB
AN

opexpc : Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries
gcorrp : Corruption | gcrim : Crime/Courts | gcat : Political/General News | gfinc : Financial Crime
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
The Post Publishing Public Company Limited
Document BKPOST0020141021eaam002el

Page239of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.