BHP shelves Nickel West sale as bids disappoint

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

WestReg
BHP shelves Nickel West sale as bids disappoint

Nick Evans
283 words
12 November 2014
Kalgoorlie Miner
KALGOO
First
1
English
(c) 2014 West Australian Newspapers Limited

BHP Billiton has shelved the $800 million sale of its Nickel West division after failing bids for the
troubled Goldfields-based unit failed to meet its price expectations.

BHP would not comment on the decision late last night.

It remains unclear what BHP now plans to do with a business that employs about 1800 people
across its mines, concentrators, nickel smelter and refinery.

BHP chief executive Andrew Mackenzie has made clear he does not want to hold on to the
business, and it also has not been lined up for the newly created company, NewCo, that will
house some of BHP’s second tier assets.
These include the Worsley alumina operation and manganese mines.

Industry sources say final bids for Nickel West were lodged by the small number of parties still
interested in the division some time in the past fortnight.
However, none of the bids came close to the $500 to $800 million valuation BHP is said to have
initially put on Nickel West.

Interested buyers were understood to have included Glencore, which owns the Murrin Murrin mine
near Leonora, and China’s Jinchuan, which buys nickel concentrate from Western Areas’
Forrestania operation.

Industry sources say the most likely short-term outcome for Nickel West is that it will remain within
BHP.
It could be spun off as a separate company next year once NewCo is sorted.

A shutdown of Nickel West is considered unlikely because of the reputational damage it would
cause BHP.

Memories are still fresh of the backlash created by its snap decision to close the Ravensthorpe
nickel mine in 2009 when more than 2000 jobs were lost.

CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited

Page47of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document KALGOO0020141111eabc0000a

Page48of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.