CHAT ROOM 0416 905 148

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
CHAT ROOM 0416 905 148

1,631 words
3 April 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
22
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

BIKE LAWS Sunday morning at Harbour Town lights I saw a group of 4 bike riders stop at the red lights. I
got such a surprise I nearly forgot to stop myself. – Tiny Re bikes on roads. Is there anything stopping
GCCC from making 3 or 4 large parks from Coolangatta to runaway bay that already exist into bike
friendly psible ones or at least give them a choice. – Treeman New bike laws will cause more accidents
than they prevent. Motorists will try to give way and a rise in head-on accidents result. More bikeways and
more bike riders using them is the answer. – BB Loretta harrop. Road rage off the scale because cyclists
are off the scale and a lot have no regard for road rules!! Lived in Europe for several years and it’s no
better there. Plenty more cyclists on road in Europe though. I think we are all to blame. I think these
cyclists riding in big packs should be stopped. They think in numbers and own the road. Main beach
parade on Saturday must have had 50 of them and all over the road.

What about more velodromes.

Barry Cummings, to answer your question yes with new bike laws from April 7 a cyclist can be booked for
exceeding the speed limit in a speed zone. $146 if by less than 13km/h. Also $330 for not stopping @ a
red light or stop sign. More fine details on government’s site.

If these new cyclist rules are going to work cyclists should be made to ride in single file not three abreast.
– The elephant AND THE REST Barry, we are broke, speed camera revenue is the new income tax. SD,
it is the biggest problem in the country. Parents ignoring their young children’s requests to be listened to.
The rule is this. If you don’t listen to your kids when they want you to as youngsters, why should they
listen to you in their teens when you want them to!! Enough said.

Please Mr Tate make a decision about CST or keep us, the taxpayers, informed. Lets hope the Legacy
from the Games is not massive rate increases. Re illegal camper at coolangatta. Just phone council and
they will sort it Does anybody know who has access to the lawn area which is highly fenced between
Trickett and Hanlan St which is locked. The amount of litter thrown over the fence by tidy Aussies (or
maybe tourists?) is utterly disgraceful. It doesn’t belong to the council Would the owners please at least
send someone in to tidy it up it’s a complete eye sore.

Well done the Bulletin “You’ve done it again” as McCain’s would say and at no cost to the public what this
Tate council gets paid to do. Good on you. Take over from them.

Why do baristas make luke warm coffee? Coffees are meant to be hot that is the norm as is tea. Chefs
don’t make luke warm soup. So get with it and make hot coffee.

News flash news flash. We r not get’n answers from brisvegas is they have stolen ur CST it’ll b in the bay.
Ha ha ha We see them gathering everywhere in ever increasing numbers, but what do we call them? We
have a gaggle of geese, a parliament of owls, a murder of crows and a _____ of bogans. Can anyone fill
in the gap? What is a group of bogans called? Suggestions: a thong, a dump, a carton, a flush? – NW @
S The M1 reconstruction is taking forever to complete. Bundall Road is choked by motorists trying to
avoid the nightmare in Surfers. There doesnt seem to be too much work going on, the projects are taking
too long, so get a wriggle on and free up the traffic. China would have finished 6 months ago.

Page124of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.You are so correct ciao 4 bucks rise for us enough to buy ready to expire mince. These greedy people
just buy a whole bullock extra each week. I often wonder what their so called friends think of them lol. –
gazz biggera waters Reading about salary increases for the state members I suggest they better start
trying to live on the unemployed payment as that is where Newman and his mates will be Nxt year in the
line up. – Alex Polliticians Pay: The Qld Pollies are not doing much for their credibility. If the Independant
Tribunal is truely independant then they should be the body in which Enterprise Bargains are negotiated.
And they should be negotiated on the same terms that the politicians pay rises are measured against.
They could start with the GCU Hospital doctors. Maybe after next election the entire LNP will fit into a
Toyota Corolla with seats to spare. – Sneezy Phil Kanye West has cancelled his Australian tour. Please
don’t let that be an April fools joke. – Ladderman Shame on Angry Anderson for raising money for the
criminal bikie cause. All public should boycott the album, rather than donate any money to a bunch selfish
losers who contribute nothing to society except for harm. – Huey In regards to the ‘whine of the day’ in
Tuesdays paper, I’m with you 100%. I walk my dogs every day and as well as their droppings I pick up
litter, needless to say the bag is full by the time I get home. The majority of it is fast food rubbish but I
guess if your too lazy to cook your too lazy to throw your rubbish in the bin. – Anti litter King 3 students
murdered in Brisbane in the last 6 mths forget ur obsession with bikies mr Newman and get ur act
together.

Global warming - Why are the powers planting billions of trees? It’s not hard in this country we have
millions of unemployed they get paid so use them to plant trees nforce back the desert. We have the
technology and species of trees to survive the climate. – Glyn About time we armed our bus drivers with
taser on the left hand side (for the ladies) and automatic revolver on the right hand side (for the boys )
everyone will feel safe using public transport then. – RN Light rail say the noise level of Trams will be very
low. Some of the trams are very noisy and make a rattling noise when breaking at the northern end of the
Sundale Bridge, if the trams were to slow down on the bridge this could keep the noise level down. –
Southport Local Im with u tom, bring in the cruise ship terminal, its just what the gold coast needs for a
number 1 world class destination plus 36,000 jobs, we cant keep more to offer. – Local of 30 years
Bernie.

Save our spit from the freeloaders in campervans who currently reside there on the back of ratepayers.
Starting to resemble a caravan park Nimbin style! will council do anything about it? – STP I am a nurse in
a gp clinic, a patients husband wanted his very sick wife taken by ambulance to Robina Hospital and not
GCUH because he can’t afford to pay the parking fees out of his pension to visit his wife. – Jenny I see
there’s a new miracle cream that grows hair and melts fat. How does it know if it’s going on my head or
my thighs. I’m just a bit worried I’d end up slim but hairy. – The Scribe Christine Milne made me laugh
saying that Western Australians should vote greens, because the others wont cope in a hostile senate..
You think? Any senate they would be in would be hostile because they are just there. Not another
LaborGreens or Liberal-Greens alliance please.

Will any one on MKR ever learn how to cook meat. Serving up hunks of uncooked blubber is a real turn
off. – Roy Burleigh Waters Well done Australia for pushing the banning of whaling by the Japanese. The
International court made the right decision. Big creatures of the sea, swim free at last. We all owe a debt
to the Sea Shepherd for their fight and that they continue to watch over the majestic whales. – Spot Here
is an idea that will save millions. I am off work sick for 1 day and the int hotel i work for makes me go to
the doctor for a medical certificate. Its bulk billed cost just because managers dont trust us. This is 1
reason why our health system is broke.

Thoughts go out to Alex McKinnon – The NRL, the Knights, and Storm should get together and create a
‘charity shield type fixture and all proceeds go the helping Alex who put his life on the line for the game.
Hate to imagine what he has ahead of him and hope he is looked after for life. – Liverpool fan Council
wants more high rise around the rail line. We can’t wait to get out. The noise reverberates off concrete
buildings & seems louder at high levels . We can deal with the drunks leaving pubs but this noise is all
nite, bells ringing & amplified voices.

Lived in Sydney on train line that ran half hourly at nite. We all complained n they put up noise barriers.
This one runs every 5mins at nite and it comes in front of our house! You can’t escape the noise n there
is nowhere to put up noise barriers! – Col, Southport ACA asked corporate Australia to donate for the 3
lads, corporate Australia, your silence was deafening once again left to the working class to help. – Scuba
Fingers crossed for the CST. – NanIndicate, indicate, indicate!!!!!

gtrff : Traffic Violations | gcat : Political/General News | gcrim : Crime/Courts
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

NS
RE
PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document GCBULL0020140402ea430000b

Page125of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Page126of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.