Woodside stake may be split

HD Woodside stake may be split
BY
LONDON:
WC 340 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY

13 January 2014
Oil and Gas News
OLNGAS
English
Copyright 2014 Al Hilal Publishing & Marketing Group. Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com
Company All Rights Reserved.

Royal Dutch Shell’s 23.1 per cent stake in Australian oil and gas group Woodside Petroleum is seen as
more likely to be split up and/or sold to institutional shareholders than to go in one piece to a strategic
buyer, bankers said. The holding, worth about $6.4 billion and left over from Shell’s abortive attempt to
acquire Woodside in 2001, has long been viewed as non-core to Shell. This year, the Anglo-Dutch
company promised to accelerate asset sales to reflate a narrowing cushion between cash inflow and
investment spending. Reuters was unable to verify Shell’s intentions for the stake. Shell and Woodside
declined to comment on its future. Bankers say the holding is an obvious selloff candidate for incoming
chief executive Ben van Beurden, who will offer strategy pointers on January 30 along with fourth-quarter
results. However, they say, other investor-owned international oil companies big enough to buy it are also
in selloff mode.

Meanwhile, a strategic buyer such as one of China’s top oil companies or the national oil companies
(NOCs) of gas-hungry countries such as India or Thailand might be put off by Shell’s experience with the
Australian government when it tried to take full control of Woodside in 2001. "Bidder-wise, it’s a tricky
one," one banker said. "The deal is big enough to require a review by the government, and although
Woodside is not as important as it was at the time when Shell’s bid was blocked, it is still the largest
independent oil company in Australia, so I don’t think the Chinese NOCs would be welcome." The
banker suggested Middle Eastern or Southeast Asian sovereign wealth funds might be interested, but
said Shell probably would not find a buyer among them for the entire stake and would have to sell in
small blocks. The banker predicted Shell would exit via a combination of strategic sales, market
placements and probably a share buyback by Woodside.

wodpet : Woodside Petroleum Ltd | rnlp : Royal Dutch Shell PLC
i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1 : Energy | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil
Extraction
cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin
: FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

LP

TD

CO
IN

NS

RE
IPD Asia Pacific
PUB Al Hilal Publishing & Marketing Group
AN

Document OLNGAS0020140114ea1d0000h

Page21of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.