WINNER FOR SPRING

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
WINNER FOR SPRING

PAUL WESTON PAUL.WESTON@NEWS.COM.AU
455 words
22 August 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
3
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE sell-off of Nathan Tinkler’s racing empire at Canungra is tipped to turn the Magic Millions’ spring
sale into a $25 million-plus winner and give the September school holidays a massive tourism kick.
As Patinack Farm yesterday announced the unreserved disposal sale of all of its bloodstock, Magic
Millions management later reflected on an outcome which will produce winners and losers.

Apart from at least 560 horses, Patinack’s real estate holdings include a 356ha horse spelling and
breeding farm and its 90ha training property at Wadham Park, west of the Coast.
Magic Millions stages a one-day sale for two-year-olds in training in September which usually
attracts $4-5 million in sales.
But the Patinack stock will boost that sales number by $20 million, extend the celebrations for
another three days and bring in big spending overseas tourists.
The announcement yesterday was another massive boost for Magic Millions which saw the sales
gross for this year’s January major auction top $75 million across the four days.
Records tumbled in May at the broodmare auctions leading to total sales of $70 million with Magic
Millions showing a return to the golden years before the global financial crisis.
While the future of the Mr Tinkler’s Canungra holdings and its staff remains uncertain, Magic Millions
management confirmed their September 30 event would be extended by three days to handle at least
560 horses.
Magic Millions director Vin Cox yesterday announced the farm’s entire portfolio, including stallions,
broodmares, foals, yearlings, two-year-olds and three-year-olds would go under the hammer and
possibly boost sales by more than $20 million.
“This (Patinack) sale is the largest unreserved, private thoroughbred dispersal sale in Australian
history. Everything will be sold,” Mr Cox said.

After the announcement, Mr Chester began receiving calls about the event within a few hours.

“Nathan has more pressing business interests. It’s really a sad day for the industry,” Mr Chester said.
Retail magnate and Magic Millions co-owner Gerry Harvey, who claims to be owed millions and had
a caveat over Mr Tinkler’s racing and breeding assets, has called in the debt as Mr Tinkler focuses on
his mining, port and rail, and property assets.
Mr Chester said the spring sale which would attract about 300 horses would be boosted by another
600.

Page353of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“Three groups will be coming from China, there will be others from Europe, America and Japan. It’s in
school holiday times. I think a lot of racing families will come to the Gold Coast at that time.” A
spokesman for Mr Tinkler declined to comment.Gerry’s lament P39

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020140822ea8m0001b

Page354of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.