Newcrest set to be cash-flow positive

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Newcrest set to be cash-flow positive

Peter Ker
489 words
24 January 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
20
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Mining - Cost reductions far exceed expectations
Newcrest Mining is on track to be cash-flow positive in the 2014 financial year after the goldminer
revealed big cost reductions across its international portfolio.

Costs of production were always going to be the focus of Thursday's December-quarter results after
Newcrest revealed stronger than expected production numbers on January 15. But the cost reductions
revealed to the market were well beyond expectations, and allowed the goldminer to operate at a
company wide "all in" cost of $921 an ounce.

That result was 16 per cent lower than the September quarter and well below Newcrest's previous goal
of being cash-flow positive over the full year so long as the gold price averaged $1450 an ounce.

Most importantly for the miner, the "all in" cost was easily below the average price that Newcrest
received for selling its gold, which came in at $1372 an ounce.

Newcrest chief executive Greg Robinson said the cost reductions had been achieved through less
intensive mining processes, a reduction in processing of lower grade materials, and a range of other
measures. "We've shown over the last three quarters that it is something that we can be successful at,"
he said, before adding that the theme would continue over the next six months too.

While there was clear margin between Newcrest's "all in" costs and the received price, it remains
unclear whether the company was cash-flow positive in the period.

Certain expenses, such as capital expansions, tax, and exploration in virgin territory, are not included in
the "all in" number, and Newcrest said it would not reveal whether it was cash-flow positive until its
financial results in February.

CIMB analyst David Coates said Newcrest would be very close to being cash-flow positive based on
the numbers published on Thursday.

"We think it's going to be pretty line ball, but considering that at the start of the year people were
expecting them to blow $440 million in cash over the year, it's a big improvement," he said.

Expectations that Newcrest would lose money in fiscal 2014, combined with a high gearing ratio, had
many speculating that an equity raising could be imminent.

However, Mr Coates said that prospect was looking less likely.
With 586,573 ounces of gold produced in the September quarter and 621,125 ounces of gold in the
December term, Newcrest has already produced more than 1.2 million ounces of gold so far this year.

Page12of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.That means the company is well ahead of schedule on its production guidance, which was to produce
between 2 million and 2.3 million ounces over the full year.

Newcrest shares initially rose on Thursday morning, but closed the day 21¢ lower at $9.13 as the
broader market fell on weak Chinese data.

Analysis — Page 26

CO
IN

RE
PUB
AN

newmoh : Newcrest Mining Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources |
imet : Mining/Quarrying
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140123ea1o00046

Page13of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.