There’s plenty to play with in mixed bag of hand-me-downs

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Natural Resources
There’s plenty to play with in mixed bag of hand-me-downs

Robert Lea
653 words
20 August 2014
10:01
thetimes.co.uk
TIMEUK
English
© Times Newspapers Limited 2014

It is difficult to escape the conclusion that the new chief executive of mini-BHP Billiton is going to have
a lot more fun wheeling and dealing his way around a ragbag collection of metals and coal holes than
the man left behind to run the world’s biggest miner.

BHP Billiton has confirmed that it is to demerge a set of businesses that it believes are not large
enough, or have enough reserves in the ground, to warrant it continuing to invest in them, a clearout
that sees it all but exit South Africa.

These unwanted assets range from the manganese, aluminium and coal plays of South Africa to the
giant but in-decline Cannington silver mine in Queensland, as well as manganese and aluminium
assets elsewhere in Australia, the Illawarra coalmines of New South Wales, the Cerro Matoso nickel
mine in Colombia and the Alumar aluminium complex joint venture with Alcoa and Rio Tinto Alcan in
Brazil.

Graham Kerr, the Australian finance director of BHP Billiton, has been handed the post of chief
executive of the new $14 billion company. When asked whether the “newco” was not merely a giant
mergers and acquisition vehicle, he stayed on message. “There are common threads running,” he
said. “These are all high-quality assets. They are located in similar geographies. They have inherited
some culture [of being in the same company.]” But he was forced to concede: “Yes, it will be a
diversified natural resources player.”

In reality, the BHP Billiton spin-out has been created because Mr Kerr’s present boss, Andrew
Mackenzie, BHP Billiton’s chief executive, cannot be fagged to spend months, maybe years, spending
millions, maybe tens of millions, of dollars on M&A advisers’ fees selling off 19 separate businesses,
many of them held in joint ventures.

There are businesses in the newco that perhaps are better run as a package — and perhaps would be
attractive to the private equity-backed investors stalking the sector. There are others that might have
a more natural home in another miner’s portfolio.

“These assets have been getting investment, but have not been getting growth capital,” Mr Kerr said.
“These are smaller assets, they have a shorter lifespan and so we will need to change the way we run
them. We will have to be more entrepreneurial, maybe look at things that BHP Billiton would not look
at.”

Mr Mackenzie even confessed that the new business would be a deal-doer’s playhouse. “It will be
more dynamic in trading assets. I worry that I might lose too many of our good people to it.”
He will be left, meanwhile, to work out how to continue to feed the insatiable Chinese dragon ever
more profitably. It is no coincidence that the businesses left in the main BHP Billiton portfolio are in
commodities that make up a fifth of China’s annual $2 trillion imports: petroleum (and gas), iron ore,
copper and coal.

Page337of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Mackenzie’s take on China is that future consumption will be based more around energy than
steelmaking. BHP Billiton has the bases covered: if its economy remains based on fossil fuels, BHP
Billiton has the coal in Queensland and in North and South America; if demand continues to rise for
on oil and gas, it is a substantial player; if Chinese growth is in renewables, it has the copper to
connect wind farms and the like.

Eclipsed by the demerger, BHP Billiton reported an 11 per cent increase in operating profits to $23
billion for the year to June 30, with the dividend up 4 per cent at $1.21.

Of the demerger, and its effect on the group’s future financials, Mr Mackenzie said: “We wanted to
simplify the company. It will enable us to achieve rapid gains in productivity.”

CO
IN
RE

PUB
AN

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
austr : Australia | safr : South Africa | africaz : Africa | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | souafrz : Southern Africa
News UK & Ireland Limited
Document TIMEUK0020140819ea8k0031u

Page338of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.