Miners bid to spread the message on coal

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Finance
Miners bid to spread the message on coal

EXCLUSIVE, ANNABEL HEPWORTH, NATIONAL BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT
557 words
24 March 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
17
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

MINING giants are targeting Australia's most influential superannuation funds to convince them that
coal is here to stay in a dramatic escalation of a strike against environmentalists campaigning for the
divestment of fossil fuel assets.

The Australian can reveal that the Minerals Council of Australia -- whose members include BHP
Billiton, Rio Tinto and Glencore -- has been pitching the case for coal to more than 1000
powerbrokers at big investors.

As well as industry funds including Australian Super and Uni Super, the campaign has targeted
investment managers Colonial First State, investment bank Goldman Sachs and the Australian arm
of the world's biggest asset manager BlackRock, as well as ratings agencies.

The move is an escalation of the industry's plans to take on the fossil fuel divestment campaign,
where green groups are pushing investors to dump their holdings in coal companies. The approach
is modelled heavily on the South African divestment campaign against apartheid.
The Greens have been demanding that the $96.6 billion Future Fund get out of coal.

This week, the director of Oxford University's Stranded Assets Program, Ben Caldecott, starts a
speaking tour in Australia.
Last year, a report by the program into divestment campaigns found the direct effects on equity or
debt are likely to be limited -- though effects on coal companies would be more substantial -- but the
main impact would be ``triggering a process of stigmatisation'' of fossil fuel businesses.

A document commissioned by the Minerals Council to go to investors today, obtained by The
Australian, says the ``available evidence'' presents a different picture to the arguments of
pro-divestment proponents.
Pro-divestment advocates argue that Chinese coal demand is waning and there is a switch to
renewables because of government policy in the world's most populous country.
But the document says that coal demand in China would continue to rise because of overall
economic growth and rising household wealth.

The document was produced by ITS Global, which the Minerals Council has retained to put out
monthly analyst notes on coal.

``The question investors should really be asking around divestment is whether the strength of
evidence used by divestment advocates matches that used by energy experts and the reality on the
ground in China,'' the document says.

Page33of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Minerals Council chief executive Brendan Pearson said the industry was ``determined to ensure the
debate about coal investment is properly informed by data and facts by going directly to investment
decision makers''.
``The anti-coal movement is pursuing an ideologically-motivated campaign to scare investors away
from the coal sector,'' Mr Pearson said. ``It is a campaign heavy on hyperbole and emotive rhetoric
and light on facts. It is a political campaign dressed up as investment advice.''

The research going to investors today points to forecasting by bodies including the International
Energy Agency, which predicts in its 2013 world energy outlook that the growth in coal demand will
slow over the period to 2020, but will continue to dominate power generation.
Mr Pearson said the divestment campaign ``will not stop the world using coal''. ``Activist campaigns
attacking the Australian coal industry's financial underpinnings fail to acknowledge that it will be the
low-cost global energy source for decades -- transforming economies and helping eliminate
poverty,'' he said.

mncasr : Minerals Council of Australia
i831 : Financial Investments | imet : Mining/Quarrying | ipension : Pension Funds | i111 : Coal Mining
| i1 : Energy | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | ifinal :
Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140323ea3o0007a

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

Page34of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.