Housing boom delivers a potential headache for the government

HD
BY
WC 682 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Housing boom delivers a potential headache for the government

Glenn Dyer and Bernard Keane

18 September 2014
Crikey
CRIKAU
English
(c) Copyright 2014 Private Media Partners Pty. Ltd. All Right Reserved.

The government faces a growing problem around the booming property markets of Sydney and
Melbourne while the Reserve Bank can see danger to the wider economy, Glenn Dyer and Bernard
Keane write.

http://media.crikey.com.au/wp-content/uploads/2014/09/suburbia.png

TD

The government faces a growing political and policy issue around property, one not of its own making but
one it might be lumbered with having to fix — and wear the political consequences of. Worse, the
challenges are coming from multiple directions.

First, the Reserve Bank. Its concerns about booming house prices and investment are at their highest
level for years, and are likely to be articulated in its second Financial Stability Report of 2014, next week.
The bank’s rising level of concern about the property boom can be seen by reading the minutes of the
board meetings in the month of the release of the FSR — March and September each year — which
contain a precis of the forthcoming report.
The bank’s concerns about property have considerably escalated between March 2013 and this month’s
board minutes. In March 2013  property and house prices didn’t rate a mention. The minutes of the
September 2013 board meeting recorded the bank’s first muted concerns, when it identified property
gearing in self-managed superannuation funds “as one area identified where households could be starting
to take some risk with their finances; members noted that this development would be closely monitored by
Bank staff in the period ahead.” That warning was one of several from financial sector regulators about the
SMSF sector’s exposure to property and banking.

By March of this year, the RBA had lifted its warnings considerably:
In Tuesday’s minutes, the language had escalated again, with a long discussion of property risks.

There are some red flags in Tuesday’s language, likely to be repeated and explained next week — the
reference to investors rather than owner-occupiers, and especially the reference to the threat to
macroeconomy rather than the financial system —  i.e. there’s little systemic risk to lenders, the problem is
more what happens in areas like consumer sentiment and spending behaviour — already struggling given
falling real wages — if a notable fall in prices prompts people to grow more cautious, perhaps inducing the
first recession in 23 years. And the mention of commercial property (not mentioned in previous
summaries) means the bank now sees the dangers from the booming interest in property expanding out
from just housing and investor interest in that area. Traditionally Australian banks and the economy
generally first feel the impact of a property bust in the commercial sector.

Meanwhile, the government faces a growing political problem around foreign investment in existing
housing stock rather than new housing. Liberal backbencher Kelly O’Dwyer has been examining the issue
as part of a Reps Economics committee inquiry and raised a real concern earlier this week about the
Foreign Investment Review Board failing to properly administer the existing rules around foreign
acquisition of residential property.

Currently FIRB is the only enforcer when it comes to ensuring foreign investment goes into new housing
stock — where it is very welcome, given the continuing undersupply of housing — rather than existing
stock, where it will benefit existing homeowners but potentially price Australians purchasers out of the

Page38of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.market, especially in Sydney and Melbourne. There is much hype and nonsense around the issue of
foreign, and especially Chinese, investment in existing housing but if FIRB is failing to do its job, as
O’Dwyer suggests, then that’s a legitimate concern.

The fact remains that we don’t build enough housing in Australia, and while that supply/demand
imbalance remains, the chances of a substantial fall in property prices is small. But the RBA correctly
notes that should it occur, the damage it will inflict will spread into the broader economy, and the chances
of that happening are greater now than they have been for some years.

 

RF
NS

RE

http://www.crikey.com.au/?p=458449
ereal : Real Estate Markets | gpol : Domestic Politics | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat :
Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South
Wales

PUB Private Media Partners Pty Ltd.
AN

Document CRIKAU0020140918ea9i00008

Page39of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.