A shoo-in for success

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
A shoo-in for success

Nick Lenaghan
663 words
24 July 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
50
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Development Despite resistance, Jeff Xu continues to expand his empire.

Jeff Xu reckons he's known as the "unluckiest" developer in Melbourne, after some of his landmark
projects drew the ire of the town's movers and shakers.

It's a wry aside from Chinese-born Mr Xu, who arrived in Melbourne as a 21-year-old in 1998, on a
mission to fix or close an ailing restaurant owned by the family business.
Within six months the Chinatown restaurant was back on its feet and Mr Xu's career in Melbourne
was under way. Fortune has indeed smiled on Mr Xu, who has overcome objections to his projects
and courted his share of controversy along the way.
Xu's Golden Age Group has diverse interests, ranging from import-export to a fledgling agricultural
arm. It is best known for its stable of ten Melbourne restaurants, including the popular Hu Tong
dumpling bars. And then there is the property arm with 900 apartments now under construction.

Mr Xu's biggest project to date is a $350 million, 75-level tower on Elizabeth Street. It will be the
tallest residential tower in the central business district when it is built.
Already, 60 per cent of 629 units in the Elenberg Fraser-designed tower have been sold.

With its metallic fins cascading down a green façade, Victoria One is a standout among a cluster of
apartment projects in that part of town. In the sun, the tower's reflective glass shimmers with golden
tones.

A green theme runs through Mr Xu's projects. His first – a small student accommodation project in
Box Hill called Jade Apartments – won an architectural gong. A 20-storey tower in St Kilda Road
now under construction is called Emerald.

For Mr Xu, the colour captures the vitality of the Victorian lifestyle and Melbourne's amenity.

"We are not only selling apartments to people, we are selling Victorian life," he said.Some stiff
resistance

Not everyone has embraced Mr Xu's projects as quickly as his buyers have. A town hall report
warned Victoria One would create a "canyon" effect on its Elizabeth Street corner without setbacks.

Lord mayor Robert Doyle and four councillors excused themselves from considering that report,
citing a conflict of interest after receiving electoral donations from Mr Xu.

The tower went ahead regardless, after it was approved by the state planning minister, Matthew
Guy. Mr Xu explains his support for the lord mayor is broader.

Page67of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."Robert is doing good things for the city. There are so many visitors to the city. Anything that he is
doing good for the city, he is doing good for me."
Mr Xu ruffled even finer feathers with his 32-level Sheraton Hotel and apartment project on the site
of the former Naval and Military Club in Little Collins Street.

Nearby stands the hallowed Melbourne Club, whose members were concerned about the new
project's height.

Mr Xu won the day, and now, he says, some Melbourne Club members own apartments in the new
tower.

On St Kilda Road as well, Mr Xu hit a snag initially with his Emerald project, when high-profile
residents in the neighbouring Domain tower complained their views were blocked.

Objectors in the "tower of power" reportedly included Lindsay Fox, Ron Walker, and Lloyd Williams.
"I've been called the unluckiest developer in the city," Mr Xu said with a grin.

He is also a man who knows his market and his buyers well. Golden Age is taking on some
smaller projects in Sydney, and is looking into Brisbane.

Another 20-storey project in St Kilda Road is soon to be unveiled.

"We are selling products. It just depends on whether we are selling dumplings or we are selling
apartments," Mr Xu said. "The key thing is to make the customer happy. Make the customer come
to your restaurant or project once again. They become your repeat customer."

IN
RE

PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140723ea7o00004

Page68of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.