Robb family restaurant takes top billing

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Robb family restaurant takes top billing

James Massola Political correspondent
454 words
23 October 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
3
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Exclusive - Tourism campaign - Boathouse promoted

A Sydney restaurant owned by Tourism Minister Andrew Robb and his family is being promoted by a
government-funded $40 million, 18-month Tourism Australia campaign that targets 17 global
markets to sell the Australian "foodie" experience to the world.

The Robb family restaurant, Boathouse Palm Beach, is showcased on Tourism Australia's
"Restaurant Australia" website, which was launched in May, as the "ultimate day trip destination" just
an hour from Sydney and the "perfect place for a relaxed family outing".
The $40 million campaign has recently been launched in Britain, Singapore, South Korea and Hong
Kong, while more than 80 of the world's leading food and wine "influencers" - including actress
Gwyneth Paltrow, celebrity chef Heston Blumenthal and English food critic A.A. Gill - will be flown to
Australia to sample featured restaurants.

A spokesman for Tourism Australia said any restaurant or cafe could submit their restaurant to
feature on the government-funded website and that "the best of these experiences have then been
curated by Tourism Australia".

Tourism Australia has featured about 800 restaurants, cafes and wineries - with photos and rave
reviews - on the promotional website, with 1700 businesses listed.

June 2013 Bureau of Statistics data show there were 69,885 restaurants, cafes, takeaway shops,
pubs and bars in Australia.

Mr Robb, widely regarded as one of the Abbott government's better performing ministers, declares a
half ownership of two unnamed cafes and a wedding reception venue in his Register of Members' of
Interests entry.
The ownership stake is declared in a section that covers "any other interests where a conflict of
interest with a member's public duties could foreseeably arise". He has noted in his declaration the
stake could be "relevant to my responsibility as Minister for Tourism".

Another section reveals Mr Robb has a shareholding in Boathouse Palm Beach Collective Pty Ltd,
the parent company of the Palm Beach restaurant as well as the Boathouse at Balmoral Beach and
Moby Dicks at Whale Beach.

Mr Robb declares that he and his wife Maureen are beneficiaries of Ram Consultancy Pty Ltd, a
family trust. Australian Securities and Investments Commission records confirm that Ram
Consultancy owns 150 of the 300 shares in the Boathouse Palm Beach Collective, with the other
150 shares held by Goldsmith Investment Corporation.

Andrew Goldsmith and Mr Robb's daughter, Pip Robb, are the director and secretary respectively of
the Boathouse Palm Beach Collective and run the three restaurants.

Page185of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.A spokesman for Mr Robb said ".
"Mr Robb had nothing to do with the listing, full-stop, nor is he director of the business, for very good
reason."

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

toursm : Tourism Australia
i6611 : Full-service Restaurants | i66 : Hotels/Restaurants | i661 : Restaurants/Cafes/Fast Food
Places | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality
c32 : Advertising | gpol : Domestic Politics | c31 : Marketing/Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial
News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types |
nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020141022eaan0004j

Page186of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.