Largest African Solar Energy Plant Comes Online in South Africa [press release]

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Largest African Solar Energy Plant Comes Online in South Africa [press release]

862 words
13 November 2014
03:10
All Africa
AFNWS
English
(c) 2014 AllAfrica, All Rights Reserved

Johannesburg, Nov 12, 2014 (PR Newswire/All Africa Global Media via COMTEX) -- 96 megawatt solar
photovoltaic (PV) project helps power the South African electric grid with renewable energy, creates jobs,
and investment
SolarReserve, a leading global developer of utility-scale solar power projects and advanced solar
thermal technology, today announced that the 96 megawatt (MW) photovoltaic (PV) Jasper solar power
project completed construction and is fully operational, almost two months ahead of schedule. Jasper is
located in South Africa's Northern Cape in a solar park that also includes the 75 MW Lesedi solar power
project which came online in May, and the proposed 100 MW Redstone concentrated solar thermal
power (CSP) plant featuring SolarReserve's industry-leading CSP technology with integrated energy
storage.

The Jasper Project generated about 1 million man-hours during construction, peaking at over 800
on-site construction jobs. As part of the South African Renewable Energy Independent Power Producer
Procurement Program (REIPPPP), the project will set aside a percentage of total project revenues for
Enterprise Development and Socio-Economic Development for the benefit of the local communities.

"In addition to helping South Africa meet its critical electricity needs, the Jasper Project will bring long
lasting economic benefits to the region," said SolarReserve's CEO Kevin Smith. "We look forward to
continuing this positive momentum and bringing value to South Africa through collaboration on further
projects, including our upcoming CSP projects that will provide South Africa with clean, reliable and
non-intermittent electricity, day and night."

With over 325,000 PV modules, the Jasper Project will deliver 180,000 megawatt-hours of renewable
electricity annually for South Africa residents - enough to power up to 80,000 households through a
20-year power purchase agreement with Eskom, the South African power utility company. Selected by
the South Africa Department of Energy (DOE) in the second round of bids under the REIPPPP, the
project also marked Google's first renewable energy investment in Africa.
The project was developed by a consortium consisting of SolarReserve, the Kensani Group (an
experienced empowerment investment player in South Africa), and Intikon Energy (a South African
developer of renewable energy projects). Equity investment and ownership for the project was provided
by a strong group of international and South African shareholders who jointly have experience in all
aspects of development, funding and operations of solar energy projects. The equity investment
shareholders include the Public Investment Corporation (PIC), Intikon Energy, Kensani Capital
Investments, Google, the PEACE Humansrus Community Trust, and SolarReserve with Rand Merchant
Bank providing preference share equity. International law firmBaker & McKenzie supported the project
activities through its offices in Johannesburg and the United States, with Kensani Eaglestone Capital
Advisory acting as financial adviser.

About SolarReserveSolarReserve, LLC - headquartered in Santa Monica, California - is a leading
developer of utility-scale solar power projects and advanced solar thermal technology with more than
$1.8 billion of projects in construction and operation worldwide. SolarReserve's experienced team of
power project professionals has assembled an extensive 5,000 MW worldwide development portfolio of
large-scale solar projects. The company's diverse portfolio of solar power projects includes advanced
solar thermal technology (CSP), photovoltaic (PV) technology, and hybrid (combined CSP and PV)

Page64of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.solutions that can provide 24-hour solar energy that is cost competitive with conventional energy
sources.
SolarReserve's 110 MW Crescent Dunes Solar Energy Plant located in Nevada is the first utility-scale
facility in the world to feature advanced molten salt power tower energy storage capabilities. The project,
currently in the commissioning phase, will generate more than 500,000 megawatt-hours per year and
includes 10 hours of full-load energy storage. This annual output is more than twice that of other
technologies per MW of capacity, such as photovoltaics (PV) or direct steam solar thermal. The storage
technology also eliminates the need for any backup fossil fuels, such as natural gas, which are needed
with other technologies to keep the system going during times of reduced solar resource. Nevada's
largest electric utility, NV Energy, will purchase 100 percent of the electricity generated by the Crescent
Dunes project under a 25-year power purchase agreement.

The SolarReserve team has been successful at developing large scale projects internationally including
three PV projects, totaling 246 MW of generation capacity, in operation in South Africa. The Lesedi and
Letsatsi Projects, totaling 150 MW of installed capacity, came online in May 2014 and are capable of
powering more than 130,000 South African homes with clean energy. The projects were selected as the
"African Renewable Energy Deal of the Year" by Project Finance Magazine in 2012. The 96 MW Jasper
power project, which just came online in October 2014, is the largest solar installation on the continent.

In addition to its headquarters in the US, SolarReserve has offices in Chile, South Africa, Turkey, Spain,
Australia and the United Arab Emirates, with activities underway in the Middle East, Africa, Australia,
China, India and Latin America.

U.S. Media Contact: Mary Grikas, SolarReserve, +1.310.315.2274, Mary.Grikas@SolarReserve.com For
more information: www.SolarReserve.com

prnmng : ALAS International Holdings Inc.
isolar : Solar Energy | irenewee : Renewable Energy Equipment | irenewf : Renewable Energy Facility
Construction | i1 : Energy | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16101 : Electric Power Generation | i163 :
Renewable Energy Generation | i32 : Machinery | i502 : Heavy Construction | i5020044 : Power Station
Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ieutil : Electric Utilities | iindstrls :
Industrial Goods | iutil : Utilities | iaer : Aerospace/Defense | idef : Defense Equipment/Products
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
safr : South Africa | africaz : Africa | austr : Australia | chil : Chile | china : China | johan : Johannesburg |
turk : Turkey | india : India | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | balkz : Balkan
States | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eurz : Europe | indsubz : Indian Subcontinent | lamz :
Latin America | meastz : Middle East | medz : Mediterranean | samz : South America | sasiaz : Southern
Asia | souafrz : Southern Africa | wasiaz : Western Asia
africa

CO
IN

NS
RE

IPD
PUB All Africa Global Media
AN

Document AFNWS00020141112eabc00194

Page65of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.