Aquila rises on higher bid hope

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CO
IN

NS
RE

Business
Aquila rises on higher bid hope

Sarah-Jane Tasker, RESOURCES
388 words
13 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
20
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

SHARES in takeover target Aquila Resources continue to hover comfortably above China’s bid price
as the market continues to bet on a sweetened offer.
Chinese state-owned entity Baosteel launched a $3.40-a-share bid for Aquila on Monday last week in
a $1.4 billion move to secure ownership of significant iron ore and coal assets in Australia.

Shares in Aquila have traded above the bid price since it was launched and yesterday the stock
closed up 1.75 per cent at $3.48.

Analysts have said that an increase in the original bid would be needed to gain the support of
company founder and executive chairman Tony Poli, who controls about 30 per cent of the stock. But
the Chinese, which have teamed up with Australia’s Aurizon in a joint bid, set a minimum acceptance
level at 50 per cent, meaning they can take control of the company without Mr Poli’s support.

The Aquila board has yet to formally respond to the offer as it is awaiting the bidder’s statement. But it
has told shareholders to take no action and established an independent committee to review the offer.
Junior iron ore hopefuls in Western Australia that surround Aquila’s $7.4 billion West Pilbara iron
ore project are watching the transaction closely, as the promise of independent third-party
infrastructure in the region could be a game-changer for some.
In the deal Aurizon stands to gain a 15 per cent stake in Aquila, which it will later divest, and
exclusive rights to negotiate to develop a multi-user rail and port.
A Wood Mackenzie report said the bid had the potential to transform the iron ore industry.
“Developing iron ore infrastructure is a good fit for Aurizon because it can replicate its proven coal
business model of multi-user rail infrastructure in the Pilbara iron ore region,” the report said.
“The entrance of Aurizon into Pilbara region iron ore infrastructure has the ability to transform project
development in the region by making it possible to develop small and medium-sized iron ore
mines.“In the past, many of these projects stalled due to both their geographic isolation and the heavy
capital investment required to build port and rail infrastructure.”

aqures : Aquila Resources Ltd. | dorval : Aurizon Mines Ltd | hclamn : Hecla Mining Co
i5020017 : Harbor Construction | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 :
Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i502 : Heavy Construction | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction | imet : Mining/Quarrying |
i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

Page60of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140512ea5d0003g

Page61of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.