Black Toyota's $35m price tag

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

agribusiness
Black Toyota's $35m price tag

525 words
27 May 2014
Queensland Country Life
FQLCOL
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

AUSTRALIA'S oldest publicly listed automotive group, AP Eagers, has invested $35 million in the
purchase of the iconic family-owned regional Queensland motor vehicle business, the Craig Black
Group.

The deal, which remains subject to due diligence and formal approval by all franchises, is expected to
be completed in August/September.

It involves the acquisition of Black Toyota's dealerships in Dalby, Roma, Warwick, Oakey, Chinchilla,
Emerald, Longreach and Springsure; Hyundai dealerships in Warwick and Emerald; Volkswagen
dealerships in Roma and Emerald; a Mitsubishi dealership in Emerald; Great Wall dealerships in Roma
and Emerald; and the Western Fleet Services business.

It also includes the Budget Car and Truck Rental business in Toowoomba and a welding works in
Dalby, where the company produces heavy-duty vehicle accessories such as utility tray backs and
bullbars under the Boonarga brand.
The Craig Black Group, which was started by Craig and Anne Black with a single dealership in
Chinchilla in 1983, has grown to become Australia's largest rural commercial dealer with more than
280 staff, an annual turnover of about $245 million, and annual sales of 4100 new and used vehicles.

Mr Black said he would continue to be involved in the business in a consulting capacity, and would
become a significant shareholder in AP Eagers.

His daughter and son-in-law Jane and Russell Edwards would also continue to play active roles in the
business.

Mr Black said the only substantial change would be the appointment of a new dealer principal, Damien
Purcell, who came from a rural background at Texas.

"Otherwise, it is business as usual for customers, staff and other stakeholders," he said.

Mr Black said he was pleased to have come up with a solution that guaranteed the future growth and
development of the business, but at the same time maintained continuity.

"Like any big family business, how do you continue to grow and be viable when all the reliance is on
one family?

"It is becoming more and more difficult for family businesses to run something of the size of what Black
Toyota is these days with such a big geographical spread.
"The structure we have come up with - where I become a major shareholder in the AP Eagers Group,
the property the group owns we continue to own, Damien is brought in as an equity holder and dealer
principal, and the AP Eagers Group is there as a financial backer - is a good recipe for maintaining the
continuity of a unique business in regional areas.
"With the pressures on business these day, having an industry leader like the AP Eagers Group willing
to make a long-term investment in a rural business is very positive."

Page180of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Black said the rural segment of the market would remain the backbone of the business.

"Rural people have been big supporters of Black Toyota over the years, and likewise, Black Toyota has
been a big supporter of rural areas through sponsorship of things like the Warwick Gold Cup
campdrafting, Careflight, Angel Flight and a lot of local charities."

CO
IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

toyta : Toyota Motor Corp.
i351 : Motor Vehicles | i35101 : Passenger Cars | iaut : Automotive
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Shareholdings | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions |
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FQLCOL0020151217ea5r0005h

Page181of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.