How to vacation like the super rich; 5 jaunts that cost more than most people earn all year

SE
HD
BY
CR

WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Personal Finance
How to vacation like the super rich; 5 jaunts that cost more than most people earn all year

Catey Hill, MarketWatch
MarketWatch; catey.hill@dowjones.com; Catey Hill covers personal finance and travel for MarketWatch
in New York. Follow her on Twitter @CateyHill.
1,255 words
27 January 2014
00:31
MarketWatch
MRKWC
English
Copyright 2014 MarketWatch, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

If you’ve got six figures to spare, you can now cruise the mighty Amazon, sip champagne in Monaco,
meet the locals in Papua New Guinea and look for cheetahs in Kenya — without ever having to deal
with airport security.

The 1% now spend an average of $14,548 on their vacations per year, according to a survey by
research firm The Harrison Group and American Express Publishing, and an increasing number of
them are spending even more: opting for so-called private-jet vacations — trips that take travelers to
multiple locales via private jet. “In 2008, these trips almost went away entirely, but now they’re making a
comeback in a big way,” says Mollie Fitzgerald, co-owner of luxury travel company Frontiers
International Travel. Or as Scott Leviton, the director of guest relations at TCS Expeditions, which offers
private-jet trips, puts it, “during the financial crash, business was reduced significantly.” There was real
fear it wasn’t ever going to come back, he says. But now? “It’s back,” he says.

Indeed, TCS Expeditions’ total number of passengers grew from 476 in 2010 to 1,110 in 2013, and it
expects even more in 2014 and 2015. Luxury tour operator Abercrombie & Kent reintroduced its
private-jet journeys in 2013 (after a four-year hiatus), with around-the-world and Africa-focused
itineraries; the company says both trips sold out in a few weeks. Private-jet travel company Lakani
World Tours says it has already sold out of its around-the-world and two Africa trips for this year and
that its Europe trip is already halfway sold, less than a week after it began accepting bookings. “The
market is growing,” says Linda Wischmeyer, president of private-jet travel firm Intrav.

As you’d expect, these trips are pricey. TCS Expeditions’ roughly three-week around-the-world trip
starts at $69,950 per person, and Lakani’s starts at $96,900; others start at over $100,000. But travel
agents say some of their clients think they’re worth every penny. Jason Couvillion, a co-owner of
luxury-travel firm Bruvion Travel, says that some of his clients think “there isn’t a better way to see the
world,” and Gregorio Palomino, CEO of Cre8ad8 (Create-a-date) Event & Travel Management, which
produces events, says that his clients love how these trips remove all the hassle of the airport so they
can focus on the destinations.
Still, these trips aren’t for everyone. “At the end of the day, you’re on a group trip with people you don’t
know,” says Fitzgerald; some people, she says, “will want to rent out the entire plane for privacy.” And
Edgar Estrada, the co-founder of luxury-travel firm Element Lifestyle, says that, while for the most part
his clients like these trips, some clients wish they’d had more time to spend in certain destinations. And
there’s a risk you won’t like the people you’re traveling with.

Despite these potential downsides, these trips are increasingly popular with the 1%. For the fortunate
few, the only remaining question is, Where do you want to go?

Here are five posh private-jet trips to consider, or just dream about:

If you want to…see remote parts of the world

Page197of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.On Abercrombie & Kent’s trip around the world, a maximum of 50 guests join A&K founder Geoffrey
Kent on a customized Boeing 757-200ER to see some of the “least visited places on earth.” Travelers
will take a river cruise along the Amazon with a private chef, see the iconic moai statues on Easter
Island, meet the Huli Wigmen in the rain forests of Papua New Guinea, and see Komodo dragons in
Bali, lemurs in Madagascar and cheetahs in Kenya. They’ll also visit the Unesco World Heritage site of
Galle Fort in Sri Lanka, relax on the sugar-sand beaches of Samoa and take a chartered helicopter ride
to exclusive Monaco.

Price: $105,000 per person, double occupancy, 26 days
(Image: Indonesia; Komodo Island; Aerial view of beach)

If you want to…experience the South Pacific

TCS Expeditions bills its “Oceania” trip as “seven of the most beautiful places on the planet in 22 days.”
Travelers will start and end their vacation in Hawaii, and spend the roughly three weeks traipsing
through the South Pacific. They’ll take a catamaran journey to the heart-shaped Moorea island in
French Polynesia, watch farmers shear sheep in Taupo, New Zealand, visit an art museum in Hobart,
Tasmania, watch the sea lions on Kangaroo Island (dubbed “Australia’s Galapagos”), visit an orangutan
rehab center in Borneo, and snorkel on Port Vila in Vanuatu. The trip allows a maximum of 78 guests.

Price: $69,950 per person, double occupancy, 22 days
(Image: Southern Ocean Lodge, Kangaroo Island, Australia)

If you want to…explore Africa

Lakani’s small private-jet tour — limited to just 14 travelers — winds its way through Africa. The trip,
which begins in Johannesburg, whisks travelers to the Sabi Sand Private Game Reserve, where guests
will track lions, leopards and other game, then to Victoria Falls in Zambia (the world’s largest waterfall)
and the spice plantations on the Zanzibar archipelago. It continues to the 2,000-foot-deep Ngorongoro
Crater and Serengeti National Park in Tanzania and the ancient deserts of Namibia and concludes in
the vibrant city of Cape Town.

Price: $64,900 per person, double occupancy, 16 days

(Image: Victoria Falls)

If you want to…mix urban and ancient

On Intrav’s “Global Treasures With Legendary Hotels” private-jet tour, guests “explore 10 legendary
destinations,” the company says. In Peru, they’ll explore the Old Colonial District of Lima, Cuzco and
Machu Picchu. In Brazil, they’ll hit Rio de Janeiro and Iguassu Falls, a collection of 275 waterfalls. In
Africa, they’ll visit Cape Town, track wildlife in Botswana, and see Victoria Falls in Zambia. In Italy,
they’ll take in the coastal views in Taormina and wander the canals of Venice, and from there they’ll
board the Venice Simplon Orient Express train to London.

Price: $109,950 per person, double occupancy, 24 days

(Image: Interior of Intrav plane)

If you want to…take in a variety of cultures

Lakani’s “Around-the-World” trip looks much different than A&K’s as it’s half the size — a maximum of
24 people — and highlights China, Singapore and Spain, among other areas. Travelers depart from
Seattle and fly to Beijing, where, in addition to seeing sites like The Great Wall and Tiananmen Square,
they’ll get a private boat ride on Kunming Lake and attend the Beijing Opera; that will be followed by a
trip to Singapore. Next up is some R&R on the island of Mauritius in the Indian Ocean, followed by a
tour of Ethiopia, including the tiny historic town of Lalibela with its 200-plus churches, and a visit to
oil-rich Qatar. Travelers will then go to Crete, followed by Seville and Jerez, in Spain.

Price: $96,900 per person, double occupancy, 22 days

(Image: Plaza de Espana, Seville)

RF

5 jaunts that cost more than most people earn all year.|103

Page198of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE
IPD
PUB
AN

c3141 : Sales Promotions | gpersf : Personal Finance | nadc : Advice | c31 : Marketing | c314 : Pricing |
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Personal Finance
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document MRKWC00020140121ea1l000xd

Page199of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.