Australia, China Reach Free-Trade Pact -- Update -2-

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Australia, China Reach Free-Trade Pact -- Update -2-

By Rob Taylor
825 words
17 November 2014
20:10
Dow Jones Newswires Chinese (English)
RTNW
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

CANBERRA, Australia--China and Australia have reached a free-trade agreement that deepens
economic ties and eases tensions between the two countries, which are already major trading partners.

The deal, which has taken the better part of a decade to complete, includes tariff arrangements that will
benefit, among others, Australian farmers, winemakers and several services companies. China will face
less scrutiny on investments in companies in Australia.

The deal was signed in Canberra following a meeting of G-20 leaders in Brisbane over the weekend,
and coincides with a state visit to Australia by China's President Xi Jinping. China is already Australia's
biggest trading partner with two-way trade worth some 150 billion Australian dollars (US$129 billion)
last year.

A key part of the deal is a mutual opening up of financial markets that would help further internationalize
China's currency. It envisages the creation of an official renminbi, or RMB, clearing bank in Sydney,
which would lessen the transaction costs for Chinese and Australian investors, while aiming to give
better access for investors in Australia to Chinese financial markets, including bonds and equities.

"Our relationship has reached a new and higher starting point and we should be more visionary,
broad-minded and set more ambitious goals," Mr. Xi said to applause from Australian lawmakers during
a speech to the nation's Parliament. "China sincerely hopes to work with other countries in the region to
build a prosperous and a harmonious Asia-Pacific."
Australia won concessions that would remove tariffs on the vast bulk of goods exported to China, the
country's trade minister Andrew Robb said, while China would see tariffs cut on its industrial goods
exported to Australia when the agreement goes into effect in about five months.

The agreement creates an opportunity for Australia's flagging economy to diversify away from its
decadelong reliance on mining--something record-low interest rates for more than a year have so far
failed to accomplish. In one of China's broadest trade pacts yet with a developed nation, the agreement
will grant Australia most-favored-nation trading status.
The Chinese president used the occasion also to reassure his hosts about Beijing's peaceful intentions
as an emerging power. "A warlike state will eventually fail," Mr. Xi said, seeking to assuage concern,
including in Canberra, over Beijing's more aggressive stance in regional disputes. "China sincerely
hopes to work with other countries in the region to build a prosperous and a harmonious Asia-Pacific,"
he added, receiving a standing ovation from Australian lawmakers.
The free-trade deal gives private Chinese companies the same $1 billion threshold as rival Japanese,
American and South Korean firms have before potential investments come under scrutiny from
Australia's foreign-investment watchdog, which Chinese firms have in the past regarded as a major
hurdle to business.
Australia rejected demands from Chinese negotiators, however, for state-owned companies, to qualify
for the same threshold, amid considerable sensitivity among Australian lawmakers over security and

Page4of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.competitive risks, particularly in areas such as information technology. Some special lower thresholds
will still apply to Chinese investments in land and agribusiness.

Australia's beef and dairy industries were major winners in a deal that will see all tariffs removed on
dairy exports within four to 11 years, while tariffs on beef would be lowered over nine years. Australian
horticultural, live-animal, sheep-meat and wine exports would also receive a large boost. Resources
agreements covering Australia's A$85-billion commodities trade with China were also modified. A 3%
tariff on coking-coal exports will be scrapped immediately, while a 6% one on thermal coal exports will
be eliminated within two years.
"The reduction in agricultural tariffs and the greater access to the Chinese market will pave the way for
a new Australian export story linked to services and agriculture," said Tony Cripps, chief executive of
HSBC in Australia. Mike Smith, chief executive of Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., one of
the country's big-four banks, was equally optimistic. "The establishment of an RMB clearing hub in
Sydney is an important step that will further strengthen the economic ties between Australia and China,
providing greater domestic liquidity as well as more flexible hedging and investment opportunities," he
said.

The trade minister said Australian banks, financial-services companies, legal and engineering firms and
others would get access to Chinese markets beyond anything envisaged in Beijing's free-trade deals
with others, except for Hong Kong and Macau. The other big advance was in financial services, where
Australian asset managers will be freer both to manage funds on behalf of Chinese citizens and to
invest Australian assets into China.

--James Glynn in Sydney and Mark Magnier in Beijing contributed to this article.

Write to Rob Taylor at rob.taylor@wsj.com

(MORE TO FOLLOW) Dow Jones Newswires

17-11-14 0910GMT

NS

RE

PUB
AN

gtrade : Tariffs/Trade Barriers | e512 : Physical Trade | ecat : Economic News | ncmac : Commodities
Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb
: Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | e51 : Trade/External
Payments | gcat : Political/General News | gdip : International Relations | gpir : Politics/International
Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters
austr : Australia | china : China | canbrr : Canberra | sydney : Sydney | beijin : Beijing | apacz : Asia
Pacific | asiaz : Asia | auscap : Australian Capital Territory | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS
Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document RTNW000020141117eabh000bm

Page5of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.