China ambitions for new state listing Bellamy's

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
China ambitions for new state listing Bellamy's

By SEAN FORD
261 words
6 August 2014
The Advocate
FABURN
Advocate First Edition
6
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

INVESTORS clearly like the taste of newly listed Tasmanian infant formula and baby food maker
Bellamy's Australia.

Bellamy's listed on the ASX yesterday after a share offer price of $1 and hit $1.34 during the morning.

It was trading at $1.30 at the time of writing.
Launceston-based Bellamy's is targeting Chinese exports, having received accreditation to register a
new company in China (Tatura Milk Industries).
Baby products seen as being "safe" are in strong demand in China and can attract premium prices,
due to health issues relating to local products.
"The recent certification of TMI will allow Bellamy's to immediately recommence exporting to China
and strongly positions the company to effectively execute its growth strategies in China, being only
one of a handful of companies certified organic by both Australian and Chinese authorities,"
managing director Laura McBain said.
Just 15 per cent of the company's 2013-14 revenue is estimated to have come from export sales,
suggesting there is major upside in China.
Wealthy Hobart investor Bruce Neill took an 8.62 per cent stake in Bellamy's.
The market valued Bellamy's at more than $120 million.
The initial public offering allowed the company's previous majority shareholder, Tasmanian
entrepreneur Jan Cameron, to sell down her 55 per cent stake.
The company's products are sold domestically and in some supermarkets in New Zealand, China,
Singapore, Hong Kong, Malaysia and Vietnam.

RE

PUB
AN

china : China | austr : Australia | tasman : Tasmania | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FABURN0020140805ea860001z

Page171of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.