Aquila walks the rice paper without tearing it

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Features - Rear Window
Aquila walks the rice paper without tearing it

320 words
11 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
48
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Independence can be a vexed concept, to be sure, but takeover target Aquila Resources is sticking
to the letter of the Macquarie, Oxford, Collins, Merriam Webster and even the Urban Dictionary (not
suitable for children) in its unswerving commitment to due process.

Aquila chairman Tony Poli started snapping up small exploration companies and tenements from an
initial $75,000 in 1992. Through a series of share and option issues, by 2008 his loot had
appreciated somewhat – to be worth $1.5 billion. He now owns 29 per cent of the issued capital,
worth $420 million.

We're in the wrong caper! If only we'd bought ourselves a few bargain mining plots and piled on
more options than a top-of-the-line Mercedes.
Queensland rail freight giant Aurizon and Chinese iron and steel group Baosteel launched a
takeover last month, offering Aquila $3.40 per share. The two bidders already jointly own 40 per cent
of the company.

Poli wrote to shareholders last week, informing them he'd formed an independent board
sub-committee to ensure an objective assessment of the bid.

Poli sits on this independent committee so the largest shareholder is participating in this objective
assessment of the takeover bid. A Chinese wall or a rabbit-proof fence. A few yards of flyscreen? A
window open to the fresh air, perhaps?

Zhaoming Lu, who is Baosteel's representative on the board, is not on the committee. A separate,
independent expert has also been appointed to advise shareholders.
Poli's spokesman said his large stake means "his interests are completely aligned with all
shareholders and our feedback from them is that they're happy with that".

In the meantime, keep an eye out for a Solomon Lew type popping up on the register this week.
There's strongly tipped to be a blocking stake about to emerge.

aqures : Aquila Resources Ltd.
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140610ea6b0002m

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

Page233of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.