Green energy firm faces $20m loss

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

TheNation
Green energy firm faces $20m loss

MATTHEW DENHOLM, Tasmania correspondent
531 words
10 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
9
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Exclusive AUSTRALIA’S largest renewable energy producer, Hydro Tasmania, faces projected losses
of up to $20 million a year on wind power deals and blames uncertainty surrounding the Renewable
Energy Target.
The state-owned company also revealed it had suspended major spending on $3.6 billion in new
wind projects in Australia while the target of 20 per cent by 2020 is reviewed by the Abbott
government.

Hydro Tasmania chief executive Stephen Davy told The Weekend Australian significant cuts to the
RET could see existing wind farms prematurely abandoned and trigger demands for taxpayer
compensation.

A planning document, leaked to The Weekend Australian, shows Hydro Tasmania’s power-purchasing
agreements for its major Tasmanian wind farms — Musselroe and Woolnorth — will return a $12.5m
loss this financial year, rising to $20.6m in 2014-15. Cumulative losses total $103.6m by 2018-19,
according to the confidential document, the authenticity of which was confirmed by the company.

Mr Davy blamed the projected losses largely on uncertainty surrounding the RET, being reviewed amid
a push from business, industry and elements of the Coalition to reduce or abolish it to cut power prices.
He said the projections were pessimistic and only part of the equation on wind farm profitability, but
reflected a significant market decline linked to the pending abolition of the carbon tax and uncertainty
on the RET.
“Since the time the power purchase agreements were negotiated for these wind farms, there has
been significant decline in the market, including the impact of the anticipated removal of a price on
carbon,” Mr Davy said. “The market decline has been exacerbated by continued uncertainty about the
future of the RET. The ongoing review of the RET has created a lot of uncertainty around wind farm
revenues.” Hydro Tasmania is a major player in renewable energy, particularly through its Chinese
wind farm joint venture partners Shenhua Clean Energy.
The Musselroe and Woolnorth wind farms — in Tasmania’s northeast and northwest respectively —
are owned by Woolnorth Wind Farm Holdings, a joint venture between the two companies. Woolnorth
is made up of two wind farms — Studland Bay and Bluff Point — and, combined with Musselroe, they
produce about 10 per cent of Tasmania’s energy needs.
Hydro has sold down its interest in the joint venture to 25 per cent, but has power purchase
agreements securing access to the electricity and the related renewable energy certificates.
The two companies have $1.6bn in plans to develop, build and operate a further 700MW of wind farms
in Australia by 2020.

Page144of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Separately, Hydro, which exports power to mainland Australia, is investigating a $2bn plan to build the
southern hemisphere’s largest wind farm on King Island, including a second undersea power cable link
to Victoria.

As lobbying intensifies ahead of next week’s closure of submissions for the RET review, Mr Davy said
all major expenditure on new wind farms was on hold: “We won’t be able to commit large amounts of
money further developing those opportunities until the RET is reaffirmed.”He warned abolition of the
RET would kill off all future wind farm developments.

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

htasma : Hydro Tasmania
i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16101 : Electric Power Generation | i163 : Electric Power Generation -
Alternative Energy | ieutil : Electric Utilities | iutil : Utilities
c151 : Earnings | c184 : Joint Ventures | c15 : Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | tasman : Tasmania | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140509ea5a00082

Page145of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.