Cyclists scaled hills for two worthy causes

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Cyclists scaled hills for two worthy causes

691 words
15 January 2014
Gold Coast Sun - Central
NLGCSU
GCSunNorth
11
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

TWO charities were the big winners from Parkwood Rotary’s 2013 GC100 Charity Bike Ride.

This year, more than 340 riders took part in the event, with some riders coming from as far away as
South Australia.

It raised more than $14,000, with the main charities being Rosie’s and ROMAC (Rotary Oceania Medical
Aid for Children), which each received $4000 in donations from the club.

The GC100 Charity Bike Ride has been held annually on the second Sunday in September since 2010
and is the club’s main fundraiser.

The bike ride was the brainchild of past president Mark Twyford. It starts off with a very pleasant ride
from the Broadwater Parklands down past the beautiful beaches from Surfers Paradise through to Miami
before heading inland to Mudgeeraba.
It’s at this point that the tempo picks up as the riders head north through Highland Park, Mount Nathan
and Pimpana where it is 30km of gruelling hills until riders get to the 80km mark where it returns to a
more even level once again right through to the finish line back at Broadwater Parklands.

The 100km event can be tackled by riders individually, as part of a team entry or in a relay team of five
riders. But if the whole idea of trying to tame the beast that is the GC100 is just too much to handle,
riders can tackle the much less challenging 50km race that follows the main same route as the 100km
event until just before the hills start, where riders turn around and head back to the start point.

Another even less demanding option is the Family Fun Ride – a completely off-road 10km race.

Rosie’s is the more recognised of the two charities and the funds raised were used to support the work
they do.

The most visible aspect of Rosie’s is their street van that offers tea, coffee, Milo and a friendly ear.

Most Rosie’s volunteers work with the street van, spending time with the homeless. They also do
barbecues, three times a week, a court support service at Southport offering drinks and sandwiches to
people going through the court system as well as visiting the Numinbah Correctional Centre.

ROMAC is a Rotary project that is assisted by many eminent Australian surgeons who generously
respond to requests for assistance.

ROMAC has provided more than 300 children from 20 countries with urgent medical treatment that has
given them new hope.

To date, children have been brought from Fiji, Papua New Guinea, Malaysia, Indonesia, Sri Lanka,
Bangladesh, Vietnam, Cambodia, Russia, China, Tonga, Solomon Islands, The Philippines, Pakistan,
Iran, East Timor, Vanuatu, Kiribati, Nauru and Zimbabwe.

Page213of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The children usually come from very remote areas and are brought to Australia as medical treatment is
simply not available in their home countries. These are children with herniated brains, deformed limbs,
horrific burns, heart conditions and in the case of the Bosun (Siamese) twins, separation as they were
joined face to face from the lower chest to the umbilicus.

The GC100 is a huge event involving not only members of Parkwood Rotary and their partners but more
than 110 volunteers from Rosie’s, ROMAC and AB Patterson School.

Planning is already underway for this year’s event on September 14. More information from project
chairman Bruce Rogers on 0414 701 505. For more information on the Rotary Club Parkwood, contact
Paul O’Neill on 0401 610 787.

THE Murwillumbah Swimarathon is on again. At the Tweed River Aquatic Centre Murwillumbah on
Saturday, February 22, 6-9pm.
Register your team or join with a group to form a team. Teams swim for one hour, laps counted. Free
sausage sizzle, prizes, raffle, great fun and music. Phone 0266 779 302.

CAR BOOT SALES: Rotary Club of Kirra-Currumbin – second Sunday of the month, Stocklands
Shopping Centre Burleigh.Ashmore Rotary Club’s – fourth Sunday at the Ashmore City Shopping Centre,
cnr Southport/Nerang and Currumburra roads, Ashmore. Entry via the Currumburra Rd. Gates open for
stall holders at 4.30am. Site cost $12. The car boot sale closes at 11am.

gcha : Charities | gcat : Political/General News | gcom : Society/Community/Work
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

NS
RE
PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document NLGCSU0020140114ea1f00011

Page214of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.