China 's great wall for coal

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
China's great wall for coal

Mark Kenny, Tess Ingram With Reuters
788 words
10 October 2014
Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
19
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Resources - Tariff shock rocks trade talks

The crucial final stages of free trade talks between Canberra and Beijing have been thrown into
turmoil by China's shock decision to impose harsh new tariffs on Australian coal supplies.

The sudden reversion to protectionism is designed to save the local coal industry and will see all
coking coal imports hit with a 3 per cent price hike and double that applied to the lower grade
thermal coal attracting an import tariff of 6 per cent.

It comes after intense lobbying from local suppliers dealing local prices at a six-year low.
The China National Coal Association, which had submitted proposals to reduce domestic output,
reduce the tax burden and regulate imports, had urged Beijing to act swiftly to support the besieged
sector, where 70 per cent of the miners were making losses and more than half were owing wages.
The news brought an angry reaction from the federal opposition and the Australian mining sector.

The Minerals Council of Australia's Brendan Pearson said the decision was a poor one.
"The MCA urges the Australian government to initiate urgent discussions with Chinese counterparts
to seek the reversal of the decision," he said in a statement.
He said applying tariffs would ultimately prove "counterproductive" for the struggling Chinese
economy anyway because it would "raise energy costs for China's industrial sector and
households".
"This decision raises the stakes on the outcome of talks on a free trade agreement with China due
to conclude next month," he said.

Prime Minister Tony Abbott had raised the possibility of winding up nine years of mostly
unproductive trade talks by signing an agreement with China's President Xi Jinping in November
during his state visit around the G20 summit.
Energy-hungry China is the world's top importer of coal. It will be the first time import tariffs on the
commodity will apply in nearly a decade, and is seen as an attempt to prop up a flat domestic coal
sector.

Australia and Russia are expected to be hit hardest but it remains unclear if Indonesia's multilateral
trade deal across ASEAN will insulate its suppliers from the new impost.

Beijing has promised signatory nations zero import tariffs for some resources.

The opposition's spokesperson on trade and investment, Penny Wong, said it was a worrying
development.

Page189of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."The Abbott government must tell Australians when it became aware of this measure, explain its
impact on Australian exporters and the economy, and outline its response," she said.
"Labor supports negotiations to secure a high-quality free trade agreement with China which gives
Australian exporters real benefits, rather than a sub-standard deal designed to give Mr Abbott a
political trophy.

"For now, Mr Abbott and Trade Minister Andrew Robb owe Australians some answers on this new
tariff on Australian exports."

Yancoal spokesman James Rickards said the full implications of the decision were not yet clear but
it would add to the difficulties in a sector that has already suffered job losses and mine closures.

"While the re-introduction of import taxes adds to existing operating cost pressures for Australian
exporters, few are dependant upon a single market to ensure their economic security," he said.
"China is only one of several growth opportunities for Australian coal producers and the industry will
continue to adapt to market challenges as it always has."
China had set import taxes for all coals, with the exception of coking coal, at 6 per cent prior to
2005 before they were gradually reduced and scrapped in 2007. Coking coal import taxes were set
at 3 per cent before being abolished in 2005.
China said last month it will ban the import and local sale of coal with high ash and sulphur content
starting from 2015 in a bid to tackle air pollution. But Australian miners were left unscathed by that
regulation as the most stringent standards did not apply to power plants.

While speculation has swirled about the resumption of the import tariffs since late last year, some
industry participants were surprised by the high rates and the types of coal that were included.
"Having a 6 per cent import tax for thermal coal is very high and that will easily snuff out any price
advantage overseas suppliers can offer," said a Shanghai-based coal trader.
"It is also puzzling that they have resumed tariffs for coking coal, since China has a shortage of
quality coking coal."
China, also the world's top coal producer and consumer, imported 327.1 million tonnes of coal in
2013, accounting for about 10 per cent of the country's total consumption.

cntlok : China National Coal Association | mncasr : Minerals Council of Australia
gtrade : Tariffs/Trade Barriers | e512 : Physical Trade | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat :
Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gdip : International Relations | gpir :
Politics/International Relations
china : China | austr : Australia | auscap : Australian Capital Territory | beijin : Beijing | apacz : Asia
Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020141009eaaa00035

CO
NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page190of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.