Corporate News: Billionaire Bets on Commodities

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Corporate News: Billionaire Bets on Commodities

By Ross Kelly
709 words
15 May 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
20
English
Copyright © 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

SYDNEY -- Electrician-turned-billionaireNathan Tinkler was a poster child of Australia's mining
boom -- and its rapid downturn.
A lavish lifestyle paid for by windfall mining profits began to unravel when coal prices started
tumbling in late 2011, culminating in forced sales by Mr. Tinkler of private jets and racehorses.

The 38-year-old Australian businessman is now seemingly betting that a recovery in commodity prices
will revive his personal fortune, after signing a deal to buyPeabody Energy Corp.'s idled Wilkie Creek
mine in Queensland state.
A company controlled by Mr. Tinkler, Bentley Resources, agreed to buy the mine for US$70 million,
plus liabilities related to its closure in December, a spokesman for St. Louis-based Peabody said on
Wednesday.

Although relatively small, the surprise deal indicates that Mr. Tinkler isn't yet down-and-out amid
continuing speculation about the health of his personal finances. A spokesman for Mr. Tinkler said the
purchase price, including all liabilities, totaled about 150 million Australian dollars (US$140 million).
Mr. Tinkler wasn't available to comment on Wednesday.

"There's no doubt a smaller and leaner Wilkie Creek operation could be run profitably, but it's hard to
see coal prices bouncing back any time soon," said Matthew Trivett, a Brisbane-based mining
analyst at Patersons Securities. "What the market needs is less supply, rather than new mines
coming on line."

Mr. Tinkler, who set up his own maintenance business at age 26, rose to prominence about four years
ago after a series of bold bets on undeveloped coal properties paid off handsomely. His finances,
however, became increasingly stretched when China's economy cooled and prices for thermal coal
used to generate electricity fell sharply.
Mr. Tinkler last year offloaded his biggest investment, a 19.4% stake in Whitehaven Coal Ltd., to
lenders including U.S. hedge fund Farallon Capital Management LLC, which paid more than A$300
million for just over half of the stake. Mr. Tinkler also has sold residential properties and horses,
and has been trying to sell his horse stud company Patinack Farm.

A decision on the future ownership of the Newcastle Knights rugby team, currently owned by Mr.
Tinkler, has been deferred to allow for further talks between him and league officials, the National
Rugby League said March 31.

However, the overall state of Mr. Tinkler's finances remains unclear.

In March last year, he revealed to a Sydney court that his family trust had liabilities of roughly A$600
million, but some of those may have been met by proceeds from the Whitehaven stake sale.

The businessman faced court action after liquidators took control of one of his companies, Mulsanne
Resources, when a deal to buy a one-third stake in Brisbane-based coal developer Blackwood Corp.
fell through. The case has since been settled.

Page157of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Now residing in Singapore, Mr. Tinkler is on Friday due to appear before Australia's anticorruption
watchdog, which is investigating political donations by companies to lawmakers in Australia's New
South Wales state.

The Independent Commission Against Corruption is checking if Mr. Tinkler's Buildev
property-development company offered money to the conservative Liberal Party that might have
breached donation rules. Mr. Tinkler has denied any wrongdoing in the matter.
Coal prices, meanwhile, are still languishing near multiyear lows as new mines that were planned to
capitalize on earlier high prices have flooded the market with supply. Thermal-coal prices in Australia
have been trading near their lowest level since late 2009, while metallurgical coal used in steelmaking
is near a seven-year low.

The harsh conditions have forced producers such as Peabody and BHP Billiton Ltd. to lay off workers,
sell assets or close operations. Peabody last year attributed the closure of Wilkie Creek and the
related loss of 200 jobs to low coal prices and higher costs.
It had been trying to sell the mine, with a total output capacity of two million metric tons a year, since
2012.
Australian mining companyNew Hope Corp. recently said it expects global coal markets to remain
awash with supply and prices to remain weak for at least another year.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

CO
IN

NS

RE

IPC
PUB
AN

pbdy : Peabody Energy Corp | lehbro : Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc
i111 : Coal Mining | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i1 : Energy | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | iutil : Utilities
mcoal : Coal Markets | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
neqac : Equities Asset Class News | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | m14 :
Commodity Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | usa : United States | usmo : Missouri | apacz : Asia Pacific |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North America | nswals : New South Wales | usc : Midwest U.S.
ABO
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document AWSJ000020140514ea5f00006

Page158of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.