Coal and Corruption [opinion]

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Coal and Corruption [opinion]

by Marina Lou
821 words
20 October 2014
23:06
All Africa
AFNWS
English
(c) 2014 AllAfrica, All Rights Reserved

Oct 20, 2014 (The Reporter/All Africa Global Media via COMTEX) -- Juan Pablo Perez Alfonso, one of
the founders of OPEC, once compared the world's fossil-fuel use to "drowning in the devil's excrement."

There is certainly plenty of evidence supporting his prediction that the fossil-fuel industry, with its
powerful corrupting influence, will "bring us ruin." Indeed, coal-related corruption stories are breaking
worldwide, shining a light on the murky space between "illegal" and "improper" where the extractive
industries work.

Last year, in the Australian state of New South Wales, the Independent Commission Against Corruption
investigated former Labor ministers Eddie Obeid and Ian Macdonald for conspiring to defraud the state
over the issuance of multi-million-dollar licenses for coal exploration and mining. Today, the ICAC is
conducting an even more far-reaching and complex investigation into a number of figures from the
Australian Labor Party and the Liberal/Nationals Coalition, including for favoring the interests of
Australian Water Holdings, a major infrastructure company.
Last month, India's Supreme Court found that all 218 coal-mining licenses allocated by the government
in 1993-2009 had been granted in an "illegal and arbitrary" manner, with the committee responsible for
the process lacking transparency and rife with corruption. Following the landmark decision, the
government has canceled 214 of the coal block allocations - and has fined several companies that have
already begun production.
For its part, Indonesia is set to revoke the contracts of 17 coal producers that failed to pay government
royalties. And, since the beginning of this year, the country's corruption commission has been focusing
on the extractive industry, including the state officials who facilitate mining companies' illegal activities.
Likewise, China's ongoing anti-corruption drive - the largest in its modern history - has begun to focus on
the coal industry. Last month, two Communist Party officials from the coal-rich Shanxi province were
charged with corruption and abuse of power, signaling that Shanxi may well move to the forefront of
President Xi Jinping's quest to eliminate entrenched corruption in the Party's ranks. As Gao Qinrong, a
former journalist from Shanxi, recently described the province, "It has coal; coal brought money; that
brought corruption."
These stories highlight a simple truth: Where the coal industry operates, bribery and venality are likely to
be rampant. But this does not have to be the case. In order to reduce - if not eliminate - such corruption,
several fundamental weaknesses in the regulation of how mining contracts are allocated must be
addressed.

For starters, instead of conducting fair and transparent open-tender processes, governments often
empower their ministers to decide which companies are allocated lucrative fossil-fuel exploration and
extraction contracts, and conflicts of interest are not disclosed. Indeed, there is an unguarded revolving
door between politics and the extractive industry, and political donations are allowed. Finally, though
states are responsible for regulation, they also receive royalties and levies for the sale of their resources,
which tends to weaken regulators' effectiveness.

Page97of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The key to addressing all of these problems is, of course, greater transparency. Otherwise, corruption
festers and grows - with very real consequences. Worldwide, corruption has weakened environmental
regulatory systems, undermined citizens' capacity to effect change, and made a mockery of democratic
processes.

None of this is a surprise. In fact, resource-rich countries, such as Equatorial Guinea and Sudan, tend to
perform worse economically and experience more violent conflict than their resource-poor counterparts -
a phenomenon famously dubbed the "resource curse."

Corruption plays a major role in this curse. Natural-resource wealth insulates leaders from accountability,
while offering them the prospect of significant personal financial gain at the expense of the rest of the
country. If foreign multinationals dominate extractive sectors and are allowed to repatriate their profits,
instead of investing them locally, ordinary citizens receive virtually no benefit from what is often their
country's largest and most profitable economic sector.

Furthermore, economies that depend on natural-resource exports are vulnerable to sharp price
fluctuations, making government revenues and foreign-exchange supplies unreliable. For private
investors, this makes involvement in these countries prohibitively risky.

If a country like Australia, with its robust civil society and strong democracy, is struggling with widespread
graft among high-level government officials, no country is safe from the corrupting influence of the
extractive industries. Worse, as is so often the case, those who suffer the most from the extractive
industry's opaque and unfair activities - not to mention the selfish actions of corrupt officials - are those
who can least afford it.

Ed.'s Note: Marina Lou is a legal adviser at Greenpeace International, specializing in financial-market
regulation. The article was provided to The Reporter by Project Syndicate: the world's pre-eminent
source of original op-ed commentaries. Project Syndicate provides incisive perspectives on our changing
world by those who are shaping its politics, economics, science, and culture.

CO
NS
RE

opexpc : Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries
gcorrp : Corruption | gcrim : Crime/Courts | gcat : Political/General News | gfinc : Financial Crime
africaz : Africa | austr : Australia | china : China | sudan : Sudan | india : India | shanxi : Shanxi | apacz :
Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | eafrz : East Africa | easiaz :
Eastern Asia | indsubz : Indian Subcontinent | sasiaz : Southern Asia
australia

IPD
PUB All Africa Global Media
AN

Document AFNWS00020141020eaak000ph

Page98of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.