Russo has splashed $20m on city apartment sites

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Russo has splashed $20m on city apartment sites

Rebecca Thistleton
407 words
2 July 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
38
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Melbourne property developer Joe Russo, principal of Caydon Property Group, has spent more
than $20 million on land to expand his apartment pipeline around the inner suburbs.
Mr Russo paid $16.5 million for a site on Ascot Vale Road in Flemington, which has a permit in
place for a 387-unit project. He said he expects to make a few changes to the approved plans and
will begin marketing the units in three months time.

The development is over 21 levels and includes scope for 81 serviced apartments and retail space. It
was designed by dKO Architecture.

CBRE agents Mark Wizel, Josh Rutman and Ed Wright brokered the deal in conjunction with
co-agents Rudy Kelemen and Joshua Charteris of Kelemen Commercial Realty.
Mr Wizel said the deal was the strongest non-CBD sale in more than two years and demonstrated
strong underlying demand from local developers.
Caydon Property outbid Chinese and Singaporean developers, as well as local groups, for the site.
The site is near land which the Victorian Racing Club sold to the China-based Greenland Group
bought earlier this year, which attracted offshore groups to the Ascot Vale Road site.

Mr Wizel said local developers were focused on inner-suburban sites rather than worrying about high
levels of competition for sites and attracting apartment investors around the CBD.
Caydon paid $4.89 million for a 3360 square metre car park site in Heidelberg in late May through
John Castran.
Planning is under way and Mr Russo is hoping to build about 300 apartments on the site.
The group has 992 apartments under construction across inner Melbourne and about 300 will be
finished this year. A Hawthorn project is near completion and apartments at St Kilda Junction are
now under way, while the groups's Brunswick East project continues to sell.

"About 70 per cent of our buyers are investors at the moment, the rest are owner-occupiers, we're
finding a lot more owner-occupiers are feeling comfortable about buying off-the-plan," Mr Russo
said. "About 10 [per cent] to 15 per cent are offshore, which is a hard sell when you're outside of the
CBD, but we're educating buyers."
Mr Russo said Caydon was marketing apartments to Chinese and Singaporean clients, who
traditionally preferred CBD locations, but were beginning to see opportunities in buying into
inner-suburban projects.

IN

i5010022 : Residential Building Construction | ireest : Real Estate | i501 : Building Construction |
iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction

Page76of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | victor : Victoria
(Australia)
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140701ea720000d

Page77of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.