Failing the 'pub test': Alan Jones blasts Tony Abbott over government's free trade deal with China

SE
HD

BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

news
Failing the 'pub test': Alan Jones blasts Tony Abbott over government's free trade deal with
China
Dan Harrison
1,047 words
17 November 2014
The Warrnambool Standard
FWARST
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

If Tony Abbott thought radio host Alan Jones would provide him with a sympathetic forum to bask in
his successful hosting of the G20 summit on Monday, he had another thing coming.

While congratulating the Prime Minister on his defence of the coal industry at the weekend, the
post-summit radio interview on Monday morning took a turn as Jones attacked the federal
Renewable Energy Target and went on to declare that Mr Abbott was failing the "pub test" with his
imminent free trade agreement with China.

"You know that wind turbines are a fake and heavily subsidised by the taxpayer. Global warming is a
hoax, we've had nothing for 18 years," the 2GB breakfast host thundered.

"People listening to you now say, well he's talking economic growth, but hang on, the cost of energy
with renewable energy targets is crippling economic growth. They're saying to me 'we used to have
the cheapest energy in the world. Now because of all of this, we actually cannot afford to go on
doing what we're doing, and jobs are being lost here'. Doesn't economic growth start at home?"

Indeed it did, the Prime Minister agreed, and thanks to the abolition of the carbon tax, Mr Abbott
said, power prices had seen their biggest drop on record last quarter.

"I still think they're high" one of the reasons we want to scale back the Renewable Energy Target is
because we want to further reduce power prices," he said.

"I can't work miracles Alan, there is no magic wand."

Jones would not be pacified.

"There are people driving to work today listening to you and they are saying, well, no one subsidises
anything I do. I'm on my own here, but if you own a wind turbine and you come from Qatar or South
Korea or China or India and own wind turbines, you're getting billions of dollars in subsidies from
the taxpayer. That doesn't make sense to them," he said.

"We don't need renewable energy targets unless you believe that carbon dioxide is a poisonous
pollutant."

Sensing an opening, the PM reminded Jones that he had defended coal to G20 leaders.

"And perhaps it wasn't the most popular point I made

"No, but good on you for making it," Jones cheered.

Jones' rage turned to US President Barack Obama for upstaging his G20 host with an "absolutely
meaningless" climate pact with China.

"We're supposed to have a wonderful alliance, some sort of mate," Jones fumed.

Page222of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."The left and the Abbott-haters here have loved it ... I'll tell you what, if I was Tony Abbott I'd be
pretty angry about all that stuff."

"Well Alan, look, it's pretty easy for the President of the United States to attract more attention than
the Prime Minister of Australia " that's kind of the natural order of things," the Prime Minister replied.
China and the US were the world's biggest emitters "by miles", so "good on them for having a go at
reducing them", he said.

"I think I have a very good personal relationship with President Obama as indeed I think I have with
President Xi and Prime Minister Abe of Japan and Prime Minister Cameron of the United Kingdom
and we've just got Chancellor Merkel of Germany in Australia, I had the most marvellous dinner with
her last night in Sydney. So I think Australia's relationships with important world leaders are in
excellent repair."
If he thought Jones might congratulate him on sealing a free trade deal with China, an agreement a
decade in the making, Abbott was bound to be disappointed.

"To win an election " and you're not worth two bob in opposition " to win an election, you've got to
pass the pub test," Jones lectured.
"I can tell you that the board here this morning is in meltdown."

"Why can't we see this Free Trade Agreement" we don't believe the people who are elected to
represent us are speaking our language."
Jones said the promised benefits of the deal, such as tariff-free access to Chinese markets for
Australian dairy farmers and wine producers didn't stack up.
"Hang on" China are giving us nothing. The dairy farms are owned by China," Jones cried.
In Western Victoria, Jones shouted, 50 dairy farmers had already signed deals to sell to China.
The Van Diemen's Land Company, a big Tasmanian dairy outfit, was also preparing to sell to China.

"By this time next week, who is going to own little Tasmania," Jones asked.

"The public are very, very angry Prime Minister about this I can tell you."

Seeking to calm his interrogator, the Prime Minister said he could understand people being anxious
about the issue, but no buyer could buy unless the owner wanted to sell, and an owner would only
want to sell to a foreign investor because they offered a better price.

But there was a double standard, Jones challenged.
"Can Tony Abbott go and buy a farm in China? No, the answer is no Prime Minister, the answer is
no he can't, nor can he buy a coal mine, nor can he buy a steel mill."
"Prime Minister I'm telling you out there, they are on fire, in the pubs, they don't swallow this.
"You've got this China Bright Food crowd, they're going to spend $2 billion, they admit it,
purchasing dairy farms, wineries and other agricultural assets, so the free trade agreement will say
'oh well, tariffs are off, when you're selling dairy produce to China, and wineries', well of course it's
off, China own them.
"And their factory manager said" we'd like to start with dairy and move to all other foods from
Australia. God help me!"

Lowering his voice, Jones warned: "PM you don't have a mandate for this."

"The people who vote are the masters, aren't they? They have given you whatever authority you've
got " they don't agree with this."

NS

RE

e512 : Physical Trade | gpol : Domestic Politics | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic
News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations
china : China | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

Page223of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FWARST0020141118eabh0003k

Page224of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.