Energy Sector Update: May 2014 edition

Energy Sector Update: May 2014 edition

John Kelly

HD
BY
WC 2,432 words
PD
12 May 2014
SN Mondaq Business Briefing
SC
LA
CY
LP

BBPUB
English
(c) 2014 Mondaq Ltd

TD

Recently completed deals

Magellan PetroleumPalm ValleyDingo projectsCentral Petroleum LimitedOn 15 April 2014, received the
final A$5 million payment for the sale of its onshore Australian assets (including the and ) to ASX-listed
exploration and production company . In total, Magellan has received A$20 million in cash from Central
Petroleum, and 39.5 million newly issued shares in Central Petroleum stock, giving Magellan an
approximate 11% ownership interest. Magellan is now Central Petroleum's largest shareholder.

Recent announcements
BaytexASX-listed Aurora Oil & GasBaytex Energy AustraliaForeign Investment Review BoardIn the
February 2014 edition of the Australian Energy Sector Update we reported on 's proposed acquisition of .
The deal would see Baytex's wholly owned subsidiary, , purchase all the shares in Aurora for a cash
consideration of A$4.10 per share pursuant to a proposed scheme of arrangement (Scheme). On 11 April
2014, Aurora announced that Baytex received written notification from the (FIRB) confirming that FIRB
has no objection to the deal, satisfying one of the conditions precedent to implementation of the Scheme.
On 14 April 2014, Aurora also announced that the Federal Court of Australia has approved the dispatch of
the Scheme booklet and has ordered that a meeting of Aurora shareholders be convened to consider and
vote on Baytex's proposed acquisition.
Energy Developments LimitedEnvirogenTahmoor CollieryTeralba CollieryGlennies CreekCoal MineOaky
Creek Coal MineGlencore XstrataValeAnglo AmericanBHP Illawarra CoalOn 11 April 2014, ASX-listed
integrated energy company announced its entry into a conditional sale and purchase agreement to
acquire , the Australian waste coal mine gas (WCMG) power generation business. Envirogen owns and
operates three WCMG power stations in New South Wales at the , and , and one in Queensland at the .
With a combined capacity of 43 MW, these power stations provide methane abatement and clean energy
solutions for miners and and will add to Energy Development's existing portfolio of over 200 MW of
WCMG power generation assets and existing partnerships with leading coal producers and .

Landbridge GroupWestSide CorporationInfrastructure Capital GroupIn the April 2014 edition of the
Australian Energy Sector Update we reported on 's conditional notice of intention to make a conditional
off-market takeover bid (Conditional Offer) for Brisbane-based coal seam gas producer, , for A$0.36 per
share. In a letter to shareholders dated 16 April 2014, WestSide said that the Conditional Offer price of
A$0.36 per share was "manifestly inadequate". On 24 April 2014, Landbridge increased its interest in
WestSide from 8.7% to 19.99% in what an article in The Australian called a "lighting raid" of the WestSide
register in which Landbridge reportedly secured the 11.3% stake of , formerly WestSide's second largest
shareholder. The "raid" was accompanied by Landbridge's announcement that it has withdrawn its
intention to proceed with the A$0.36 bid and is replacing it with a new conditional off-market takeover bid
for A$0.40 per WestSide share, which values the company at over A$178 million.

GLNG ProjectOn 6 May 2014, WestSide's board, in a letter to shareholders, recommended that
shareholders do not accept Landbridge's conditional offer for A$0.40 per WestSide share. WestSide's
letter said Landbridge's offer does not represent fair value for the company as, amongst other things, it
fails to adequately recognise the full value of the company's recently announced binding 20 year gas
sale agreement to sell gas to the .

Page85of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Bass Strait Oil Company LtdVic/P41Vic/P68GMP Securities AustraliaASX-listed petroleum explorer
announced on 10 April 2014 that it has commenced a formal divestment process for its offshore
Gippsland Basin portfolio comprising 64.565% owned and 100% owned located off the south east coast of
Victoria. Chief Executive Steven Noske said that the company "intends to use any proceeds from the
potential divestment of its Gippsland Basin acreage to continue to invest in new opportunities in the oil
and gas sector and will remain focused on oil and gas exploration and development activities moving
forward." Bass Strait has engaged to assist with the divestment process and execution of its forward
strategy.

Market rumours and opportunities

Woodside PetroleumLeviathan gas projectBrowse floating LNG projectOil SearchFurther to the March and
April editions of the Australian Energy Sector Update, on 22 April 2014 an unsourced report in The
Australian Financial Review speculated that may look for alternative international expansion opportunities
as its US$2.71 billion acquisition of a 25% interest in the , located off the west coast of Israel, is still yet
to be finalised. Woodside is reportedly believed to be trying to fill a production gap until its commences
production. The article suggested that Woodside may therefore seek expansion opportunities closer to
Australia, with Papua New Guinea-based a potential target. In spite of these rumours, in his report at
Woodside's Annual General Meeting on 30 April 2014, CEO Peter Coleman said "discussions continue
with the [Leviathan joint venture] parties and the Israeli Government with a view to resolving the remaining
issues and executing definitive agreements".

BG GroupCurtis LNG projectEnbridgeIndustry Funds ManagementQueensland Investment
CorporationHastings Funds ManagementBorealisAustralian SuperAllianzCanada Pension PlanGICAPA
GroupOn 23 April 2014, another unsourced article in The Australian Financial Review reported that is
expected to launch a formal sales process for A$4 billion in pipeline infrastructure related to its later this
quarter. Infrastructure assets potentially up for sale include a 540 kilometre buried natural gas pipeline
which links the gas fields in Queensland's Surat Basin to Gladstone. BG has reportedly held initial
meetings with potential buyers in Brisbane. , the Canada-based pipeline group, is thought to be part of a
consortium planning to bid for the assets, which includes and . may have partnered with Canada's to form
another bidding group. Other parties believed to be interested include , Germany's , , and . is also
reportedly expected to compete for the asset. The article considered that while a sale is possible this
year, it is more likely that a deal would be reached in 2015.

Buru EnergyUngani oilfieldLaurel FormationMitsubishi CorporationApache CorporationGoldwyer
ShaleAccording to a recent Mergermarket article, Perth-based oil and gas company, , is seeking a long
term partner to undertake a farm-out at its acreage in the under-explored Canning Superbasin, located in
the southwest Kimberley region of northern Western Australia. Buru's portfolio includes a conventional oil
discovery at the and the tight gas resources of the , where a potentially large-scale gas and hydrocarbon
liquid resource has been identified. Buru already has a joint venture with Japan's largest trading company,
. Buru's Managing Director, Keiran Wulff, reportedly said the basin is too large to just have two companies
operating in the region so the company is looking to introduce "strong partners with the right expertise
and long term commitment [to the region]." In November 2013, farmed into a number of the
Buru/Mitsubishi joint venture exploration permits in the Canning Basin, primarily covering the areas of the
joint venture's portfolio.
United PetroleumS-OilSK Group , Affinity Equity PartnersFurther to the March and April editions of the
Australian Energy Sector Update, The Australian Financial Review reported on 16 April 2014 that
Australian petrol retailer, , has resumed its sale process after discussions with South Korean energy
company were terminated because of issues concerning the price. The article noted that other potential
bidders may include and an unnamed European trading house.

Queensland State Governmentelectricity distribution networksErnst & YoungThe is reportedly
contemplating the sale of debt in the State's as an alternative to privatisation. According to the Street Talk
column in The Australian Financial Review on 23 April 2014, by only selling debt, the Government would
be able to uphold its promise not to sell assets without an election mandate while still relieving pressure
on the State's balance sheet. The article noted that a deal would be similar to a conventional privatisation,
with board seats potentially being offered to debt buyers as a form of control. This report follows The
Australian 's prediction the day before that both the Queensland and New South Wales Governments may
put infrastructure, including ports, roads and electricity assets, on the market in the next 18 months.
According to another report on 18 April 2014 in the same newspaper, the Western Australian Government
is also looking into the possible sale of some of its port, power, and water assets and has engaged to
evaluate the potential divestment.

Regulatory updates

Page86of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CONSULTATION HAS COMMENCED ON DRAFT LEGISLATIVE AMENDMENTS RELATING TO
PROPOSED OVERLAPPING TENURE REFORM IN QUEENSLAND

Queensland Resources CouncilA recent bulletin released by the (QRC) reported that preparation of a new
overlapping tenure framework has begun with broad industry consultation this month on draft legislation.
The framework is based on a 2012 joint industry initiative titled Maximising Utilisation of Queensland's
Coal and Coal Seam Gas Resources: A New Approach to Overlapping Tenure in Queensland and aims
to simplify legislation, clarify the requirements for grant of tenure and provide clearer timeframes to reduce
delays caused by overlapping tenure issues. If successful, this legislative reform will provide a direct path
to granting tenure for coal and petroleum/coal seam gas production, which the QRC says will effectively
remove the right of veto for the first mover over the area. The new legislation is expected to be introduced
by June 2014 as part of the Mineral and Energy Resources (Common Provisions) Bill 2014 with
implementation by the end of the year.

Department of Natural Resources and MinesAccording to the (DNRM), existing requirements for gaining
tenure, including native title obligations, obtaining an Environmental Authority, and reaching access and
compensation arrangements with landholders, will not change under the new legislation. DNRM says the
new legislation will include arrangements to ensure a smooth transition for existing and future resource
authority holders and that special transitional provisions will be put in place for a defined area of the Surat
Basin to take into account the importance of the Surat Basin to the State's CSG-to-LNG industry. Under
the foreshadowed special transitional arrangements, the notice period for the commencement of mining
will be extended from 10 to 15 years where a coal mining lease overlaps a petroleum lease. These
arrangements are proposed to apply to all production leases granted under the new framework up to the
end of 2016.

Other news

RISING GAS PRICES IN NEW SOUTH WALES

Independent Pricing and Regulatory TribunalOn 23 April 2014, the released a draft decision allowing for
an average increase in regulated gas prices in New South Wales of 17.6% in the 2014-15 financial year.
This means that from 1 July 2014, standard annual gas bills may increase by up to A$225 for households,
depending on where they are located and how much gas they use. Tribunal Chairman, Dr Peter Boxall,
said the increase is largely due to rising wholesale gas prices and that the draft decisions are based on
the Tribunal's assessment of proposals submitted by gas retailers. Dr Boxall noted that most NSW gas
consumers are already on market contracts rather than regulated prices and anticipates "further
competition among retailers as a result of electricity price deregulation.
BREE PREDICTS AN INCREASE IN RESOURCES AND ENERGY COMMODITY EXPORT EARNINGS
Bureau of Resources and Energy EconomicsThe (BREE) recently released its Resources and Energy
Quarterly Report for the March 2014 quarter. Based on an outlook period of 2014-15 to 2018-19, BREE
predicts the outlook for the world economy will be "largely positive" and, although slowing, that China's
medium term economic growth will be over 7% per year.
According to the Report, Australia's revenue from resources and energy commodities is projected to
increase at an average rate of 8% per year from 2013-14 to approximately A$284 billion in 2018-19.
Despite weaker commodity prices, export growth in the short term will be driven by higher volumes in coal
and iron ore. As new LNG production commences, the Report states that LNG will become one of
Australia's principal exports. In nominal terms, the Report predicts the value of LNG exports to increase
by around 340% over the outlook period as new facilities developed over the past three years commence
production. BREE forecasts that Australia will produce approximately 62 billion cubic metres of gas in
2013-14, similar to production figures in 2012-13.

Gladstone LNGQueensland Curtis LNGQueenslandGorgonWheatstoneIchthysPreludeThe Report refers
to seven LNG projects currently under construction in Australia being the Australia Pacific LNG , and
projects in , and the , , and projects off the north west coast of Western Australia. When these projects
come online, BREE predicts gas production in Australia will more than double to 151 billion cubic metres
in 2018-19.
QUEENSLAND DRAFT WIND FARM CODE RELEASED FOR PUBLIC COMMENT
Wind Farm Code13 May 2014The Queensland Government released a draft for public consultation on 6
May 2014. Deputy Premier and Minister for State Development, Infrastructure zand assessment of wind
farm development across Queensland and, once finalised, will be integrated into the State Development
Assessment Provisions. This means that the responsibility for assessment of all wind farm proposals will
be transferred from local governments to the State. The draft Code is available for public comment until
and can be viewed here . More information about the Code can be found here .

Page87of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.FINAL DATE FOR SUBMISSIONS ON FEDERAL INQUIRY INTO STREAMLINING ENVIRONMENTAL
REGULATION AND REDUCING GREEN TAPE EXTENDED

House of Representatives Standing Committee on the EnvironmentOn 27 February 2014, the announced
an inquiry into streamlining environmental regulation, "green tape" and "one-stop-shops" for
environmental assessments and approvals following a referral by the Federal Minister for the
Environment, Greg Hunt. The inquiry will have particular regard to jurisdictional arrangements, regulatory
requirements, the balance between regulatory burdens and environmental benefits, areas for improved
regulatory efficiency and effectiveness, and the potential for deregulation. The closing date for
submissions to the Committee was extended from 11 April to 30 April 2014. More information about the
inquiry can be found here .

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice
should be sought about your specific circumstances.

Most awarded

firm and Australian deal of
the year Employer of Choice for
Women
Australasian Legal Business Awards
Equal Opportunity for Women
in the Workplace (EOWA)

Mr John Kelly

Corrs Chambers Westgarth

Level 35 Waterfront Place

1 Eagle St

Brisbane

QLD

4000

AUSTRALIA

Tel: 29210 6500

Fax: 29210 6611

E-mail: Savannah.Bassant@corrs.com.au

URL: www.corrs.com.au/thinking

Click Here for related articles

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2014 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com

CO ctrpet : Central Petroleum Limited
IN
NS

i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1 : Energy | iexplo : Natural Gas/Oil Exploration
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c184 : Joint Ventures | c18 :
Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin :
FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | queensl :
Queensland

RE

IPD Energy and Natural Resources
PUB Mondaq Limited
AN

Document BBPUB00020140512ea5c000c8

Page88of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.