*S&P Upgrades Studio City To 'BB-'; Outlook Stable

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

*S&P Upgrades Studio City To 'BB-'; Outlook Stable

1,801 words
30 April 2014
22:41
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

30 Apr 2014 08:41 ET Press Release: S&P Upgrades Studio City To 'BB-'; Outlook Stable

The following is a press release from
Standard & Poor's:

-- We believe MCE Group has a strong willingness and ability to

-- The stable outlook reflects our expectation that the Studio City

financially support Macau-based gaming company Studio City in a stress
scenario.
-- We now consider Studio City to be a "strategically important"
subsidiary of the MCE Group.
-- We are raising our long-term corporate credit rating on Studio City
to
'BB-' from 'B+'. We are also raising the long-term issue rating on the
senior
notes that Studio City Finance issued to 'B' from 'B-'.
project will be on budget and its opening will not be significantly delayed.
We expect the company to remain highly leveraged over the next 12 months.
HONG KONG (Standard & Poor's) April 30, 2014--Standard & Poor's Ratings
Services said today that it had raised its long-term corporate credit rating
on Macau-based gaming company Studio City Co. Ltd. to 'BB-' from 'B+'. The
outlook is stable. We also raised the long-term issue rating on the senior
notes that Studio City Finance Ltd. issued to 'B' from 'B-'. At the same
time,
we raised our Greater China regional scale ratings on Studio City to 'cnBB+'
from 'cnBB' and on the notes to 'cnBB-' from 'cnB+'. Studio City Finance is
the indirect parent of Studio City. Studio City Finance's existing and
future
restricted subsidiaries, including Studio City, guarantee the notes.
"We upgraded Studio City because we believe the Melco Crown Entertainment
Ltd.
(MCE) Group has a strong willingness and ability to financially support
Studio
City in a stress scenario," said Standard & Poor's credit analyst Joe Poon.
We now consider Studio City to be a "strategically important" subsidiary of

Page65of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.the MCE Group under our group rating methodology. The rating on the company
is
therefore two notches higher than the stand-alone credit profile of 'b'. We
earlier assessed Studio City to be a "moderately strategic" subsidiary of
Australia-based Crown Resorts Ltd., which is a subsidiary of Consolidated
Press Holdings Ltd.
In our view, Studio City is an important part of MCE Group's expansion in
the
gaming sector. The company has high integration with the group since MCE
acquired a 60% stake in Studio City in 2011. MCE Group will operate Studio
City's proposed casino under its sub-concession. We assess the credit
profile
of MCE Group as 'bb'.
The rating on Studio City reflects the company's high leverage and
significant
construction and execution risks associated with its integrated gaming
resort
development, called Studio City Project, in Cotai, Macau. In addition,
Studio
City is exposed to single-property risk in Macau. The good growth prospects
of
Macau's gaming market and our expectation of ongoing support from the
project
sponsor, MCE, temper these weaknesses.
We rate the notes two notches lower than the corporate credit rating on
Studio
City because of structural subordination risk in the event of a default. The
notes will rank behind the company's senior secured bank facilities of about
US$1.4 billion equivalent in a recovery scenario.
Our assessment of Studio City's "highly leveraged" financial risk profile
primarily reflects our view that the company's project is still under
construction and will not generate revenues until at least late 2015, when
it
is scheduled to open. Significant delays in project construction or
weaker-than-expected demand will hurt Studio City's financial performance
and
could impair the company's ability to meet its financial obligations. We do
not deduct surplus cash from debt because the company's business risk
profile
is "weak."
"The stable outlook reflects our expectation that the Studio City project
will
be on budget and will not face any significant delay in opening," said Mr.
Poon. "We expect the company to remain highly leveraged over the next 12
months. The outlook also factors in ongoing managerial and financial support
from MCE Group."
We could lower the rating on Studio City if we no longer assess that the
company is a "strategically important" entity of MCE Group, in particular if
MCE Group materially reduces its shareholding in Studio City. We could also
lower the rating if we believe the group credit profile of MCE Group has
weakened.
We could raise the rating on Studio City if we raise the group credit
profile
of MCE Group. Although less likely in the next 12 months, we could also
raise

Page66of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.the rating if we assess Studio City as a "core" entity of MCE Group.
RELATED CRITERIA AND RESEARCH
Related Criteria
2014
Corporate Issuers, Jan. 2, 2014

-- Key Credit Factors For The Leisure And Sports Industry, March 5,
-- Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global
-- Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
-- Corporate Methodology: Ratios and Adjustments, Nov. 19, 2013
-- General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And

Assumptions,
Nov. 19, 2013

Entities And Insurers, Nov. 13, 2012

-- General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
-- Group Rating Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
-- Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate
-- Stand-Alone Credit Profiles: One Component Of A Rating, Oct. 1, 2010
-- 2008 Corporate Criteria: Rating Each Issue, April 15, 2008

Complete ratings information is available to subscribers of RatingsDirect at
www.globalcreditportal.com and at www.spcapitaliq.com. All ratings affected
by
this rating action can be found on Standard & Poor's public Web site at
www.standardandpoors.com. Use the Ratings search box located in the left
column.
Primary Credit Analyst: Joe Poon, Hong Kong (852) 2533-3507;
Secondary Contact: Christopher Yip, Hong Kong +852 25333593;

joe.poon@standardandpoors.com

christopher.yip@standardandpoors.com

No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations,
model, software, or other application or output therefrom) or any part
thereof
(Content) may be modified, reverse engineered, reproduced, or distributed in
any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without
the prior written permission of Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC or
its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any
unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party providers, as
well
as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees, or agents
(collectively
S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness, or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors
or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the
results obtained from the use of the Content, or for the security or
maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an "as
is" basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR
DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT'S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED, OR THAT THE
CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no
event
shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect,
incidental,
exemplary, compensatory, punitive, special or consequential damages, costs,
expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income
or

Page67of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Content should not be

lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by negligence) in
connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of
such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the
Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not
statements of fact. S&P's opinions, analyses, and rating acknowledgment
decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or
sell
any securities or to make any investment decisions, and do not address the
suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content
following publication in any form or format.
relied
on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment, and experience of the
user, its management, employees, advisors, and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or
an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has
obtained
information from sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an
audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of
any information it receives.
To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to
acknowledge
in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain
regulatory purposes, S&P reserves the right to assign, withdraw, or suspend
such acknowledgement at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties
disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the assignment, withdrawal, or
suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage
alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other
in
order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective
activities. As a result, certain business units of S&P may have information
that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established
policies and procedures to maintain the confidentiality of certain nonpublic
information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally
from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves
the
right to disseminate its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and
analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free
of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com and www.globalcreditportal.com
30 Apr 2014 08:41 ET Press Release: S&P Upgrades Studio City To 'BB-'; -2-

(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via
S&P
publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about
our
ratings fees is available at
www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
Any Passwords/user IDs issued by S&P to users are single user-dedicated and
may ONLY be used by the individual to whom they have been assigned.
No sharing of passwords/user IDs and no simultaneous access via the same
password/user ID is permitted. To reprint, translate, or use the data or
information other than as provided herein, contact Client Services,

Page68of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.55 Water Street, New York, NY 10041; (1) 212-438-7280 or by e-mail to:
research_request@standardandpoors.com.
Copyright (c) 2014 by Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC.
All rights reserved.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

April 30, 2014 08:41 ET (12:41 GMT)

CO
IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

crncas : Crown Resorts Limited
i97912 : Gambling Industries | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality
c174 : Corporate Credit Ratings | c152 : Earnings Projections | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | neqac
: Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | c15 : Performance | c17 :
Funding/Capital | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types
| nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | hkong : Hong Kong | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz :
Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document DJDN000020140430ea4u002gm

Page69of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.