Heard on the Street / Financial Analysis and Commentary

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Heard on the Street / Financial Analysis and Commentary

1,753 words
5 August 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
28
English
Copyright © 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Roller-Coaster Ride

Isn't Over at HSBC

Fasten your seat belts, it's going to be a bumpy ride.

HSBC is becoming more focused on core global trade and investment activities. But it also is far more
reliant on its global banking and markets business, making its results more volatile even before taking
into account effects of litigation and other crisis-era hangovers.

Global banking and markets used to account for just one-quarter of HSBC's profit in the years before
2008. Since the crisis, it regularly makes up more than 40%. Granted, profit has been rising since 2011,
particularly in fixed-income and currencies trading where HSBC has been second only to J.P. Morgan
Chase in grabbing market share.
But this year's first half saw it stumble. The bank suffered a 3.5% drop to $12.6 billion in pretax profit
from a year earlier, after stripping out a large gain and other onetime items in the earlier period. This
was largely driven by a 12% drop in income in its markets-focused arm.
HSBC's markets business is different from many U.S. peers. It is less about making markets in
investment products for the financial world and more about hedging companies' foreign-exchange
exposures.
However, that business also is volatile -- as highlighted by Standard Chartered's profit warning, which
will be fleshed out this week. HSBC's markets business was hobbled by a 21% drop in
foreign-exchange trading revenue -- by far the biggest contributor to its trading revenue, overall, and to
its decline.
In another big business, raising new debt and equity for clients or advising them on deals, HSBC took
market share. But revenue was flat because of lower fees.

Like peers world-wide, HSBC said activity improved in June in the trading businesses after a woeful
April and May. It managed to do better than most with just a 4% fall in second-quarter revenue from a
year earlier, according to Investec.
Many of the countries this business serves also have been hugely volatile -- a 68% drop in banking and
markets revenues in the U.S., for instance, hurt much more than the 71% leap in activity from the United
Arab Emirates.
The bank's steadier commercial-banking business is improving; half-year pretax profit was up 16%.
And any turn in interest rates in the U.K. and U.S. will drastically help net-interest margins in its two
home markets of Britain and Hong Kong. The latter is influenced by U.S. interest rates because its
currency is pegged to the U.S. dollar.
However, after $520 million of charges for regulatory penalties and customer redress in the U.K. in the
first half, HSBC still has up to $8.5 billion in unreserved litigation costs to deal with at some point,
according to Credit Suisse.

Page400of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The bank is stepping away from some countries, clients and products to reduce risks of future
regulatory penalties or litigation. But even if those risks disappear, its reliance on corporate finance and
markets means the bank's earnings are going to take investors on a roller-coaster ride for some time to
come.

-- Paul J. Davies

Golar LNG Sets Sail

To Unlock Trapped Gas

The world is tapping into a sea of gas -- literally.
The U.S. shale boom will help meet the needs of energy consumers, especially in Asia, that are
hungrier for natural gas, argued panelists at a recent Heard on the Street event in Hong Kong. With
China wanting cleaner fuels, demand for liquefied natural gas, which can be transported across seas,
should grow by 7.1% a year on average through 2020, says Sanford C. Bernstein's Neil Beveridge.
The big factor capping LNG consumption is infrastructure. This is a complex business, encompassing
specialized terminals that liquefy gas for export, ships that ferry it around, and receiving plants to
convert it back to gaseous form. Building these plants and equipment takes time, and investors should
keep an eye out for companies that can cash in down the road.

A starting point is firms bringing new technology to the market. New York-listed Golar LNG is one of the
first to develop floating liquefaction vessels that can produce, liquefy and store gas. In essence, these
are offshore rigs with the flexibility to move from one gas field to another, extracting the fuel at cheap
prices from previously remote areas.
Each vessel costs $1.2 billion, Golar says. That is about a tenth of what Wells Fargo estimates Shell is
spending on the closest technology to this, a relatively immobile, though larger, LNG platform off
Australia's northwestern coast.
Golar has begun outfitting one vessel. It is considering two more, which would give it a new business
line on top of its traditional carriers that just ship LNG.

The difficulty for investors is that they have to wait. Golar's first floating vessel probably won't turn profits
until 2017. The company hasn't yet secured agreements to sell gas, though it says it has three very
likely buyers, according to Morgan Stanley's Fotis Giannakoulis. Meanwhile, Golar's conventional carrier
business should grow as new demand for LNG ships outstrips new supply starting 2016.

Yet it is mainly the potential for floating liquefaction that has Golar's shares up 81% in the past six
months. Its enterprise value, including net debt, looks expensive based on near-term estimates of
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization.

Looking further out, there is more potential -- albeit also a longer period in which many factors can shift
around. Assuming only one floating vessel is up and running five years from now, Golar's current value
is 9.9 times Ebitda for 2019, based on Mr. Giannakoulis's earnings estimates. That still looks expensive.
But if Golar fields three vessels by 2019, the implied valuation is a more tempting 4.7 times.

LNG supply will naturally take time to catch up with the demand potential from Asia. That is what makes
infrastructure providers such as Golar early movers -- and potentially big gainers -- as gas goes global.

-- Abheek Bhattacharya

KKR Offers Treasury a Tempting Tipple
Deal makers at KKR surely appreciate a superior vintage. Their latest tilt at Treasury Wine Estates
looks too good to resist.

Treasury, the world's second-largest listed winemaker by sales after Constellation Brands, said Monday
it will open its books to private-equity groups KKR and Rhone Group after receiving a sweetened 3.38
billion Australian dollar (US$3.15 billion) takeover proposal. The A$5.20 a share offer is 11% above
the initial approach made by KKR in April.
It was bold of Treasury's board to turn down the original offer. The company has had its share of
troubles. Facing a glut of low-end wine, it last year destroyed thousands of gallons of expired
Berringer-brand wine in the U.S. where slowing demand for commercial wines has contributed to
A$415 million of write downs.

Page401of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Still, Treasury's real value lies in its high-end brands, the prize being Penfolds Grange, one of
Australia's most collected -- and expensive -- fine wines. And new Chief Executive Michael Clarke has a
plan to boost marketing and refocus spending on that business, which has been subsidizing
underperforming mass-market lines.

KKR isn't trying to get this bottle on the cheap. At 23.6 times Treasury's expected earnings for the year
ending June 2015, KKR's latest offer values Treasury at well above Constellation Brands, at 19.7 times,
Diageo at 16.9 and Pernod Ricard at 16.5 times.
That the private-equity group is willing to stretch to that price suggests it sees unrecognized value in
Treasury's sizable stock of luxury wine. The company has nearly A$500 million of noncurrent
inventory, consisting mostly of premium wines, that has the potential to boost earnings over the next few
years. While KKR is tight-lipped on its strategy, it also may see an opportunity to sell off lower-end
brands and the poorly performing U.S. business to allow Penfolds to flourish.

Treasury's strategy already has been paying off: A hefty marketing campaign has boosted sales of its
premium wines. But a more drastic restructuring would be a complicated affair, to which the
private-equity group should bring considerable experience.

At this price, it is unlikely that fellow winemakers will join the party. KKR has a chance to look over
Treasury's books, no formality given the company's recent woes. If KKR uncorks its offer after that,
Treasury's board should grab a glass.

-- Rebecca Thurlow

GoPro Can't Dodge the Wipeout

GoPro has made a strong start out of the gate, but its investors are realizing they may have raced too
far ahead.

In its first quarterly report since going public in late June, GoPro's numbers looked good. Revenue
jumped 38% in the second quarter, beating forecasts, from a year earlier. Unit shipments rose 31% in
what is seasonally a slower period for the wearable-camera maker. GoPro also projected a revenue
gain of about 35%, year over year, for the third quarter, ahead of estimates.

But when you are priced for perfection, merely fantastic doesn't cut it; GoPro's shares slumped.

The stock was already trading at 63 times forward earnings before the report, far above Canon's and
Nikon's midteen multiples. Even after the selloff, GoPro's multiple is about 50 times. So buying the stock
even ahead of the fall season, which is typically GoPro's strongest, is still a tough call.

GoPro has proved that it can stay competitive even against much larger rivals. Sony introduced its first
Action Cam in late 2012 to mixed reviews and didn't derail GoPro, which saw its unit sales jump 66%
the following year. GoPro benefits from strong brand identity within the action-sports segment that it
targeted early on. Its business model also includes the sale of high-margin add-ons like waterproof
cases and mounts.
But investors may also be overcrediting GoPro's plan to build a content business with the videos
captured on its devices. It remains unclear how the company would generate revenue from this.

So while it has the heady air of social media, it is a risky point on which to pin an outsize multiple.

-- Dan Gallagher

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

IN

NS

i1 : Energy | i1300005 : Support Activities for Oil/Gas | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i41 :
Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks |
ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality | imed : Media/Entertainment | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i13 : Crude
Oil/Natural Gas | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | icnp : Consumer Goods | ielec : Consumer Electronics
| ifinal : Financial Services | itech : Technology
c1521 : Analyst Comments/Recommendations | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | m11 : Equity Markets | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | nedc :
Commentaries/Opinions | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nhrd : Heard on the Street | nsum : News
Digests | ntesi : Essential Stock Market Information | ntop : Top Wire News | c15 : Performance | c152 :
Earnings Projections | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | mcat :
Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E

Page402of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE
Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis
austr : Australia | berm : Bermuda | china : China | eurz : Europe | hkong : Hong Kong | uk : United
Kingdom | usa : United States | use : Northeast U.S. | usny : New York State | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European
Union Countries | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
ABO
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document AWSJ000020140804ea8500005

RE

IPC
PUB
AN

Page403of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.