Key catches drift on waterways

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Key catches drift on waterways

773 words
22 October 2014
The New Zealand Herald
NZHLD
B023
English
(c) 2014 The New Zealand Herald

Govt spells out tentative plan to clean up dairying’s act as PM finally acknowledges there are limits to
growth

The Prime Minister has finally acknowledged the political reality that there are limits to growth as his
Government takes a tentative step towards ensuring dairy effluent doesn’t continue to despoil our
major waterways.

Dairy has been the major export driver for New Zealand ever since the White Gold Rush sparked a
surge of investment in dairy farms and farm conversions.
It’s contributed greatly to New Zealand export returns with demand out of China, in particular,
sparking growth.

But it’s come at a cost for New Zealand’s waterways.

During the election campaign John Key appeared to demonstrate a tin ear on this score. But it is an
issue that polarises New Zealanders and one where there needs to be a much stronger
Government-led balancing act to ensure the realities of dairy industry expansion are balanced
against the clean waterways that should still be New Zealanders’ birthright and also underpin our
major tourism industry.

The Key Government has been pumping out projections to show a massive forecast growth in
agricultural revenues from investing in more irrigation projects.

Problem is that much of the forecast growth has been predicated on a continuation of the rate of
dairy conversions and the intensification of dairy on existing farms. It doesn’t take Einstein to work
out that dairy effluent is a major contributor towards the despoiling of NZ’s rivers and lakes.

In yesterday’s Speech from the Throne, which sets out the Key Government’s third parliamentary
term agenda, the proposal to exclude dairy cattle from waterways by July 1, 2017 was reconfirmed.
It’s hard to fathom why it will take nearly two years for dairy farmers to complete the process of
fencing off waterways. The issue has been bubbling for years. A bit of pressure on farmers to finish
the job is long overdue.
But what is interesting is the move by the Government to set aside $100 million to “voluntarily buy
and retire areas of selected farmland next to important waterways to create an environmental buffer”.
This is $100 million the Government doesn’t need to spend.

This is releasing farmers from the moral hazard of intensifying agricultural production in areas which
arguably should not have been farms in the first place, or where intensification has taken place
without a view to the environmental consequences.

Irrespective, the Government has confirmed that investment in regional water infrastructure will
continue.

Page271of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It believes new water storage and irrigation projects can make land more productive and boost
exports, while at the same time providing positive environmental outcomes.

It notes that water reform will continue through advancing the recommendations of the Land and
Water Forum.

The focus on agriculture expansion (via increased irrigation and water storage) comes at a time when
it is obvious that for New Zealand to achieve its export goals there needs to be a much broader base
of exporting success — particularly to China.
As NZIER reported this week in a project for the NZ China Council, New Zealand needs to nurture its
strengths in dairy, meat and forestry, but also “catalyse growth in other sectors”.

Says NZIER: “While export prices have been favourable, much of the increase has been driven by
the volume of exports. New Zealand is a price taker in global markets — so that can be a risk to
export revenues.”

The “concentration in our basket of commodities means that a few commodities have grown very fast
in recent years. Dairy, meat and forestry drove nearly 80 per cent of the doubling in exports. In a
diversified basket the risk from one-off events that may impact one or two commodities does not
feature as largely”.
The realities of the China trade illustrate why the Government intends to continue to provide
incentives to increase business-led research and development, with a goal of raising this to 1 per
cent of GDP by 2018.

Cabinet Minister Steven Joyce has indicated more cash will be provided for the R&D grant
programme. Joyce will also be expanding the Business Growth Agenda programme.

The overall agenda is not surprising. There will be job fairs for New Zealand employers in Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane, to recruit skilled expatriate New Zealanders to return home and work in
areas where there are shortages.

Free-trade deals — which are taking a very long time to notch — will continue to be pursued. NZTE
will get a budget boost to help more businesses.

ACC levies will be reduced next year.

RF
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Fran23
i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming |
ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
c312 : External Markets | gpol : Domestic Politics | c31 : Marketing/Markets | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat
: Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
nz : New Zealand | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
W & H Newspapers Limited
Document NZHLD00020141021eaam0002k

Page272of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.