Apartments an attractive investment

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Apartments an attractive investment

Dan Wilkie
667 words
5 August 2014
Business News
WABN
English
© Copyright 2014 Business News Pty Ltd.

Property players are upping the ante to promote WA as a safe-haven investment for Chinese.
Western Australia is increasingly on the radar of Chinese property investors, with commercial
agents and developers hoping to replicate the success of their Sydney and Melbourne counterparts
in sourcing significant capital from this cashed-up cohort.

Urban infill development specialist Devwest considers itself as somewhat of a trailblazer in the Perth
property market, having travelled to China for more than 15 years to attract investment.

That long-term strategy has been paying off, according to Devwest executive director Damon
Ferguson.
"Probably around 50 per cent of our capital comes from China," Mr Ferguson told Business News.
"There's definitely very strong demand for our projects from Chinese purchasers."
Mr Ferguson said Chinese investors were typically interested in apartment projects, either as a pure
investment, or as a home for their offspring studying at one of Perth's tertiary institutions.

The biggest challenge, Devwest managing director Tony Hatt said, was supplanting Sydney and
Melbourne in the minds of Chinese investors.

"Those are the places that they know, but I think a lot more of them are becoming aware of Western
Australia and the power of the WA economy," he said.

Mr Hatt said part of Devwest's strategy was the use of comprehensive promotional material
highlighting Perth's natural attributes - weather, parklands, beaches and a thriving hospitality scene.
However, Mr Hatt said building lasting relationships was the key to attract Chinese investors.
"China's not a place that you can go to tomorrow and walk out with a bag full of money," he said,

"It takes years and years of relationship building."
Mr Hatt said the company's approach didn't stop at finding appropriate property investments for
Chinese clients, with Devwest providing much more than an asset portfolio.

"There are other things we help them with, especially when they move their whole family out," Mr Hatt
told Business News.
"We help them buy a car, buy a house, they want their kids to go to the right school, they want to
know what restaurant to go to, so we help them on all of that side - it's not just the investment side.

"It's a big responsibility on that side, but that's how word of mouth goes around."
Altegra Property Group managing director Tony Brooks shared Mr Hatt's bullish outlook for Chinese
investment in WA property assets.

Page258of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Brooks, who was about to board a flight to Hong Kong when contacted by Business News, said
he expected the Chinese appetite for Perth property only to increase as word gets out regarding the
strength of the WA economy.
"We're increasingly doing more transactions and attracting investment in commercial assets," he
said.

"They're interested in fully-leased assets, and a combination of office-industrial, and they've also got
an interest in residential to broaden their investment base."
Mr Brooks said the company's high-service business model was particularly appreciated in China.

"We tend to target high-net-worth individuals and work strategically to get good outcomes for them,"
he said.

"They like to know that they are being cared for and looked after and they're being placed into good
assets."
Blackburne Property Group managing director Paul Blackburne was equally confident regarding the
prospects of luring increased Chinese investment to Perth.
Mr Blackburne said about 5 per cent of the company's apartments were being sold to Chinese
buyers, and he wanted to increase that percentage to 25 per cent within two years.
The other aspect of the market is Chinese developers wanting a slice of the pie, Mr Blackburne said.
"There wouldn't be a month that goes by without a Chinese developer coming to our office wanting to
joint venture," he said.

"These are big billion dollar companies, not hundred million dollar companies.
"Big Chinese developers understand that the Perth apartment market is a good place to be."

RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | china : China | sydney : Sydney | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New
South Wales
Business News Pty Ltd
Document WABN000020140805ea85001b9

Page259of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.