China ’s spirited move on a fine SA winemaker

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
China’s spirited move on a fine SA winemaker

VALERINA CHANGARATHIL
341 words
11 March 2014
The Advertiser
ADVTSR
Advertiser
28
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

ONE of China’s oldest state-owned liquor producers, Luzhou Laojiao, has bought a multimillion dollar
stake in McLaren Vale’s Shottesbrooke Vineyards.
The equity and investment deal will see China’s third-biggest bai jiu producer responding to changing
sensibilities in its home market after more than 400 years in business. Bai jiu is an alcoholic drink made
from sorghum and other grains.

The spirit maker’s investment in the South Australian winery – its sole Australian investment to date - is
aimed at helping it corner a share of the growing wine market at home, Shottesbrooke winery owner
Hamish Maguire said.
The group has spent more than two years looking for the right partner and chose the McLaren Vale
producer over at least 60 other wineries, he said.
Sources said Luzhou Laojiao had paid close to $5 million to acquire majority stake in the South
Australian winery, which also includes sole distribution rights for the China market. Mr Maguire said the
investment figure finalised in December was confidential and the deal a “win-win” for both partners.

“It’s an investment into our future, which was necessary to ensure we could handle future demand,” Mr
Maguire said.
Shottesbrooke Vineyards produces 100,000 cases of mostly red wine per year. Mr Maguire said he
expected at least half of this would be taken up by the Chinese partner.

Shottesbrooke Vineyards’ history dates back to 1984 when former owner Nick Holmes began with the
first planting of vines by founder Nick Holmes.
Australia China Business Council SA president Sean Keenihan said he was expecting to see more of
this activity in the coming year. “The City of Onkaparinga is one example of how local governments are
establishing links with emerging Chinese cities,” he said.The City of Onkaparinga hosted a delegation
from Luzhou in December, the home of Luzhou Laojiao, and signed a Memorandum of Understanding
to enhance the bilateral economic and trade cooperation and cultural exchange between the two cities.

IN

NS

RE

PUB

i426 : Wine | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge :
Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods
eppin : Producer Price Index | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | ecat :
Economic News
china : China | austr : Australia | sichu : Sichuan | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.

Page22of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document ADVTSR0020140310ea3b0003m

Page23of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.