Interim 2014 DOWNER EDI LTD Earnings Presentation - Final

HD Interim 2014 DOWNER EDI LTD Earnings Presentation - Final
WC 9,307 words
PD 3 February 2014
SN CQ FD Disclosure
SC FNDW
LA English
CY © 2014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.
LP

Presentation

GRANT FENN, MANAGING DIRECTOR AND CEO, DOWNER EDI LIMITED : Well good morning ladies
and gentlemen and thank you for joining us this morning for this presentation of the Downer EDI Limited
results for the six months to 31 December 2013.

TD

The order of events will be that I'll take you through an overview of the results of the Group in the divisional
levels and then Kevin Fletcher , our Group CFO will cover the financial aspects of the year's performance
and current position in a lot more detail.

I'll then come back to give you our view on work-in-hand and the outlook for the full year and we'll follow
that with questions at the end of the presentation. So let's move on now to the results overview.

Firstly, I'd just say that this last six months has been a pretty challenging period for each of our businesses.
Revenue has been difficult to come by and prices have been very competitive. Now this wasn't a surprise
to us; we essentially highlighted this scenario in our earnings guidance at the full year and in general I've
been pleased with how each of our businesses and the Group has responded to the many challenges that
the market's provided.

As a whole despite revenue being off by over 16% we've been able to improve our net profit after tax by a
bit over 5% -- 5.4% -- and our operating cash flow at AUD280 million was up 54% with an EBITDA
conversion of 99%.

Now in the circumstances I think these numbers are impressive and they've been delivered as we continue
to invest in the business and in our people. Downer is continuing to build on its reputation for quality and
service and this is coming through. One of the very pleasing and important elements of the past six months
is the strength of the work-in-hand which has gone up from the 2013 full year to AUD19.6 billion. I'll have
more to say on that in a moment.

Our win rates have improved, particularly on the jobs that are strategically important to us. I must give due
credit to our management teams and our employees. Now these times are tough and it is hard for people to
maintain their focus in this type of environment and I commend our people for their efforts.
Our balance sheet continues to improve with net debt now at just AUD170 million and gearing is at 8.2%.
Even if we include off balance sheet debt our gearing is only 16.2%. We are in a good position to deal with
any issues or opportunities which may come our way in the future.
I'm pleased to announce that the Board has decided to increase the interim dividend to AUD0.11 per share
which will again be 70% franked and it's our current expectation that any final dividend recommended by
the Board will be fully franked.

As you'd know health and safety at Downer is our most important priority and we take this aspect of our
business extremely seriously. Our safety metrics have continued to improve, with a loss time injury
frequency rate of 0.76 and that's down from 0.77 and a total recordable injury frequency rate of 4.82 and
that's down from 5.49, so I'm very happy with those results.

Because there's been quite a move in Group revenue, we've included a bridging slide the presentation to
take you from revenue in the first half of 2013 to the first half of 2014. As you can see from the slide and
perhaps as we expected mining and infrastructure have been impacted greatly by material contracts that

Page30of42©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.have finished and not been replaced. Rail too has been impacted by the lack of locomotive manufacturing
and sales.
Mining and rail have also been substantially impacted by volume reductions on continuing projects. In
Rail's case it's the Waratah and in mining it's the volume reductions as customers adjust their operations,
but it's not all bad news. Each of the businesses has one new work in the period and as I said before, our
work-in-hand is very strong.

Now we'll move onto each of our divisions, infrastructure first.

As you can see from the revenue reduction the infrastructure result has been impacted by the reduction in
mining related capital works. Now this impact has been greater in the West and in the mining
consultancies like Snowden, QCC and Mineral Technologies. The business did take early action on costs
to offset the 18% reduction in Australian based revenue substantially reducing the negative impact on
earnings and very pleasingly the New Zealand business continued to improve in both revenue and
earnings and detailed splits are set out in the 4D.

During the period, Downer infrastructure has achieved a higher win rate on a reduced number of market
opportunities. We are focused on winning a bigger share of available work. Our success in this area has
been one of the most important aspects of the first half performance.

Just a couple of wins to note, in November 2013 DownerMouchel joint venture was awarded a seven year
AUD100 million per annum stewardship maintenance contract for the Sydney West Zone road network.
The contract will further strengthen Downer's road infrastructure business.

In December 2013 Downer infrastructure's west business was awarded all of the electrical and
instrumentation work at Chevron 's Wheatstone project in Western Australia valued at over AUD400
million.
Now onto mining.

After significant growth over the past three years the market downturn has provided an opportunity for
Downer Mining to focus on productivity improvements and cost efficiencies. This has been very positive for
the business, although revenue reduced by around 23% when compared with the previous corresponding
period. This was largely offset by a mix of cost reduction and production productivity improvements along
with improved capital efficiency on the use and funding of fleet.
The mining business has been very active in bidding new work and was very pleased to be awarded a four
and a half year mining services contract with Roy Hill Iron Ore during the period, the only significant new
mining contract announced.
The mining business continues to maintain strong relationships with its customers and continues to be
proactive in working with them to reduce costs and improve productivity. I'm very positive about our mining
business. Customers are increasingly looking for greater efficiency in production and the use of capital and
this is what we bring.

Now moving onto rail.

The rail performance for the half was clearly well below expectations. The size of the reduction in market
demand did surprise us somewhat and as a result the restructure of the business has been accelerated.
Restructure costs of around AUD10.5 million are included in the result. The rail business has reduced its
headcount by over 300 full-time equivalents during the period. This will allow position earnings momentum
in the second half of the financial year.

Again I remain positive about the prospects for the rail business. Despite its current financial performance,
we have the right team to really get this business working efficiently and cost effectively for our customers.
There is a large market out there to be opened up and we're investing to get our services and capabilities
right.

On the Waratah we've currently got 67 trains available for passenger service with the seventy-eighth (sic -
sixty-eighth) train due to be delivered in May 2014 and the final train has departed China.

Seventeen trains have achieved final completion and 36 more have achieved the required reliability for final
completion. The trains are performing well in service as you would attest if you're a Sydney rail commuter.
AUD21 million remains as a general contingency on this project.

Now Kevin over to you for the detailed financials.

Page31of42©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.KEVIN FLETCHER , CFO, DOWNER EDI LIMITED : Thanks Grant and good morning ladies and
gentlemen.

Moving straight into the results, the key movements in total revenue across Group half on corresponding
half have already been covered and as Grant mentioned, these are largely in line with the key assumptions
we outlined when we reported to the market last August. It is worth noting that the composition of total
revenue has marginally changed with the adoption of AASB 11 joint arrangements, with our joint ventures
with Mouchel in the road maintenance space and Clough on the Gladstone LNG project now proportionally
consolidated as joint arrangements, meaning the revenue from those operations are now included in
statutory revenue. Full details of the adoption of AASB 11 are included in note 17 to the consolidated
financial statements.

Now whilst earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation decreased by 8.2% and earnings
before interest and tax likewise decreased by 5.4%, these are both substantially lower than the decline in
revenue of 16.7% with costs above the EBIT line decreasing by 17.1% on a like-for-like basis, reflecting the
rigorous focus on cost reduction, productivity improvement and asset utilisation during the period across all
of our businesses.
Included within the result, sadly for those affected, are AUD18.3 million of redundancy costs as the
businesses have aligned the workforce to the current levels of activity and implemented various initiatives
to improve productivity. The restructuring costs within rail of AUD10.5 million also reflect the reintegration
of personnel working on the Waratah project back into the core business and costs associated with the
decision to exit maintenance activities at our Bathurst facility.

Pleasingly we have also continued to improve performance below the line, with net interest expense
reducing by 27.3% to just under AUD24 million, reflecting the systemic and ongoing focus on cash and
working capital management and the impact of lower interest rates following the refinancing of a number of
our facilities in the second half of the last financial year.
Our net interest expense forecast for the full year is now under AUD50 million which is a marked
improvement on the prior year. Tax expense of AUD37 million reflects an effective tax rate of 27.3% which
is below the Australian statutory rate of 30% and is due to franking credits recovered against joint venture
distributions, research and development grants received and lower overseas tax rates principally in New
Zealand.

Whilst not shown on the slide, basic earnings per share -- EPS -- was AUD0.218 per share up 3.8% while
net tangible assets per share improved 13.2%. Return on funds employed declined marginally by 30 basis
points to 16.6% reflecting the modest deterioration in earnings against a relatively stable net asset base
with capital expenditure only marginally above depreciation.

The interim dividend of AUD0.11 per share is in line with last year's final dividend and represents a payout
ratio of 48% and a net dividend yield of 4.5% based on the share price at 31 December of AUD4.86.

We have decided to continue the operation of the DRP with zero discount. The dilution is minimal at zero
discount and it provides an opportunity for shareholders to increase their investment in [that] and with no
transaction costs.

In terms of summary of earnings, I said to the market a few periods ago that over time I hoped to dispense
with this slide but would continue to include it if it aided an understanding of the steady state or normalised
performance of our businesses. So I have again included the slide today but pleasingly have much less to
talk about.
I've already covered the redundancy costs of AUD18.3 million included in -- incurred in the half, the bulk of
which is in rail and infrastructure. Whilst mining has seen a 23% reduction in revenue following the
completion of the Wambo and Millenium contracts and volume reductions across other projects, the
workforce adjustment for those changes was largely incurred in the second half of last year.

Government grant income relates to research and development expenditure with 10% of the 40% credit
against tax payments received recognised above the line as other income in accordance with accounting
standard AASB 120. While this will be a feature of our results going forward, we have called it out again
this year given the AUD7.9 million in part included a true-up from prior year R&D claims.

Now Grant has already talked about the divisional performance and I have already mentioned how our
focus on cash has helped improve the bottom line. However, another feature of our result has been a
substantial reduction in unallocated or corporate costs in the period. If we strip away the abnormal costs
from last year's first half being the Singapore Tunnel settlement, the Spiire Australia business impairment
and gross settlements provisions against claims which included AUD3.7 million related to asbestos

Page32of42©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.remediation at our Cardiff facility, true corporate costs totalled AUD28.3 million. This period's equivalent is
AUD22.1 million or a 22% reduction.

Head office costs are down 19.5% in dollar terms, reflecting a 20% reduction in corporate office headcount
and flow-on savings as we respond to both the tougher external environment but also as we remove
duplication as the divisions have built stronger governance within their own operations. For example, the
project management office within Downer infrastructure has dramatically enhanced project, contract and
risk management across that business.
IT costs are down just under AUD2 million largely as we come to the end of our infrastructure
transformation. We will continue to invest in IT and are now moving into phase two of our transformation
which focuses on our application portfolio to ensure we have the optimal solutions to manage our own
operations and those of our customers.
Full year unallocated costs are projected at around AUD60 million to AUD65 million, with the scoot of the
second half driven by the inclusion of projected senior executive and Group office staff incentive bonuses
forecast in June and bid costs on a number of proposals we hope to be tendering on, including the Sydney
Light Rail project.

In terms of operating cash flow, once again I am particularly pleased to report a very strong operating cash
flow result of up to AUD280 million in the period. This is a AUD99 million or 54.9% improvement
half-on-corresponding-half and reflects not only the strength of our processes around cash and working
capital management, but the continued progress with the Waratah train project as this nears completion
and we have turned the corner on cash flow.
Adjusting for interest and tax paid and the AUD28 million proceeds received against the Waratah project,
our cash conversion comes in at 98.8%. When you look through our results it is clear that our cash and
working capital management processes are not just about optimising cash on reporting date, although like
all companies, there is heightened activity within Downer to convert work in progress and collect claims and
debtors in both December and June.

The reduced interest expense does not come about however by optimising cash one day each half year,
but through ongoing and relentless focus and attention on cash throughout the period. Likewise, our
processes are not about adversely impacting our customers or our suppliers, with our debtor days again
improved from 30 June down 2.7 days to 21.5 days and creditor days while increasing by 4.4 days to 36.9
days, are well within our terms of trade and substantially below the 45.2 days reported this time last year.
As I mentioned earlier, the Waratah project has now turned cash flow positive, with net inflows for this fiscal
year projected to be around AUD50 million, with a further AUD150 million to be received in fiscal 2015
and the remaining AUD12 million in September 2018, or upon the earlier refinancing of Reliance Rail.
Further details on the Waratah cash flow are shown on the bottom of slide 22.

Our projections in terms of Waratah cash flow are, of course, premised on the assumption that AUD80
million of the MDA interest is received in July 2014, i.e. next fiscal year, although the team is working very
hard to pull this through to this year.
Turning to the overall cash flow statement, net investing cash flow was just under AUD164 million, a 26%
reduction on the corresponding half. Capital expenditure totalled AUD171 million, of which AUD125
million was on mining equipment including major fleet component replacements of AUD46 million,
AUD41 million on the purchase of equipment that was on operating lease as it matured, and a new
R9800 excavator, which has been positioned at our Goonyella operation.
Net capital expenditure forecast for the year remains below AUD300 million and includes additional growth
CapEx related to our successful tender at Roy Hill, which was not included in our guidance of AUD300
million last August.
Cash held at December 31 was just under AUD364 million, a reduction of AUD121 million since June 30,
and largely reflects the repayment of the AUD150 million 2009 medium term note facility which matured in
October, having effectively been refinanced in May last year.
Turning to the balance sheet, shareholders' equity increased by AUD70 million to AUD1.897 billion,
reflecting the profit in the period of AUD99 million, plus equity-accounted gains on foreign exchange on
cross-currency contracts, less the final 2013 dividend payment of AUD47 million after DRP participation.
Our focus on cash has seen net debt reduced a further AUD73 million since June 30 to AUD170 million,
with on balance sheet gearing now below 10% at 8.2% and gearing, including the present value of
operating lease rentals on plants and equipment, at 16.2%.

Interest cover under our legacy covenant platform has improved to 3.21 times, which continues to build
head room above that target. We are working hard, however, to migrate all of our facilities onto the new

Page33of42©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.common terms deed we introduced with the refinancing of our Australian dollar-syndicated facility in April
last year, under which we have a new interest cover covenant, which is simply EBIT over net interest. At
December 30, this was exactly six times and well above our new threshold.

Adjusted net debt over adjusted EBITDA has likewise continued to improve, trending downward to 2.17
times, which is below our new Fitch target of less than 2.5 times following our re-rating to BBB stable
outward look in June last year.
Available debt facilities have been allowed to reduce to AUD1.18 billion at December 31, largely reflecting
the repayment of the 2009 medium term note in October as I mentioned earlier. Drawn debt was down to
AUD533 million at December 31, giving us total liquidity of just over AUD1 billion and our bonding
capacity remains healthy, with available facilities of over AUD400 million.

Average debt maturity has increased marginally to 2.7 years in the period, which follows not only the
repayment of the 2009 medium term note but also the re-negotiation by our treasury team of our bilateral
facilities in November and December, in which we achieved not only a reduction in rates of around 30 basis
points but also an increase in average tenor from the traditional 12 months for bilateral facilities to just
under 2 years.
Our next major maturities are two USPP facilities for a total of $70 million in September this year, which
will leave us with $7 million outstanding, which matures in 2019.

On that note, I'll hand over to Grant. Thank you.

GRANT FENN: Thanks, Kev. Let's now look at the outlook, starting with work-in-hand. As I highlighted
earlier, the very positive aspect of the Group's performance over the past 6 months is the level of
work-in-hand, which has risen to AUD19.6 billion. The increase has been driven by the infrastructure
business in both Australia and New Zealand. We've put a lot of effort into winning new business in each of
the divisions, and it is paying off.
Infrastructure has increased by around AUD1.2 billion, while mining and rail have reduced by AUD400
million and AUD200 million respectively. The large increase in infrastructure is predominantly in Australia,
although New Zealand has contributed around AUD400 million of the increase. Alliance and recurring
work has increased, with a reduction in fixed price and schedule of rates contracts.
Mining's work-in-hand has reduced, due mainly to contract run-off and volume reductions, and that's been
offset by the win on Roy Hill. Rail's work-in-hand is reduced as Waratah trains have been delivered during
the period.

Now to the outlook. As expected, the 2014 financial year has been characterized by a reduction in new
major capital works in the resources sector, a greater emphasis by mining customers on optimizing their
volumes and cost of production, and budgetary pressure on the level of government expenditure on road
and rail maintenance.

As a result, the year so far has been one of consolidation rather than growth, and this is expected to
continue through the full year. That said, the performance of the Group in the first half of the year, including
the focus on costs and efficiency, suggests that Downer is on track to meet its forecast net profit after tax of
around AUD215 million for the 2014 financial year.

So with that, that's the end of the formal part of the presentation and we'd like now to invite questions,
please.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your first question today comes from Ben Brownette with CBA. Please go ahead.

BEN BROWNETTE, ANALYST, CBA: Hi guys. Kevin, I was just wondering if you can give us a little bit
more detail on some of the numbers. I'm just wondering what the rail work-in-hand might be without the
Waratah maintenance contract. Is there anything left there for the other part of the rail business or is the
revenue from there just going to be the ongoing spare parts and maintenance?

I was wondering if you could give us a bit of an idea what that was in the half to going forward. And with
your leases that are rolling off, do they reflect some of the contracts that have ended? Then just one more
general on strategy for Grant. Would you ever consider looking at a company that is having significant
operational difficulties at the moment with respect to purchasing a business, or would that be less of a
preference?

Page34of42©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.GRANT FENN: I'll just deal with the rail one, then I'll hand over to Kev for the leases and then I'll come
back on the strategy. I don't have the list in front of me, but yes, there is a pipeline of work-in-hand for rail
outside of the Waratah, I just don't have it with me at the moment. We don't go into too much detail, but
perhaps Michael may be able to give you a little more detail later on. Kev, on leases?

KEVIN FLETCHER : Ben, the majority of the leases that have rolled off in the period actually are on our
existing contracts, so these were put in place some years ago when the contracts were first put in place.
Interest rate environment was high then. We've taken the opportunity, as these things have come off, to
actually buy them outright at somewhat substantially lower rates.

It's a case-by-case basis. We've rolled over those where we feel there's a benefit or bought some where we
think there's a benefit. Others we've just simply rolled over the operating lease.

BEN BROWNETTE: Okay, thank you.

GRANT FENN: Just on the strategy of perhaps buying poorly-performing businesses, you never say no on
this, but in this type of business you've got to make sure that you're not picking up something with contracts
that are very deep in the mire, that the existing company and you can't get a handle on. So it's fraught with
difficulty, I think. You really need to get in and do a very, very extensive due diligence if you're going to do
that.

BEN BROWNETTE: Okay, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Thank you. The next question comes from Andrew Hodge with CIMB. Please go ahead.

ANDREW HODGE, ANALYST, CIMB: Good morning guys, just a couple of questions. The first is Kevin,
just on the normalizing items, would you expect restructuring costs to moderate significantly in the second
half?

KEVIN FLETCHER : Certainly I think in rail we've accelerated a lot of the restructuring in that business in
the half. That's not to say that there's not more to do. We're continuing to look to improve the performance
of the business. I don't think it's going to be of the same order as the first half and likewise in infrastructure
it's really going to be a function of where revenue is. The bulk of our restructuring has been incurred in the
first half.

ANDREW HODGE: Then just following in the same vein, are you able to quantify at this point if we take the
fifth of business program as an overall five -year program, quantitatively where you think you're up to at this
point of this half?

KEVIN FLETCHER : We're tracking well, to be honest. I don't have the detail with me, but as I said, we
increased our target for the year to AUD125 million and we're certainly well on track with delivering those
gross benefits.

ANDREW HODGE: Okay. Then just the last question for me. I just wanted to confirm that the guidance for
this year, FY14, doesn't include any potential release of the AUD21 million general contingency out of the
Waratah completion?

GRANT FENN: We haven't thought about that, Andrew.

ANDREW HODGE: So I guess that would mean that it's not -- the guidance is without having to release
any of that provision?

GRANT FENN: We'd like that to be the case.

ANDREW HODGE: All right, thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Thank you. The next question comes from Craig Wong-Pan with Deutsche Bank . Please go
ahead.

CRAIG WONG-PAN, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK : First question just on the infrastructure business.
Could you just give some more details around the weakness there? It seems like there was a large pull
back, there was some deferrals and cancellations mentioned in your media release. Could you give some
sort of colour around that?

KEVIN FLETCHER : Could you just say that again? I just missed the first part of the question.

CRAIG WONG-PAN: Just around the Infrastructure Australia business, I just want to know about some
more details around the revenue weakness, where you're seeing the deferrals and cancellations.

Page35of42©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.GRANT FENN: They really occurred in the previous half that then impacted this half, jobs that were going
to start that we'd almost won. I'm not going to go individually through those contracts, but there were a
number of them. We've also had a number of very large jobs that finished at the end of the previous half,
some hundreds of millions' worth as you can see in the slide, that we put in there on revenue. This is not
new mate -- not news, anyway. I think all of the sector is feeling the impact.

CRAIG WONG-PAN: Okay. In terms of the cancellations and deferrals, can you characterize it? Is it more
project work or is there some of the more recurring-type nature work?

GRANT FENN: No, project work.
CRAIG WONG-PAN: Okay. Next one, just on the mining business.

GRANT FENN: Sorry, I should also say that there's talk now of some of those kicking back off again, so the
way I see 2014 is that this has really been, again, we call it a consolidation period. This is the period of
subdued activity, and hopefully we'll see a number of those projects kick back off.
CRAIG WONG-PAN: Okay. So in terms of the revenue, you reported AUD1.8 billion for the Infrastructure
Australia business. Is that the sort of revenue that we should be assuming going forward? Is that the new
run rate?

GRANT FENN: We're yet to do our 2015 numbers and when we do those we'll talk about that at the full
year. I would hope that we'd get back up there. We're working hard on winning new business, but that will
come about and the time that it will take to get there, we'll work that through in our planning cycle, which
we're not there yet. So really we can only talk about 2014 at this stage. The positive thing is that our
work-in-hand is very strong and we're winning good business. I think our guys have done a great job in
making sure that they keep that business rolling in.
CRAIG WONG-PAN: Okay. Next question, just on the mining business. You reported very good margins
there of 8.8% in the half. It sounds like this has been driven by some operational improvements and cost
out. Has this result changed your target? You typically targeted a 7% to 8% EBIT margin for that division.

GRANT FENN: I think in the longer term we should stay where we've talked about, between 7% and 8%. I
think they've done particularly well in this half, and there's a lot of factors to that. As you say, cost
improvement. There's also been some movement from operating leases to finance leases, which has
helped as well.

CRAIG WONG-PAN: Okay, great. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Thank you. The next question comes from Brent Walsh with Merrill Lynch . Please go ahead.
BRENT WALSH, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH : Thanks, guys. I just wanted to follow up on that mining
question. One of the key questions will be how sustainable is that margin performance in the near term?
You mentioned that longer-term you expect it to maybe drift back to 7% to 8%, but I guess short term, how
much of that is driven by contracts that have rolled off that were lower-margin, for example? Just looking
out for the rest of this year, do you think that that sort of performance is still sustainable for the rest of the
financial year anyway?

GRANT FENN: When we talk about 7% to 8%, we're talking in the longer term. I think the business is
performing well and margins are better than we had expected, in fact. But again, driven by a number of
factors, some of it being roll-off of contracts that weren't earning a lot of margin. There's been a lot of cost
improvement. The guys have done very well working pro-actively with their customers and then there's
been the movement of operating leases to finance leases, and all three things have driven that margin up
and we're very happy about it, frankly.

In the longer term, this is a competitive business, so 7% to 8% is, I think, where we would see it in the
longer term.

BRENT WALSH: Sure, and just one more quick one. On the New Zealand business, it looks like most of
the revenue growth in the half was driven by currency. In New Zealand dollars it looks like revenue was
pretty flat. Can we expect activity to start to pick up in New Zealand? Say you get some organic growth
from Christchurch, et cetera? Is there any reason -- I guess I probably would have expected New Zealand
might have been a little bit stronger, that's all.

GRANT FENN: We think New Zealand is going pretty well. The Telco business there has got increased
revenue. I think the skirting in Christchurch is going well. On the transport side, on the road side, it's been a
little more subdued than we'd like, but I think New Zealand is performing well and the benefit of Downer's
diversity, I think, comes through in these results.

Page36of42©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.BRENT WALSH: All right, great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. The next question comes from Guy Robinson with Citi. Please go ahead.

GUY ROBINSON, ANALYST, CITI: Morning Grant, morning Kevin. I guess a lot of my questions have been
touched on already, but just if you look at Infrastructure Australia specifically, and I take the point you've not
cut your numbers for 2015 yet. But when you look at the projects that you've won over the last 6 months
and that growth in work-in-hand for Infrastructure Australia, do you see the ability to grow earnings for that
business in 2015 on 2014, given the subdued result in the first half?

GRANT FENN: That's our aim, but we'll have to talk about that when we've done our work. We're still
working through our forward order book and our CRM, so I'll just have to speak about that later on.

GUY ROBINSON: Okay. Could you just touch on LNG specifically East Coast? Do you see any opportunity
for material involvement in the downstream electrical space over the next 12 months as those projects
reach peak and move into commissioning? Then secondly, on that LNG, your chances on picking up one or
two of those excess packages given your (inaudible)?

GRANT FENN: All I can say is we're working hard at it, all of it.

GUY ROBINSON: Okay. So that's a reasonable chance?

GRANT FENN: I don't know. I hope.

KEVIN FLETCHER : We've got our fingers crossed.

GRANT FENN: We're just working hard. We can't do any more.

GUY ROBINSON: All right. NBN, can you just give a sense of how your roll-out on those packages that
you've won is tracking? Is it tracking to plan? Just taking the point that if you had any delays here that
would really start to crunch the margins on those NBN contracts.

GRANT FENN: We're not unhappy with our NBN performance, but it doesn't mean that we're perfect at it.
We've got some of the issues, not to the degree of others in the market, but we have had some of the
issues around delays and issues with design, et cetera. We've had all of those issues impact us. We're
getting better at it, we're getting better at design, we're getting better at roll-out, and we're in good
discussions with NBN Co about all of that.

We think ultimately NBN will be a very, very good earner for the business and NBN, I think, are doing their
best to try and get a roll-out program that's going to work for the contractors, so we're pretty hopeful on it.
We think we'll make good money.

GUY ROBINSON: Great. That's all from me, thanks.

OPERATOR: Thank you. The next question comes from Anthony Passe-de Silva from JP Morgan . Please
go ahead.

ANTHONY PASSE-DE SILVA, ANALYST, JP MORGAN : Good morning gentlemen. A couple of questions.
Firstly that FY14 CapEx number, I didn't quite catch it earlier and I just was hoping to get a bit more colour
on the breakdown of how much Roy Hill is and what other factors are going into that CapEx number,
whether it's a new asphalt plant or where the combining CapEx is for non-Roy Hill projects? If I could get
some colour there, please?
KEVIN FLETCHER : I'll have to come back to you. I've got a figure of AUD40 million in my head, but I
could be wrong on that one. As I said, we're projecting now -- we projected at the full year an indicative
outlook for capital of around about AUD300 million. The business has worked hard in terms of optimizing
and how it uses capital, so we've found some savings in our forecast and that's been available to then fund
Roy Hill, which I think is AUD40 million this year, but I will come back on that one.

In terms of asphalt plants, we invested in a number of new asphalt plants last year. There's a little bit of
residual completion this year, but not the same order of spend that we saw in the last fiscal year.
Notwithstanding, infrastructure and rail is still investing, replacing existing equipment and plant and
upgrading facilities on a case-by-case basis, but there's nothing material in there.

ANTHONY PASSE-DE SILVA: Okay. Sorry, what was the total number again now for FY14, and then what
do you think it looks like on --
KEVIN FLETCHER : Under AUD300 million.

Page37of42©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.ANTHONY PASSE-DE SILVA: Okay. In terms of an ongoing basis, you said that you've been able to find
some savings across the business. Does that mean that your longer term projections around CapEx for
what the business looks like today also come down?
KEVIN FLETCHER : Look, if you want to use an assumption I'd use AUD300 million but it will be a
function of growth contracts and that sort of stuff. So we're still bidding and working on a lot of things in
mining which wouldn't be reflected in that sort of baseline number. But we'll continue to give guidance as
we come through on each half year.

ANTHONY PASSE-DE SILVA: And on the EBITDA cash conversions, another very strong result there.
What are your expectations for the full year and has, given the changes and improvements you've seen
through Fit 4 Business and other restructuring, have you made any changes to your longer term projections
around what you think is a sustainable EBITDA operating cash flow conversion for the business?

KEVIN FLETCHER : I think I've been saying for about the last three periods it isn't going to be above 90%
but it keeps coming in at that. Look, we're still forecasting pretty strong cash flow in the second half. The
businesses have done all their forecasts based on the December half year and what they received. At the
end of the day if our customers pay us then we'll have a good conversion. But again I don't think it's going
to be in the high 90s forever. But suffice to say, look, we've done a lot of work over the last three years in
focusing on cash and I've said before, it's a systemic process now and the business is focused right on
cash, because cash is king. I made the point in my presentation that it's not about just optimising cash on
one day, and our interest expense for the period reflects the fact that it is an ongoing process for us.

ANTHONY PASSE-DE SILVA: Okay. Excellent, thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Thank you. The next question comes from Andrew Johnston with CLSA. Please go ahead.

ANDREW JOHNSTON, ANALYST, CLSA: Good morning gentlemen. A couple of questions. First up, can
we assume that the improvement in work-in-hand is going to be converted in a similar sort of improvement
in revenue for a 2015 number? I mean, Grant, you did mention that you certainly hoped to win more work
but is there something in that work-in-hand that makes that profile different to what revenue will look like?

GRANT FENN: Some part of the work-in-hand increases longer-dated contracts. Obviously we won the
Western Sydney job with the DownerMouchel. But yes, conversion of work-in-hand directly into 2015
revenue, look, we haven't done the work. I guess it's something that we'll do over the course of the next
month or two. But if work-in-hand continues to go up I guess that's a reasonable reflection of what revenue
we'll do but we just haven't done the work yet.

ANDREW JOHNSTON: Okay. Look, just if you look out the next couple of years, Grant, can you just talk
about how you see the balance for your business between the slowdown in the East Coast LNG work and I
suppose ultimately the LNG work around the country? And then the pickup in domestic road and
rail-related infrastructure work. How do you see that playing out in terms of how it affects your business?

GRANT FENN: Look, I think the benefits that Downer has is that it's a multi-faceted business and we don't
rely on any one aspect of our business to drive our earnings. So what we find, and we're finding in this
particular half the results out of New Zealand have been significantly better than what they've been
previously and that has helped to offset some of the reduction in Australia in the infrastructure business.
We've also had periods where mining has been doing extremely well when again the construction side of
the business hasn't been doing so well. Look, our position is that because of our diversity, we're working
hard on all of our pieces. Never have I seen it, so far anyway, where all of them are firing on all of the
cylinders at the one time, all right. So as we see parts of our base drop off, because we will see that around
cycles, particularly energy and mining, we'll see other parts pick up. So I'm not particularly concerned
about it.
As you say, mining capital works have been off but energy has been picking up. We're now seeing much
more investment out of the governments in road construction, et cetera. So look, I think it's swings and
roundabouts and I think across the range of things that we do in Australia and in New Zealand and
elsewhere, I think we've got very good coverage on where growth will be in the economy. So we're not
particularly concerned about it. That doesn't mean that we don't look to cover large projects that drop off,
and you've seen in this last half where we've had a couple of very large projects in infrastructure that have
dropped and then we've had to replace it and some of that's not fully replaced yet. But I think because of
the diversity Downer is in a very good spot to withstand any of those impacts.

ANDREW JOHNSTON: And finally, Grant, can we just step back and strategically thinking about what you
do with the capital coming out of the business, and it is a nice -- it put in a nice position there (technical
difficulties) having to think about this, but you could take this capital and reinvest it to grow the business or
you could give it back to shareholders. So I'm not thinking this year or next year, but I'm thinking over a five

Page38of42©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.year period. Where do you -- how do you think about the business and think about the capital and what
you're going to do with that?

GRANT FENN: Yes. Look, it's pretty simple. If we've got the opportunity to earn good returns then we'll
invest it. If we can't then we'll give it to our shareholders. It's pretty simple for us. I don't think -- or certainly,
I'm not feeling a heap of pressure at this stage to be throwing a heap of money back at our shareholders. I
think right now over the course of the next 12 months we'll see what happens, both on the investment side
and other opportunities and that's the way we should be thinking.

ANDREW JOHNSTON: Yes. Okay. All right, look, I really appreciate the questions and well done, another
great result.

GRANT FENN: Thank you. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Thank you. The next question comes from John Purtell with Macquarie Group . Please go
ahead.

JOHN PURTELL, ANALYST, MACQUARIE GROUP: Good morning guys. Just a quick question on [DOW ]
Australia. Obviously you've won the work in the last sort of six months. We know that's going to be more
influential for 2015 but are you expecting some positive impact for that in the second (inaudible) that we're
in at present? And the second part to that is there's always an element of sort of win-and-do work required
in the second half which are typically sort of seasonally stronger. Grant, is there more or less a usual
amount of work that you're assuming that you win to meet your full year guidance? So just really sort of just
trying to sort of test the assumption there around your second half guidance. Thanks.

GRANT FENN: No, I don't think so, John. I think we're -- as we would be in this place, the first half's about
46% as you know, the maths show, and I think the second half, we feel, I wouldn't say comfortable but
we're in a position not unlike we have been in the last three, four years. The larger work that's come on
board will really kick in late in the second half, mate, so they won't have an impact or any serious impact on
2014.

OPERATOR: Thank you. The next question comes from Emma Alcock with Credit Suisse . Please go
ahead.

EMMA ALCOCK, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE : Thank you. Just two questions from me. Firstly, just on
your outlook commentary, I notice that there's not really much reference in a way to kind of uncertainty
around market conditions. That said, there is still comments around the reduced amount of capital work
you're seeing. Just wanted to get your views on how you're seeing the market from that kind of -- whether
you're still seeing the same level of uncertainty that you did six months ago.

GRANT FENN: Look, I think of late it's improved slightly. As I said, there's some work that we've been very
positive on which stopped, you know, looks like it has resurfaced. So there is some positive signs out there
but it is still hard to win the work. There's a lot of competition and bidding margins are lower, there's no
doubt about that. But you know, this is what we do. We -- this is what we do for a living and we're out there
working very hard at it. So there's not much point in my putting in our outlook statements around
uncertainties. Of course they exist. Nothing more -- you shouldn't read anything more into outlook
statement than that. We think at this stage that our 2015 -- 2014 guidance will be delivered. If something
changes then you'll hear from us.

EMMA ALCOCK: Excellent, thanks. And just further than that, the bid pressure that you notice, are you
seeing that more from the corporates as opposed to government or vice versa?

GRANT FENN: When we say bid pressure, I mean it's more competitively. There's a lot of guys out there
with not a lot of work. We're one of the lucky ones that have been able to secure quite a bit of work and we
have again a multi-faceted business which helps us. We're not stuck in just structural mechanical and we're
not stuck in just civil, we have a whole host of different bits to us which leaves us in good stead here. It
would be far more difficult for the guys that are not quite as diverse as this business, and what that drives
of course is pretty fierce competition when you're bidding work.

EMMA ALCOCK: Okay then, excellent. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. The next question comes from Sam Theodore with UBS . Please go ahead.
SAM THEODORE, ANALYST, UBS : Hi. Just I guess a bit of housekeeping. In mining, given how strong
the margins were I think one of the things you pointed to was moving operating leases to finance leases. In
the accounts because there's a bit of movement it's hard to actually get a feel on how big that is. I'm just
wondering if you can give us some colour about that.

Page39of42©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.KEVIN FLETCHER : We spent AUD41 million in capital in buying out operating leases. Look, as a rule of
thumb we're paying somewhere between three and 3.5 times annual rentals, so you can do the maths
there. It's probably -- the annual rental would have been around about AUD12 million to AUD15 million for
those pieces of equipment, but I can come back with a specific detail on that.

SAM THEODORE: Okay, thank you. And just obviously the big E&I contracts at Wheatstone, I think Grant,
you I guess spoke to this, but just checking. So some of this revenue falls through in the second half but we
shouldn't expect too much?

GRANT FENN: No, no. It's sort of immaterial, for your purposes I think.

SAM THEODORE: Okay. No problems, thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. The next question is a follow-up from Craig Wong-Pan from Deutsche Bank .
Please go ahead.

CRAIG WONG-PAN: Hi, just a couple of questions. Firstly, on the Waratah projected cash inflows, I know
that they have come down from the slide that you put out in June. Is that due to using some of the general
contingency?

KEVIN FLETCHER : No, it's actually just trueing up the accounts, probably because I think the guys
included in their cash flow projects some wind back of some of the working capital provisions within the
actual balance sheet of the Waratah, so we just got the numbers right, so --

CRAIG WONG-PAN: Okay, and then just following on. The MD&A interest receivable that has come down,
what's the reason for the slight reduction in cash inflows expected?

KEVIN FLETCHER : Look, partly because we've actually accelerated some of the milestones in terms of
delivery. Obviously getting the trains out of China in January was a little ahead of where we thought and
some of the sort of more granular milestones in terms of sort of parts and all that sort of stuff, so there's
actually less money in the MD&A account and also the interest rates that we've received on those were
lower than we projected.

CRAIG WONG-PAN: And then from memory you were sort of expecting that cash to come through in FY15
but I think you mentioned that you were looking or you were hoping to get some of that or have that come
through before June.

KEVIN FLETCHER : Go on.
CRAIG WONG-PAN: Could you talk through sort of some of the -- I guess the factors which could lead to
you getting out before June?

KEVIN FLETCHER : Look, we've just got to work hard. We're presenting the last train in May, hopeful to
get PC obviously before the end of the year and then we've got to go through a process with effectively the
parties in the PPP to get the MDA interests released. And nothing's ever been easy on this, so we'll work
hard to get it in this year but I think we're just being conservative. We've projected it all along to be in June
2014 but we'll do everything we can to pull it through in this fiscal year. July 2014, yes.
CRAIG WONG-PAN: Okay, and then last question, just on rail and mining, you have mentioned that there
is some opportunities out there, and I know you can't talk about specifics but could you maybe give a sense
for what the size of those opportunities are, like in terms of total bid work or opportunities out there?
GRANT FENN: Oh, look I'd have to add them up. I don't have them here in my head. Obviously mining is a
lot larger than rail given just the natural size of each of the projects there. There's many billions. On rail it's
a small op. It still adds up to a lot of money. Perhaps Michael can give you some detail on that later.

CRAIG WONG-PAN: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Thank you. The next question comes from Brent Walsh with Merrill Lynch . Please go ahead.

BRENT WALSH: Hi guys, just very quickly. Did I hear that you hope to be able to pay fully franked
dividends at the full year?

KEVIN FLETCHER : Yes.

BRENT WALSH: Yes, okay.

KEVIN FLETCHER : We start paying tax March this year, I believe, based on the instalment regime. And so
based on the franking credits that we received from the dividends from our joint venture arrangements plus

Page40of42©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.the franking credits that will build up on the tax payments we make, we expect to be able to fully frank any
dividend, or certainly a reasonable dividend that may be declared by the board with the full year results.

BRENT WALSH: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. The next question is a follow-up from Sam Theodore with UBS . Please go
ahead.

SAM THEODORE: Sorry, I forgot to ask one. I was just looking at your D&A, so you've shown some
improvements on D&A but PP&E was up, I'm sure -- I'm just wondering if you can explain to us how that's
moving around.
KEVIN FLETCHER : I'll have to come back to you on that one. I mean we spent AUD160 million on capital
and we've had depreciation of AUD137million in the period I believe, so.

SAM THEODORE: Okay. All right, thanks.

OPERATOR: Thank you. At this stage we're showing no further questions.

GRANT FENN: Okay, thank you very much for your time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this
web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon
current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those
stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more
specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and
believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the
assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results
contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF
THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE
AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR
INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO
WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE
COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE
BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND
THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER
DECISIONS.]

CO ipil : Downer EDI Ltd
IN i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
NS c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin :
C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter

RE usa : United States | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia |

namz : North America | nswals : New South Wales

PUB CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
AN Document FNDW000020140206ea230005l

Page41of42©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.