Paladin stake ‘just the start’

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

MarketWatch
Paladin stake ‘just the start’

BARRY FITZGERALD, URANIUM
312 words
26 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
30
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

CHINESE private equity fund Hopu Investment is on the hunt for more Australian opportunities
following its $80 million stake in the uranium producer Paladin.

The investment — part of Paladin’s $205m recapitalisation plan — is Hopu’s first on the local scene.

Hopu is set to end up with 15 per cent of Paladin, although it did receive Foreign Investment Review
Board approval to go as high as 19.9 per cent.

But senior managing director of the Beijing-based fund, Wendong Zhang, told The Australian that was
not the intention.

He said securing the approval to go to 19.9 per cent was about being in a position to provide
additional support to Paladin’s fundraising effort if the shortfall to the group’s entitlement issue was
greater than expected.

Paladin’s recapitalisation with the help of Hopu, and its call on its shareholders, eases pressure on its
medium-term funding requirements, including the $US300m ($349m) convertible bonds due in
November 2015.
Mr Zhang said the Paladin investment was underpinned by the expectation that the uranium market
was poised to rebound due to the resumption of nuclear power growth in China and elsewhere after
the hiatus forced by Japan’s Fukushima disaster in 2011. He said the move on to Paladin’s register
was the first of what could be more investments in the local mining and agricultural sectors.
“Our view is that the mining sector is going through a down cycle. So the next two to three years
could be a very good window of opportunity for investment opportunities, which we are exploring in
Australia and other countries,’’ Mr Zhang said.“We are very different to the buyout funds. We try to be
the facilitating, friendly and constructive investor that helps to add value by working together with the
existing shareholders.”

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

iuran : Uranium Ore Mining | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | crecap : Recapitalization | c17 : Funding/Capital | c171 : Share
Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E
Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020150417eabq000fr

Page137of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.