Aurizon tracks Pilbara opportunities

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Aurizon tracks Pilbara opportunities

Jenny Wiggins
443 words
6 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
22
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Aurizon will continue looking for infrastructure opportunities in east Pilbara as well as the west
Pilbara area as it prepares to sink up to $211 million in Aquila Resources so it can control rail and
port facilities in the lucrative iron ore region.

Aurizon chief executive Lance Hockridge said the east Pilbara, which is dominated by large miners
like BHP Billiton, Rio Tinto and Fortescue Metals , remained a "prospective" investment.

"That interest continues," he said.
Aurizon's current iron ore haulage operations in Western Australia are limited to the mid-west
region near Geraldton, where growth is expected to plateau. It has been anxious to break into the
Pilbara.
CIMB analyst Mark Williams said a successful deal with China's Baosteel to buy Aquila Resources,
which would give Aurizon control over the miner's rail and port infrastructure, would be "quite
meaningful" to the rail operator's future earnings.

"It's a reasonable entry into the Pilbara," Mr Williams said, adding that although it remained
uncertain whether the acquisition would be successful, it was "a bit more likely" than some of
Aurizon's previous attempts to gain a foothold in the region.

Analysts expressed concern over how Aurizon would fund the development of Aquila's rail and port
infrastructure, and whether it was in the best interests of the company to sell assets.

Aurizon has not clarified how much money it will invest in infrastructure development or how it will
pay for it, other than to say it will consider selling minority equity stakes in its networks business
and borrowing money from the capital markets.

Aurizon will have a year to exclusively examine the potential development of more than
400 kilometres of rail infrastructure with an annual haulage capacity of about 40 million tonnes and
a deep-water port at Anketell Point.
Aurizon planned to approach other miners which could use the rail infrastructure to send iron ore
to the coast but had not yet held talks, Mr Hockridge said.

"There are tens of deposits that are within reach of the infrastructure that we're talking about."
Aurizon has spent years talking to iron ore miners, trying to find ways of developing its own rail
infrastructure or buying existing rail assets as iron ore becomes an increasingly important part of
its rail haulage business, which is currently dominated by coal.
Iron ore haulage represents about 13 per cent of Aurizon's group earnings, up from 4 per cent in
fiscal 2011, according to CIMB.

Page190of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Aurizon's shares closed down 25¢, or 4.8 per cent, to $4.92, its lowest level since early February.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

ambol : Fortescue Metals Group Ltd | aqures : Aquila Resources Ltd.
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140505ea560000m

Page191of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.