Santos growth pipeline ‘strong’

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Santos growth pipeline ‘strong’

PAUL GARVEY
914 words
5 June 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
19
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

SANTOS has learnt some lessons observing rival Woodside Petroleum ’s challenges in recent years
and will continue to roll out new developments beyond its current crop of transformational LNG
projects, chief executive David Knox says.

In an exclusive interview with The Australian, Mr Knox also said he remained extremely confident in
the outlook for LNG demand, despite mounting concerns that Russian gas, North American LNG and
increasingly cheap coal could swamp the Asian energy markets critical to the company’s growth.

Santos recently celebrated the first shipment of gas from the $US19 billion ($20.5bn) Papua New
Guinea LNG project, where it is a partner alongside ExxonMobil and Oil Search, while its $US18.5bn
Gladstone LNG joint venture in Queensland is well into construction and on track for first production
next year.

Those two projects stand to double Santos’s revenues by 2016. Since delivering a similar
step-change in earnings since commissioning its Pluto LNG plant in early 2012, Woodside has
dramatically ramped up its dividends but has struggled to identify near-term development options.
Mr Knox said he had been watching Woodside closely as he considered the company’s next moves
beyond PNG LNG and GLNG.

“Clearly we’re in a very different situation (to Woodside) in that we do have a store cupboard
available to us that we can unlock,” he said, referring to Santos’s portfolio of potential development
assets.

He said it was clear that the market wanted both increased dividends and continued production
growth.

“For the next 12 months we’re focused on Gladstone LNG and making sure we get that up and
running and do it well, but we’re in a very different place to Woodside and I think the board is
confident we can reward shareholders who come with us while balancing that with a reasonable level
of growth,” Mr Knox said.

“It’s not dividends at all cost, it’s about a balance between dividends and growth.” Since
commissioning its Pluto LNG project in early 2012, Woodside has increased its dividends but
struggled to convince the market that it has viable near-term growth options.

It shelved plans for a major new LNG plant at James Price Point and recently walked away from a
deal to buy a stake in the huge Leviathan gas discovery off Israel. Its shares have underperformed
many of its growth-oriented Australian peers for much of the past few years despite its healthy
cashflow.
Santos’s next leg of growth could come from northern Australia, where the company is drilling in the
Browse and Bonaparte Basins for gas that could go towards an expansion of the existing Darwin
LNG project.

Page173of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Santos holds an interest in the ConocoPhillips -operated Darwin LNG plant. Fellow oil and gas player
Origin Energy this week announced an $800 million deal to acquire a stake in the Poseidon
gasfields in the Browse Basin, adjacent to Santos’s own Crown discovery.

While Santos’s position in the Browse has gone largely unnoticed by the market to date, Mr Knox
said the Origin deal reflected the potential of the region and its likely development path.

“We have a very strong and significant position in the Browse, and the Origin deal shines a light on
that,” he said.
“I’m very encouraged that it shows there’s real enthusiasm to potentially bring (the gas) onshore.” Mr
Knox’s commitment to continued growth comes despite rising concerns about the outlook for LNG
demand in Asia.
Last week’s major deal to pipe Russian gas into China has been described by some energy experts
as a possible threat to the competitiveness of Australian LNG.

And North America’s rising gas production has long been seen as capable of supporting a new
source of cheaper LNG supply into Asia.

But Mr Knox, who will expand on his supply and strategy outlook in an address to the Brisbane
Mining Club today, said his long-term bullish stance on LNG had not wavered.
“This (Russia-China) pipeline deal did not come out of the blue. Continued on Page 20 Continued
from Page 19 “It’s been known about for years, and years, it’s been well factored into the market,” Mr
Knox said.

“It is an important deal, but it’s not a deal that changes the market situation and it’s not a deal that
changes our strategy in any way.” He said claims that increasingly low coal prices would drive a
resurgence in coal consumption across Asia underestimated the determination of major Asian
countries to bring their pollution problems under control.

Also, the turmoil in Ukraine and Russia’s use of pipeline gas as a strategic tool in that crisis had
reinforced the reliability of Australian LNG suppliers.

“LNG demand has been stronger than I expected, not weaker, and I really can’t see that stopping as
we go forward,” he said. He also expected construction costs to go down.
One of Santos’s potential growth options, the Narrabri coal-seam gas project in NSW, is bogged
down in regulatory hurdles amid community concerns about CSG.

Still, Mr Knox said Santos remained committed to the project. “It’s also a project that’s very important
to NSW,” he said.“We firmly believe they will need more gas supply in 2017 onwards and we believe
the Narrabri project can supply that gas. But we can only do so in a regulatory regime that is
supportive.”

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

wodpet : Woodside Petroleum Ltd | sants : Santos Ltd
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural
Gas/Oil Extraction
niex : Interviews with Corporate Executives | nitv : Interviews | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140604ea6500029

Page174of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.