Winemaker takes stock

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Winemaker takes stock

Malcolm Maiden - mmaiden@fairfaxmedia.com.au
686 words
26 June 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
21
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Treasury Wine Estates pulled off a rare feat on Wednesday. It announced a significant asset
write-down, and sent its shares up by almost 5 per cent.
A survey of Treasury's wine businesses and brands has generated a write-down of up to $260 million
after tax that will be included as a non-cash item in its result for the year to June 30 when it is released
in August. Mid-range wines in the United States are the source of most of the write-down, and it is a
significant hit, equal to about 8.6 per cent of shareholders' equity.

A mixture of investor relief, speculation and appreciation of the way new chief executive Michael Clarke
is changing the company overwhelmed the write-down news, however.

Treasury's shares closed 24¢ higher at $5.07 - 8.5 per cent above a $4.70 share approach from US
price equity groupKohlberg Kravis Roberts that Treasury said on May 20 had been rejected.

There was relief that Treasury didn't downgrade earnings guidance that had already been cut by $40
million, to between $190 million to $210 million in January.

Clarke didn't say outright on Wednesday that January's guidance would be met, but he did say that he
felt "pretty positive".

He is boosting Treasury's marketing budget by 50 per cent and a fridge giveaway that will accompany
purchases of $200 of Penfolds wine in the new financial year is already boosting wholesale shipments.

With the June 30 rule-off date only four days away, a profit result within the guidance range looks
assured.
There was also speculation on Wednesday that French luxury house LVMH, China's Bright Foodgroup
and the US wine, beer and spirits conglomerate, Constellation Brands, were considering bidding for all
or part of Treasury.
KKR is still understood to be the only suitor or potential suitor to have made contact with the company.

Counter-bidders would probably wait for Treasury's profit result and KKR's next move before showing
their hand, however, and the speculation also supported Treasury's share price.

Finally, there was support for the changes the new CEO is making, and his stronger focus on premium
wine sales in particular.
Clarke announced that Treasury would separately manage the Australian premium wine business that
centres on Penfolds and shift the launch date for wines including Grange and Penfolds Bin labels from
the March quarter to mid-October.

Page96of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The moves are not without risk. They introduce change to a Penfolds range that already sells out every
year, pull premium vintages forward by six months, and pitch premium vintage launches into the final
months of the year, the pre-Christmas corridor that is already crowded with luxury brands.

Several key executive positions are also unfilled.

Clarke says he is aware of the risk of being swamped in the Christmas rush and is discussing ways to
avoid it with retailers and distributors.
He also says the $260 million write-down is part of a "reset" for the group, and he has two reasons to
move quickly.

New CEOs need to recognise inherited problems and take action early, or they end up owning them.
And in this case, Clarke also needs to show that he can unlock the hidden value that KKR targeted with
its takeover approach.
Treasury's premium wine stocks have grown from about $50 million to about $280 million since 2011.
Profits from the build-out are ready to flow, and when they do the value of Penfolds and Treasury's
premium wine stable will be highlighted.
Clarke and the Treasuryboard decided that KKR's $4.70 a share approach didn't value the potential,
that KKR intended to capture the value for itself, in effect.

With KKR still circling, the onus is on Treasury to show that it can also extract the hidden value,
however. Absent a new offer from KKR or another suitor, Treasury may have just bought a bit more
time to do so.

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

trzwn : Treasury Wine Estates Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i426 : Wine | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge :
Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods
gvtre : Treasury Department | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol
: Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140625ea6q00040

Page97of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.