Capital drive falls short

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Capital drive falls short

JENNY ROGERS
532 words
27 May 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
20
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

INVESTORS continue to show a lack of love for junior miners, with an attempt to raise funds by Gold
Coast explorer Coppermoly falling $5 million short of its target after wary shareholders steered clear.
Analysts said Coppermoly’s plight was symptomatic of what some have dubbed a mining depression,
with even the majors finding financing tough.

Coppermoly had sought to raise $5.2 million in a rights issue but shareholders showed a distinct lack
of interest and the issue reaped just $202,382.

Just under half came from managing director Maurice Gannon and fellow director Ben Faulkner, who
each poured $80,000 into the placement, taking up their full entitlements.

It came on the heels of a shortfall in a placement to professional investors, which brought in $240,000
less than the $500,000 sought.
Nathan Blair, Gold Coast manager of Ord Minnett said: “Investors have completely lost their appetite
for small mining companies after witnessing a savage sell-off in explorers across the board.
“Gold has fallen 30 per cent and copper 15 per cent due to a slowdown in growth from China creating
concerns about the excess property supply and demand for computer chips globally.

“Attracting fresh capital is extremely difficult in this risk-averse climate.” Mr Gannon said the result was
a “disappointment”, and proof that investors remain gun-shy of junior miners.

“It is absolutely tough for juniors right now,” Mr Gannon said. “The original chairman of the Coppermoly
board, Bob McNeil, said in his 55 years in the industry he has never seen it so tough.” Mr Gannon said
the company had been left high and dry when its planned underwriter bailed and took his cash
elsewhere, after which spooked shareholders who had initially indicated their support followed suit.

“We went into this with agreements from certain parties that never eventuated,” he said.
The shortfall has left Coppermoly unable to meet a $1.3 million payment to global mining giant
Barrick.
Coppermoly late last year regained control of three key PNG mining tenements in a $5 million deal
with Barrick, which gained a majority stake through a farm-in agreement.
Coppermoly had also planned to use the $5.2 million to undertake further exploration activity at its
tenements in west PNG and to upgrade plant and equipment.
Mr Gannon said the explorer now planned to tap other funding sources and possibly take on an equity
partner through a farm-in agreement.

Page182of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.He said despite the setback the company would “ride out the downturn”. “This shortfall is problematic
but it doesn’t alter our agenda; we could wave the white flag or keep getting on with it – we plan to get
on with it,” he said.

“Shareholders weren’t willing to put their hands in their pockets so we will have to look to other funding
sources and while the market is tough, we don’t think the goal is unachievable.

“We are actually in a relatively healthy state compared to some of our peers, we have a great resource
and are confident of the company’s future.“It is not desperation stakes yet, we are keeping up the
good fight.”

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

copmol : Coppermoly Limited
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i2114 :
Copper Ore/Nickel Ore Mining
c171 : Share Capital | c17 : Funding/Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial
News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020140527ea5r00011

Page183of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.