Goodman Fielder yields to raiders

The Australian

HD Goodman Fielder yields to raiders
CR
WC 463 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

17 May 2014
00:00
theAustralian.com.au
NLAUSW
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

TD

GOODMAN Fielder’s board has backed a $1.39 billion offer from Singapore’s Wilmar International and
Hong Kong’s First Pacific.
After an all-day board meeting, news that the Goodman directors had recommended the proposed
scheme of arrangement emerged about three hours ahead of an 8pm deadline set by the bidders.

Sources said that Wilmar and First Pacific representatives had booked flights, packed their bags and were
ready to leave the country if the deadline passed without a recommendation.

The successful offer includes a 1c-a-share dividend for the June year, and is sweetened from the bidders’
65c-a-share opening gambit on April 28.

Goodman chairman Steve Gregg said the improved terms maximised value for shareholders.

“In the absence of a superior proposal and subject to various other conditions, we believe this revised
proposal is consistent with that objective (of maximising value),” Mr Gregg said.
“We believe this revised proposal also demonstrates the strength of our underlying business and brands,
but also the opportunity to leverage these assets to grow the business across the Asian region.”

The likely fall of Goodman comes amid a spate of industry takeovers, as global food groups seek scale to
feed the emerging Asian middle class.
The most recent example was Canadian dairy giant Saputo’s $500 million-plus takeover of Warrnambool
Cheese & Butter.

Goodman’s vulnerability was heightened by an April 2 earnings downgrade, its fourth since 2011, with the
company flagging further possible asset writedowns after $700m worth over the past three years.

Wilmar and First Pacific cranked up the pressure on Thursday, lifting their offer to 71c, including the 1c
dividend, and demanding unanimous board support by 8pm yesterday.

This was conditional on the parties entering into a scheme implementation agreement, receipt of a
supportive independent expert’s report, and no other suitor emerging.

The improved terms equate to a 33 per cent premium to Goodman’s closing price of 52.5c on April 23.

The bidders revealed that they had entered into agreements with Goodman’s two largest shareholders,
Perpetual and Ellerston Capital, to acquire a 4.8 per cent stake, taking their combined holding to 14.9 per
cent.

The agreements also enabled the bidders to purchase an additional 5 per cent of Goodman from the
same shareholders, subject to Foreign Investment Review Board approval. The bidders said they needed
to conduct four weeks of due diligence in order to progress to a binding offer. If the deal gets through
foreign investment approval in Australia and New Zealand, the scheme meeting is likely to take place in
three to four months.
The required 75 per cent vote of support from shareholders is considered likely, given the board’s
unanimous support.

Page67of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods
gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

CO fdgl : Goodman Fielder Ltd
IN
NS
RE
PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document NLAUSW0020140516ea5g000ji

Page68of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.