Yancoal debt play 'no road' to privatisation

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Yancoal debt play 'no road' to privatisation

Amanda Saunders
517 words
11 November 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
25
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

News - Resources - New funding deal
Yancoal boss Reinhold Schmidt is adamant a new $US2.3 billion ($2.65 billion) funding deal is not a
fresh push to privatise the listed Australian coalminer by its major Chinese shareholder Yanzhou Coal.

Yancoal's addition to the ASX in mid-2012 was the first time a Chinese SOE operating in Australia had
listed on the local exchange.

But the loss-making Yancoal, which has seven coalmines in Australia, so far appears to have been a
disastrous experiment for China.

Yanzhou has been forced to guarantee to the Australian government that Yancoal will remain solvent
for as long as it remains a majority shareholder.
Under a deal announced on Monday, Yanzhou will extend a fresh $US1.4 billion loan to the troubled
miner and take $US1.8 billion of a $US2.3 billion subordinated capital notes offer to repay a senior
loan to itself.
Yancoal will look to the rest of its share register to raise the $US500 million shortfall, which would be
invested into the business.
But the notes will be treated as equity and it is understood some shareholders are claiming the
debt-for-equity swap is Yanzhou's attempt to privatise by stealth.
Yanzhou holds a 78 per cent stake in Yancoal and is China's fourth-biggest coal company.

Yanzhou called off a privatisation bid for Yancoal in March, after being stymied by Noble Group - the
company's second-biggest shareholder, with about 13.2 per cent of the register. It is understood Noble
Group is furious about not being sounded out about the recapitalisation, with management at the Asian
commodities trading giant scrambling to get their heads around the detail of the deal on Monday.

Mr Schmidt said privatisation was not on the table and defended not briefing the shareholder first.

Noble Group executive William Randall sits on Yancoal's board but he was "very clear there was a
Chinese wall established between him as a director and the Noble Group", Mr Schmidt said.
Yancoal clocked an $832 million loss for 2013, and lost $192.7 million in the first half of calendar
2014.

Mr Schmidt said solvency was not an issue, but the recapitalisation would help ensure the "viability of
the business" in a depressed market.

The Yancoal boss said take-or-pay port and rail contracts in NSW and Queensland had taken their toll.

Page197of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."In Australia, the problem we've got ... is that every single company sits with take-or-pay contracts. If
they were to put a mine on care and maintenance, then many of those contracts are written as such
that it will crystallise a very large payment. In today's environment, it is better to continue operating than
to crystallise that.

"That is why you haven't had more mines closing down, or even going on care or maintenance."
If the offer proceeds, Bank of China and China Construction Bank will grant an extension on the
repayment of their $US2.6 billion syndicated facility for three years.

CO

IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

yaptyl : Yancoal Australia Limited | yankua : Yankuang (Group) Corp | ynzmn : Yanzhou Coal Mining
Co Ltd
i112 : Coal Mining Support Activities | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c183 : Privatizations/Nationalization | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020141110eabb0004i

Page198of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.