$6bn Las Bambas coup puts MMG in big league

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
$6bn Las Bambas coup puts MMG in big league

BARRY FITZGERALD, ACQUISITIONS
606 words
15 April 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
18
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE widely flagged deal for a Chinese consortium led by the Hong Kong-listed and
Melbourne-managed MMG to acquire the Las Bambas copper project in Peru for $US5.85 billion
($6.2bn) has been consummated, propelling MMG up the league table of the world’s biggest copper
producers.
The sale of Las Bambas was a condition that Beijing imposed on Glencore’s takeover of Xstrata last
year, with the world’s biggest consumer of copper flexing its muscles in determining trade flows and
associated control positions in the supply of the metal.

The development of Las Bambas is 58 per cent complete. It is set to become one of the world’s
biggest copper mines from the middle of next year, with annual output of more than 400,000 tonnes
of copper at a robust cash cost of less than US80c a pound.

Glencore and the MMG-led consortium have been in discussion on the deal since last August. The
final agreement has implications for three ASX-listed companies in other projects in which Glencore
is involved, as well as possible ramifications for BHP Billiton’s planned divestment of non-core
assets.

Had Glencore and the MMG consortium not come to an agreement on Las Bambas, Beijing had
earmarked a number of other copper assets that it wanted Glencore to divest. They included the
Frieda River copper/gold project in Papua New Guinea and the Tampakan copper/gold project in
The Philippines.

Frieda River, of which Glencore owns 80 per cent, is a joint venture with the ASX-listed Highlands.
But a deal was struck earlier this year — ahead of any action at Las Bambas — for PanAust to buy
out Glencore for $US75 million.

Agreement on Las Bambas means that PanAust’s plan for a proposed $US1.8bn modified
development plan for Frieda River can begin to take shape.
At Tampakan, Glencore could have been required to auction off its 62.5 per cent stake in the project
had the Las Bambas deal fallen over. ASX-listed Indophil, of which Glencore owns 13 per cent, has a
37.5 per cent stake in the project.
Glencore has previously indicated it is looking to divest the Tampakan stake and has frustrated
Indophil, which said recently it had yet to be advised on any sales process, or any plans to move the
project forward, pending Glencore’s exit.

The potential rub-off on BHP from the Las Bambas deal is related to its planned divestment of
unwanted nickel, aluminium, manganese and steaming coal assets. While a demerger of the assets
into a $US15bn-plus spin-off to shareholders has firmed as the preferred option, the trade sale of
individual assets remains a possibility.

Page177of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Glencore has made passing comments about its potential interest in the nickel assets that BHP has
earmarked for sale, while analysts have also nominated the company as possibly interested in a
deal on the aluminium and South African steaming coal interests.

The London-listed Glencore told the market that proceeds from the Las Bambas deal would
“immediately and materially de-gear’’ its balance sheet.

But it added that it would continue to look for opportunities to reinvest the capital.

Las Bambas is to be owned by MMG (62.5 per cent), Guoxin International Investment Corp (22.5 per
cent) and Citic Metal (15 per cent).The $US5.85bn acquisition cost is before capital expenditure and
other costs incurred in the project’s development from January 1 until the deal is closed. By the end
of March, that figure stood at $US400m.

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | march : Glencore Xstrata PLC | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i2114 : Copper Ore/Nickel Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm :
Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs :
Business/Consumer Services
c182 : Asset Transactions | cspin : Spin-offs | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions |
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E
Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140414ea4f00068

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page178of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.