IN BRIEF

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

WestReg
IN BRIEF

602 words
22 May 2014
Kalgoorlie Miner
KALGOO
First
12
English
(c) 2014 West Australian Newspapers Limited

Tychean seeks funds

Adelaide-based explorer Tychean Resources yesterday announced it was rattling the tin for $1.9
million to fund exploration of its Spargoville and Valley Floor gold projects near Kambalda.

Tychean last year secured Spargoville, including the closed Wattle Dam mine and surrounding
tenements, in a deal worth $400,000 with gold miner Ramelius Resources. Valley Floor is near
Gold Fields’ Invincible discovery on Lake Lefroy.

Dundas deal
Thor Mining yesterday sold its 60 per cent interest in the base metal rights at its Dundas project,
near Norseman.

Ram Resources will pay $70,000 in ordinary fully paid shares at the end of a 45-day due diligence
period, along with $100,000 in cash or ordinary shares in 18 months.
“We have always pursued the Dundas project for its potential to host significant gold mineralisation,
and this remains our objective,” Thor’s executive chairman Mick Billing said. “This agreement allows
us to retain that potential but also provides Thor with carried exposure to any base metal discovery.”

Swedish development

Perth-based Talga Resources — headed by former Goldfields prospector Mark Thompson — is
raising $3.1 million to advance the company’s high-grade Nunasvaara graphite-graphene project in
Sweden.

“Given rapidly accelerating developments in global commercial markets for graphene, Talga has
seized the opportunity to secure further funds and fast-track its work program by strongly capitalising
the next stages of project development,” he said.

Segue focuses on Fraser
Segue Resources hopes to raise up to $3 million via a share purchase plan for existing
shareholders as it accelerates its exploration programs at the Plumridge nickel and gold projects in
the Fraser Range province.

“Since acquiring a major interest in the Fraser Range in December 2013, Segue has undertaken a
comprehensive exploration program which has resulted in the identification of 16 Nova-like eye
targets, which have yielded five electromagnetic conductors thus far,” managing director Steven
Michael said.

Regional visit

Page200of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Department of Mines and Petroleum is visiting the Goldfields to assist tenement holders to sign
up to WA’s new Mining Rehabilitation Fund, which becomes compulsory on July 1.

DMP staff will be in Norseman today and Kalgoorlie-Boulder until Saturday. The tour then moves to
Leonora (Monday, Sandstone (Tuesday) and Mt Magnet (Wednesday).

Nickel potential

Perth-based White Cliff Minerals is testing four nickel sulphide targets with up to 2000m of
reverse-circulation drilling at its Lake Johnston project, west of Norseman.

White Cliff managing director Todd Hibberd said initial results from the Mt Glasse prospect are
expected in early June.

“The conductors occur in the same ultramafic unit as the Maggie Hays and Emily Anne mines,
owned by Norilsk Mines, located 30km to the north and have supporting nickel, copper and
platinum/ palladium geochemical anomalies above them,” he said.

Galaxy pays deposit
Galaxy Resources has received a $US12.2 million deposit from Sichuan Tianqi Lithium Industries
as part of a $US230 million deal to sell its troubled Jiangsu lithium processing plant in China.
The deposit is 10 per cent of the $US122 million cash component of the transaction, with Tianqi
assuming $US108 million of Chinese bank debt at Galaxy Jiangsu.

Galaxy mothballed its Mt Cattlin lithium mine near Ravensthorpe in July 2012.

Exploration falls
The Chamber of Minerals and Energy’s latest quarterly report shows total resources exploration
spending fell 14.5 per cent in the December quarter. It represented a 30 per cent decline on the
previous year.

“While the increased production of major commodities tells a positive story, exploration expenditure
has continued its downward spiral,” CME chief executive Reg Howard-Smith said.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

eromua : Tychean Resources Ltd | ramrss : Ramelius Resources Limited
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i224 :
Non-ferrous Metals | i22472 : Precious Metals | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document KALGOO0020140521ea5m0000e

Page201of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.