Australian explorers buoyed by growing interest from investors at Mines and Money

Angela Kean

SE
HD
BY
WC 564 words
PD
SN
SC
VOL Issue: 79857
LA
CY
LP

Conference Chatter; Exclusive
Australian explorers buoyed by growing interest from investors at Mines and Money

28 March 2014
SNL Metals & Mining Daily: East Edition
SNLMMDE

English
Copyright 2014. SNL Financial LC

TD

Australian exploration companies are "quietly optimistic" with the level of interest they are seeing from
fund managers and institutional investors, which are viewing resource companies as a good buying
opportunity at the moment.
Association of Mining and Exploration Companies CEO Simon Bennison told SNL Metals & Mining on
the sidelines of Mines and Money Hong Kong that if the interest can get some serious momentum, it is
likely to feed down the line into early stage exploration.

"There's certainly, I think, a fairly optimistic mood that things have bottomed out and certainly the situation
is turning around," he said. "We're quietly optimistic that'll feed through in the second half of this year and
next year."

However, while Australian explorers are optimistic, they still remain cautious with capital markets still tight
and Chinese investors reluctant to invest in early stage exploration projects.

"I think it's very clear, listening to some of the analysts and forecasters in relation to consumer demand of
various commodities, that there's still some slack in there that's got to be taken up, and they're just waiting
for the consumption side of it to pick that up and prices to improve," Bennison said.

"But I think from what they're saying, there are good signs and I think that's helped create some of the
optimism that's around."
Bennison said that while established projects have greater access to equity funding, it is much harder for
early stage exploration projects to attract cash.
"We've seen a number of capital raisings in that space for existing operations in Australia, but from the
point of view of exploration, we've had two IPOs this year and 12 last year," he said.
"It's very clear that equity finance in a venture capital sense is extremely tight, and we're waiting for that
to loosen up and people to become far more confident and less risk averse in their investment strategies."
Meanwhile, Chinese investors tend to want put their cash into mining projects that have at least reached
the pre-feasibility or feasibility stage.
"I'm not convinced that the Chinese at this stage are going to pour a lot of venture capital into early stage
exploration," Bennison said. "It's a space that they normally haven't gone into."
While equity markets still remain strained, there has been surprisingly little relinquishment of exploration
tenements.
"From what we understand and talking to a number of the companies [at Mines and Money Hong Kong]
not much has been relinquished at this point in time," Bennison told SNL.

The hope is that the second half of 2014 will see an increase in IPOs to test the market and make sure
investors are becoming more confident that commodity prices will pick up and see opportunities for capital
growth in resources stocks.

Page188of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Bennison said the Association of Mining and Exploration Companies is keen to see the gold price return
to where it was and some of the gold deposits that have been mothballed returned to production.
"I just think we've just got to hope that [China] keep their GDP around 7%, 7.5%, which is still huge, and
keep the buoyancy in a number of commodities as a result of that," he said.

imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

IN
NS
RE
IPD Industry News
PUB SNL Financial LC
AN

Document SNLMMDE020140402ea3s0000f

Page189of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.