Chinese construction giant CCCI to buy Australia's John Holland for $951 mn

HD
CR
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Chinese construction giant CCCI to buy Australia's John Holland for $951 mn

Distributed by Contify.com
465 words
12 December 2014
Domain-B
ATDOMB
English
Copyright © 2014. The Information Company Pvt. Ltd.

Chinese construction giant China Communications Construction International (CCCI) today offered to
buy one of Australia's largest construction companyLeighton Holdings' building unit John Holland, for
A$1.15 billion ($951 million).
The move comes a day after media reports said that China's ID Leisure International Capital plans to
buy Australia's second-largest cinema chain The Hoyts Group for as much as A$900 million ($743
million).

Leighton Holdings today announced it had entered a binding agreement for the sale of John Holland
to CCCI, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Hong Kong and Shanghai stock exchanges-listed China
Communications Construction Company (CCCC), the fourth largest construction company in the
world by revenue, and with a market cap of around A$23.5 billion.

''The divestment of John Holland demonstrates the progress we have made with our Strategic Review
initiatives over the past six months to strengthen the balance sheet, streamline the operating model
and improve project delivery,'' said Leighton Holdings executive chairman and CEO, Marcelino
Fernandez Verdes.
''Following a comprehensive and extensive global sale process we have achieved a value for John
Holland which reflects its position as one of the country's leading engineering and construction
companies,'' he added.
The sale will reduce Leighton's gearing by around 10 per cent, while annualised revenue for the group
will decline by around $3.7 billion and work in hand will fall by around $5.4 billion, Leighton said.
John Holland's more than 4,000 employees will be transferred to CCCI post sale, which requires the
approval of Australia's Foreign Investment Review Board.
Founded in 1949, Leighton Holdings' is the parent company of the Leighton Group, one of the world's
leading international contractors. The Group is also the world's largest contract miner.
The Sydney-based company provides development, engineering, construction, contract mining, and
operation and maintenance services to the infrastructure, resources and property markets.

It operates in more than 20 countries throughout the Asia Pacific, the Middle East and Southern Africa
and employs around 49,800 people.

John Holland, a wholly owned subsidiary of Leighton Holdings, is one of Australia's leading
engineering, contracting and services providers to the infrastructure, energy and resources and
transport services sectors.

Operating across Australia and in New Zealand, South East Asia and the Middle East, John Holland's
business includes tunnelling, building and civil construction solutions in the infrastructure sector,
delivery of major water and environment, energy, minerals and industrial projects in the energy and
resources sector.

Page13of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The 65 year-old company is also a leading provider of services to the transport sector, including
railway construction, operations and maintenance, aviation services and ports infrastructure and
maintenance.

charb : China Communications Construction Co., Ltd. | hoytcn : Hoyts Cinemas Limited | leiho :
Leighton Holdings Ltd | jhgpl : John Holland Group Pty Ltd | hocht : Hochtief AG | ocisa : ACS
Actividades de Construcciones y Servicios SA | peprt : Pacific Equity Partners
i5020039 : Tunnel Construction | i502 : Heavy Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | i97105 : Film/Video Exhibition | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
china communications construction international
The Information Company Pvt. Ltd.
Document ATDOMB0020141212eacc0005n

CO

IN

NS
RE

IPD
PUB
AN

Page14of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.