Set for dinner

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Taste
Set for dinner

603 words
29 July 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
33
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

An eighth-generation descendant of the renowned Villeroy and Boch tableware dynasty talks to Emily
Macdonald about the death of the five-piece dinner set Even tableware heiresses eat microwave
dinners sometimes, but in the case of Isabelle von Boch, it is always served on a bone china plate.

Isabelle is only too happy to spoonfeed the knowledge her family has collected over three centuries of
running Villeroy and Boch.

“It doesn’t matter if I’m eating alone, I always put candles on the table and eat off a beautiful plate every
night,” Isabelle says.
“Doesn’t matter if it’s macaroni and cheese, or if you’ve made a beautiful Italian risotto, we eat with our
eyes so presentation is important.

“I read in a study once if you eat on the run, in the car or over the sink, your body can’t absorb the
nutrients.” The 63-year-old may be able to rattle off every pattern the company has ever produced, but
the reins weren’t something she expected handed to her on a platter.

For much of her life she lived away from her German home in sunny California where she worked as a
geminologist.

“Then they came to me and said they needed a spokesman and I realised I have it in my veins,” she
says.
“I can talk about a dinnerware pattern for half an hour, I’m that passionate. “What we’re doing is taking
the bone china out of the closet and bringing it into the world.
“It’s dishwasher safe, you can even put a car on four plates of bone china and they are so flexible they
won’t break. There’s no reason we can’t use beautiful things every day.” Isabelle says this season’s
trends are bright colours and strong floral motifs. “The colours are so fresh and dynamic. I call it the
prozac – it makes me so happy,” she says.

“I choose different cups and plates according to my mood and they really change the way I feel.
“The five-piece dinner set is obsolete. We sell our pieces individually, so you buy as many plates and
rice bowls and mugs as you need.
“If I like a new pattern, I might buy, say, just the bowls because then I can use them at breakfast, or I
can use them at dessert.
“No one needs 25 cups and saucers, so why would you buy them?” Although Villeroy and Boch is
always releasing new patterns, Isabelle insists good tableware never goes out of style.
“You buy what you like because you like it. I’ve been wearing the same scarf for 25 years because I
love it,” she says.

Page115of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“It’s an emotional decision, you should let the pattern speak to you. “Our oldest pattern is 240 years old
and people still love it. “I’m not going to buy new tableware every time I invite my friends over, so
instead I will change the colour scheme of my table.

“The linen, the accessories like the flowers and the candles are the clothes for your table.

“By changing them and keeping them fresh, that is how you achieve timelessness.” Australia is a
favourite holiday and business destination of Isabelle’s because of the country’s strong dining
traditions.“In Australia people are so hungry for knowledge because they have been raised with a table
culture, they have been raised with sitting down for dinner and lunch together,” she says. “They are
busy people, but we all still take time to sit down and eat.”

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

vilboc : Villeroy & Boch Aktiengesellschaft
i2411 : Pottery/Ceramics/Porcelain | icnp : Consumer Goods | idurhg : Durable Household Products |
ihouse : Houseware
gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020140729ea7t00010

Page116of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.