A black coal day as China changes rules

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
A black coal day as China changes rules

JOHN DAGGE, RESOURCES
455 words
18 September 2014
Daily Telegraph
DAITEL
Telegraph
45
English
Copyright 2014 News Ltd. All Rights Reserved

MINING AUSTRALIAN coal miners have played down the impact of proposed Chinese measures to
ban imports of low-quality coal, with Whitehaven saying the rules will ultimately benefit the local
sector.
Australia’s coal industry is studying the finer points of a Chinese government draft that is set to ban
the import and local sale of coal with high impurities from next year.

The crackdown comes as Chinese authorities move to tackle air pollution in the nation’s mega-cities.
China accounts for a quarter of of Australia’s thermal coal exports — used in energy production —
buying about 50 million tonnes last year.
Of key concern to Australian miners are measures to ban the import of coal with ash content greater
than 16 per cent and sulphur content greater than 1 per cent in China’s three biggest economic
regions.

These cover the coastal areas of Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou, which accounted for 42 per cent
of China’s thermal coal imports, according to investment bank Citi.
Energy research group Wood Mackenzie estimated no local thermal coal exports would currently
meet the new conditions — a claim disputed by mining lobby group Minerals Council of Australia.
Morgan Stanley said about 40 per cent of Australian thermal coal exports could run afoul of the new
regulations but noted only a proportion of these shipments went to China.
Rio Tinto yesterday said the new rules would have “little if any impact” on the company while BHP
Billiton said it did not expect a material impact on its business.
The NSW government, which is trying to develop a brown coal export industry, said the ash and
sulphur content of the state’s coal was far below any of the proposed requirements.
Analysts also said miners could reduce coal’s ash content by washing or blending it with higher
grades, although this may be prohibitively expensive for a sector already struggling with low prices.
Just how far-ranging the ban will be is yet to be clarified, with the Minerals Council saying coal-fired
power stations with pollution systems in place in coastal areas — key users of thermal coal — could
be exempt.
Whitehaven Coal chief Paul Flynn said local coal producers would benefit from the new rules as
Australia’s coal was of higher quality than its rivals.

Page80of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“Taking the proposal at face value, it will create winners over the long-term because of the higher
overall quality of our coal,” Mr Flynn said.Whitehaven shares closed 2.5 per cent lower at $1.775. Rio
Tinto and BHP Billiton shares respectively climbed 0.4 per cent to $62.03 and 0.3 per cent to $35.84.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document DAITEL0020140917ea9i0003u

Page81of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.