Aussie ‘BBB’ corporates could issue record levels of local MTNs in 2014

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Aussie ‘BBB’ corporates could issue record levels of local MTNs in 2014

775 words
13 February 2014
GlobalCapital
EURMCM
English
© Copyright 2014 Euromoney Institutional Investor plc.

Triple-B rated Australian corporate borrowers will get longer tenors and better yields in 2014 if they
focus on issuing Australian dollar medium-term note issues, say experts.
A combination of cheaper funding costs and better yields could lead Australian companies to issue
record levels of local currency push medium-term notes (MTN), say market experts.

The country enjoyed a strong year of Australian corporate debt issuance in 2013, in particular for
corporates in the ‘BBB’-rated bracket. Data from Dealogic shows that Australian dollar-denominated
MTNs from companies ranked ‘BBB+’, ‘BBB’ or ‘BBB-’ rose from the equivalent of AUD269.14 million
(US$243.59 million) in 2012 to AUD482.36 million in 2013, an increase of 74%.
The total number of total triple-B deals also increased from four to six. The State Grid Corp of China’s
subsidiary SPI (Australia) Assets was the top issuer for the year, raising AUD150 million (US$156.14
million) through a seven-year MTN on March 18, 2013.
The upward trend in triple B deal flow is down to a combination of both internal and external factors.
Domestically, Australia’s bond market is starting to look more favourably on lower rated credit
compared to previous years, according to James Arnold, a director for capital markets origination at Citi
in Australia.

“There has been a preference for high yield investment in Australia. The market has developed a lot,
there is wider acceptance of lower rated credit than in previous years,” Arnold said.

But the major factor supporting the increased deal flow has been Australia’s macroeconomic picture. A
combination of foreign exchange (FX) volatility and quantitative easing (QE) tapering from the US
Federal Reserve led investors and issuers to shift their preferences away from foreign currency and
particularly US dollar-denominated bonds.

Further, Australian borrowers that had been willing to borrow in the euro during 2013 have been faced
with increased risks in the past few months, ranging from European monetary policy to Turkish rate
hikes.

According to Fitch these reasons have been sufficient to keep lower-rated Australian borrowers looking
at local debt alternatives, despite a recent narrowing of the Australian dollar-US dollar cross currency
basis swap rate. Meanwhile investors have increasingly sought out higher yields on bonds at home.

“The precedent is 2013; you saw domestic issuers going up to seven-year tenors, where normally they
could only get three or five years,” said Johann Kenny, director for corporate coverage at Fitch.

The result is that investors, both domestic and foreign, are actively increasing their Australian dollar
allocation, according to a Fitch report published on February 11.
These conditions mean that Australia is likely to witness another wave of triple-B rated corporate bond
issuance in 2014, despite a slow start to the year to date.

“For 2014 there has not been too much supply yet, it typically picks up in late February and early
March,” according to Sydney-based Paul White, global head of ANZ’s debt syndicate. Citi’s Arnold also
added that with the number of borrowers that already went to market there may be some delay, as well

Page268of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.as the fact that they could be “waiting for the market to rally more, borrowers could be not coming to
market soon.”

The banks are watching the macro trends that have created the positive conditions in the first place, in
particular any Federal Reserve announcements on the tapering of quantitative easing, despite the new
chairperson Janet Yellen confirming on her February 11 testimony that the pace of tapering will not be
accelerating soon. The emerging markets’ “wobbling” over the past weeks also needs to be watched.

“Australia is by no means an emerging market, but contagion is a risk. If the volatility continues it may
have an impact. But, overall, we consider the outlook to be quite positive for the year,” said Arnold.

Fitch’s analysis points to two factors needed to get things rolling. On the one hand, “there will be a
number of de-mergers executed in 2014, and there will be a need for funding the deals,” said Kenny.
News was out recently on both chemicals and explosives major Orica’s potential spinoff of its chemical
division, for around US$1 billion bucks, as well as the planned demerger of engineering and property
services company UGL.
Secondly, the rating agency notes that lower-rated companies in Australia have AUD14 billion in debt
needing to be refinanced by 2016. They are unlikely to wait for the good moment to pass before hitting
the markets again.

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

stgcoc : State Grid Corporation Of China
i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16102 : Electric Bulk Power Transmission | ieutil : Electric Utilities | iutil :
Utilities
c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | c17 : Funding/Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Euromoney Trading Limited
Document EURMCM0020150119ea2d002bf

Page269of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.