Rail jobs and global outlook

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News - Leaders
Rail jobs and global outlook

Leader
438 words
9 May 2014
The Newcastle Herald
NEHR
First
10
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

IT is good news, of course, that the NSW government plans to spend $2.85 billion on new rail
carriages for regional passenger services.

The new carriages, it is being reported, will be fully airconditioned. Some may have privately operated
refreshment outlets aboard and Transport Minister Gladys Berejiklian has even suggested that most of
the new carriages may have toilets and washrooms.

That will please potential train passengers in the Hunter, the Illawarra, the Blue Mountains and
elsewhere in non-metropolitan NSW.

Rolling stock should be periodically upgraded and, as the population increases, improved carriages
should encourage more patronage and bring services closer to paying their way.

With an election due in 2015, and with the government struggling under the cold glare of a corruption
inquiry, an increase in the frequency of positive announcements about improved services for voters
can be expected.
And since the government is about to pocket a handy windfall from the sale of the Port of Newcastle,
some kind of dividend for regional NSW was also on the cards.

The only sour note is the suggestion that - if the carriages are to be bought "off the shelf" - they must
necessarily be imported.

That implies that the contract won't be used by the government to stimulate the state's economy via
local construction. The only jobs that may be saved or created by the purchase could be in fitting out
or rectification work on the imported units.

This is a shame. It is as if the government has already decided, without testing the market, that any
cost-benefit analysis of domestic construction versus imports must come down on the side of foreign
builders.

Perhaps that would be true, but it would have been comforting if the government was willing to go
through the motions of the comparison, particularly when so much may be gained from keeping such
contracts onshore.
Still on the subject of employment, more jobs are being lost in the Hunter as the mining downturn
continues to bite. Waratah's Arrium steel and mining equipment plant is to shed about 120 workers in
the face of tough new overseas competition in the market for grinding media and a harsh global
outlook for steel.
China's apartment-building boom appears to have stalled, killing demand in that country for reinforcing
steel and prompting Chinese steel producers to publicly bemoan their big stockpiles and slim order
books.

Page264of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Less steel means less coking coal, another negative for an oversupplied and overinvested Australian
sector that is already facing the prospect of a sharp rationalisation.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

nedi : Editorials | ncat : Content Types
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document NEHR000020140509ea590000a

Page265of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.