Takeovers to come thick and fast this year

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Finance
Takeovers to come thick and fast this year

Tony Kaye
764 words
1 February 2014
Hobart Mercury
MRCURY
1 -
38
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved

IF all the financial forecasts are correct, the conditions are just right for a surge in the number and
size of corporate takeover deals across Australia this year.
An acceleration of the global economic recovery, rising business confidence, a lower Australian
dollar and a growing list of cashed-up corporate investors eager to buy up premium, undervalued
assets around the world is likely to propel mergers and acquisitions activity.

Added to this are factors such as low interest rates and improved funding options, meaning potential
buyers can raise affordable funds from banks or capital markets, if they so desire.

In addition, general expectations that the Australian economy will slow to some degree mean that
organic growth might be harder to come by and so growth by acquisition could appear very attractive
for some companies. And, with the federal election now finally over and the new Government taking
aggressive steps to pay down sovereign debt, overall uncertainty about Australian financial risk is
rapidly improving.

Takeover deals will come in all shapes and sizes, with some hostile and others representing a
meeting of corporate minds.
Cashed-up private equity firms and venture funds are also likely to be among the key takeover
players.

Foreign companies are keen to invest here a fact that will no doubt keep the decision-makers at the
Foreign Investment Review Board busy.
The board was tested last year when it scrutinised, and subsequently rejected, a $3.4 billion offer for
GrainCorp by Canada's Archer Daniels Midland. It deemed the bid not to be in the national interest.
But scores of other foreign bids have been approved, including a large number emanating from China.
Just in the past few days, the Canadian dairy giant Saputo has tightened its takeover hold on
Victoria's Warrnambool Cheese and Butter, with its $530 million deal enough to stave off stiff
competition from Australian rivals Bega Cheese and Murray Goulburn.
Figures just released by research firm Dealogic show 1393 merger and acquisition deals involving
Australian companies, with a combined value of $US86 billion, were

announced last year.
The biggest was the $7.5 billion acquisition of Singapore Power's Australian energy assets by State
Grid, China's key power distributor, followed by the $7 billion restructure of the Westfield property

Page71of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.group and the $5.3 billion sale of Port Botany and Port Kembla by the NSW Government to a
consortium led by superannuation heavyweight Industry Funds Management.

More big deals are on the cards, with infrastructure assets one of the biggest areas identified as
governments move to privatise industrial operations ranging from electricity generation and
distribution networks to

hospitals, roads, ports, railway lines and rolling stock.
And then there's billions of dollars of other assets set to come into play, including parts of companies
that are put up for sale to raise much-needed cash.
While some experts are predicting the mining sector won't be a major area of takeover activity, the
devaluing effect of lower prices for some metals commodities and a lower Australian dollar will put
many

resources companies firmly into the bidding zone.

Indeed, of the current takeover deals under way involving Australian-listed companies, a high
percentage relate to mining companies.

Takeovers specialist Tom Elliott this week named in Eureka Report three listed companies that he
has on his radar screen as hot buys.
They include a listed mortgage broker, an online travel bookings company and a major oil and gas
producer.

He also listed another three well-known companies as wait/holds on the basis that he expects there
will be further activity in them over time.
Elliott has an extremely good takeovers record. In fact, he specifically named Warrnambool Cheese
and Butter as one his strong takeover targets in September last year the day before Bega launched a
surprise $319 million cash and scrip bid for the company.

Now, he says, it's time for Warrnambool shareholders to enjoy the cream.

``At $9.43 per share, WCB shareholders should take their money and look for the next opportunity in
the agricultural space,'' Elliott said.

But there are plenty of potential takeover deals in other sectors. It's a case of picking the trends and
buying into the opportunities.

This article is part of Eureka Report's ``It's Time'' special series, in which we reveal winning
investment strategies to accelerate your portfolio this year.

Tony Kaye is the editor of Eureka Report. To read more by him and other experts, go to
www.eurekareport.com.au

NS

RE
PUB
AN

c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c182 : Asset Transactions | npred : Economic
Predictions/Forecasts | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions |
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E
Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document MRCURY0020140131ea210001j

Page72of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.