Toys "R" Us (Australia) Pty Ltd in Toys and Games (Australia)

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Toys "R" Us (Australia) Pty Ltd in Toys and Games (Australia)

1,209 words
19 November 2014
Euromonitor Local Company Profiles
EULOCOP
English
Copyright 2014 Euromonitor International Ltd

STRATEGIC DIRECTION

The strategy of Toys “R” Us involves providing new and innovative products as well as services for
consumers. The company offers consumers the options of price-matching, lay-buys, a baby registry
and VIP point club programme. Toys “R” Us also plans to continue with its plans for outlet expansion in
suburban locations and currently has 35 Toys “R” Us stores and 11 Babies “R” Us stores in operation.
Toys “R” Us will continue to invest in its omni-channel strategy, providing consumers access to its
network across multiple different channels. Internet retailing will be a source of value growth for the
company over the forecast period thanks to the channel’s convenience, variety of products and speedy
delivery.

TD

KEY FACTS

Summary 1 Toy’s “R” Us (Australia) Pty Ltd: Key Facts
Full name of
company:
Toys “R” Us Australia Ltd
Address:
Park, New South Wales 2143, Australia
Tel:
Fax:
www:
Activities:

Block G, Commercial Drive, 391 Park Rd, Regents
+61 (2) 9794 8999
n/a
www.toysrus.com.au
Retailer in toys and games

Source: Euromonitor International from company reports, company research

Summary 2 Toys “R” Us (Australia) Pty Ltd: Operational Indicators

Net sales AUD million
million
Outlets
Selling space (‘000s sq m)
m
Number of employees

2011
A$263.1 million
39
131,500sq m
1,510

2012
A$258.6 million
35
118,800sq m
1,490

2013
A$261.2
35
118,800 sq
1,500

Source: Euromonitor International from company reports, company research

INTERNET STRATEGY

Since launching its internet retailing system in October 2009, Toys “R” Us Australia Ltd has continued to
pioneer the channel within toys and games, remaining one of the most searched-for retailers in
Australia.
The company continues to refine its online operations, including the offering of a feature rich
ecommerce website with various ranges and sales that are only available online. During the Christmas
period in 2011, a study by online merchant PayPal credited Toy “R” Us as a leader in internet retailing in
Australia.

Page233of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The online store allows large, hard-to-stock, outdoor toys, such as trampolines or swimming pools, to be
readily available.

Toys “R” Us shoppers are able to research the Toys “R” Us top 10 toys in each category on the
e-commerce page, thus enabling them to see the hottest toys on the market and making toy purchasing
decisions easier.

Toys “R” Us also engages with its customers through an active Facebook page, posting in-store
promotions, new products and store events.
COMPANY BACKGROUND

As part of the Toys “R” Us Inc international network of licensees and franchisees, Toys “R” Us Australia
was launched in 1993, with the first stores being opened in Melbourne. Within a year, the company had
expanded to 17 stores across various states in Australia and Toys “R” Us now has almost 40 stores
nationwide.

Toys “R” Us is a speciality retailer of toys and games targeting children. The growing popularity of
electronic games has seen the stores begin to carry gaming consoles, electronic pads, and other
electronic toys to cater to changing consumer preferences in Australia and across the world.
In 2005, Toys “R” Us faced uncertainty following the privatisation of the parent company and the
restructuring of the entire organisation. Toys “R” Us in Australia has not been able to make a profit since
its launch in 1993. However, the restructuring undertaken by the group mainly concentrated on the sale
of underperforming retailing brands, and the impact on the international network was minimal.

Toys “R” Us launched the Babies “R” Us retailing brand in 2008 in a side-by-side store format in
Bankstown, New South Wales. Babies “R” Us provides focused product lines in clothing, furniture and
furnishings, toys, feeding needs and so on, for children up to two years old. The company has
continued to roll out the speciality baby stores within Toys “R” Us outlets. In addition, there is also a
dedicated site for this format.
In 2011, Toys “R” Us and Babies “R” Us re-launched its ‘lay buy’ service in its stores to allow customers
to make payment plans on the company’s range of toys and games of purchases over the sum of
$200. The company also gives consumers the option to set up a Baby Registry in any of its stores,
encouraging new parents to purchase their wide range of products.

PRIVATE LABEL

Toys “R” Us offers branded products, as well as private label products, exclusive to Toys “R” Us, in its
retail offering of toys and games, children’s clothing, furniture and furnishings. The company has set up
a dedicated sourcing office in China to manage its private label manufacturing. In addition, Toys “R” Us
has also included organic and natural products in its private label offerings, in line with consumers’
concerns about toy safety, particularly since the massive toy recall issues for Chinese manufacturers in
2007.

Toys “R” Us emphasises products which are of high quality and provides toys which allow learning,
imagination and pure fun. However, the company is challenged by big toy manufacturers’ heavy
marketing and advertising initiatives and struggles to attain high awareness and sales for its private
label products.

Summary 3 Toys “R” Us (Australia) Pty Ltd: Private Label Portfolio
Private label brand
Category
Infant, pre-school, dressing-up and role play
Imaginarium
Aspirational brand with strong educational focus
Arts and crafts, clothing
Totally Me
Female focussed
Bruin
Infant
Strong use of four to five colours

Notes

Source: Euromonitor International from company reports

COMPETITIVE POSITIONING

Toys “R” Us faces a range of challenges in maintaining profits in the current operating environment. In
addition to the cyclical nature of toys and games, where peak periods are only around mid-year and end

Page234of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.of year, the toy industry in general is an area where cut-backs are being made, simply because of the
lack of consumer confidence and an unstable economy.

Toys “R” Us benefits from its global branding and large-format store setup and is the destination for
parents and children who are searching to purchase toys and games. The company’s closest
competitor brand, Toyworld, competes aggressively with more store locations and a strong local
presence.

Online retailers represent the biggest threat to Toys “R” Us as they able to be offer more competitive
prices due to the strength of the local currency and their exemption from GST. To compete with online
retailers, Toys “R” Us launched a fully functional online store.

Mass merchants and supermarkets are also obtaining value share from Toys “R” Us due to their ability
to offer lower prices. This has posted a significant challenge to Toys “R” Us as its reach and marketing
budgets are limited in comparison.

Babies “R” Us was created to compete more effectively in an area which is quite different from toys and
games. The proposition for the Babies “R” Us business is more functional, consisting of accessories and
systems.

Toys “R” Us offers consumers the option to price match toys and games products in store if they find a
better advertised price to ensure consumers achieve the best prices. The Babies “R” Us store offers to
beat competitor prices by 10%.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

toyrus : Toys R Us Inc
i4941 : Dolls/Toys/Games | iretail : Retail | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | icnp : Consumer Goods | ilgood :
Leisure/Travel Goods | i654 : Specialty Stores | i6540030 : Hobby/Toy/Game Stores
c01 : Profiles of Companies | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Euromonitor International Ltd
Document EULOCOP020150309eabj002p2

Page235of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.