Operators of planned Gold Coast resort ‘broke contract’

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CommercialProperty
Operators of planned Gold Coast resort ‘broke contract’

KYLAR LOUSSIKIAN, ROSANNE BARRETT
630 words
15 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
40
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE operators of a controversial $7.5 billion Gold Coast resort and casino development proposed by
Chinese-backed ASF Group are mired in a long-running dispute with a Philippines casino owner,
allegedly failing to fulfil their management services contract.
Las Vegas-based Global Gaming Asset Management, which manages casino operations in The
Bahamas, last month entered arbitration with Bloomberry Resorts, the operators of Solaire Resort and
Casino, the largest casino operation in Manila.

The ASF-led consortium, which includes the Hong Kong-listed China Communications Construction
Company and one of its subsidiaries, Guangzhou Dredging, as well as the state-owned China State
Construction Engineering Corporation, have an ambitious plan to develop 6750 apartments, 2885
hotel rooms, 65,000sq m of shopping areas and 31,000sq m of commercial space on Wavebreak
Island, at the northern end of the Gold Coast.

Under the master plan thousands of apartments are proposed across a 50-storey tower, nicknamed
“the lighthouse” by the proponents, and two 20-level high-rises, as well as low-rise along the western
flank of the 90ha development.
Last week ASF announced it had signed GGAM to manage the resort operations of the integrated
proposal.

ASF Consortium project director Allan Fife said the proponent for the gaming licence was “the
collective brains” behind the concept of integrated resorts in Asia.

He said they developed the Sands in Singapore, as well as projects in Macau and Las Vegas.

But Manila-based Bloomberry alleges GGAM, headed by long-time gambling industry hand William
Weidner, “materially breached” a contract to manage the casino after it opened in March last year.

Bloomberry raised concerns with GGAM about the lack of service — including the failure to assist in
the marketing of the $US1bn ($1.15bn) development by providing access to its global list of celebrities
— but did not hear back. After two months it terminated the agreement for technical services and
operational expertise.

While the matter only entered arbitration in Singapore last month, Bloomberry successfully applied for
a court order that effectively bars GGAM from selling its $166 million stake in the operation, after it
tried to sell its entire 8.7 per cent share earlier this year.

GGAM spokesman Spence Johnson said the allegations made by Bloomberry were false, and it had
“performed all of its obligations”. Bloomberry did not comment on the dispute, but one senior member
of staff, speaking anonymously, said the agreement had a number of “deliverables” that were not met.

Page138of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“They spent a total of five days in a month at Solaire, they did not spend material time with us,” he told
The Weekend Australian from Manila. “Since they have no permanent assets in the Philippines, we
had to take an injunction so they couldn’t sell their stake and just leave,” he said.
Previously, Mr Weidner has been named in a suit filed in Nevada by Hong Kong businessman
Richard Suen, who alleged he had not been paid for his help obtaining a Macau casino licence for
industry giant Las Vegas Sands more than a decade ago.
At the time, Mr Weidner was the company’s president, sealing a series of deals in mainland China.

He is no longer a defendant in the case, which has dragged on for more than a decade, reaching the
Nevada Supreme Court after Las Vegas Sands appealed the decision to grant Mr Suen $US100m.

Geoff Baker, a director of ASF Consortium, said they were aware about the situation with Bloomberry.
“We made our enquiries, and we’re generally happy with how (GGAM) are handling the situation,” he
said.“We believe GGAM is ideally suited as our operator on the Gold Coast because of its experience
in integrated resorts.”

csttce : China State Construction Engineering Corporation
i97912 : Gambling Industries | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality | i501 : Building Construction | i5010023 :
Institutional/Commercial Building Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
china : China | phlns : Philippines | austr : Australia | lvegas : Las Vegas | usnv : Nevada | apacz : Asia
Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz
: North America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | usa : United States | usw : Western U.S.
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141114eabf0006l

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

Page139of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.