Even positive statistics can hide retail woes

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

MarketWatch
Even positive statistics can hide retail woes

TIM BOREHAM, CRITERION
833 words
5 December 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
32
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

DARE we suggest that statistics don’t always convey the full story? Yesterday’s official retail stats
for October showed a respectable 0.4 per cent rise for the month, or 5.7 per cent year-on-year.

In a blow for cashed-up bogans and importers of utes and Woodstock bourbon, growth now lags
that of NSW and Victoria.

Still, we would be vexed worried if low interest rates, reasonable employment and petrol prices
hadn’t resulted in an uptick.

Behind the stats though, the discretionary sector — or at least parts thereof — look vulnerable.

Fashion retailer and wholesaler PAS Group (PGR, 64c) was whacked 15 per cent yesterday after
Wednesday’s aftermarket profit warning.

Ominously, PAS notes the weakness in its wholesale arm, which supplies house brands to
Wesfarmers’ Target.

The Review and Metalicus brands, sold through department stores that includes Myer, are also
trading below par.

On the one hand, PAS may be typical of an over-hyped IPO destined to disappoint. Despite strong
support ahead of the June listing, PAS never traded above its $1.15 a share issue price.

On the other hand, the downgrade could be a portent of broader weakness. We can’t see the likes
of Myer (MYR, $1.61), Super Retail (SUL, $7.72) and The Reject Shop (TRS, $6.39) shooting the
fairy lights out on yuletide sales.
The PAS downgrade means full-year EBITDA will be 10-15 per cent lower than the $33 million
outlined in the prospects.

With EBITDA of $8.6m forecast for the traditionally quieter first-half, a heroic second-half is required.
Sell.
Crater Gold (CGN) 12c IN the Seinfeld episode “The Opposites”, George Costanza acts contrary to
his natural base instincts and this lands him with an attractive girlfriend and a great job offer.
George being George, it all goes pear-shaped in the end. Here’s hoping this PNG gold junior can
avoid the same fate with its counterintuitive approach to mine development.

Crater’s approach is to go small and early with an undefined resource on a small high-grade portion
of its tenement, targeting annual output of a mere 12,000 ounces.

CEO Greg Starr proudly notes that Crater is using processing systems that looked outdated 50
years ago, including a concentrator the size of a cement mixer and hand-pulled boggers.

Page105of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The retro approach means Crater expects to extract the stuff for an “all-in” cash cost of $400 an
ounce, allowing for a generous buffer given gold still trades around $A1300 an ounce.
Crater is 60 per cent-owned (and chaired) by Chinese squillionaire Sam Chan, who holds the global
rights to the Burberry brand.
Chan has made it clear he prefers dividends over capital growth. Having obtained a mining licence
for the high-grade stuff last month, Crater is poised for production. The envisaged output implies
annual free cash flow of $10m, which supports a spec buy on the $17m market cap stock.
Copper producers AS with the iron ore producers, the multi-billion-dollar question is whether the
sharp share price falls suffered by the copper majors more than compensates for the decline in the
underlying commodity.
The copper price has fallen about 10 per cent since June 30, but the industrial ingredient looks to
be on safer ground as the US economy recovers.

At least we think it is.

On Credit Suisse numbers, the valuations of OZ Minerals (OZL, $3.29), PanAust (PNA, $1.49) and
Sandfire Resources (SFR, $4.49) imply a spot copper price south of the current $US2.90 a pound.
There’s also added upside from cost-cutting as the miners take harsh decisions. On the firm’s
appraisal, Sandfire trades only 1 per cent below net present value of $4.44 a share, but OZ Minerals
is 9 per cent under par and PanAust is a whopping 26 per cent “undervalued”.

Separately, UBS rates Sandfire as the cheapest producer based on “all-in” costs of $US2.12 a
pound, with PanAust on $US2.26 a pound and OZ on $US2.62 a pound.
Commodity jitters aside, there have been sound individual reasons to be wary of our copper greats.

Sandfire is recovering from a soggy case of “water ingress’’ at its DeGrussa mine, while last month
PanAust CEO Gary Stafford departed in messy circumstances.
PanAust’s acquisition of the undeveloped Frieda River project in PNG offers bounteous potential —
but also with the potential to be a short-term drag.

OZ Minerals’ Carrapateena growth project in SA remains under a cloud. At least the share price
ascribes little or no value to this asset.

We rate PanAust as a spec buy for those confident the red metal won’t go the same way as the red
dirt price-wise.The Australian accepts no responsibility for stock recommendations. Readers should
contact a licensed financial adviser. The author does not hold shares in the companies mentioned.

CO
IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

wsfrm : Wesfarmers Ltd
i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
c21 : Output/Production | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
nswals : New South Wales | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141204eac50004a

Page106of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.