Brambles cuts Goodpack takeover talks

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Brambles cuts Goodpack takeover talks

Tim Binsted
564 words
21 March 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
15
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Supply-chain logistics giant Brambles has been in discussions with Singapore-listed Goodpack about
a potential takeover.
However, the company said talks did not progress and it broke off from "active discussions".

On Wednesday, Goodpack – one of Brambles's only other listed peers – said it "has been approached
by several parties in connection with a possible transaction, which may or may not lead to an offer for
the shares of the company".

After inquiries from analysts, Brambles responded on Thursday, admitting it had in the recent past
engaged in preliminary discussions with Goodpack.

"However, these discussions did not progress and Brambles is not currently in active discussions with
Goodpack.

"Brambles will continue to monitor the situation."
Goodpack has a market value of about $US1 billion ($1.09 billion) but its shares have been running
hot in recent trading, which may have prompted the statement to the market.

The founding Lam family owns about one-third of Goodpack stock, which complicates any
discussions.

UBS analyst Simon Mitchell said based on consensus earnings forecasts for 2014, Goodpack was
valued on a price to earnings multiple of 18 times and enterprise value to earnings before interest and
tax multiple of 14.5 times.
"Brambles could still likely make an acquisition accretive using low-cost Asian and US dollar debt
together with revenue synergies, however, a transaction around the current price would likely be
viewed as rich by the market," Mr Mitchell said in a note to clients.
Brambles acquired pooled reusable plastics containers group IFCO Systems for $US1.3 billion in
2011, representing an EV/EBIT multiple of 11 times. The pallets and logistics giant also acquired
intermediate bulk container (IBC) group Pallecon for $US177 million in December 2012, or 11.8 times
EBIT.Interest in IBC market
Brambles is not as well penetrated in IBCs as it would like, and the Goodpack acquisition has long
been viewed as a logical deal.
"They've [Brambles] made no secret that they want to be a pooling company rather than just a pallet
company," Deutsche Bank analyst Cameron McDonald said. "They . . . see themselves managing a
pool of assets."

Page272of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IBC companies provide bulk storage for goods before they go into the manufacturing process, such as
bulk sugar before it is turned into a finished product, and, subsequently, put on pallets to go to retail
shelves. Goodpack operates the world's largest fleet of steel IBCs, primarily servicing tyre and
automotive manufacturers, general merchandising and chemical and juice producers. About 80 per
cent of its revenue comes from supplying the rubber industry.

Goodpack has appointed Rippledot Capital Advisers as corporate adviser.
UBS and Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch advised Brambles on the $1.5 billion demerger of its
document management business Recall last year.

They are likely to have been retained in any negotiation with Goodpack.

Goodpack's statement that "discussions are ongoing" most likely refers to other parties. Australian
pooling solutions group Loscam and China International Marine Containers Group have both been
linked with Goodpack in the past. The business would also be attractive to private equity.
Brambles chief Tom Gorman said in February the company was looking to cut $US100 million in
overhead costs by 2019 and focus on hitting its 20 per cent return on capital target.

Brambles shares shed 19¢ to $9.36 on Thursday.READ NEXT:

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

brmbls : Brambles Limited | godpk : Goodpack Limited | brambl : The Brambles Group
i77002 : Freight Transportation Arrangement | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs :
Business/Consumer Services | icargo : Freight/Cargo Transport | itsp : Transportation/Shipping
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c18 :
Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin
: FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140320ea3l0002f

Search Summary

Text

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or entitys) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
01/01/2014 to 30/04/2014
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
2,564

Page273of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Timestamp

29 August 2018 1:16

Page274of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.