Pest to Profit

Pest to Profit

Tim Lee

HD
BY
WC 2,410 words
PD
21 June 2014
SN
Australian Broadcasting Corporation Transcripts
SC
ABCTRS
LA
English
CY
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation
LP

TD

They've long been derided as a scourge to the environment and a pest to pastoralists but wild goats are
now a viable export commodity.

PIP COURTNEY, PRESENTER: But first, a story about how farmers can make money from a feral pest.

Wild goats have long been derided as a scourge to the environment and a pest to pastoralists. But that
view is radically changing. In recent years, the wild goat has been the salvation of some and the future
hope of many, as Tim Lee reports.

TIM LEE, REPORTER: In the grey light of dawn, Ross Gates' ultralight sputters to life and roars upwards
into the outback sky.

It's muster day at Burndoo Station, south of Wilcannia in far western New South Wales.

The property is vast - 25,000 hectares - so flying is the quickest, most efficient way to spot the quarry.
These fleeing forms are goats. Long seen as a scourge, wild goats are now viewed as a vital resource for
many landholders in Australia's arid zone.
JOANNE GATES, "BURNDOO" WILCANNIA: I think they're incorporating them into their business plan
and not just trying to get rid of them as a feral pest.

KATIE DAVIES, "FAIRMONT" WILCANNIA: Look, the goat is an incredible animal. You're right, we've
gone from having a pest animal into a resource now.

The perception of the goat has a long way to go, but it is a lean, green source of protein and you can't ask
for better than that.

TIM LEE: Domestic goats once accompanied the pioneers into every pocket of the often inhospitable
inland; supplying milk and meat and thriving, sometimes where other domestic stock could scarcely
survive.
Today there are more than 2 million feral goats roaming the outback. Some years back, goat producers
relabelled them as rangeland goats, a slightly more endearing term than 'feral'.

RICK GATES, "BURNDOO" WILCANNIA: We've seen a gradual increase in the kill figures, like the
eastern slaughter numbers, and the industry's growing at a good steady rate.

TIM LEE: There's normally two musters a week at Burndoo and each is followed by a rigorous sorting
process.

The most saleable goats, those in the weight range of 23-25 kilograms, are drafted from the breeding
stock and animals that need more time to mature.

As well as running their own herds, the Gates family operates two trading depots, one on their home place
and another at Ivanhoe, to the south. They buy goats from other pastoralists in the lower Darling River
region.

Page142of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RICK GATES: Most times we buy everything, from goats too small to be processed right up to the big
billies that dress out at 30-odd kilo. So it's critical... like the first step is to draft, to sex the animals, get the
billies away from the nannies - they do better away from each other. Then the billies have actually got to
be sorted into two sizes too, because they do better if the big ones aren't with the little ones.

TIM LEE: These animals are destined for an abattoir in northern Victoria. It's a long haul, so each batch is
carefully weighed to ensure it meets the required average live weight. The business also trucks goats to
an abattoir in western Queensland and business was booming when Landline last visited Burndoo in
2008.

RICK GATES: This year, we're looking at 100,000 from June to June. At this stage we've done 50,000.
Last year it was 70,000 and the job just seems to be growing steadily.

GOAT FARMER: Hey, hey, hey! Right up, right up.

TIM LEE: Since then, the growth of Australia's rangeland goat trade has continued at a spectacular rate.
For the Gates, numbers have roughly doubled.
RICK GATES: Around the 150,000 animals a year, which is... it's about three to four B-doubles a week.

TIM LEE: Till now, North America's large Latino population has been the major destination for goat meat.
Three years ago, China, seeking a readily affordable meat, entered the fray.

RICK GATES: Like, our traditional market has been into America - it's always been our strongest market
and still is. And we need to nurture that, we don't want to drop the ball into those markets that have been
strong. But China, Korea and India are looking good. China is there now and is growing at a rate... I think
we started with 30 tonne three years ago, and then it went 10-fold - we went to 300 - and then the third
year, we were selling 3,000 tonnes.

TIM LEE: The Gates family is a trailblazer in Australia's goat industry. Burndoo is the main hub in western
New South Wales and Rick Gates was recently elected president of the nation's peak industry body, the
Goat Council of Australia. Rick and Jo have acted as mentors to other budding goat producers. Among
them are their near neighbours Ed and Katie Davies.

(Talking to Katie Davies) These are fairly typical rangeland goats?

KATIE DAVIES, "FAIRMONT" WILCANNIA: Yes, you can see. We've got goats that are very content.
They're frolicking together. They've probably had a great morning out. You can see the pick that's on the
ground - excellent nutritional content at the moment. And with the rain that we've had just increasing, you
know, the bulk of the feed that we've got, increasing their ability to grow, they're nurturing their young - as
you can see, they're frolicking, they're happy, they're healthy. That's what we're about - producing an
animal that's going to then in turn have the financial reward for us.

TIM LEE: Katie Davies, who serves on the goat committee of New South Wales Farmers, is an energetic
voice in helping to develop the goat industry.

KATIE DAVIES: The Asian market has just got the most incredible potential. The size of the population
over there and their inefficiencies with land due to their population size will allow us to feed the Asian food
bowl with this protein source. It's a lean, green protein source. There isn't any animal inputs when it
comes to a rangeland animal, which is what we graze here, Ed and I graze here on Fairmont. And it's
going to... the market is just going to take off.

TIM LEE: Ed and Katie Davies achieved their dream of buying their own station two years ago. Ed had
spent a decade working in the mines and Katie still works in the mining industry at Broken Hill during the
week.

Unlike most livestock, goats require very little handling and husbandry. And unlike sheep, they don't need
shearing, crutching or drenching, so they incur few labour costs.

ED DAVIES, "FAIRMONT" WILCANNIA: We have other income. We do earthmoving off farm and then
when we're not doing that, we utilise machinery on the property. And that helps us. And with the goats, we
know they've been let go and they're doing their own thing, they're right - we don't need to be checking
them daily or worry that they're going to get flystrike or need drenching or whatever. That just suits us.

KATIE DAVIES: The animal is very stoic. They're a very hardy animal. They will browse - they're not
specific to one species of feed - so when that feed's disappeared or dried up, they're very happy to eat the
scraps. They are the garbage disposal of the plant world. They are happy to eat anything, whether it be an

Page143of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.invasive native species, whether it's beautiful fresh grasses coming through. They're very happy to eat a
wide and diverse type of feed. They're great.

TIM LEE: Goat producers say it's crucial not to allow overgrazing, or else goats can cause land
degradation. To better manage grazing pressure, over time Rick and Joanne Gates have erected on their
property hundreds of kilometres of goat-proof fencing.

JOANNE GATES, "BURNDOO" WILCANNIA: We found here that with the right stocking rate, they've
actually helped control the woody weed, the hotbush mainly - turpentine, they're not so keen on. And
we've noticed, like, padding into the waters where the sheep and cattle pad in, they'll make really big
pads. Goats will just wander in at their own leisure. They're real browsers. So we've got, our ground cover,
our grass cover is amazing now, like, a lot better. So they'll rather nibble a tree than get on the ground, so
some of our paddocks are really improved with their ground cover.

ED DAVIES: Animals get bad names and usually it's not the animal that's got the name - it's the person
who's running it. So whether it be sheep, cattle or goats - whatever animal, if there's too many of them,
they'll eat it back to nothing.

TIM LEE: Conversely, Rick Gates and others believe goats, as browsers, are not only kinder on the
environment in not denuding ground cover, they can even restore degraded grazing country by removing
unwanted woody vegetation.

RICK GATES: Eighty per cent of your woody weed problem is solved because they're browsers, they're
actually conserving the grass. Like, you're encouraging grass to regenerate and grow. And you've had a
drive around here, Tim - you can see it's all looking pretty healthy. We're more than happy.

TIM LEE: Of course, the goat evolved in really arid conditions, so it's supremely adapted to the harshness
of Australia's inland. At the moment this region's enjoying a really excellent season. But it's in the dry and
really trying times that the hardiness of the goat really shines.

And in recent times, this great survivor proved to be the salvation of many landholders in this marginal
country. Jo Gates makes no bones about it.

JOANNE GATES: We wouldn't have been here, yes, if we hadn't have made a change. It just is not wool
country.

TIM LEE: When the wool price slumped in 1991, there was little market for the type of fleece grown in the
harsh inland. Wild goats may have been worth a mere few dollars a head, but the Gates' property had a
ready supply. The returns from every truckload sent off went into constructing goat-proof fencing, until
soon goats displaced the sheep entirely.

JOANNE GATES: We slowly changed over to goats, paddock by paddock, and our main aim was to just
be able to give the kids an education. Well, we did that and now we've expanded and now Ross is back
home again and, you know, we'll be able to get a bit more land. Yes, it's been, you know... it's been really
good.
TIM LEE: Their son Ross is back home on the farm now and keen to expand the business. Market-size
goats now bring returns of between $20 to $25 a head. One of the greatest continual challenges is
ensuring a year-round supply of marketable animals.

The booming demand for rangeland goats is seeing a dramatic change in land use throughout Australia's
arid zones.

RICK GATES: Big move from merinos. I think between Wilcannia and Ivanhoe now, there is one flock of
pure merinos left. And 10, 15 years ago, the whole area was merino - either merinos or merinos with a mix
of cattle.

TIM LEE: There are very few wool producers out here now. Most are growing hardy meat sheep such as
Dorpers or have begun to harvest goats.

JOANNE GATES: They realise now that the demand is outweighing the supply. We thought that the
resource would start to run out after a while but it just seems to be getting more and more and people are
just realising their worth and that they can make a good bit of money out of them nowadays.

TIM LEE: During the recent decade-long drought that gripped this region, for many, goats helped stave off
financial ruin.

Page144of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.KATIE DAVIES: Without a doubt. I doubt there would be many children in the western division of
properties that would've been educated without the help of the opportunistic goat harvest. You know,
there's a lot of people that have stayed on their property because of the opportunistic goat harvest.

ED DAVIES: That's what put children through a lot of boarding schools. We've come from a big
wool-growing family and wool was pretty tough. So the goats, as much as a lot of people probably don't
want to admit it, that's what's kept them going.

TIM LEE: Andy and Fiona McLeod are happy to sing the praises of goats. The couple own Coombah
Station, south of Broken Hill. The enterprise is a mix of large-scale cropping, merino sheep, Dorper sheep
and beef cattle, but they say rangeland goats are their most vital product. They annually turn off about
15,000.

ANDY MCLEOD, "COOMBAH" BROKEN HILL: I reckon there'd be people that wouldn't be around still if it
wasn't for goats. We'd probably be one of them as well.

KATIE DAVIES: It's not just the stinky old goats. It is a very viable commodity going forward and that's
what our bank has found with us and worked with us to do that, that we can go forward. There's going to
be a huge, huge, burgeoning Asian market that requires protein and goat is such an easy protein to
produce.

TIM LEE: Katie Davies is extremely grateful for the trail blazed by the Gates family.

KATIE DAVIES: We couldn't do what we do today without the mentorship, the friendship and the
leadership from Jo and Rick. They're amazing people. What they've done with their property in turning it
around from a merino operation into the goat depot that they have today is incredible and it gives us such
an insight into the industry.

RICK GATES: It's been a good move away from the tradition that grandfather and father did for I don't
know how long - since the early 1900s. We just realised that we had to break from tradition and we're
more than happy.

IN
NS

i0 : Agriculture
e51 : Trade/External Payments | genv : Environmental News | ntra : Transcripts | ecat : Economic News |
gcat : Political/General News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter |
nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia

RE
IPD pest
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCTRS0020140622ea6l0002t

Page145of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.