Iron ore miners ramp up output to offset price weakness

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY

LP

TD

Iron ore miners ramp up output to offset price weakness

By Neil Hume
569 words
25 July 2014
02:35
Financial Times (FT.Com)
FTCOM
English
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and
redistribute by email or post to the web.

Iron ore is under renewed pressure with the price of the key steelmaking ingredient falling for a
sixth-straight session.
Benchmark Australian iron ore, with 62 per cent iron content, slipped 70 cents to $93.60 a tonne on
Thursday, according to The Steel Index, taking losses since the middle of last week to 3.8 per cent.

Iron ore has dropped by 30 per cent this year on concerns about rising supplies and slowing demand in
China, which consumes two-thirds of the world's seaborne iron ore. The price dropped to a 20-month
low of $89 a tonne in June but has since staged a recovery.
Restocking by Chinese steel mills, which have increased inventory levels from 20 days of production to
around 26 days, has been helped the price recover. But traders said the mills have now "taken their foot
off the pedal" and are not buying as much ore.

"We expect the mills to pull back and perhaps come back into the market when the price is in the low
$90s," said one trader at a leading investment bank. "But I don't see much demand growth in the third
and fourth quarters. And seaborne supply is still increasing".
Iron ore is critical to the profitability of several mining companies such as Anglo American, BHP Billiton,
Rio Tinto and Vale of Brazil. They are spending billions of dollars expanding their operations to meet
expected demand from China.
On Thursday, Vale said its iron ore output had hit a quarterly record of 79.45m tonnes in the three
months to June, as it ramped up production to win back market share from Australian rivals.
Earlier in the week, BHP, the world's biggest mining company with an equity market value of £113bn,
said it had mined a record 225m tonnes in the year to June and forecast a further increase in production
to 245m tonnes in 2015. Rio is also targeting increased output next year.

Market participants have taken differing views on how this wave of new supply will affect prices over the
coming year. The more bullish believe rising seaborne supply from mines in Australia and Brazil will
force high-cost Chinese domestic producers out of the market, helping to prevent oversupply and
support prices. The more gloomy say Chinese mines will not close quickly enough to put a floor under
prices.
Goldman Sachs, which is forecasting an iron price of $80 a tonne in 2015, is the pessimist's camp.
"In our view, the closure of high-cost mines in [Chinese] coastal provinces will not be sufficient to fully
absorb the growing surplus, leading to greater competition among seaborne producers going into 2015,"
it said a report.
"We continue to believe that the market is underestimating the downside risk that China will not absorb
every tonne of incremental seaborne supply, and a material amount of seaborne capacity will eventually
have to close," it said.

Page15of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The lower iron ore price and the persistent strength of the Australian dollar is also raising questions
about how much cash BHP and Rio will be able to return to shareholders over the next year.

"Although we still expect BHP to kick off capital management [with annual results in August], it will be
relatively modest at only $2-$3bn," Citi said in a note to clients.

CO
IN

NS
RE

IPD
IPC
PUB
AN

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining |
ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c21 : Output/Production | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Company News
CN
The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)
Document FTCOM00020140724ea7o0035z

Page16of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.