Metro flips Uniting Church site , books $4.2m profit . . .

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Metro flips Uniting Church site, books $4.2m profit . . .

Larry Schlesinger
378 words
4 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
36
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Demand for quality suburban development sites in Melbourne has delivered a big windfall to David
Devine's Metro Property Development group.
The private developer has almost doubled its money on a 3200 square metre site in Ivanhoe, 10
kilometres north-east of the city, which it bought in December last year as part of the Uniting Church
property fire sale.

Metro paid $5 million for the site at 1-5 Westley Avenue, one of six sites it bought from the Uniting
Church for a combined $25 million. The deal settled at the end of June.
Less than four months later, the site has been re-sold to the Westley Property Group Pty Ltd for
$9.2 million, delivering an 84 per cent gross profit to Metro owners Mr Devine, chief executive Luke
Hartman and marketing director Ken Woodley.  

The deal settled in mid-0ctober.
Westley Property Group is controlled by Mark Stevens, managing director of the Kokoda Property
Group, which is marketing a seven-storey apartment development on the site featuring 157 units
with an end value of $32 million. Flip style rollAn application for a planning permit on the site was
submitted to the City of Banyule in July.
It's the second time in two months that Metro has flipped a development site and booked a big profit.
In September, Metro more than doubled its money after selling the former TAFE college site in south
Brisbane to the Hong Kong-listed R&F Properties for $46 million. Metro paid $22 million for the site
when it purchased it from the state government last year.
Melbourne agent Fred Nucara, a director at Beller TBM Commercial, said there was still very strong
demand from local buyers for property sites priced under $8 million.

"There have been several examples where Asian buyers have been outbid by local developers for
key sites at this price point," Mr Nucara said.

Above $8 million, Beller found that these sites were generally too much of a funding risk for local
developers and were going to an entirely different set of buyers – mostly from China.
Metro's other Uniting Church site acquisitions were in Ivanhoe, Doncaster East, South Yarra and
Balwyn.

IN
NS

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter

Page4of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141103eab400024

Page5of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.