Australia's iron ore miners hang tough as prices fall

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Australia's iron ore miners hang tough as prices fall

733 words
13 March 2014
07:00
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2014 Reuters Limited

* Miners not sweating yet over iron ore price drop

* Use to the ups and downs in prices, they say

* Most still operating in the black

* "We just get on with it," one miner says

By James Regan
PERTH, March 13 (Reuters) - If Australian miners are worried about the dramatic decline in iron ore
prices, it doesn't show.
At an annual gathering of many of the world's biggest and smallest iron ore producers here the mood
is upbeat - as if the heftiest one-day fall in ore prices since the global financial crisis never happened.
"Iron ore mining isn't tennis, it's a contact sport," said David Flanagan, chairman of Atlas Iron Ltd.
"Sometimes it hurts a bit, like you copped it in the stomach. We just get on with it."
Iron ore for immediate delivery to China slumped 8 percent on Monday after data showed China's
trade balance swung into deficit, amplifying concerns about a slowdown in the world's No. 2 economy
and the biggest importer of the steel-making ingredient.
Iron ore is down 22 percent so far this year to $104.70 a tonne, triggering comparisons with a slump
in 2012 to below $90 that shuttered many mines and left producers rethinking expansion plans.
Australia is expected to ship more than half a billion tonnes of iron ore to China in 2013. Like most
Australian producers, Atlas is still in the black, putting its total costs of getting iron ore into China at
A$70 to A$75 a tonne ($63 to $68 a tonne).
"I'm just not fussed over what's gone on in the market this week," said Wayne Richards, executive
chairman of Tawana Resources, which is digging an iron ore mine in Liberia.

"The way I see it, the price was driven down on sentiment, not fundamentals, and sentiment will again
push the price up," he said.
China's biggest listed steel maker, Baoshan Iron & Steel , complained this week that iron ore prices
were still too high given weak demand and government efforts to close outdated and polluting mills.
But big miners such as Fortescue Metals Group, Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton say Chinese demand
won't peak until around 2025 at about a billion tonnes a year.

"This market isn't going to disappear," Fortescue's director of development, Peter Meurs said.

PARTY OVER?
The big miners have room for manoeuvre with landed prices to China at around $50 a tonne, but
further falls could put some higher cost miners in trouble.

Page271of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Shares in Gindlabie Metals, which has a minority stake in the Western Australia Karara venture with
production costs of about $70 or more before shipping, fell 18 percent on Wednesday.

Shares in other small miners have also taken a hit with Atlas down 16 percent over the past three
weeks and BC Iron down 11 percent.

The majors have not been spared either.

BHP has fallen nearly 8 percent over the last three weeks and Rio Tinto 13 percent, while Fortescue,
which is carrying debt of more than A$8 billion, has slumped 17 percent.

The impact can also be seen in Perth, a city that is the headquarters for many miners and well-versed
in the boom-bust cycle of commodities.

In West Perth, a low-rise area of the city favoured for long lunches and deal making among the
mining set, restaurants and cafes have been ominously quiet lately.
"I just don't go down to West Perth these days, and I'm not alone," one mining executive said. "With
so much uncertainty out there, it sends the wrong message to shareholders."
Most at the Global Iron Ore and Steel Forecasting Conference say the price fall was the result of
Beijing's efforts last year to tighten credit, which they believe could threaten 2014 economic growth
targets.
"We can't control factors like that," said Morgan Ball, managing director of BC Iron Ltd, which is
operating on an assumption iron ore will average $110-$130 a tonne in 2014.

"If it comes in within that range, we will have a very pleasing year," Ball said.

He may be overly optimistic though, if analyst forecasts are right.

Citigroup sees the price falling to $80 by 2016, citing "inescapable market surpluses".

RF
CO
IN

NS

RE

IPD
IPC
PUB
AN

Released: 2014-3-12T22:00:04.000Z
atlagd : Atlas Iron Ltd.
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | imet : Mining/Quarrying |
i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ecat : Economic News | reqrmm : Suggested Reading
Metals/Mining | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry
News
austr : Australia | china : China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | waustr : Western Australia |
apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater
China | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Business
SERVICE:UKI
Thomson Reuters (Markets) LLC
Document LBA0000020140312ea3c00zyl

Page272of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.