Inquiry into home buying by foreigners

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Inquiry into home buying by foreigners

Jacob Greber and Samantha Hutchinson
496 words
20 March 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
11
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

A powerful parliamentary body will consider whether tough new restrictions are needed on foreign
investment in housing despite industry warnings supply could collapse if access is tightened.
Amid widespread community unease over claims Chinese buyers are artificially driving up prices in
parts of Sydney and Melbourne, the inquiry will look at whether rules and policies are adequately
spurring investment in much-needed new dwellings.

The release came as a prominent property group said supply of new units in Sydney would collapse
by as much as 30 per cent if offshore buyers were excluded in any way from buying apartments off the
plan.

The chairman of the committee, Kelly O'Dwyer, said the inquiry was not focused on investors from any
country in particular and would take a "very broad and holistic approach" to whether current settings
were delivering the best possible outcomes for Australia.

Terms of reference for the House of Representatives economics committee probe show the hearings
will seek fresh evidence on whether foreign investors are "directly increasing" the supply of housing
and bringing benefits to local builders and suppliers.
"The over-arching principle of Australia's foreign investment policy, as it applies to residential
property, is that the investment should increase Australia's housing stock," the committee said in a
statement on Wednesday.
Some economists and real estate experts have warned a rise in investment from Asia threatens to do
little more than drive up prices, effectively reducing affordability for local residents. But recent data
suggests there has been a significant surge in planned investment into new dwellings, particularly
apartments in the major cities.Foreign investment drives supply "If it weren't for foreign investment,
there'd be 25 to 30 per cent less property on the market in Sydney," CBRE residential marketing
head David Milton said.

Fewer international buyers would result in fewer pre-sales, which would have a rolling effect on lead
times for developers and higher holding costs, ultimately dampening supply, Mr Milton said.
Ms O'Dwyer said this week the inquiry was not designed to be an anti-Chinese inquisition, vowing it
would not be "whipped up into a frenzy."

Reserve Bank of Australia governor Glenn Stevens this month said it was up to politicians to address
any community concerns about Asians buying property.
Colliers International said Chinese buyers had bought almost $6 billion worth of property in the
12 months through June 2013, and were buying almost one in every five new homes.

Page145of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Foreigners are generally blocked from buying established dwellings as investment properties or
homes, however temporary residents can apply to buy. Despite those rules, the committee said there
had been concerns "raised periodically" about foreign investment.

Other aspects to be considered include the economic benefits of foreign investment and how
Australia's foreign investment framework compares with other countries.
The committee will accept submissions until May 9.READ NEXT: Property probe not anti-Chinese:
Coalition

NS
RE

PUB
AN

ereal : Real Estate Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140319ea3k0002y

Page146of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.