The 'rock star' economy over the ditch

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Perspective
The 'rock star' economy over the ditch

Brian Toohey
1,039 words
15 February 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
22
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Capital idea

Australia seems determined to keep making policy mistakes that New Zealand avoided in achieving
widespread applause for its economic performance. Paul Bloxham, HSBC Bank's chief economist in
Australia, even describes it as "the rock star economy of 2014". Further accolades are expected when
New Zealand's Bill English appears at the G20 finance ministers meeting in Sydney.

Now that handouts to local car makers are finally ending, Tony Abbott's Coalition government is
considering a $10 billion to $15 billion-program to help the inefficient local defence industry make 1000
armoured vehicles and at least $50 billion for naval shipbuilders.

Partly due to good luck, partly to good policy, New Zealand is doing well on some economic indicators,
discussed below. When it stopped assembling cars it did not switch to subsidising arms production. Its
lack of a tax-free threshold helps fund low marginal tax rates, while Australia has gone in the opposite
direction. Unlike Australia, it refused to introduce a compulsorily superannuation system that severely
damages the budget and diverts resources into an artificially bloated funds management industry.

Rather than expand secrecy as the Abbott government is doing, New Zealand Prime Minister John
Key's National Party government has been unusually open since elected in 2008. English has told this
columnist that his decision to release most Treasury documents a few weeks after being written has
improved policy and public acceptance of change.

Unfortunately, little attention is paid in Australia to the new tax scale that Key and English introduced. It
has a marginal rate of 10.5 per cent from the first dollar, rising to 17.5 per cent between $NZ14,000 and
$48,000, then 30 per cent until the top rate of 33 per cent applies from $70,000 – instead of Australia's
45 per cent at $180,000. They also cut the corporate rate to 28 per cent and increased the GST to
15 per cent. Tax credits help low and middle-income earners.Tax-free threshold

The Labor government's carbon tax package increased the tax-free threshold in Australia from $6000 to
$18,200. It tried to cover part of the cost by lifting the 15 per cent marginal rate to 19 per cent and the
30 per cent rate to 32.5 per cent between $37,000 and $80,000 when it becomes 37 per cent. Oddly,
the Henry tax review won plaudits for wanting to lift the tax-free threshold to $25,000. It then tried to
claw back part of the $34 billion in lost revenue by more than doubling the marginal rate for more than
2 million low-income earners to 35 per cent, thus sharply increasing work disincentives.

New Zealand's benign strategic outlook lets it spend about 1 per cent of GDP on defence; Australia
spends more than 1.6 per cent. According to the military publisher IHS Janes, China spends less than
1.5 per cent of GDP and the US more than 4 per cent. Andrew Davies, a senior analyst at the Australian
Strategic Policy Institute, says: "Power projection across oceans remains a formidably difficult task, and
the list of countries that could bring much combat power to bear against Australia's territories is
(excluding the US) vanishingly small." Others argue that China won't have the necessary capability for
decades. Moreover, an official review by two former defence department heads in 2011 said no country

Page199of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.would have a motive to seize and hold Australian territory, when it is much cheaper to buy the desired
resources.

However, if Australia wants to improve its defence capability, it should import high-quality weapons,
rather than spending billions extra on trouble-plagued local production. Backed by the Victorian and
South Australian governments, the local industry is pressuring Abbott to "create jobs" by building a long
list of weapons. Topping the list are uniquely designed submarines for about $40 billion, although
proven high-performance subs can be imported for $5 billion to $6 billion.Land combat vehicles

Having failed at car making, these states want to build "land combat vehicles" not yet chosen by
Defence. Apparently, Defence wants a new US vehicle that is not ready to go into production as it is still
being developed. New Zealand avoids wasteful procurement spending by a clear focus on what
equipment is really justified, then relies on imports.
Its foreign policy priorities helped cement free-trade agreements with China and Taiwan that Australia is
yet to achieve. After meeting Abbott in January, Key told journalists that, unlike Abbott, he would not
back Japan in its dispute with China over a group of barren rocks near Taiwan. A prudent answer,
given the difficulties in discerning whether Japan, China or Taiwan has the better claim.

Although Key and English have an extensive reform agenda, they take a measured approach that
doesn't frighten the electorate. English was quoted in this newspaper on Wednesday as rejecting the
notion that "the key to smaller government is just slicing bits off. The community expects governments
to actually solve a few problems".
Key points to productivity improvements and strong export growth in areas such as dairy where
Australia has lagged. Releasing the official New Zealand outlook for 2014 in December, English said the
budget remains on track for a surplus in 2015-16. He expects economic growth to rise to 3.6 per cent
over the year to March 2015 from 2.4 per cent to March 2014, before easing back. Many in the private
sector expect Australia's current growth rate of around 2.3 per cent will be slow to return to the trend
level of 3 per cent.

Unemployment is 6 per cent in both countries, but the trend is down in New Zealand and up in Australia.
New Zealand's annual headline inflation rate is 1.6 per cent, but is expected to rise much closer to
Australia's target rate of around 2.5 per cent. These outcomes have been achieved despite official
estimates of government spending in New Zealand as a share of GDP being higher than in Australia
and expected to remain so for many years.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | e21 : Government Finance |
ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News
Filter
austr : Australia | nz : New Zealand | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
nswals : New South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140214ea2f00023

Page200of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.