Chinese buyers key to market: Triguboff

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Chinese buyers key to market: Triguboff

Robert Harley
516 words
12 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
36
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Australia's largest apartment developer, Harry Triguboff, says his market is already linked to China.
"We are part of the Chinese market. The buyers compare me with the prices in Shanghai and
Beijing," Mr Triguboff said.

"If the price falls in China, that will affect us."
Mr Triguboff's Meriton Group made a submission to the House of Representative Economics
Committee Inquiry into Foreign Investment in Residential Real Estate.

Not surprisingly, the submission supported the current regulations, even raised the possibility that
the Free Trade Agreement with China could lead to a liberalisation.

"If Australian wishes to keep housing affordable, and to keep developers building, it is imperative
that we embrace foreign investment in real estate and the certainty it can bring to the industry," he
wrote.

However, the Meriton submission raised issues about the implementation of the current regulations.

It also provided an insight into the real level of offshore investment.

Like others who have made submissions to the inquiry, Meriton raised the issue of whether those
who were allowed to buy homes because they were temporary residents, sold them when they
ceased to be Australian residents.
In the 2012-13 year, 43.7 per cent of approvals were for temporary residents to buy established
dwellings because foreign buyers, who do not have temporary residency, can only buy new
homes.Compliance issues
Meriton pointed out that the annual report of the Foreign Investment Review Board did not report on
compliance.

"We consider that ongoing concerns about possible non-compliance undermine public confidence in
the entire foreign investment and raise the risk of inappropriate policy responses to an established
program which is making significant contributions to the national economy," Meriton wrote.
"We would welcome enhanced compliance arrangements for residential real estate which are
commensurate with the risks involved and reported publicly as a means of boosting public
confidence."

Meriton's forecast turnover for 2014 is about $2 billion. In the process, it employs either directly, or
as sub-contractors, up to 2000 people in the construction industry on about 15 building sites in
Sydney, Brisbane and the Gold Coast, and more than 700 in services and tourism.

Page175of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Surprisingly, foreign purchases contributed only 13 per cent to Meriton's residential sales in
2012-13.
Meriton estimated most of the 130 apartments bought by offshore purchasers were held for
long-term investment and they were leased to local residents.

The submission also addressed concerns many of the new apartments bought by foreign investors
are vacant.

"Meriton's figures show that the vacancy rates on these apartments is negligible, with up to two
thirds being leased and the remainder occupied by the owners, either for themselves or by student
children," the company said in its submission.
The company also addressed concerns about the concentration of foreign purchasers, arguing
that concentration was limited because most financiers required that no more than 25 per cent of
apartments were sold offshore.
Key points Offshore residential buyers essential to bring certainty to industry. Overseas
purchasers make up only 13pc of Meriton sales, inquiry told.

IN
RE

PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140611ea6c0001x

Page176of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.