PRESS RELEASE: WesternOne Announces WindingDown Australia Operations to Focus on North American Opportunities

HD PRESS RELEASE: WesternOne Announces WindingDown Australia Operations to Focus on North

American Opportunities

WC 1,185 words
PD 29 July 2014
SN Platts Commodity News
SC PLATT
LA
English
CY Copyright 2014. Platts. All Rights Reserved.
LP

TD

London (WesternOne Inc.)--29Jul2014 22:42 This press release is published as it was received
VANCOUVER, July 29, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -?WesternOne Inc. ("WesternOne") (TSX: WEQ, WEQ.DB,
WEQ.DB.C) announced today that it is winding-down its operations in Australia. In order to ensure an
efficient wind-down process, the Australian operations have been placed into voluntary administration.
WesternOne is taking this action in order to focus both its management and its capital resources on
significant opportunities in North America, including ongoing capital investments in Northern Alberta's oil
and gas sector, new major investments in the shale oil and gas sector in the United States, and the
liquefied natural gas (LNG) and related infrastructure projects proposed for British Columbia.

"The decision to wind-down these operations follows a thorough review of the current challenging
business environment in Australia and the impact it was having on the financial results of our Australian
operations," said Mr. Robert King, Chief Executive Officer. "The downturn in Australia's resource market
started in 2012 when economic growth in China decelerated. We acquired the Australian business in early
2013 with the expectation that the downturn had largely bottomed out. Unfortunately, the weakness in this
market has persisted and despite continual downsizing of that business we do not see the prospects for a
turnaround in the performance of our Australia operations in the near-term. The Australian operations do
not constitute a substantial portion of WesternOne's overall business." Britco, WesternOne's modular
building platform, continues to execute major workforce accommodations projects in Western Canada,
including a 2,000 bed complex in northern Manitoba for Manitoba Hydro and a 1,600 room facility for
Devon Energy in northern Alberta. WIS, WesternOne's infrastructure services platform, continues to
benefit from the robust construction and infrastructure sectors within Western Canada and is expanding its
market through fleet investments and launching new branches in strategic locations. As previously
announced, Peter Blake becomes Chief Executive Officer of WesternOne effective September 1, 2014.
"Peter's extensive knowledge and experience will help refocus our long-term growth strategy in the
construction and infrastructure sectors within Western Canada and the United States," said Mr. King. "Our
pipeline of work in North America has never been stronger and we are booked well into 2015 at all of our
Britco modular facilities in Canada and the United States." WesternOne's preliminary financial results for
the three months ended June 30, 2014 indicate estimated consolidated revenue of approximately $112.1
million and consolidated adjusted EBITDA (see "Non-IFRS Measures" below for details) of approximately
$10.5 million. Excluding the impact of the Australian business, estimated consolidated revenue was
approximately $98.7 million and consolidated adjusted EBITDA was approximately $12.6 million. ?As a
result of its intention to wind-down its operations in Australia, WesternOne expects to write-off from these
operations the remaining intangible assets totaling $6.2 million and deferred income tax assets and
tangible capital assets of $4.0 million in 2014, representing less than 2.9% of WesternOne's estimated
total consolidated assets of $353.9 million as of June 30, 2014. This is in addition to a goodwill and
intangibles impairment charge of $25.9 million that was recognized for WesternOne's Australian
operations for the year ended December 31, 2013. The above preliminary financial results for the three
months ended June 30, 2014 are based on management's estimates and have not yet been approved of
by WesternOne's Audit Committee or its Board of Directors. ?WesternOne's final financial results for its
second quarter, which are scheduled for release on August 7, 2014,?could differ from these preliminary
financial results. Non-IFRS Measures "Adjusted EBITDA" is a not recognized measure under IFRS and
does not have a standardized meaning prescribed by IFRS. "Adjusted EBITDA" refers to net income (loss)
before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, gain/loss on financial derivatives relating to changes in
the fair market value of the fixed interest rate swap, business acquisition costs, debenture issuance
costs, gain/loss on debentures relating to changes in their fair values, share based compensation, foreign
exchange gains/losses, write-down of capital assets, intangible assets and goodwill, and restructuring

Page70of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.costs relating to the winding-down of WesternOne's Australian operations. Forward-looking Information
Certain statements in this press release may constitute "forward-looking" information that involves known
and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, and it may cause actual results, performance or
achievements or industry results, to be materially different from any future results, performance or
achievements or industry results expressed or implied by such forward-looking information.
Forward-looking information is identified by the use of terms and phrases such as "anticipate", "believe",
"could", "estimate", "expect", "intend", "may", "plan", "predict", "project", "will", "would", and similar terms
and phrases, including references to assumptions. Such information includes, without limitation,
statements with respect to: the winding-down of WesternOne's Australia operations, WesternOne's global
strategy of deploying management and capital resources, WesternOne's business prospects in North
America, WesternOne's preliminary financial results for the three months ended June 30, 2014 and the
timing of releasing of such information, and the long-term strategic plan that WesternOne will implement.
Actual events or results may differ materially. Forward-looking information contained in this press release
is based on certain key expectations and assumptions made by WesternOne, including, without limitation:
the outlook of WesternOne's business and the economy in Western Canada, the United States and
Australia, the supply and demand for WesternOne's products and services and management's
assessment of future plans and operations. Although the forward-looking information contained in this
press release is based upon what the WesternOne's management believes to be reasonable assumptions,
WesternOne cannot assure investors that actual results will be consistent with such information.
Forward-looking information reflects current expectations of management regarding future events and
operating performance as of the date of this press release. Such information involves significant risks and
uncertainties, should not be read as guarantees of future performance or results, and will not necessarily
be accurate indications of whether or not such results will be achieved. A number of factors could cause
actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking information, and a
description of these factors can be found under "Risk Factors" in WesternOne's Annual Information Form
dated March 28, 2014 and Management's Discussion and Analysis dated May 14, 2014, which are
available on SEDAR (www.sedar.com). The forward-looking information contained herein is expressly
qualified in its entirety by this cautionary statement. Forward-looking information reflects management's
current beliefs and is based on information currently available to WesternOne. The forward-looking
information is made as of the date of this press release and WesternOne assumes no obligation to update
or revise such information to reflect new events or circumstances, except as may be required by
applicable law. About WesternOne WesternOne seeks to acquir(... Press release has been abridged for
publication)

CO wequif : WesternOne Inc.
IN
NS

i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
c151 : Earnings | e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | npress : Press Releases | c15 : Performance |
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e21 : Government Finance | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
cana : Canada | austr : Australia | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
namz : North America

RE

IPD 0105
PUB Platts, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc.
AN Document PLATT00020140730ea7t0008g

Page71of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.