LIVING HIGH, OFF THE HOG - Former bikie club presidents rev up for their next chapter of fast cars, scams and corruption

SE
HD

BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
LIVING HIGH, OFF THE HOG - Former bikie club presidents rev up for their next chapter of fast
cars, scams and corruption
JOSH ROBERTSON
428 words
2 February 2014
The Courier-Mail
COUMAI
CourierMail
22
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

ITALIAN sports cars, trust funds, million-dollar tax scams and corruption scandals: welcome to the
world of the ex-presidents.

Former motorcycle gang bosses have relinquished their presidents’ patches but manage to stay on
the radar as Queensland’s bikie crackdown nets a growing number of their former outlaw footsoldiers.

A former gang president who cannot be named for legal reasons is under investigation by New
Zealand authorities over an alleged $1.2 million tax fraud.
The sophisticated scheme he is accused of orchestrating – involving shipping containers from China,
three separate companies and bogus GST claims – belies his lack of visible wealth, which outwardly
consists of an unremarkable South Brisbane home and a rundown tow truck.

While most of his ex-Bandidos clubmates were last month making small targets of themselves,
another chapter president, George Bejat, from Centro, was eyeing off the purchase of a $165,000
Lamborghini. That’s despite the 27-year-old standing to lose his only known business interest, a share
in a Milton tattoo shop, Royal Ink, under a licensing clampdown on parlours.

Bejat organised a private inspection of the 2004 Lamborghini Gallardo at a Brisbane dealership with a
Gold Coast seller.

He has new personalised licence plates that read “SRB PWR”, a reference to his Serbian nationality.
That echoes SRB Corp, a company owned by Bejat’s mentor and one-time Gold Coast Bandidos
boss Sava Cvetkovic, who hopes to turn a tidy profit with a five-unit development on a Mt Gravatt
suburban plot.

Cvetkovic’s budding career as a property developer comes with other business interests tied up in
family trusts, including one of Brisbane’s highest-profile tattoo parlours. Like Bejat, Cvetkovic – who
has been pursued in the past without success by prosecutors on various charges including drug
trafficking – also stands to lose Valley Ink on the Brunswick St Mall under a new licensing regime
aimed at weeding out bikies from the industry.

Errol Gildea, one-time Queensland Hells Angels boss who now lives in Thailand, has been linked to
allegations of corruption involving union officials and building industry figures down south.
Mr Gildea’s business connection to a now defunct waste management company was last week
revealed to back claims of organised crime links in the building industry.Mr Gildea, who also owns a
bar in Patong, held shares in the company through another business he claims recycles gold and
platinum from computer chips.

Page49of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE

PUB
AN

gcorrp : Corruption | ggangs : Gangs | gorgnz : Organized Crime | gcat : Political/General News |
gcrim : Crime/Courts | gfinc : Financial Crime
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document COUMAI0020140202ea220004c

Page50of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.