Bumper year for Logan

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Good Life
Bumper year for Logan

687 words
11 November 2014
Illawarra Mercury
ILM
First
25
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

KERRY SKINNER meets a winemaker at the top of his game.

Peter Logan has an extra spring in his step these days, but it's not only because of the continued
success of his Mudgee-based wine business.

Logan has a new woman in his life, a bonny baby daughter called Clementine. Clementine's birth
during the busy 2014 vintage was the icing on the cake for Logan and his wife Hannah, who form one
of the wine industry's most formidable partnerships.

"It's fantastic being a father ... jeez we got a good one," Logan says.
"I'm still getting used to fatherhood but once we realised that Clementine was so well adjusted and
such a good sleeper, Hannah booked me a few trips to go selling wine again. I've been to Japan for
two weeks, that's our biggest export market, Melbourne for a week, Brisbane and then to China.
"Japan was good but Europe generally is very tough for Australian wine at the moment ."
The situation in China, where Logan has sold a lot of wine in recent years, has also been turned on its
head after the Chinese government introduced austerity measures.
"Hong Kong is one of our oldest markets but in mainland China, the government bought in their
austerity measures, telling Chinese government officials not to flash around too much cash and that's
where most of the wine was sold. It's hit a brick wall and is a trickle compared to what it was."

While the international market remains volatile, things are thriving on the home front, with Logan Wines
this year crushing its 18th vintage since its establishment in 1997, when Logan and his late father Mal
kicked off their first wine venture in Orange.
The business expanded to Mudgee, where Peter and Hannah Logan's family home can be seen from
the state-of-the-art winery and cellar door complex. For Logan, it's been a steep learning curve but he is
now at the top of his game.
"I've evolved a lot as winemaker, working with the fruit for so long, making wine for so long, being in the
industry for so long. And all the trials we do each year have certainly helped me accumulate a lot of
knowledge," Logan says.
Logan now produces wine under four labels - his top-shelf Ridge Of Tears; Logan, which concentrates
on Orange; Weemala, and the entry-level Apple Tree Flat.

The introduction of the Ridge Of Tears wines and a new assistant winemaker, Duncan Lloyd, has taken
Logan Wines to a new level. The innovative Ridge Of Tears label comprises two shiraz wines, one from
Orange and one from Mudgee.
The fruit for each wine come from vineyards 70 kilometres apart, Mudgee from at an altitude of 564
metres and Orange from an altitude of 850 metres. Apart from that, they receive almost identical

Page158of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.treatment in the winery, fermentation in small concrete open fermenters, plunged by hand and
basket-pressed straight to oak. For Lloyd, who hails from one of the great shiraz regions, the wines are
a revelation, although totally different in structure and body.

Lloyd describes the Orange shiraz as "feminine" and the Mudgee version as "more brooding and
earthy".

For Logan, the arrival of Lloyd has helped take some of the load off his already broad shoulders.
"Duncan is really excelling, he's very organised in the winery, he's got a very good palate and I'm
learning from him as much as I hope he's learning from me," Logan says.
"He grew up in a winemaking family in McLaren Valley, has been around wine all his life and he's
travelled and worked in some great places in Tasmania, Germany and France."

For now Logan is a contented man and it's steady as she goes, but who knows ... there could be a new
wine in the pipeline to celebrate Clementine's birth, just like the Hannah Rose that Logan introduced for
his rose-loving wife on their wedding day.

IN

RE

PUB
AN

i426 : Wine | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge :
Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods
china : China | austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document ILM0000020141111eabb0002q

Page159of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.