BC puts Pilbara revival in motion

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
BC puts Pilbara revival in motion

PAUL GARVEY
618 words
12 August 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
19
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

BC drives revival in Pilbara BC IRON will look to springboard from its surprise $256 million
acquisition of Kerry Stokes’s Iron Ore Holdings into negotiations with Pilbara newcomers Baosteel
and Aurizon, reviving expectations of another wave of development in the region.

The deal will provide the growth projects BC was looking for to complement its profitable but small
Nullagine iron ore project, which has a limited mine life. And IOH’s $800m-plus Buckland iron ore
development will enjoy a stronger prospect of going ahead courtesy of BC’s cashed-up balance sheet.

The offer of 10c and 0.44 BC shares for each share in IOH is a windfall for Mr Stokes, who owns a 53
per cent stake in the target. He will emerge with a 19 per cent stake in the enlarged BC.

BC’s bid values IOH at about $1.59 per share, representing a 67 per cent premium to IOH’s previous
closing price of 95c.
BC owns a 75 per cent interest in the 6 million tonne-a-year Nullagine mine, with Andrew Forrest’s
Fortescue Metals owning the balance.
IOH is preparing to receive in the coming months the first cashflow from the Iron Valley mine, which is
operated by Chris Ellison’s Mineral Resources under a mine gate sales agreement, as well as the
undeveloped Buckland project. Those two projects have combined reserves of almost 270 million
tonnes of iron ore, compared to the 33 million tonnes at Nullagine.

Studies have found Buckland could be developed as an $800m mine and infrastructure project
including a new port facility at Cape Preston East.
But BC chief executive Morgan Ball told The Australian the company would explore collaboration with
China’s Baosteel and Brisbane’s Aurizon, which recently picked up neighbouring iron ore ground
through their $1.4 billionn acquisition of Aquila Resources. “We believe the combined entity could
fund (the development of Buckland) potentially without having to go to the equity market,” Mr Ball said.

“That said (IOH chief executive) Alwyn (Vorster) has done a lot of work around third parties who might
be interested and … it may be there’s a lower capital solution that achieves everything we want to
achieve.” The West Pilbara iron ore project acquired by Baosteel and Aurizon involves the
construction of a larger port at Anketell, northeast of IOH’s proposed Cape Preston East facility. “I can’t
help but feel there might be some sort of Anketell-Cape Preston East combination that works in the
West Pilbara,” Mr Ball said.

“Anketell could be a rail-focused solution, Cape Preston could be a road-based solution that caters to
all the producers.” BC yesterday promised a 15c-a-share fully franked final dividend, lifting total 2014
payouts beyond its targeted payout ratio of 30-50 per cent of profit.

Mr Ball said the enlarged group would continue to target that range. “We believe there will be a happy
medium whereby we can develop these projects and continue to reward shareholders from a dividend
basis, but we need to see where the balls fall,” he said.

Page169of239©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Macquarie analyst Hayden Bairstow noted that BC had worked hard to cultivate a reputation for paying
dividends and would need to convince its shareholder base of the merits of a costly growth project.
“They’ve designed their register to be dividend-orientated, so it’s going to take some time to get it back
the other way,” Mr Bairstow said.

IOH’s shares surged almost 40 per cent to $1.325, the highest in more than two years, while shares in
BC fell 8.5 per cent to $3.03.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

ironoa : Iron Ore Holdings Ltd. | baois : Shanghai Baosteel Group Corp
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | isteel : Steel Production
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140811ea8c0004b

Page170of239©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.