Boost for Bathurst St

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Boost for Bathurst St

Samantha Hutchinson
369 words
19 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
44
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

A long-forgotten corner of Sydney's CBD will receive a $91 million boost with a 34-storey
apartment development and a boutique hotel in the heritage-listed Porter House.

The landmark project on the corner of Castlereagh and Bathurst streets, by developer Greg Gav
and Mars City Ptd Ltd, will have 124 hotel rooms and 187 apartments.

The group will put the wrecking ball through two out of three commercial buildings standing on
the site at 100-110A Bathurst Street.

A heritage-listed office block on Castlereagh Street, known as Porter House, with a sandstone
Victorian classical facade and gothic features, will be converted into a hotel.
The plans also include an ambitious cantilever over the Porter House site "with a sculptural
corbelled form" to shelter the laneway running between Porter House and the rest of the
development.
Architect Angelo Candalepas of Sydney-based firm Candalepas Associates beat a field including
John Wardle Architects, Tonkin Zulaikha Greer and Fender Katsalidis Mirams for the rights to
design the project.

The structure represents the latest in a growing line of large-scale developments to breathe new
life into the southern end of Sydney's CBD.Area awash with activity

"There's been a period when people haven't recognised the area for what it's worth, but prior to
that period it was clearly a place where people looked at it with vision," Mr Candalepas said. "And
that's being recognised again."
City blocks south of Park Street are now awash with activity following purchases from local and
offshore developers converting ageing office assets in a section of the city that is more affordable
than areas closer to Circular Quay and Martin Place.
The development sits opposite Chinese developer Lenland's $16 million apartment development,
The Castlereagh. Set for completion in 2015, the tower will be 18 floors high, with 70 apartments
and shops.
Down the road, Chinese group Greenland is building Sydney's tallest residential tower, which will
also have an adjoined boutique hotel.

At the same time, Melbourne-based developer Ninety Four Feet is proceeding with a $22 million,
five-star hotel with 136 rooms nearby at 302 Pitt Street.

IN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction

Page13of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140618ea6j00050

Page14of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.