Thai's Cash-Maple gas sale finds interest close to home

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Market Wrap - Street Talk
Thai's Cash-Maple gas sale finds interest close to home

Edited by Sarah Thompson, Anthony Macdonald and Gretchen Friemann
490 words
14 August 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
20
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Thai-owned PTTEP's process to find a partner for its Cash-Maple gas fields off Western Australia is
finally making progress, with two or three parties in the dataroom, including Chinese party Hongfu
Fund.
However, sources eyeing the JPMorgan -run sale say the partner may end up being PTTEP's own
majority owner, state oil firm PTT, which is keen to access liquefied natural gas eventually produced
from the several trillion cubic feet gas fields.

Others such as ConocoPhillips or Santos that might have wanted to take a look at the assets were
put off by the sale structure, which required them to suggest an indicative price up front.

Price signals are woolly so far, but are expected to be well off the levels of larger, more
well-developed resources such as Woodside's Browse gas venture, which attracted $US2 billion
($2.1 billion) for a 14.7 per cent stake.
PTTEP has harboured floating LNG ambitions for Cash-Maple, using a 2 million tonnes per year
vessel that would also tap the Oliver and Montara fields. But linking with a nearby LNG venturer using
the gas for backfill into Conoco 's Darwin plant has also been mulled. The fields lie north-east of
Shell's Prelude and Crux deposits, and south-west of Conoco 's Bayu-Undan.
Meanwhile, Apache's decision to exit Chevron 's $29 billion Wheatstone LNG project in WA has
brought yet another LNG asset onto the market with few signs yet of interest in the asset reportedly
valued at $US2.5 billion.
A sale of a 13 per cent stake in a conventional LNG project should in theory be easier than for the
Queensland coal seam gas-based projects, where Origin Energy eventually put its bid to sell down
in its APLNG venture on hold last year.

But Chevron , with a 64 per cent interest in Wheatstone and Gorgon LNG as well, has its hands full,
while Apache's partner in the gas fields, Kuwait's Kufpec, is not an upstream operator. For super
majors the interest is too small and doesn't include control of the LNG project, while LNG buyers are
shying away as the offtake is almost completely sold to customers.

Elsewhere in WA LNG, not all is plain sailing with Woodside's floating LNG plans for Browse. The
venture is supposed to be moving into early design work this half, but hurdles remain, including an
imminent Shell internal review of the venture at a time the giant is taking the knife to spending.

The recent unexplained departure of Shell's vice-president for Browse, Peter Robinson, has added to
the chat, which includes a rumour that Woodside has reined in its original ambitions to deploy three
FLNG vessels at the fields, in favour of just two.

CO

philp : ConocoPhillips | pttexp : PTT Exploration & Production PCL | sants : Santos Ltd | pethai : PTT
PCL

Page101of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas Upstream Operations | i1 : Energy | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum
Extraction | iexplo : Natural Gas/Oil Exploration | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction | iioil : Integrated
Oil/Gas
ceffic : Corporate Restructuring | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c11 : Plans/Strategy
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140813ea8e0003t

Page102of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.