Aquila boss caves in to accept Baosteel’s takeover

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Aquila boss caves in to accept Baosteel’s takeover

Sarah-Jane Tasker, takeovers
657 words
19 June 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
19
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

CHINESE steel giant Baosteel is on the verge of taking control of a significant Australian iron ore
project after winning its $1.4 billion battle for Aquila Resources.

Perth-based Aquila shocked the market yesterday when it revealed that its executive chairman and
largest shareholder, Tony Poli, would accept the Chinese state-owned entity’s $3.40-a-share offer.

Mr Poli, who co-founded the company — which was valued at $6 million when it listed on the
Australian market 14 years ago — is set to make a windfall of more than $400m out of the deal.
In backing Baosteel and joint bidder Aurizon’s hostile move on the company, Mr Poli rejected a
friendly, all-scrip merger with Perth-based mining services and processing company Mineral
Resources. The rival offer emerged on Monday following Mineral Resources’ move on to Aquila’s
share registry last week after it purchased a 12 per cent stake at $3.75 a share.

Baosteel fired off a warning to Aquila’s shareholders last week, after Mineral Resources paid a
premium to the bid price for its new stake, that it would not increase its offer. The company also said
it may withdraw its support of Aquila if the bid failed.

The Baosteel offer is set at a 50 per cent minimum acceptance level and with Baosteel already
holding a 20 per cent stake in Aquila and Mr Poli agreeing to sell his 30 per cent stake into the offer,
the deal looks certain to succeed.

Baosteel Resources chairman Dai Zhihao said the support of the Aquila board was a welcome
development. “If our offer is successful, it provides to Aquila shareholders who accept the offer
certainty, cash and a significant premium in an iron ore market that has significantly declined since
we made our offer,” he said.

He added that the bidders had been pleased with the significant interest from both institutional and
retail investors yesterday after Aquila announced it was backing the bid.

Aurizon managing director Lance Hockridge said the rail Continued on Page 26 Continued from Page
19 freight provider and the Chinese steel giant were both committed to the development of the West
Pilbara iron ore project.

“Our partnership is one of scale, capability and track record — so essential in underpinning major
developments of this kind particularly in the current market environment,” he said.

“If the Baosteel and Aurizon bid is successful, with the co-operation of the project partners, the West
Pilbara iron ore development process could be under way in the near term.” South Korea’s Posco
and resources private equity house AMCI own half of the West Pilbara project.
After the Chinese bid was launched, AMCI made it clear it would not sell its interest in the project but
outlined that it believed that Baosteel’s bid provided a credible pathway to development of the project.

Page33of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mineral Resources said it had terminated talks with Aquila about a proposed all scrip bid, based on a
proposed $3.75 effective offer price, after the parties could not agree on the terms of the proposal.
“We remain of the view that the West Pilbara iron ore project is an attractive asset if it is developed
using a fit-for-purpose development plan,” Mineral Resources managing director Chris Ellison said.

Aquila told its shareholders yesterday that the Mineral Resources proposal was not superior to
Baosteel’s cash bid, pointing out that the scrip deal was subject to several conditions.

“We have given thorough consideration to the Baosteel and Aurizon offer and, on balance, we have
come to the view that Aquila shareholders would be better off accepting in the absence of a superior
proposal,” Mr Poli said.

Aquila is set to release its target statement on the Baosteel bid on Monday, which will include an
independent expert’s assessment on the offer price.

comment P26

CO

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

aqures : Aquila Resources Ltd. | baois : Shanghai Baosteel Group Corp | dorval : Aurizon Mines Ltd |
hclamn : Hecla Mining Co
i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i211 : Metal
Ore Mining | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying | isteel : Steel Production
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140618ea6j00001

Page34of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.