Banks snap up buy-side mandates for BG pipeline

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Market Wrap - Street Talk
Banks snap up buy-side mandates for BG pipeline

Edited by Sarah Thompson, Anthony Macdonald and Gretchen Friemann
412 words
22 July 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
10
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Finally, something new for cashed-up infrastructure investors to dig their teeth into.

Three months after the red-hot Queensland Motorways and Port of Newcastle auctions, BG has
moved to fill the void in infrastructure land and released sale documents for its $3 billion Queensland
gas pipeline.

BG, and adviser Goldman Sachs, released the information memorandum in stages late last week,
and have asked bidders to take a look at the numbers and report back with indicative bids next
month.

The time frame shouldn't be too stressful. Bidders have been studying the asset – BG Group's
pipelines and other equipment linked to the $20 billion-plus Queensland Curtis LNG Project – for
more than 12 months, but were kept waiting on the IM so they could get into serious diligence.

Investment banks have also been called in to help, with most having been sitting on mandates for
months.
Macquarie Capital is understood to be working with $6 billion listed pipeline owner APA Group.

APA boss Mick McCormack flagged his interest in the pipeline some time ago and is considering
whether to make a run now the numbers are out. Sources pointed to APA's co-investors in the
unlisted Energy Infrastructure Investments – Marubeni and Osaka Gas – as potential bid partners.
Hong Kong's acquisitive Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings is believed to be taking counsel from
Bank of America Merrill Lynch, while Morgan Stanley and RBC Capital Markets are tending to
Canada's Borealis Infrastructure and local heavyweight, Hastings Funds Management.

QIC Ltd and IFM Investors have linked with Barclays Capital and another investment bank, while
Citi's utilities team has also been working with a potential buyer for some months.

Elsewhere, Papua New Guinea-focused InterOil is expected to launch a share buyback of around
$US50 million ($53 million) on Tuesday as management attempts to persuade the market the
company is undervalued. InterOil, headed by Michael Hession, is in the midst of a recovery period
after enduring a decade in the doldrums.
Earlier this year, the company sold down a majority stake in Elk-Antelope PNG assets to French
giant Total and followed that up recently with a $US300 million refinancing deal.
It is understood the share buyback will hit close to $50 million with management wading into the
market at the start of trade in New York on Monday.

CO

austpi : APA Group | brgas : BG Group PLC | mcqbnk : Macquarie Group Limited

Page161of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

i1300006 : Pipeline Transportation | i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300014 : Natural Gas
Extraction | i502 : Heavy Construction | i5020043 : Pipeline Laying | i814 : Banking | i831 : Financial
Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iconst : Construction | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv :
Investing/Securities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140721ea7m0000x

Page162of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.