Luxury project’s elevated vision

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Real
Luxury project’s elevated vision

Amanda Lewis
332 words
13 September 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
First
18
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

A new luxury apartment complex, which will overlook Perth Zoo and offer views of the city skyline, is
set to be built in South Perth.

Called Pinnacle South Perth, the $70 million 20-storey complex marks the first project for Zone Q
Investments, the Australian arm of leading mainland Chinese developer JiaHe JianAn Group.

Designed by award-winning architects Hassell, Pinnacle will comprise 102 apartments — 60
two-bedroom, two-bathroom designs; 40 one-bedroom, one-bathroom layouts and two
three-bedroom, two-bathroom penthouses.

Aside from views of the zoo, river and city skyline, Pinnacle apartments, which will be on the corner
of Charles Street and Labouchere Road, will include high-quality fixtures and fittings.

These include European appliances, reconstituted stone benchtops, undermount sinks, glass
splashbacks, soft-close cabinets, timber floors, full-height tiling and frameless shower screens.

They will also be smart-wired and designed with energy efficiency in mind and most dwellings will
have side-by-side secure car bays.

A fully-equipped gym and an infinity pool with a surrounding lounge area will also be for the exclusive
use of residents.

Work on Pinnacle — which will also include the construction of a $30 million seven-storey
commercial building next to the residential tower — is expected to be completed in late 2016.
Prices start at $459,700 for the one- bedroom apartments and $631,400 for the two-bedroom units,
with one penthouse still available at $1.705 million.
Colliers Internationalresidential director Jo-Anne Chin said Zone Q had selected Perth as the site of
its first Australian development after looking closely at all key national markets.
It had also purchased two other sites in WA for future projects.
“This is a company that puts significant thought and planning into its apartment developments —
everything from location, to size, to construction, to standard of finishes — and is committed to
delivering top-quality homes that people value and enjoy living in,” she said.

RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | perth : Perth | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140912ea9d0008a

Page122of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.