Abbott and Hockey are the real reasons for our ‘bad luck’

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Abbott and Hockey are the real reasons for our ‘bad luck’

393 words
10 October 2014
Townsville Bulletin
TOWNBU
Townsville
37
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

PETER Costello stated a few days ago that “Australia had run out of luck” but he claimed it is because of
a downturn in trade to China. However the real cause is the Abbott Government with Joe Hockey as
Treasurer.

One would consider that anyone who aspires to occupy the position of Federal Government Treasurer
would have learnt – or was smart enough to realise – that every time money changes hands in the
country the government gets a bit of it back in taxes, either through company tax, income tax and sales
tax (GST), so the more money that is spent and circulated in this country, the more buoyant the
economy becomes and therefore the more tax revenue the government will have to spend – hopefully on
worthwhile projects – and so the more money the government also spends in the country the more tax
revenue it will receive back in return.

On the other hand, spending money and purchasing goods offshore is draining money out of the nation’s
economy which why Australia’s economy is in a mess and will get considerably worse, because Joe
Hockey and the government are planning to spend billions of dollars on foreign-made hardware and
goods offshore just for the armed services alone.
The government’s decision to spend billions of dollars to purchase those third rate fighter aircraft from
the US, the purchase of two new naval vessels from Japan and considering ordering a new fleet of
submarines from a foreign country as well will drain many more billions out of our economy.

Add to this, the fact that the government since being elected has been reluctant to want to assist or even
try to encourage any Australian industries (manufacturing or rural) to remain in Australia and become
viable and appears only interested in removing more taxes and giving more tax relief to the big
multinational corporations who have not been paying their rightful share of taxes in the first place.

So apparently the Abbott Government and Joe Hockey’s plan is to turn Australia into a third world
country, and from their talks about exporting uranium, they would be quite prepared to make Australia
the world’s nuclear waste dump as well.

We need a change of government before this happens.

MERVYN MORRIS,Bowen.

NS

RE
PUB
AN

e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | estax : Sales Tax | ccptax : Corporate Taxation | e2111 : Direct
Taxation | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e21 : Government
Finance | e2112 : Indirect Taxation | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters
| nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document TOWNBU0020141010eaaa0001r

Page236of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.