Building on the boom

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

APlus
Building on the boom

LISA ALLEN
1,532 words
8 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
APlus
10
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

The outlook for the high-end market is strong, but the capital cities are playing on an uneven pitch
INTENSE competition for prestige property is not expected to abate next year, with the super-rich
flooding capital cities for waterfront mansions, opulent penthouse apartments and prize rural holdings
replete with trout-filled streams.

“We are seeing ongoing rises in share portfolios, we have the significant investor visa program with a
lot of foreign money coming into the prestige market,” says Tim Lawless, head of research at RP Data,
scotching any talk the prestige market could founder next year.
But after this year’s frantic price growth in residential prices — think 14.7 per cent value gains in
Sydney alone — Lawless expects the nation’s overall real estate market will cool next year, adding big
value falls in Sydney’s prestige market or any of the other major capital city markets are unlikely.

“Quite often during a downturn it’s the more prestige markets that don’t show as much of a correction in
the early parts of the down phase,” Lawless says. “But it will be different from city to city; in markets
where we see premium property values show a higher rate of capital gain it’s those markets that could
show a larger retraction.” AMP Capital chief economist Shane Oliver reckons the residential real
estate market will slow next year because the Reserve Bank will limit lending to investors, or interest
rate hikes will kick in from mid-year.

“Sydney will slow down the most because it’s been the hottest and I suspect we will see momentum
picking up in Brisbane and Adelaide, which will be the strongest cities for the prestige end,” Oliver
says. “Perth and Darwin are suffering from the mining slowdown while Melbourne will do OK — it’s had
a fairly good rise over the last couple of years. Canberra is still affected by the public service cutbacks.
It is very weak, and Hobart’s prestige market might see a little bit of a pick-up following on from Sydney
and Melbourne’s strength.” But not everyone is convinced.
On the ground, real estate agents in Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane are deeply divided over the
strength of the prestige residential market heading into next year.

“I like to be reasonably positive, but this is the only time in the past 25 years where I could not latch on
to something that would be a key driver for the next run of the real estate market,” says John Johnston
of Johnston Dixon in Brisbane.

“Brisbane’s business community is at an incredibly low ebb at the moment. That is our driving force of
buyers. The mining sector is borderline basket case and that is obviously (also) a significant factor.”
Veteran agent Bill Bridges of Sydney’s Ballard Property also declares luxury property values and
turnover will not improve next year.
Despite the recent sale of several multi-million-dollar mansions in Wolseley Road, Point Piper, Bridges
— who has been selling real estate in Sydney’s wealthy eastern suburbs for more than 55 years —
reckons the prestige market is not strong.

Page46of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.For him, the performance of next year’s prestige property market will depend on the performance of
the economy.
“My feeling is we are so reliant on China, if China falls in a heap we are in a terrible mess,” Bridges
says. “I want to be as optimistic as I can but I can’t get excited.’’ According to Bridges, the prestige
market is alo suffering as purchasers continue to hold off.
“The general feeling or consensus among purchasers is they have been waiting and waiting. They
think the market will be cheaper next year because of worldwide economic problems.” Ray White
chairman Brian White and McGrath Estate Agents chief executive John McGrath vehemently disagree.
The high-profile businessmen say the east coast prestige property market — defined as residential
property valued at more than $3 million in Sydney and $2m in Brisbane and Melbourne — will
continue to fire.

For example, McGrath partner Ben Collier, a specialist in the wealthy Sydney suburb of Woollahra,
says business is brisk.

Collier is selling an opulent 186 Queen Street, Woollahra, sandstone residence on behalf of artist
Elizabeth Wadsworth with price expectations of $8m. He reports interest is strong given the suburb’s
appeal to wealthy downsizers from Sydney’s upper and lower north shores.

“Over the past nine months we have seen a significant increase in the turnover of properties in excess
of $5m,” Collier says.

“At this stage I see much of the same next year provided there is no significant impact due to some
world event, because confidence at this level is gaining momentum. And provided you price something
appropriately there is generally a market for it.’’ In his latest McGrath Report, the company founder
notes Sydney sustained 259 sales of houses and apartments valued at more than $5m apiece this
financial year, up 13 per cent on the previous year.

In Brisbane, there were 80 sales of houses above $3m — up 36 per cent across the same period.

“Political and economic stability, rising business confidence and increasing overseas demand is driving
new momentum in prestige property after several years of post-GFC stagnation,” McGrath says in the
McGrath Report.

“Banking and finance executives are once again receiving bonuses and upgrading their homes. Largely
due to the weaker dollar and a higher number of prestige houses coming on to the market, expats are
back after years on the sidelines.” It’s a theme echoed by White, whose real estate company markets
more than 140,000 residential properties throughout Australia each year.
“In predicting the strength of next year’s prestige property market, the reason I am confident in this
sector is the continuing resilience of the equity market,” says White.

“In any period where there is good asset growth it is always reflected in an increasing desire for a
better residence. It’s a showpiece of one’s success.

“The prestige market reflects the strength of the economy; overall it’s been a pretty bloody good year
for everyone. Clearly favourable interest rate settings and quantitative easing worldwide (is helping the
prestige property market).” But not every state is as solid as NSW, according to White.
He says there have been impacts on prestige property in Western Australia because of the reversal of
the mining industry. South Australia’s prestige property has been affected by the state’s sluggish
manufacturing sector.
Luxury property is also taking time to sell. With a $15m price tag the luxury Eliza penthouse on
Sydney’s Hyde Park has been on the market for at least 12 months.

“Certainly Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane have had a very good year,” White says. “A lot of pundits
were writing Brisbane off last year. They certainly misjudged what was going to happen.” Brisbane
agent Gail Havig of Havig and Jackson, a specialist in prestige property, is looking forward to next
year, saying there’s confidence in Brisbane’s higher end property sector.
Havig has just sold 14 Sutherland Avenue, Ascot, for $10.2m for pub baron Andrew Griffiths and hints
she expects to close a couple more big deals before year end.

Page47of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“Most of our buyers are locals but there’s some expats coming back ... although we did not have an
explosion this year with Asian buyers ... we have a very good steady market in the higher end.” But
Johnston of Johnston Dixon says next year will be tougher than most people think.

“The political stalemate the country finds itself in is the contributing factor, as well as the talk about
interest rates going up that is affecting people’s sentiments and the more fundamental issue is the
country is doing it tough,” says Johnston.

“I think we are heading for a second wave of hurt. The first was the global financial crisis in 2008; this
second wave will be driven by the mining downturn.

“It is a bloodbath out there. There is a sense of significant foreboding.” Not everyone agrees the
prestige market will be that dire next year. But of all the states, NSW is clearly standing out as the best
housing market performer, says Lawless.

“Across the state we are also recording strong conditions in most of the regional centres, including
Newcastle and Wollongong, while we are also seeing the north coast markets such as Byron Bay
gathering some pace after a long slump.” Graham Dunn of Byron Bay Property Sales says business in
the $3m-plus prestige market is booming because of a new influx of Melbourne buyers to the NSW
north coast township.

“I am seriously bullish on the top end,” Dunn says. “Byron Bay will go through the roof next year, with
price rises of 10 to 15 per cent in the prestige market.”

Top shelf October 2014 Sydney - $960,316 Melbourne - $712,783 Brisbane - $587,914 Adelaide -
$520,194 Perth - $709,775 OCTOBER 2013 Sydney - $834,990 Melbourne - $666,860 Brisbane -
$551,757 Adelaide - $505,572 Perth - $677,340 Source: RP DataMedian values for the top 25 per cent
of capital city properties

NS
RE

PUB
AN

ereal : Real Estate Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | adelai : Adelaide | brisbn : Brisbane | melb : Melbourne | saustr : South Australia |
sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales | queensl : Queensland
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141107eab800049

Page48of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.