Buy a weekend flat in London

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Buy a weekend flat in London

Rebecca Thistleton
537 words
6 March 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
44
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

If the ultra-wealthy could travel at more than 6500km/h, buying their luxury home would be
location-driven, rather than motivated by travel times.
A New Yorker or a China-based investor could arrive at their second home in Europe within two
hours, making an international weekender a reality.

Virgin Galactic founder and entrepreneur Richard Branson has invested heavily in designing a way of
flying outside the earth's atmosphere.

He has predicted that suborbital flying will allow the world's super-rich to embrace the ultra-fast flights.
This would allow easier access to luxury property all over the world and could reshape the premium
market, according to global real estate firm Knight Frank. The suborbital flying technology would also
affect commercial property space as the potential for extreme-speed flying evolves over the next
20 years.

Virgin Galactic expects to launch suborbital flights between London and Sydney by 2020. The trip
would take just 2½ hours.
"Expect more property demand, more development, more travel and, as a result, more people
searching for really private escapes. Maybe it's time to invest in that South Pacific island you've had
your eye on," Knight Frank said in its annual wealth report.
The real estate group released its annual wealth survey on Thursday. It takes a broad look at where
the world's ultra wealthy individuals spend their money and attitudes toward the global and luxury
investment markets.

Three-quarters of the wealth analysts and bankers Knight Frank surveyed agreed the world's rich are
growing richer. London callingAsian investment in property continues to grow. More than 76 per cent
of all offshore investment into the UK, US and Australian property markets was from Asia.
Luxury residential property was most expensive in Monaco, Hong Kong and London – prime homes
in Sydney ranked the seventh-most expensive on Knight Frank's international list. Investors in
commercial property have been looking beyond the traditional hotspots. Regional UK cities, such as
Birmingham and Manchester, are grabbing attention and now that conditions have stabilised in
Dublin, prime yields are hardening.

Matt Whitby, head of Knight Frank Research Australia, said Australian yields appeared high to
investors from the US, Singapore and Hong Kong.

The strong Asian appetite for Australian assets, combined with slowdowns in the local mining sectors,
have created different conditions in the sales and leasing market. Mr Whitby said leasing demand
may rise from technology firms and for warehouse space from the big online retailers.

Page65of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Skyscrapers are generally ranked according to floors and height. But stacked according to capital
value, Sydney is the sixth-highest ranking city for skyscrapers in the world, unsurprisingly behind
Hong Kong, Tokyo, New York, Singapore and London. More than 40 per cent of respondents to the
wealth survey said their clients had increased their exposure to commercial property and expect
investment to rise further this year.
Besides property, wealthy individuals have been investing in classic cars – values have increased
28 per cent in 12 months. Interest in coins has grown in China, India and Russia and rare stamp
values have also risen. Gold is still in favour, despite falling prices over the past 12 months.

vglctl : Virgin Galactic LLC | virgin : Virgin Group Ltd
ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i751 : Space Transport | itsp :
Transportation/Shipping
ereal : Real Estate Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | glux : Luxury Homes/Estates | gsech :
Second Homes | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | gcat :
Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gpersf : Personal Finance | greest : Real
Estate/Property
austr : Australia | eland : England | london : London (UK) | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | nswals : New South
Wales | uk : United Kingdom | weurz : Western Europe
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140305ea3600051

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page66of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.