Firm spreads its wings

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Firm spreads its wings

MARTIN RASINI
489 words
14 March 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
63
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

GIFT and homewares wholesaler Annabel Trends, a private company that has been in business for
the best part of 50 years, has set itself up for the future with a move to $2 million purpose-built
premises in Burleigh.
The company, established in 1967 in Melbourne by Anne Dawe, services retailers Australia-wide
with goods including gifts for babies, and garden, kitchen, household and women’s items.

Annabel Trends’ new 3500sq m premises are at 18 Fisher Drive and come with 38 parking spaces.
The building provides more than three times as much space as was available at the company’s
former premises, in nearby Hutchinson St.
The new facility serves as the sole distribution centre for the company, which offers its customers a
choice of some 1500 product lines, continues to manufacture fabric-based items on site and exports
to New Zealand, Canada and Hong Kong.

The new tilt-panel building occupies a 5780sq m landholding with extensive landscaping and
comprises significant warehouse space along with a two-storey administration and showroom wing.

It has been developed by Sally Dunn, daughter of the founder of Annabel Trends and its managing
director and major shareholder, and her husband, Peter.
The couple acquired the property for $1.2 million in July 2012 from Excel Concrete to develop the
facility in a deal handled by Tony West, of Lacey West Real Estate.

Mrs Dunn was raised on the Gold Coast and worked as a high-school teacher for eight years across
Queensland.

She then left the state in 2000 for Melbourne to learn the business from her mother, who maintains
an active interest.

“You could say that I served a six-year apprenticeship before relocating the business to the Gold
Coast in 2006,” Mrs Dunn said.

“That was when we leased the Hutchinson St premises.
“It became apparent some time ago that we needed significantly more space and we decided to buy
and construct.
The development exercise — sorting out what was needed, finding and buying a suitable site and
undertaking construction — took about two years.

Page151of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“Our builder, Clarke Constructions has done an outstanding job and the relocation marks a new
chapter for the company,” Mrs Dunn said.

“The new warehouse enables us to process orders more efficiently and to move in new and brighter
directions.

“It also enables us to stamp our personality on our premises and to set the tone for the business for
years to come.

“Annabel Trends is all about offering a healthy dose of fun along with our practical and much-loved
products.” Mrs Dunn said Annabel Trends has 30 staff and was proud of the fact that it continued to
manufacture some of its products in Australia.
“Many of our clients want to buy Australian-made,” she said.“We meet that wish by manufacturing a
range of textile-based products such as cosmetic bags, bibs, aprons and the like.”

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020140313ea3e0000h

Page152of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.