Telstra to reward investors

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Telstra to reward investors

Max Mason
603 words
14 February 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
23
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Telcos - Dividends to rise on back of bumper profit
Telstra has increased its dividend for the first time since 2005 after the company delivered a strong
half-year profit of $1.7 billion and forecast continued profit growth.

The telco will increase its interim dividend by half a cent to 14.5¢, the first rise since chief executive
David Thodey took over from Sol Trujillo in 2009. The dividend will be fully franked and paid on March
28.

Mr Thodey left the door open to further dividend increases but said the decision was one for the Telstra
board.
Telstra's result for the first half of the financial year was 9.2 per cent higher than the $1.5 billion it
reported in the first half of last year.
Unveiling the bumper profit on Thursday, company executives again promised that Telstra's earnings
growth would be in the low single digits for the full year.

Telstra shares finished the day up 0.8 per cent at $5.15.

As mobile phones continue to take over from fixed-line services, Telstra is looking to Asia to expand.
However, Mr Thodey said that while it had previously looked into buying an Asian mobile operator, it
was unlikely to do so because prices were too high. Rather, it would look to form partnerships, where it
could offer its expertise in building networks.

Much of Thursday's result was underpinned by strong growth from mobile services. Telstra added
739,000 domestic retail mobile customer services during the first half, taking its total to 15.8 million.

Fixed-line revenues continued to decline, with Telstra losing 117,000 customers during the half, but the
fall was one of the smallest in recent years.

By comparison, Optus, which also announced its results on Thursday, lost 134,000 mobile customers
in the past 12 months, taking its total to 9.4 million.

"I remain an eternal optimist about the mobile market," Mr Thodey said. "Demand for our products and
services remains at all-time highs.

"We will continue to have the normal skirmishes we have in the market - and long may competition be
rich and vibrant."
The company is currently locked in a legal battle with Optus over advertisements Telstra says mislead
consumers by claiming there is little difference between the competing mobile networks.

Page248of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.BBY telecommunications analyst Mark McDonnell said Telstra was able to charge a premium for its
mobile service after investing heavily in upgrading the network.

"They have reduced the relative premium they charge from circa 40 per cent to circa 20 per cent
compared to their competitors. The market gets that, and customers are prepared to pay that."

Telstra's network applications services (NAS) and international business delivered extremely strong
performances, with revenue rising 29.3 per cent and 28.3 per cent respectively.

After several years of solid growth, Telstra's NAS and international businesses make up a significant
proportion of its earnings, now worth a combined 15 per cent of all revenues.

"I think [NAS and international] will be even more meaningful contributors going forward, partly
because of their own growth, but also partly because the reshaping of the business, with exiting
[directories business] Sensis and exiting [Hong Kong mobile business] CSL," Mr McDonnell said.
Mr Thodey said renegotiations of its $11.2 billion NBN contracts had begun, but he did not give any
indication as to when any new deals would be complete.
The Coalition's fibre-to-the-node roll-out would require rental or purchase of Telstra's existing copper
network.

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

tcoma : Telstra Corporation Ltd
i7902 : Telecommunications
c1512 : Dividends | c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140213ea2e0003w

Page249of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.