Ansteel takes majority Karara stake

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Ansteel takes majority Karara stake

Michael Ramsey
320 words
19 March 2014
Business News
WABN
English
© Copyright 2014 Business News Pty Ltd.

Chinese steelmaker Ansteel has taken majority ownership of the Karara iron ore project, lifting its
stake above that of Gindalbie Metals after converting shareholder loans to new equity in Karara
Mining.
Ansteel will be issued with a total of 13.9 million new Karara Mining shares at $4.31 per share,
taking its ownership of the company to 52.1 per cent against joint venture partner Gindalbie's 47.8
per cent.

The steelmaker last year provided Karara Mining with two loans worth a combined $60 million, with
the caveat that Ansteel could convert all or part of the loans into Karara Mining equity.
Ansteel also has the option to subscribe for further new equity in Karara Mining in exchange for
$US230 million in working capital under an agreement announced in October last year.
Should that condition be exercised, Ansteel would lift its stake in the project to about 62 per cent.
Under the terms of the new ownership arrangement, Ansteel nominee and Karara Mining chairman
Chen Ping has been appointed managing director of the company.

Neil Meadows has meanwhile been appointed chief operating officer.
The Karara Mining board will increase in size to five directors, with three from Ansteel and two from
Gindalbie.

Its chairman will be one of three directors appointed by Ansteel and will have a casting vote at board
meetings.
Decisions concerning the pricing and quality of product sold by Karara Mining to Ansteel,
amendments to existing offtake sales agreements and general product pricing will require
unanimous support from the Karara Mining board but all other decisions will simply require a
majority.

While the Karara project has been subject to a number of delays, Gindalbie said earlier this month
that it expects magnetite concentrate output to reach 75 per cent of nameplate capacity by the end
of the month as it works to overcome bottlenecks in its tailings system.

CO
IN

RE
PUB
AN

gingol : Gindalbie Metals Ltd
i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i211 :
Metal Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Business News Pty Ltd
Document WABN000020140319ea3j000jh

Page163of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.