China Investors Try to Tame Australia Outback

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

China Investors Try to Tame Australia Outback

By Rob Taylor
1,431 words
14 November 2014
08:30
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

KUNUNURRA, Australia--Built 40 years ago amid rugged ochre cliffs in the Australian Outback, the Ord
Dam was meant to turn swaths of harsh scrub into a lush food bowl--serving staples such as rice and
sugar to the rest of the world.

But disappointment has often flourished since then in Kununurra, a remote town in northwestern
Australia built to service the Ord that numerous governments have dreamed of fashioning into an
agricultural nirvana, with limited success.

Experiments in growing rice and cotton were abandoned years ago, as the heat and pests ravaged
crops. Forbidding distances proved an even greater hurdle, with the nearest major export terminal 2,000
miles away.

Now a new developer has arrived in Australia's rugged north, offering a far bigger and far more
ambitious effort than previous foreign agricultural investors in the region.
Chinese company Shanghai Zhongfu is plowing 700 million Australian dollars (US$610 million) into
turning Kununurra scrub into farmland producing sorghum and sugar crops for liquor makers and
manufacturers of ethanol-based fuels. It has its sights set, initially, on booming markets at home.

In entering Australia's A$2-billion-a-year sugar industry, Shanghai Zhongfu follows other foreign
investors in Australia in trying to squeeze new profit from a sector dominated until now by small farms.

"It won't be simple," said David Sackett, managing director of Growth Farms Australia, which helps
overseas clients make agricultural investments. "I hope they're going into it with their eyes open."

But Shanghai Zhongfu is so eager to tap into Kununurra's potential that the private
real-estate-and-investment conglomerate has also bought a country club in the town, anticipating a
wave of tourists from China and elsewhere.

"It's not a bet," said Yin Jianzhong, chief executive of its Kimberley Agricultural Investments unit, as the
company's tractors went about converting thorn scrub into acres of laser-leveled fields. "We think it has
great potential--greater than anywhere else in Australia because it's so close to the Asian market."
Mr. Yin, 55 years old, and Shanghai Zhongfu's president, Pui Ngai Wu, believe the firm can succeed in
Kununurra where others have failed by being more ambitious than previous smaller-scale efforts.
Indeed, Mr. Yin's company isn't the first foreign agricultural investor in Australia's north, but Shanghai
Zhongfu is seeking to operate at a much broader level. In contrast to the smaller-scale farms that have
sprouted up in the past for local markets, Shanghai Zhongfu plans to mass-produce crops for global
markets, while investing directly in building the transport networks needed to grow business over a time
frame of decades.

While critics say Shanghai Zhongfu faces steep challenges, Australia's government is eager to see the
company's efforts succeed--and be replicated by others.

Page4of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The venture, as well as other agricultural investments that follow, could also be buoyed by a free-trade
pact to be signed by Australia and China next week, which should make it easier to import fertilizer and
machinery from China, while potentially reducing some regulatory cost burdens.

With its fertile black soil, tropical climate and drenching wet-season rains, northern Australia arcs across
1,500 miles of territory above the Tropic of Capricorn, taking in the rugged Kimberley ranges in Western
Australia, the mainly Outback Northern Territory, and the Great Barrier Reef in the east.

The region, which accounts for about 40% of Australia's terrain and a million of the country's 24 million
inhabitants, has some of the world's biggest raw-material deposits.

Still, its remoteness from the heavily populated southeast of the country, wild climatic extremes, and
poor infrastructure have blunted many previous business attempts. Even the lure of higher-than-average
wages inflated by mining riches has failed to attract Australians from the southern population centers,
who are put off by the distance from major cities.
"Most people come here for a few years and hope to make enough to buy a house and move back
south," said Janet Takarangi, an economic-development officer for Wyndham-East Kimberley shire
council in Kununurra.

With the national budget under strain from the mining slowdown, Prime Minister Tony Abbott's
conservatives want to attract interest from companies to help finance dams, highways and rail links in
the north.

The federal government has announced funding for priority projects, and hopes businesses will follow.
The Northern Territory, meanwhile, is seeking private backing for an expansion of the Asia-facing
Darwin port, which is likely to cost billions of dollars.

Asia's thirst for resources such as copper, coal and iron ore from northern Australia has accounted for
about a third of the country's gross domestic product. The government wants to increase that foreign
contribution to 42% by 2040, with agriculture driving the change.

But critics question whether such agricultural goals are realistic. Environmental groups, in particular, are
deeply skeptical of efforts to boost farming in the country's north, saying the Ord's checkered history
leaves a cloud of uncertainty hanging over the long-term viability of projects in the absence of
substantial financial support from the government.

"More than $1 billion has been ploughed into the Ord scheme," the Wilderness Society, an
environmental group, said in a recent submission to lawmakers on plans to develop agriculture in the
north. "If taxpayer-subsidized persistence is the best outcome from the most suitable location for
broad-scale agriculture, what is to be expected from less suitable locations? The Ord, our most
expensive northern food bowl experiment, is now dominated by sandalwood plantations, not food."

Mr. Sackett, of Growth Farms Australia, added that foreign investors in Australian agriculture often
underestimate the difficulties.
"It's about where are the risks, and then probably double them. And going into a greenfield site brings a
whole heap more uncertainty," Mr. Sackett said, adding that Chinese investors were often less familiar
with some of the local dangers. "You compare them with those more used to sophisticated investing
globally, the Chinese are in the early part of the learning curve. There are a lot of tire kickers."

But with Asia's rise, many in Australia feel the time is right for development efforts in northern Australia
to deliver on a development dream that's been around for a century, ever since cattlemen settlers
grappled with how to harness the wet-season deluge that pummels the region a few months each year.

The task of selling the government's northern vision to voters has fallen to Agriculture Minister Barnaby
Joyce, from the countryside-based National Party. He also doubts the region could become a food bowl
for all of Asia but is confident of a doubling of agricultural output nationally by 2050.

"Let's realize the land can't be taken for granted, but it's vastly more robust than we give it credit for," he
said. "We aren't envisaging to turn the whole of the north into a market garden."

Mr. Yin said he believes Shanghai Zhongfu can succeed in the Ord because it has its own milling
facilities, giving it more independence than most other sugar-farming operations, and also because the
company has a decadeslong investment horizon--unlike many mining companies in northern Australia
that tend to look for quick returns.

Page5of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.After Shanghai Zhongfu bought the local country club, many Kununurra residents worried that it would
be shut down and used to house imported farm workers. The club, shielded from the fierce summer heat
by palms and featuring a shaded pool, is a popular community gathering point. Mr. Yin tried to dispel
those rumors in a series of public meetings and promised that the club's accommodations, bar and
restaurant would remain tourist-focused.
Shanghai Zhongfu is likely to rely mostly on local employees for its farming operations. The firm also
plans to improve access to ships at Wyndham, a small port some 60 miles away from Kununurra, ideally
with the help of state authorities.
Mr. Yin said Chinese investors consider access to virgin Australian land a unique opportunity to target
consumers back home, whose Westernizing diets--and wariness toward certain types of homegrown
food in the wake of recent health scares--are creating a ready market.
"China has vast land, but not a lot of arable land for agriculture," he says. "We can be stewards of the
lands here."

Write to Rob Taylor at rob.taylor@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

November 13, 2014 16:30 ET (21:30 GMT)

IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

i323 : Textile Machinery Manufacturing | i5020011 : Dam Construction | i32 : Machinery | i502 : Heavy
Construction | iindstrls : Industrial Goods | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction
neqac : Equities Asset Class News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document DJDN000020141113eabd004fq

Page6of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.