Toro sets out share issue to mine uranium near Wiluna

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

WestReg
Toro sets out share issue to mine uranium near Wiluna

Jasmine Bamford
365 words
15 November 2014
Kalgoorlie Miner
KALGOO
First
6
English
(c) 2014 West Australian Newspapers Limited

Momentum is building behind Toro’s Wiluna uranium project, with the energy company yesterday
announcing a share purchase plan.
The move has been combined with a $20 million commitment from private equity firm The Sentient
Group, also announced this week, and a $1 million placement to RealFin Capital Partners.

Toro chairwoman Erica Smyth said the share plan, with an offer price of eight cents — a discount of
2.4 per cent to Toro’s closing share price on October 31 — was to further develop the resource on
the back of announced high-grade intersections.

Dr Smyth said the focus remained on securing environmental approvals for the additional Wiluna
deposits of Lake Maitland and Millipede, completing the traditional owner mining agreement and
targeting 2015-16 for project financing.
The purchase plan announcement came as a coal and uranium outlook from the International
Energy Agency was released that expected uranium and coal to play a fundamental role in meeting
the world’s energy demands.

Minerals Council of Australia chief executive Brendan Pearson said the IEA predicted global demand
for energy to increase 37 per cent by 2040, by which time the world’s primary energy supply will be
divided into four almost-equal parts, with oil, gas, coal and low-carbon sources, which include
uranium-fuelled nuclear energy.
The IEA predicts the uranium outlook to be strong, with use expected to grow 90 per cent by 2040
and the number of nations using uranium for nuclear energy generation to grow from 31 to 36.
Mr Pearson said the strong outlook for Australian energy exports over the medium term meant jobs,
economic growth and revenue growth for Federal and State Governments.
The focus has been firmly on the clean energy sector this week after China and the US signed an
agreement to cap or reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2030.
Announced after the APEC summit held in Beijing this week, Chinese President Xi Jinping said his
country would slow and then stop its emissions by 2030, while US President Barack Obama agreed
on a 2025 target to reduce emissions by up to 28 per cent.

CO
IN

NS

inenag : International Energy Agency
iuran : Uranium Ore Mining | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter

Page128of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document KALGOO0020141114eabf0001i

Page129of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.