WA’s recipe for success

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Features
WA’s recipe for success

519 words
27 November 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
First
3
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

C elebrity chefs at the Margaret River Gourmet Escape last weekend needed no convincing that WA
had some of the best produce in the world.

“We at the (Fat) Duck, we bought more truffles from Western Australia this year than we did from
Perigord in France,” Heston Blumenthal said. “They were better and more consistent.”

Manjimup truffles. Broome corn. Albany oysters. Shark Bay prawns. WA’s food industry is worth $20
billion annually in retail and exports, which are set to get a boost from last week’s China-Australia
Free Trade Agreement that will abolish tariffs on a range of Australian goods, including dairy, beef,
lamb and seafood, over the next four years.

Locally, producers are in the box seat as our appetite for artisanal foods has never been stronger,
driven by the Department of Agriculture and Food’s Buy West Eat Best program that makes it easy to
identify home grown. It makes sense because people increasingly want to know where their food
comes from.
Buy West Eat Best was launched to consumers in 2008 in response to a petition to The West
Australian in 2005 which saw more than 50,000 people demand more accurate food labelling. Products
must meet strict criteria and are readily identifiable by a green logo on packaging.

“Fresh foods and the main ingredients in processed foods must have been grown, farmed or fished in
Western Australia,” Stuart Clarke, the department’s director of food, trade and agri-business
development, said. “They must also be processed in our State.
“Certainly, all things local are capturing the consumer imagination like never before and Buy West Eat
Best’s success has been validated by the endorsement from key influential industry players.”

So far, 114 food producers, manufacturers, retailers and restaurants have signed up, led by major
retailers Coles, Woolworths and IGA coming on board to promote the logo, which has been approved
for more than 1500 food products.

Big names include Crown Perth through its restaurants Bistro Guillaume, Nobu, Silks and Modo Mio,
which have just joined, and there are more than 500 associated members, such as the Southern
Forests Food Council.

“Our guests can be confident that their dishes in each of our restaurants showcase the finest and
freshest local ingredients, not to mention the tastiest,” Crown Perth’s general manager of food and
beverage Chris Harris said. “It is also incredibly important that we support the local WA industry, so our
restaurants have strong, ongoing relationships with local suppliers and small businesses. We can
confirm that at least one item on each menu will feature only Western Australian produce in its
entirety.”
Sport fans will also get a taste of the Buy West Eat Best experience at Patersons Stadium during the
2015 season as the WA Football Commission joins forces with hospitality giant Delaware North to

Page102of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.upgrade catering and promote local flavours through supplier agreements with Buy West Eat Best
members and companies across a range of categories, including eggs, poultry, seafood, meat, baked
goods, coffee and confectionary.

‘All things

local are capturing imaginations.’” Stuart Clarke

RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020141126eabr0003e

Page103of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.