Tinkler backs high quality coal

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Tinkler backs high quality coal

Sarah-Jane Tasker, mining
625 words
15 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
23
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Exclusive NATHAN Tinkler is backing the quality of Australian thermal coal with his $150 million
move back into the resource space, saying he is confident use of low-emission coal has a long-term
future.
Mr Tinkler surprised the market with the purchase of Peabody Energy’s Wilkie Creek mine in
Queensland, which he plans to reopen by year’s end.

Acknowledging coal markets were doing it tough, given the market is over-supplied, Mr Tinkler said
what had resonated with him most was how much coal quality had sunk in the past decade. “Ten
years ago, a benchmark Newcastle product was the norm but with the influx of China and India, it has
almost been a race to the bottom on coal quality,” he said.

“All this new production we have seen come on in the last five years has been at the bottom of the
market, mostly focused out of Indonesia and mostly finding a home in India and China.
“I believe that has dragged the coal market down and it is a big reason why coal has come under
heavy scrutiny as far as its pollution and how it’s used in the environment.” The former Newcastle
electrician, who once topped the BRW Young Rich List before his fortune tumbled, said he would like
to see Australian coal, given its high quality, be part of the solution for lowering emissions globally.
Wilkie Creek has approval to mine 2.5 million tonnes of thermal coal each year and Mr Tinkler said
his team would assess the potential to expand the operation. “We are confident we can strip some
costs out of the structure to make it competitive in today’s market,” he said.

Peabody hired UBS in mid-2012 to shop Wilkie Creek — near Dalby, northwest of Brisbane — to
potential buyers with a price tag of about $500m mooted at the time.

Mr Tinkler first reviewed the asset 18 months ago but has moved on it now in the low point of the
cycle with the support of former Andrew Forrest backers, the New York-based equity firm Leucadia.

The 38-year-old told The Australian he had learned lessons over the past few years, which he said
had been a tough time.
He was once hailed a successful young deal-maker, having purchased coal assets at the bottom of
the cycle before selling them at a significant premium.
His luck ran out last year and he was forced to sell his almost 20 per cent stake in Whitehaven Coal
to repay mounting debts.
He had earned that stake after merging his resources vehicle Aston Resources into the coalminer.
Whitehaven wanted Aston’s Maules Creek asset, which Mr Tinkler purchased from Rio Tinto for
$480m in 2009 and which at one stage was valued at $3.75 billion.

Page176of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Tinkler said in today’s environment, a lot of coal companies on the Australian market were finding
it difficult to raise money.
“It has been hard to get a deal done in the last year or two for anybody in coal,” he said. And while he
backs the quality of coal in Australia, Mr Tinkler said the country continued to have a tough operating
environment.

He said the bureaucracy of green tape had made it increasingly harder. “Even when you get a mine
approved, government have not supported that approval with any sort of conviction,” he said.

“These approvals have been left open to terrorist acts by green parties because they are ill-informed
and have an extremist view.“Coalminers don’t start digging unless they get approvals but these
protesters don’t think the law applies to them,” Mr Tinkler said.

CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

pbdy : Peabody Energy Corp | lehbro : Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc
i111 : Coal Mining | i1 : Energy | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140514ea5f0005r

Page177of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.