ESSENTIALS

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PersonalOz
ESSENTIALS

JOHN LETHLEAN, SUSAN KUROSAWA, SEAN PARNELL, CHRIS GRIFFITH
734 words
15 August 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
14
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

DRINK FOR those sceptical about the true worth of the myriad wine glasses produced for specific
varietals and styles, Austrian manufacturer Riedel may have finally jumped the shark. The Coca-Cola +
Riedel Glass, inspired by the original iconic Coke contour, will “deliver the optimal Coca-Cola
experience in both taste and sound ”, Riedel claims. The Riedel brand is known for exploring the way
the flavour of wine is affected by the shape of the glass from which it is consumed. At $39.95 for a
single glass or $49.95 for two, you’d want to be seriously into your Coke.

JOHN LETHLEAN

TRAVELA CELEBRATION of Aboriginal culture, community, music and arts, the Mahbilil Festival, will
take place around Lake Jabiru at Kakadu on Saturday, September 6. Expect family-friendly activities,
workshops, demonstrations and a showcase of indigenous food by day; at night, the line-up covers
illuminated installations on the lake and a program of performances, including Maori, Balinese,
Congolese and modern ballet with a local flavour. Kakadu Tourism has a range of accommodation, from
$289 a room a night or campground digs from $46. kakadutourism.com.

SUSAN KUROSAWA

HEALTH COUNTRY life is not idyllic in every way. According to a data analysis by the National Heart
Foundation, people living outside capital cities are at 26 per cent greater risk of cardiovascular disease.
Tasmania is the most affected state, the southern highlands-Shoalhaven area in NSW the most affected
region, and the biggest gap in the prevalence of CVD between the city and the bush is in Western
Australia. “People living in regional areas have a greater risk of heart disease because they are more
likely to be physically inactive, daily smokers and overweight or obese, than those living in major cities,’’
says Heart Foundation chief Mary Barry.

SEAN PARNELL

FOOD IS chef Sean Donovan selling his excellent gastropub the Station in Melbourne’s Footscray? Is
he selling it to the same person (Michael Dixon) who bought his South Melbourne gastropub the
Wayside this year? “Look,” says Donovan, pictured, “we’ve had a number of offers over the years for the
Station, which is fair enough, it’s an excellent business. And yes, there is an offer on the table at the
moment but we haven’t even put the business on the market. This pub is my life. Given our experience
at the Wayside where we actually put the business on the market and it took months to sell, well this is
entirely different. We are galaxies away from a sale at this point.” So it’s not no. But it’s not exactly yes
either. Dixon confirmed he is in discussions with Donovan.

JOHN LETHLEAN

GADGETS FORGET magic carpets, jump packs, and Back to the Future-style hoverboards. The project
that’s set to get off the ground is the hoverbike — a quadrocopter drone that you can ride like a horse.
British start-up Malloy Aeronautics, which is constructing a prototype, has taken to crowd-funding site
kickstarter.com to raise money by selling models of the working hoverbike around one-third the size.

Page90of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.They can even carry payloads. The model can fly at up to 72km/h with a range of 1.6km, and costs
upward of $1625. So far the company has raised $41,000 of the $54,000 needed.

CHRIS GRIFFITH
CARS SELLING high-margin, expensive vehicles into new markets such as China, where customers
are prepared to pay more for premium cars than in the West, has sent Jaguar Land Rover into overdrive
with profits coming in at a staggering £10 million ($18m) a day. The British-based, Indian-owned
company was not making a penny profit in 2008 when the Tata group bought it from Ford for £1.15
billion. “We have hit a purple patch,” a spokesman says this week. It has been a busy two years of
launches and relaunches. Sales to China, mainly of the most expensive Range Rovers and Jaguars,
leapt 61 per cent year on year, with the China region accounting for 28.5 per cent of all sales, compared
with 21.5 per cent a year ago. The price of a Range Rover Sport in China is typically more than double
that in Britain.

THE TIMES

IN PERSONAL OZ ON MONDAY WORK & FAMILYKATE LEGGE’S HOME TRUTHS

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140814ea8f0002h

Page91of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.