Asian developers say 'what's the drama'

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Asian developers say 'what's the drama'

Su-Lin Tan
766 words
2 October 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
1
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Chinese developers use the phrase "kua zhang", which roughly translates to "what's the drama", to
describe fears that Asian investors are dominating the property market.
Johnson Zhang, the chief executive of Country Garden, one of the biggest Chinese developers, said
recent claims that foreigners were inflating the prices of residential sites or pushing first-time buyers
out of the market were flawed.

"I feel this debate has errors," he said. "Remember, foreign investors including Asians can only buy
new properties. There is a huge second-hand market with enough housing there for locals."

Mr Zhang said 20 years ago there were a lot of Japanese developers in Australia. "So foreign
development is not a new thing for Australia," Mr Zhang said.

"We just don't think there should be a fear of foreigners coming to Australia to help it develop."
Another developer, Chinese government-backed Greenland Group's chief executive Sherwood Luo,
said his company's developments would not only increase the dwelling stock but would contribute to
the economy.

"Australia is a migrant country. This is why it is so multicultural and tolerant. So, it should not matter
where property developers come from," Mr Luo said.
The Greenland Group is building Sydney's tallest residential tower in the CBD with 400 units,
taking the mantle from Meriton's World Tower.

The Australian Financial Review on Tuesday revealed that billionaire Lang Walker questioned the
prices being paid by Asian groups for residential developments sites.

In the past two years, dozens of Asia-based developers such as Greenland, R&F Properties,
Fragrance, Aspial and UEM Sunrise, have spent at least $2.7 billion buying sites.
But Mr Zhang said the prices his company paid for sites were appropriate and accurate.
"I have heard people say that we Chinese are recklessly buying with no consideration of price.
"Chinese developers are prepared to pay for land because they take a long-term capital growth
view. Even if we pay more now, we get more in the long term."
Country Garden Australia is owned by Hong-Kong listed Country Garden, one of China's leading
property developers, controlled by China's richest woman, Yang Huiyan.
Mr Zhang said it was not just Chinese developers who were bidding higher but local developers
such as Harry Triguboff's Meriton had been equally competitive in vying for land.

Page328of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."Everywhere there was an Asian developer, Meriton was there to fight for it," he said.
Mr Zhang said that in gaining development experience in Australia, his company could become an
important provider of the housing stock Australia needs.
"We have a Chinese saying that the student can do more than its master."
Only 15 per cent of Country Garden's nearly-sold $500 million, 830-unit residential complex
in Sydney's north-west suburb of Ryde is owned by foreign investors.

Country Garden had specifically targeted its development at local owner-occupiers, not investors,
designing apartments with established local architects to create liveable units for professional
couples and singles.
The small group of investors is not taking away housing stock from locals, Mr Zhang said.

He and Mr Luo affirmed their companies' intentions to remain in Australia for the long haul.
"We are a Fortune 500 company. In fact, we are ranked 268, so we are globally successful," Mr Luo
said.

"We take great care assessing the risks of every investment opportunity. No development which
requires a huge outlay is sustainable without returns. We use the same returns model whether it is
investments in Europe, America and Asia.

"So we won't go about squandering our money unnecessarily. We just don't do speculative,
make-a-quick-buck schemes."

"The capital we inject into the economy provides a multiplier effect, creating jobs which results in
more tax revenue for the government. Also, without this much-needed capital Australia's housing
supply will suffer and not meet demand."
Mr Zhang said his company's entry into the Australian market was part of a global plan that included
expansions to many countries.

Greenland projected global sales of nearly $4 billion for 2014 and has partnered with James
Packer's Crown Group to bid for Brisbane's Queen's Wharf precinct development.
Country Garden and Greenland Group have funded their purchases with money from their Hong
Kong-listed parent companies. Both said demand was far higher than supply and there was no
housing bubble. "You can look at the vacancy rates. Only when there is an over supply will the
market collapse," Mr Luo said.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

npag : Page-One Stories | ncat : Content Types
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141001eaa20003g

Page329of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.