Baosteel snubs Ellison in Aquila spat

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Baosteel snubs Ellison in Aquila spat

Amanda Saunders
534 words
18 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
15
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Baosteel chairman Dai Zhihao has snubbed Mineral Resources boss Chris Ellison as the $1.4
billion takeover fight for Aquila Resources heats up, warning if the steel giant's bid fails it will find it
difficult to access the Chinese market for Aquila's key project.
At the heart of the jousting for Aquila is the junior's majority stake in the greenfield $7.4 billion
West Pilbara iron ore project.

Mineral Resources could launch a counter bid for Aquila, after raiding the junior's register for stake
of almost 13 per cent last week.

It would scupper Baosteel's $3.40-a-share all cash offer, which has put jointly with rail major
Aurizon.

On Monday, Mr Dai wrote to Mr Ellison to make it clear that if the Baosteel bid fails, the West
Pilbara project will have no support – financial or otherwise – from China.
"We believe Chinese market support is critical to the success of the project on many levels," he
wrote.

"I hope you understand our position and why I don't see value in a meeting."
If Baosteel's offer was not successful, the firm would not support the project in the form of sales,
marketing or off-take, he wrote.
MinRes, a Perth mining services and minerals processing group, paid $197 million for a stake of
almost 13 per cent in Aquila last week.
It has the ultimate aim of having their development plan adopted for the West Pilbara iron ore
project where it would design, build and in part operate the mooted facility.

MinRes had hoped to engage Baosteel and strike a deal over the development of the project.
Baosteel was enraged by MinRes' move to raid the Aquila register and buy a blocking stake – a
move made without consulting the steel giant.

On Monday, MinRes entered a trading halt, ahead of "a potential corporate transaction".

Sources suggest it will reveal a scrip counter bid.

It is not thought to have the financial capacity to put cash on the table.

The halt prompted the Bao chair to write to Mr Ellison, encouraging him to buy into the Baosteel
bid, which would see the Perth firm take a loss.

Page112of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Min Res bought in last week at $3.75 a share, a premium to the $3.40-a-share offer.

In his letter, Baosteel's chairman reiterated that the bid was "the only viable pathway for Aquila and
development of the West Pilbara project".
Aquila owns the West Pilbara project with private equity house AMCI and Korean steel giant
POSCO, who each hold 25 per cent.

Baosteel and rail major Aurizon upped the ante on Friday when they said their joint all-cash $3.40 a
share offer for Aquila was "best and final".
Mr Dai's sentiments echo a statement put out by the company on Friday that it would abandon the
West Pilbara project if the bid failed.

However, the announcement included a caveat, "based on the current facts known to us at the
date of this announcement".

It could also look to dump its 19.8 per cent shareholding in Aquila if the bid fell over.

aqures : Aquila Resources Ltd. | baois : Shanghai Baosteel Group Corp
i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i211 :
Metal Ore Mining | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying | isteel : Steel Production
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140617ea6i0002x

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

Page113of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.