China ’s Baosteel takes control of Aquila Resources

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
China’s Baosteel takes control of Aquila Resources

Sarah-Jane Tasker, Takeovers
721 words
26 June 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
19
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

CHINESE steel giant Baosteel has secured control of its $1.4 billion Australian iron ore and coal
target, Aquila Resources, after the company’s co-founder Charles Bass backed the bid.
The Chinese state-owned entity, in partnership with Australian freight operator Aurizon, will have an
almost 60 per cent interest in Aquila as soon as Mr Bass and Tony Poli — Aquila’s co-founder and
executive chairman — sell their shares into the bid.

Mr Bass, who last year resigned from Aquila’s board, emailed a letter to the joint bidders on Tuesday
saying he would sell them his 10.7 per cent stake in Aquila in the absence of a superior offer.

“I expect that the acceptance will be completed by the end of the first week of July,” Mr Bass said in
the letter. “However, I reserve the right to revisit this.” Last week Mr Poli revealed he would sell his
almost 30 per cent stake to Baosteel, which already has a 20 per cent interest in the target. Given
there is still a slight chance that a superior proposal could emerge, Mr Poli last week recommended
that shareholders delay acceptance of the offer until July 3.

If they accept now they could be excluded from accepting a superior proposal if one emerges.

Baosteel director Yiming Wu and Aurizon director Dominic Smith said in a joint statement yesterday
that they considered the support from the co-founders demonstrated the “compelling” nature of their
all-cash offer, especially in the context of a declining iron ore market.
When Mr Poli and Mr Bass listed the company on the Australian market 14 years ago it was valued at
$6 million.

The $1.4bn deal, which already has received approval from Australia’s Foreign Investment Review
Board, includes a 50 per cent minimum acceptance condition, which will be satisfied as soon as the
co-founders sell their shares.

The bidders again encouraged Aquila’s remaining investors to accept their offer as soon as possible,
repeating their warning that the bid would not be extended beyond July 11.
In backing Baosteel and Aurizon’s hostile move on the company, Mr Poli and his team rejected a
friendly, all-scrip merger with Perth-based mining services and processing company Mineral
Resources.

The rival offer emerged early last week following Mineral Resources’ move on to Aquila’s share
registry after it purchased a 12 per cent stake at $3.75 a share. The mining services company has
not decided if it will now sell into the bid and take a $20m hit on its recent investment in Aquila.
Mineral Resources’ share purchase saw Aquila’s stock price jump because the price the new investor
paid for its stake was significantly above the $3.40-a-share that the Chinese had offered.

Page184of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Baosteel and Aurizon were quick to put a stop to market speculation they would increase Continued on
Page 20 Continued from Page 19 their offer and declared they would not increase the bid or extend
the offer period.

That led Mr Poli and Aquila’s board to announce they supported the deal, despite it being below an
independent expert’s valuation.

Grant Samuel, which valued Aquila at $3.40 to $5.24 a share, concluded that the offer was “not fair”
but labelled it “reasonable”. In telling shareholders to support the offer, Mr Poli said the company’s
independent directors believed the offer price did not reflect the full underlying value of the Aquila
group or the strategic value of its key asset — the West Pilbara iron ore project — to the bidders. But
in the absence of a superior proposal, the board determined that the Baosteel and Aurizon offer was
“finely balanced”.

Grant Samuel was of the view that given the $7.5bn-$8bn capital expenditure target on West Pilbara,
the funding and development challenges for a company such as Aquila were such that it was likely the
market had been attributing little or no value to Aquila’s West Pilbara interest.

The report also said that in the absence of the Baosteel offer or the expectation of a similar
transaction, Grant Samuel expected that Aquila shares would trade at prices well below the offer price.

Aurizon’s writedowns P20

CO

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

aqures : Aquila Resources Ltd. | baois : Shanghai Baosteel Group Corp | dorval : Aurizon Mines Ltd |
hclamn : Hecla Mining Co
i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i211 : Metal
Ore Mining | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying | isteel : Steel Production
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c411 : Management Moves | cboard : Board of Directors |
cdirdl : Directors Dealings | cslmc : Senior Level Management | c18 : Ownership Changes | c41 :
Management Issues | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140625ea6q0000w

Page185of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.