INSIDE STORY visits Palm Beach | TITLE DEEDS Bellevue Hill’s newest high-flyer

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Domain
INSIDE STORY visits Palm Beach | TITLE DEEDS Bellevue Hill’s newest high-flyer

LUCY MACKEN
1,272 words
22 March 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
7
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

TITLE DEEDS

A Harry Seidler-designed classic is up for grabs in Palm Beach, amid a few interesting sales.

Expect to see design enthusiasts circling Waterman House on Cynthea Road, when it goes to auction
on April 12 for about $1.5 million through McGrath’s Michael King. The modernist property last traded
for just over $1 million in 2002 when it was sold by designer Niels Herholdt and Anna Utzon, the great
niece of the Opera House’s architect Jorn Utzon, to fellow designer Peter Ellis and artist Anne Gothe.
The listing follows the sale of merchant banker Jim Dominguez and his wife Suzanne’s Florida Road
property Mandalay, which was optimistically priced at $8 million last July. LJ Hooker Palm Beach’s
Peter Robinson won’t comment on price but another source puts it at closer to $6 million.
Then there’s a compound in the making on Sunrise Road following last week’s sale of a
974-square-metre block for $3.55 million, through Robinson and buyer’s agent Shane Clinton. It is the
fourth of adjoining blocks snapped up by director and cinematographer, Jeffrey Darling, and executive
producer, Sarah Blair. Records show the couple bought the double block behind in 1998 for $600,000,
adding next door in 2003 for $1.4 million.

Bellevue Hill’s newest high-flyer

The suburb’s north-facing position and private blocks continue to attract the rich and powerful.

Big tobacco chief David Crow and his wife Lucinda have traded up handsomely to a mansion in
Bellevue Hill.
It was an off-market sale said to be worth about $11.7 million for the home of former Network Nine
senior executive Lynton Taylor and his wife, Ros, who are rumoured to be downsizing to an apartment
in Darling Point.
No word on who negotiated the Bellevue Hill sale, but D’Leanne Lewis, of Laing+Simmons Double
Bay, is the most likely candidate, given she has just sold the Rose Bay home of Crow, the chief
executive of British American Tobacco Australia.
The 1920s-era home in Beresford Road was pitched at $6.8 million-plus. Lewis isn’t commenting on
the sale, but another source says there were two buyers competing for the five-bedder, with the sale
clinched at just under $7.5 million.

Worth the wait
Wahroonga has a new suburb record of about $9.2 million for the Water Street estate of expatriate
TV executive Steve Askew and his wife, Cressida.

Page134of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Askews’ home was listed for two years, from March 2011, at $11 million with a different agency,
before Adam Regan, of Our Estates, relaunched it in January, exchanging on the six-bedroom
property earlier this week with a senior executive from an accounting firm in China.
The 3200-square-metre estate last traded in 2007 for $5.2 million, when it was bought from Lesley
Courtney-O’Connor.

Askew was chief operating officer for News Corp’s Star TV in Asia, then turned to co-producing
movies with Jackie Chan and China’s superstar Andy Lau.
The sale leaves the Askews’ penthouse in The Elan, which they bought from former hotelier Richard
Wynne in 2003 for $4,045,000.

The north-facing spread has previously been a rental for some of Hollywood’s A-list, including Hugh
Jackman and Keanu Reeves, but is now also up for grabs for about $10 million, again through
Regan.
Newtown recordNewtown also has a new record of more than $3.6 million for the Victorian mansion
with no parking of Cadence Australia head Ron and Jocelyn Murphy, AM.

The Murphys bought the local landmark in 2001 for $1,427,500 from Eileen Munchenberg, the widow
of Aboriginal activist and academic Charlie Perkins.
Michael Harris, of Raine & Horne Newtown, was keeping schtum on the sale price to the North Shore
buyers.

Fund transfer

The home of some of Mosman’s movers and shakers, Yullamurra, is on offer for upwards of $13
million now that Future Fund director Stephen Fitzgerald and his wife, Julie, are downsizing to their
new Paddington digs.

The former chairman of Goldman Sachs Australia bought the P&O-style property in Kirkoswald
Avenue in 2009 for $10.2 million from Cascade Coal director John McGuigan, the mining boss who
made headlines last year when the Independent Commission Against Corruption made corruption
findings against him.

McGuigan had bought the 960-square-metre property from Liquorland founder Stephen Woods in
1994 for $2.45 million. It was previously owned by hotelier Warwick Short, who sold it in 1985 for
$950,000.

Renovated extensively by the Fitzgeralds in 2009 using the Quinlan Group, the six-bedroom
residence, with a swimming pool, games room, gym and views of Balmoral, was listed for $12 million
last year, but now goes to auction on April 15 through Belle Property Mosman’s Tim Foote.

Rock couple sell
Hoodoo Gurus lead guitarist Brad Shepherd and his wife, Sahara, former general manager of the Big
Day Out, sold their Queens Park home last week for $1,824,000.
The rock couple had listed the Rawson Avenue home for more than $1.7 million through Ray White
Double Bay’s Annette Pollak.

Shh!
Which private-equity specialist is offloading his Bondi Beach digs?

In Mosman, who is the senior executive of one of the Big Four selling his family pile?

Culina’s city-bound
FOR SALE: $3m+

Ex-football player Jason Culina and his wife Terri are selling their 200-year-old colonial mansion
Denham Court to move closer to their new interior design business in the city.

The former Socceroo retired a year ago, about six months after the couple bought the 2.42 hectare
property for $1.2 million from Dr Keith Okey.

Page135of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."I still get my kicks commentating for SBS but in general I don’t miss football," Culina told Title Deeds
last week. Extensively restored, the National Trust-listed residence with ballroom, library, formal
lounge and dining rooms, tennis court and a coach house goes to auction on April 13 for $3
million-plus through Ballard’s Bill Bridges and Clint Ballard.

Waterside Hunters Hill
FOR SALE: $12.5m+
The Hunters Hill waterfront residence Windermere is for sale and expected to set a suburb record at
more than $12.5 million.

Built in 1857 by Jules Joubert, the sandstone residence on 3600 square metres was renovated
extensively in 2005 with a pavilion style wing by architect John Rose, of Tanner Kibble Denton, by
former owners Warren and Catherine Fraser, of Frasers Motorcycles.
The Tarabay family bought it in 2011 for $10.5 million, and have beautifully landscaped the gardens
and added DA plans for a guest wing. Boasting 80 metres of north facing waterfrontage, it is listed with
McGrath’s Tracey Dixon.

Making the Point
FOR SALE: $5.75m+

On Cremorne Point, the waterfront reserve home of philanthropist and former Oracle chief Phil Kiely
and his wife Cathryn goes to auction on April 12 for more than $5.75 million.

The 1920s-era house on Cremorne Road was bought by the Sydney to Hobart yacht race regular in
1999 for $1.91 million, and has since been renovated with a new kitchen and bathrooms. Now
executive chairman of biotechnology company Uscom, Kiely is hoping to spend more time on the
Cambodia based charity Karuna Foundation that the couple founded. The northeast facing residence
with harbour views is listed with Belle Property Neutral Bay’s co-principal Matthew Smythe.

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

irreal : Residential Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest
: Real Estate
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140321ea3m0007f

Page136of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.