OnePlus budget debut

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Green Guide - Livewire
OnePlus budget debut

KATIE CINCOTTA
788 words
2 October 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
12
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

SOCIAL NOTES

Being part of the "it" crowd used to mean fagging behind the school bins, hanging out in hidden cafes
down dingy alleyways, and landing enough party invites to fill your diary.

Social media has moved the popularity stakes into virtual ground - networks such as Instagram, Twitter,
Facebook, and Pinterest where the influencers lead, and followers hang off their every post - have
become powerful points of reference for trend setting.
Chinese smartphone company OnePlus, a subsidiary of Oppo, has realised the power of social media
for seed marketing, and has chosen to sell its flagship phone by "invite only" outside China.

Carl Pei, director of OnePlus Global, says the invitation system was less about creating buzz and more
about managing inventory. "Ordering too much up front would have killed us," he says. "We needed to
manage the number of devices reaching consumers so our logistics and support teams would have a
chance to catch up."
The phone in question, which the company is calling the "2014 flagship killer", has top-end specs that
can compete with leaders such as Samsung's Galaxy S5, Sony Xperia's Z2 and HTC's One M8.

The brain is a Qualcomm Snapdragon 801 processor with global 4G LTE; the screen is a
13.9-centimetre, 1080p display; the camera is a 13-megapixel Sony Exmor with f/2.0 aperture; and the
operating system is the highly regarded CyanogenMod based on Android 4.4. In all, a competitive list of
features.
The game changer is the $300 price point; the company forgoing profits for the first two years to deliver
a benchmark phone at a third of the cost of its competitors.

Problem is, you have to know someone to get one, or be lucky enough to win one through a social
media contest.
Clever techies didn't let random selection stop them. A wiki on tech siteWhirlpool was set up to explain
how the system works, telling Australian customers how to register for an invitation, and allowing
Whirlpool members to refer one another.

Pei says OnePlus targeted early adopters, banking on them to spread the word. "Early adopters are far
more likely to take a chance on an unknown company selling their phones solely online. These people
tend to be quite active in online forums and social media and were crucial in helping us grow."

Where the invitation scheme took a wrong turn was with a "Ladies First" promotion that called on
females to draw the OnePlus logo on their bodies and take a selfie, with the 50 most "liked" women
given the option to buy the phone. Within hours, women had slammed the queue-jumping contest,

Page332of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.labelling it insulting, degrading and sleazy, with one woman posting a photo of herself flipping the bird
to the company.

The promo was canned on the day it launched and OnePlus apologised, admitting the contest was
misguided and perpetuated an offensive stereotype.
Pei says selling the phone at cost, with no real marketing budget, has forced the company to market
creatively but admits the body selfie campaign was a mistake.

In September, via its forum, OnePlus announced plans to allow pre-orders for the One phone, which
Pei confirms should be in place by the end of October. The invitation system will continue but, as with
Google's Nexus series of phones, One won't be available through telcos, sold online only.
As the bold Chinese disruptor moves into India and Australia, Pei says availability may open up,
especially as it has lost customers who wouldn't wait. "Selling directly online may not be the best
solution for every market. As we grow and expand, we'll explore potential partnerships."

But in the lead up to Christmas sales, the elusive OnePlus One device has some stiff competition seven
months after its debut, with consumers now weighing up the iPhone 6, Moto X, Nexus X and Galaxy
Note 4 among the new offerings.

Another problem is concern about One's lithium polymer battery, which exploded in one owner's pocket
while he was on the subway in France, burning a hole through his jeans. OnePlus responded quickly,
dispatching staff to the victim, and reimbursing him for all costs. "We did have one unfortunate incident
of a user's battery smoking," Pei says. "To the best of our knowledge, it was an isolated incident."

It's not the only phone to spontaneously combust - some Samsung and Apple phones have also met
fiery ends.
Whether one lemon will be enough to extinguish desire for China's underdog remains to be seen.
Clearly, the phone is hot property, but nobody wants a literal interpretation.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

nrvw : Reviews | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020141001eaa20005k

Page333of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.