TPG circles in $3b sale of Shell petrol stations, refining assets

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
TPG circles in $3b sale of Shell petrol stations, refining assets

Angela Macdonald-Smith, James Chessell, Sarah Thompson
409 words
8 January 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
16
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Finance
Private equity firm TPG is in the final stages of a $3 billion auction for Royal Dutch Shell's refining
and retail business in Australia, along with a consortium involving Macquarie Group.

There is also speculation a third party - potentially an Asian energy business - is also vying for the
Shell assets, including its refinery in Geelong, several import terminals and a network of 900 branded
service stations.
BP is also believed to be mulling the sale of its downstream business in Australia as the big oil
groups seek to channel investment into higher returning businesses in oil and gas production, and
bigger growth markets.

"Production growth or lack thereof is the key focus of investors in the supermajors and therefore
money is always going to be ushered more and more upstream away from the downstream," Credit
Suisse analyst Mark Samter said.

Both Shell and BP have declined to comment on the speculation about the potential sales.
A BP spokesman said, however, that the British parent company had only last month sanctioned
$US150 million of investment for this year in the Australian retail business, while maintenance work
due this year at its Kwinana refinery is expected to cost tens of millions of dollars.

Refineries have delivered sub-standard investment returns in Australia in the past five years.
However, there is speculation an Asian energy business such as Thai-owned PTT might be
interested. The 110,000 barrels-a-day Geelong refinery has previously attracted interest from
Chinese parties in the sale process run by Merrill Lynch. It is believed Coles, Shell's retail partner in
Australia, is monitoring the talks.

Analysts said the distribution and retailing end of the group's Australian businesses would be of
significant interest to new investors, particularly private equity, but that the refineries would be more
problematic to sell.

Australia's fuel production and retailing sector has undergone massive change over the past decade,
with the closure of two refineries, and a third to be closed next year. There have also been significant
changes in the ownership of petrol stations.

Caltex Australia, the only locally listed refiner and marketer, is in the middle of a huge transformation.
Its Sydney refinery is to be converted into an import terminal this year and there is an increased focus
on importing, distribution and marketing.

CO

mcqbnk : Macquarie Group Limited | rnlp : Royal Dutch Shell PLC | tpgpar : TPG, Inc.

Page197of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

RE
PUB
AN

i652 : Gasoline Stations | i14001 : Petroleum Refining | i1 : Energy | i14 : Petroleum/Coal Products |
i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i654 : Specialty Stores | iindstrls : Industrial Goods | iretail : Retail | i13 : Crude
Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | i814 : Banking | i831 : Financial
Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction |
ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140107ea180003w

Page198of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.