Declining Wool Demand Forces Scramble to Adapt at New Zealand Farms

HD Declining Wool Demand Forces Scramble to Adapt at New Zealand Farms
WC 1,206 words
PD 13 October 2014
SN Emerging Markets Business Information News
SC EMBIN
LA
English
CY © 2014 EMBIN (Emerging Markets Business Information News). All Rights Reserved. Provided by

Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company

LP

TD

About three decades ago, when Andrew Fraser began raising sheep, wool was among the star exports of
this sparsely populated nation. Its other sheep products " lamb and mutton " were supporting actors.
Today, the situation is reversed. New Zealand's sheep meat exports are up, while wool, whose export
earnings have been sliding for decades, faces intensifying competition from synthetic fibers. Although
sheep farming is still enmeshed in the fabric of New Zealand's cultural identity, it is another economic
activity that this remote South Pacific nation is retooling for an increasingly globalized world. The boot is
sort of on the other foot now, Mr. Fraser said recently while driving a four-wheeler through sheep pastures
that he manages on New Zealand's South Island. At a nearby fence, fuzzy newborn lambs the size of lap
dogs were congregating shyly at their mothers' heels. Wool has traditionally been " and still is " a very
good product, he said.

The trouble is that now, a similar product can be manufactured out of used Coke bottles and all sorts of
stuff. From 1982 to 2011, New Zealand's sheep population declined to 31.1 million from 70.2 million,
according to government data, as many sheep pastures were converted to dairy farms or other uses. The
roughly 17,000 sheep farmers who remain still earn money from selling the fleece of their animals. But on
many sheep farms, meat has replaced wool as the primary profit maker. Since 1990, the value of New
Zealand's annual exports of raw wool and manufactured wool products has declined to about $700 million
from $1.2 billion, according to government data. By contrast, lamb and mutton exports have increased
almost threefold to $2.3 billion. And dairy exports, worth $1.9 billion in 1992, have soared to $14.1
billion. New Zealand, with 4.4 million people, is the world's third-largest wool producer behind Australia
and China, according to Beef and Lamb New Zealand, a farmer-owned industry group. It supplies 45
percent of all carpet wool globally, the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group said in a report last
year. Yet more than 90 percent of New Zealand's wool is exported in raw form, rather than in finished
products like carpets or upholstery, leaving it vulnerable to swings in commodity markets. And the global
popularity of synthetic-fiber carpets is viewed by many New Zealand wool growers as an existential threat.
To increase their profits, sheep farmers are increasingly turning to crossbred varieties that produce more
meat. Still, farmers said, the wool industry would benefit from having a unified voice to promote New
Zealand wool abroad as a high-end fiber that, in their view, beats synthetic alternatives in several
categories, including overall quality and environmental sustainability. It's the difference between the Model
T Ford and the Ferrari, said William Rolleston, president of Federated Farmers of New Zealand, a lobbying
group based in Wellington. Continue reading the main story Having a single voice, the argument goes,
could help New Zealand's wool growers and manufacturers reach beyond China, their primary export
market by far, into relatively untapped markets like the United States. It could also advance the New
Zealand wool agenda in talks for the Trans-Pacific Partnership, an American-led trade accord among a
dozen nations that is likely to affect several agricultural commodities. But New Zealand's wool industry,
unlike its dairy industry, is viewed as highly fragmented. Even with a recent wave of consolidation, there
were 35 wool exporters operating across the country last year, a huge level of decentralization given the
industry's relatively modest export earnings, the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group reported.
Everyone's sort of undercutting each other, said Ross Andrews, a South Island farmer who earns around
$1.40 a pound for his carpet-grade wool. There is also disagreement among both growers and industry
leaders about reinstating a nationwide tax on sheep farmers that until 2009 had supported an industry
group called Meat and Wool New Zealand. Many in the wool industry considered that group ineffective
when the tax was voted out in 2009. The group then changed its name to Beef and Lamb New Zealand
and focused on meat products. A referendum on reviving the tax took place on Friday, and the results will
be announced this week. Sandra Faulkner, leader of a campaign for the tax, said it would cost farmers
about a penny a pound of wool sold. That would translate to about $3.3 million a year, she added, and
the money would be invested in communication, education and innovation, including teaching fellowships
and complementing the work of independent marketing initiatives. Wool growers long assumed that their
industry would somehow look after itself, but there is now a clear need to promote wool over synthetic

Page49of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.fibers, Ms. Faulkner said. According to Beef and Lamb New Zealand, wool accounts for 1.3 percent of
global fiber production and synthetics 61.4 percent. It's about identifying ourselves in the luxury
marketplace, which is where we've always belonged, she said. Brent Wollaston, the chief executive of
Cavalier Carpets, a carpet giant based in Auckland, said that the tax was a logical vehicle for promoting
New Zealand wool overseas. He added that it could complement the Campaign for Wool, a British
international marketing initiative led by Prince Charles that collects voluntary donations from New Zealand
growers. But Mark Shadbolt, chairman of Wools of New Zealand, a sales and marketing company that
represents around 1,000 wool growers, said an existing consortium of New Zealand wool businesses,
Wool Industry Research Limited, should receive a broader mandate to be the industry's voice. Look, I'm a
farmer at the end of the day, and I don't like complicated structures, Mr. Shadbolt said in a telephone
interview from northern England, where Wools of New Zealand has a satellite office. So why establish
another structure when you've got one there that's well recognized and operating successfully? Continue
reading the main storyContinue reading the main story However the industry changes, New Zealand's
sheep will still grow their fuzzy winter coats and require the occasional haircut. On a recent weekday
morning, dozens of merino sheep, a fine-haired variety whose fleece is typically used for clothing, shuffled
into a South Island shearing barn to be buzzed by a team of young shearers, each holding a large razor.
The fresh wool was gathered and packed into bags for export to Britain. Peter Lyon, the supervisor of the
shearing team, said farmers' views on how the wool industry should evolve typically depend on factors like
whether they have reliable export contractors, the quality of wool they produce and their level of debt. But,
he said, rising costs coupled with diminished earnings make many farmers nervous about their financial
security. In the mid-20th century, wool growers were often asset-rich and cash-poor, Mr. Lyon said later
on. But you can't afford to be cash-poor today or you'll get thrown out. They've got to make a profit and
stack it up for the banks.

IN
NS

i0100124 : Sheep/Goat Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
c312 : External Markets | mwool : Wool Markets | c31 : Marketing/Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial
News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m141 : Agricultural Commodity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial
Market News | mlvstk : Livestock/Meat Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E
Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
nz : New Zealand | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
IPD Forestry
PUB Info-Prod Research (Middle East) Limited
AN Document EMBIN00020141013eaad0000u

Page50of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.