TRADING PLACES

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
TRADING PLACES

381 words
18 November 2014
The Advertiser
ADVTSR
Advertiser
4
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

WINNERS ■ Agriculture sector, including dairy, beef and sheep, wine, horticulture and seafood to
benefit from sweeping tariff cuts.
■ Resources and energy sector to boost exports because of the abolition of all tariffs.

■ Banks and insurers to get new access to the Chinese market. ■ Services sector, including legal,
education, telecommunications, health and aged care, construction and engineering, mining and
tourism able to establish operations in China.

■ Australian manufacturers of pharmaceuticals, car engines, precious stones, make-up and hair
products win from tariff cuts.
■ Australian consumers will benefit from cheaper imported Chinese electronics and other goods.

LOSERS ■ Rice, sugar, wheat and cotton farmers hoping for lower tariffs will have to wait at least three
years for an agreement.
■ Some Australian manufacturers may find it harder to compete with China. TARIFF CUTS ■ Wine —
tariffs of between 14 and 30 per cent removed within four years. ■ Dairy — Tariffs of up to 20 per cent
scrapped within 11 years. ■ Beef — Tariffs between 12 to 25 per cent gone within nine years. ■ Live
animal exports — tariffs of 10 per cent removed within four years. ■ Sheep meat tariffs of 12 and 23 per
cent within eight years. ■ Barley — three per cent tariff scrapped immediately.

■ Seafood — tariffs to go, including the 12 per cent tariff on southern blue fin tuna within four years.
■ All tariffs on resources and energy to go within two years, including coking coal and non-coking coal.

■ Pharmaceuticals — 10 per cent tariff to go within four years. ■ Car engines — 10 per cent tariff to go
within four years.

SERVICES ■ Wholly-owned Australian hospitals, aged care institutions, hotels and restaurants to be
established in China.
■ Australian law firms able to establish commercial associations with Chinese law firms and offer
services in the Shanghai Free Trade Zone.

■ Better access for Australian banking, insurance, funds managements, securitisation, futures and
telecommunications sectors.
■ An extra 77 Australian education institutions to be listed on Chinese websites used by potential
students.

SAFEGUARDS ■ Threshold at which Foreign Investment Review Board screens proposed by private
Chinese companies lifted from $248 million to $1.078 billion.

Page169of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.■ Australian government still able to screen proposed purchase of farmland worth more $15 million
and agribusinesses worth more than $53 million.■ Foreign Investment Review Board to continue
screening all proposed investments by Chinese state-owned enterprises.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document ADVTSR0020141117eabi00020

Page170of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.