(AEEGP) Echo Entertainment Group Limited: Queen's Wharf Brisbane - strategic joint venture

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

(AEEGP) Echo Entertainment Group Limited: Queen's Wharf Brisbane - strategic joint venture

353 words
23 June 2014
Ralph Wragg Australian Business News
AAPRAW
English
Copyright 2014 RWE AUSTRALIAN BUSINESS NEWS PTY LTD. All Rights Reserved.

Sydney - Monday - June 23 (RWE) - Echo Entertainment Group Limited (ASX: EGP) today announced it
has signed a binding Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with Chow Tai Fook Enterprises Limited
(CTF) and Far East Consortium (Australia) Pty Limited (FEC Australia), a subsidiary of Far East
Consortium International Limited (FEC), to create a new consortium to prepare a detailed proposal to
develop an entertainment precinct and integrated resort at the Queen's Wharf Brisbane site.

Under the MOU announced today, Echo, CTF and FEC will combine their considerable complimentary
capabilities to form the Destination Brisbane Consortium.

This consortium will develop and submit jointly a proposal for the Queen's Wharf Brisbane Project.

The Destination Brisbane Consortium brings together Echo's extensive Queensland and broader
Australian experience in operating integrated resorts with CTF and FEC's international hospitality
operations, mixed use development expertise and strong links into Chinese and other Asian markets.

As part of the agreement, Echo will contribute fifty per cent of the capital to the development of the
integrated resort and act as the operator under a long dated gaming operator agreement.

CTF and FEC Australia will each contribute twenty five per cent of the capital to the development of the
integrated resort and together will also undertake the residential and related component of the broader
Queen's Wharf Brisbane development.
CTF is a Hong Kong based investment holding company controlled by Dato' Dr Cheng Yu Tung and
family (the Cheng Family) with extensive interests in property, hospitality and consumer and retail
businesses.

The Cheng Family also controls Chow Tai Fook Jewellery, the world's largest jewellery retailer, with over
2,000 points of sale in Greater China.
CTF is active in property development with a number of large scale mixed-use regeneration projects
and developments under way around the world.
CTF also presents the Destination Brisbane Consortium with the opportunity to leverage CTF's Chinese
and Asian VIP client base.
FEC is a Hong Kong listed property developer with global interests in international hospitality
businesses with a strong dominance in Asia.

CO

IN

NS
RE

chotai : Chow Tai Fook Group | ekoee : Echo Entertainment Group Ltd. | fecon : Far East Consortium
International Limited
i491 : Jewelry/Silverware | i97912 : Gambling Industries | icnp : Consumer Goods | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality
cpartn : Partnerships/Collaborations | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | china : China | brisbn : Brisbane | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz :
Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

Page107of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd
AN

Document AAPRAW0020140623ea6n0002v

Page108of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.