Asciano in talks for ports business sale

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Asciano in talks for ports business sale

Jenny Wiggins
596 words
19 July 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
36
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Ports operator Asciano is set to slash net debt if talks with Chinese state-owned corporation China
Merchants to sell minority stake in Patrick ports for more than $1 billion lead to a deal.

Asciano's shares rose 22¢, or 3.8  per cent to close at $5.96, the highest level since October, after the
company confirmed media reports that it was holding "preliminary" talks over the sale of
a non-controlling stake in Patrick.

Asciano chief executive John Mullen has previously signalled that he is prepared to consider a sale of
all of Patrick if the company received a high enough price.

Although Asciano is unlikely to sell 100 per cent of Patrick, it could end up ceding majority control if
China Merchants pays a high enough price, according to people close to the company.
Patrick has a total enterprise value of between $2.1 billion and $2.5 billion if it is valued at 9 to 11
times earnings before interest taxation depreciation and amortisation, according to UBS .

This is in line with the valuation for rival ports operator DP World's Australian business, when 75 per
cent was sold to Citi Infrastructure Investors for $1.8 billion in late 2010.

UBS estimates Asciano's gearing would drop to about 2.3 times in fiscal 2015 from 2.8 times if the
group sold a stake for between $1.5 billion and $1.7 billion and used half the proceeds to pay off part
of its $3.3  billion in net debt.
China Merchants, which teamed up with Hastings Funds Management to buy the Port of Newcastle for
$1.75 billion in April, is believed to be the only serious potential buyer of a stake in Patrick at this
stage.Keen to add to international network

It is keen to add Australia to its international network so that it can benefit from the transportation of
container goods between Australia and China. China's external trade with Asia by sea has risen
65 per cent since June 2008, according to the International Transport Forum.
The Chinese group – which is headquartered in Hong Kong – counts infrastructure and transportation
(including ports) as one of its three core businesses along with financial investments and property. It
previously held talks with Asciano about six months ago but the two groups were unable to strike a
deal, according to people in the ports industry. China Merchants operates a national network of
container ports in China and has been expanding internationally, taking stakes in ports in Africa and
Asia, often through joint ventures.
It acquired a 49 per cent stake in France's CMA CGM 's Terminal Link business last year, giving it
access to 15 container terminals in eight countries, including Belgium, France and the US.

Page225of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The potential sale comes as competition increases in the Australian container ports industry, with
Hong Kong's Hutchison Port Holdings now operating terminals in Sydney and Brisbane alongside
Patrick and DP World.

Philippines-based International Container Terminal Services will start operating a third terminal in
Melbourne at the end of 2016.
Industry participants say the biggest challenge for China Merchants moving into Patrick, particularly if it
takes a majority stake, would be understanding the cultural challenges of operating in Australia.
Key points Asciano's shares rose 22¢, or 3.8  per cent to close at $5.96 at confirmation of talks. China
Merchants, believed to be the only serious bidder, operates a network of container ports in China.

CO
IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

ascian : Asciano Ltd. | lclaus : Patrick Corp | kfmilf : Qube Holdings Limited
i763 : Port/Harbor Operations | iship : Water Transport/Shipping | itsp : Transportation/Logistics
ceffic : Corporate Restructuring | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Shareholdings | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate
Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140718ea7j00025

Page226of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.