BHP’s Nickel West invites buyers to take a look

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
BHP’s Nickel West invites buyers to take a look

BARRY FITZGERALD, COMMODITIES
650 words
15 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
22
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

BHP Billiton has stepped up efforts to simplify its portfolio, telling the 1800 workers at its Nickel West
operations in Western Australia that the business could be sold off and that potential buyers are
about to come calling.

The president of the 100,000 tonne-a-year Nickel West business, Paul Harvey, has told the workforce
the business could be sold in part or in full.

“As part of this process we will shortly be inviting third parties to visit our operations,” Mr Harvey said
in an internal memo.

A large contingent of potential buyers is expected, with BHP’s preference being for an established
operator to take over.

Nickel prices have rebounded recently to reach 27-month highs in response to Indonesia’s ban on the
export of unprocessed nickel ores, and the potential for Russia’s nickel exports to be caught up in
Ukraine-related trade embargos.
But the potential sale of Nickel West is more deeply rooted in the productivity and portfolio
simplification strategy of BHP chief executive Andrew Mackenzie — a response to demands from
shareholders for greater returns despite the retreat of commodity prices from boom levels.
Mr Mackenzie is building BHP’s future on a simpler structure covering the “four pillars’’ of iron ore,
copper, petroleum and coal.

Nickel West and the group’s other non-core interests of aluminium, manganese and zinc no longer fit
the bill.
Before Mr Harvey’s memo to Nickel West employees, Mr Mackenzie told a mining conference in
Miami that the case for more portfolio simplification was “compelling’’.
He said simplification — BHP has already sold $US6.5 billion in non-core assets in the past two
years — was a priority.

Early last month BHP responded to market speculation that it was considering a $US20bn demerger
of its non-core assets into a new company by saying that structural options were being considered.

But Mr Mackenzie told the conference that no decisions had been made. “We continue to study the
next phase of simplification … We will only pursue options that maximise value for BHP Billiton
shareholders,” he said.
Yesterday’s memo to Nickel West employees highlighted that the trade or private equity sale of the
non-core assets was part of the mix, with the possibility that a demerger of the remaining non-core
assets — including the successful Cerro Matoso nickel mine in Colombia — could still be part of the
considerations.

Page172of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.A potential trade sale of Nickel West — valuations vary widely from $800 million to more than $2bn,
depending on price assumptions for the highly volatile metal — would be less complicated than
including them in a demerger, which would require value adjustments between the Australian
Securities Exchange and London-listed shares.
Another factor was Glencore Xstrata’s statement that it was interested in a potential sale of Nickel
West, which compelled BHP to value-test the trade route against whatever a demerger might
generate.
Apart from Glencore Xstrata, China’s Jinchuan has long had an association with the nickel produced
by Nickel West. And Mick Davis, former boss of Xstrata, which merged with Glencore last year, has
assembled the funds in his X2 private equity fund, which could make him a player.
The Nickel West operations include the Mt Keith, Cliffs and Leinster mines and concentrators, the
Kalgoorlie smelter, the Kambalda concentrator and the Kwinana refinery. The package also includes
the Perseverance underground mine, but it was closed in December because of safety concerns.

The absence of feed material from Perseverance has altered the supply dynamics for the integrated
nickel operations, with a temporary fix done by bringing back into production a nearby but short-lived
operation.The longer-term solution is to strike new supply deals with third-party producers, or develop
new resources and discoveries, but this is not on Mr Mackenzie’s agenda.

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
mnickl : Nickel Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mcat :
Commodity/Financial Market News | mnonfr : Non-ferrous Metals | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140514ea5f00094

Page173of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.