China deal just the start

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

China deal just the start

Tony Boyd
1,259 words
18 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
48
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Chanticleer
The best way to look at the China Australia Free Trade Agreement is to put all the hyperbole and
rhetoric to one side and think of it as the concrete slab at the base of a building.

That analogy fits with the one used by Prime Minister Tony Abbott over the past week. He likened the
deal to constructing the first storey of a house that might later have a second storey and possibly a
third.

It's a fitting way to think about it because further negotiations are planned which could significantly
change the agreement and make it more reaching than it already is.

The foundation of the agreement is a side deal between the Reserve Bank of Australia and the
People's Bank of China to establish official renminbi (RMB) clearing arrangements in Australia.

The RBA and BoC memorandum of understanding is the bedrock of the deal because it opens the way
for our central bank to participate in underwriting the RMB trade flows transacted between the two
countries.

The RMB is set to become one of the most widely traded currencies in the world.
The opening of China's capital account must also involve significant restructuring and opening up of
China's financial system.

The numerous side agreements announced on Monday in financial services revealed the way in which
Trade Minister Andrew Robb ensured business was deeply involved,

The side deals include the ASX and derivatives trading, the ANZ Banking Group and financing for
Chinese projects with the China Development Bank, National Australia Bank and the Export Import
Bank of China and Australia Post and Union Pay for a new multi-currency travel card.

Funds management is a big winner from the deal because the RMB agreement includes Australia
being granted access to the RMB Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor (RQFII) program, with an
initial aggregate quota of RMB 50 billion.

The best could yet be to come for financial services because a high powered committee will be formed
that will include the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority and the Australian Securities and
Investments Commission as well as Chinese regulators to discuss the possibility of mutual
recognition of the licensing of financial services companies.

If such an agreement is reached it will provide Australian wealth managers, advisers and securities
companies with access to China without the necessity for local licence approval.
It is this local approval in China which has the potential to be an impediment to the smooth operation
of increased trade between the two countries in professional services.

Page43of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The long lead times involved in the phasing out of tariffs for agricultural products show that the words
"free trade" are often tossed around without concern for the nitty gritty.

The trade deal was given almost universal approval on Monday as industry bodies representing
agriculture, mining and manufacturing gave their endorsement.

But the Australian Industry Group's Innes Willox injected a note of realism when he said that "all
studies, along with feedback from our members, indicate there is very low take up of advantages under
Australia's FTAs and this should be addressed to reap the full benefit of these agreements".

The visit to the Sydney labs of National Information Communications Technology Australia (NICTA)by
German Chancellor Angela Merkel is a reminder of the value foreign leaders place on marrying
research and commercial skills.

Germany's Fraunhofer Gesellschaft is Europe's largest application oriented research organisation. It
has been used as a model for the development of translational research centres in other countries
including the United Kingdom.

The Catapult Centres in the UK make world leading technical capabilities from research centres and
universities available to large and small businesses.

A recent review of the seven Catapult Centres by Herman Hauser found that secure long term core
funding from governments is part and parcel of international best practice in the commercialisation of
research.

Hauser said the government funding allows the Catapult Centres "to carry out applied R&D projects
addressing the key challenges and opportunities facing their sectors; it allows them to take-on the new
areas that are too large or too risky for individual companies to tackle."

The concept of sharing development risk between government and business is happening at NICTA.
But the federal government plans to scrap its funding in 2016.

Working for an Australian bank is a ticket to riches if you make it into the senior management ranks
thanks to generous equity and cash based incentives. But the release of the National Australia Bank
annual report shows that poor performance can be extremely costly for senior staff.
NAB's total deferred remuneration for senior managers fell 42 per cent to $36.4 million in 2014 mainly
due to $47 million in forfeitures and lapses due to failure to meet performance hurdles.
That is not to say NAB's bankers will starve. The bank paid senior managers $22 million in equity
awards and $25 million in cash based awards in 2014.
NAB's material risk takers are owed $19 million in deferred remuneration. They took home $15
million in cash and $11.8 million in equity awards in 2014.

Over at Westpac Banking Corp the value of deferred remuneration for senior managers rose from
$93.6 million in 2013 to $94.7 million in 2014. Westpac paid its senior managers $31.7 million in
equity awards and $31.7 million in cash awards in 2014.
Westpac's material risk takers were owed $23 million in deferred equity at the end of September.
They took home $10 million in equity and $10 million in cash in 2014.
The benchmark for deferred equity is Macquarie Group. It has outstanding deferred remuneration of
$132 million for senior managers and $213 million for material risk takers.

One of the reasons Gail Kelly will be remembered as one of Australia's most successful chief
executives is her enlightened attitude to the media.

She explained her approach to Chanticleer in an exclusive interview last week.

"I have never had a thin skin. I have never been a CEO who has run to editors and said: what is this?
and what is that?

"There are many, many times when I have felt personally affronted by things which have been written
which are wrong or incorrect. There are many times where I think journalists get away with murder
because they can write something which is unsubstantiated and wrong and hurtful and actually has
damaging consequences on reputations or intentions or whatever.

Page44of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."I have never been the kind of person that has rung up editors or others. I have always sucked it up
and thought well that is the nature of the world we live in. I will just keep on doing my job and try
through my career and through my leadership, through the delivery keep actually doing the right thing.

"I have known CEOs who go off the deep end and they blame people around them and they have
started ringing editors and they have started threatening advertorials and who knows what.I have
never in my whole career, never once, done anything like that. It's always about respect, it's always
about trust. Actually I recognise that I am a public figure and I recognise as a public figure people will
have comment and some of it is just wrong. As a public figure my job is to just get on and get the job
done and keep delivering."

tony.boyd@afr.com.au Twitter @TonyBoydAFR

Tony Boyd

NS
RE

PUB
AN

e512 : Physical Trade | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141117eabi0002k

Page45of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.