Great estates

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Perspective
Great estates

Samantha Hutchinson and Michael Bleby
942 words
8 February 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
16
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Property Wealthy families are buying out the neighbours to create vast, Gatsby-style compounds,
write Samantha Hutchinson and Michael Bleby.

The Great Gatsby premier at the Cannes Film Festival coincided with the release to market of a
bundle of properties along the French Riviera. Included in the historic hilltop estates and seaside villas
was Villa Picolette, the seven-bedroom mansion in which writer F Scott Fitzgerald and his wife Zelda
lived while he dreamt up his famous novel, and Villa La Pausa, Coco Chanel's former mansion
overlooking Cap Martin.

Months later, Australia is experiencing a similar resurgence in the listing of the grand estates – the
sprawling compounds made up vast aggregations of land across multiple lots, paving the way for
houses for all family members, surrounded by grass tennis courts, pools and other resort-style
delights redolent of Gatsby era extravagance.
The listing of Australia's most iconic estates including John B Fairfax's Point Piper estate Elaine, and
the Joye family's Georgian manor Barford in Bellevue Hill, have focused attention on large land
aggregations on the market's uppermost rungs. But quietly a whole group of younger. wealthy
individuals have emerged who are building new family estates and have their eyes on the house next
door.
Property developer Lang Walker's long-time family estate Millthorpe on the waterfront in Sydney's
Hunters Hill recently became larger when his daughter bought a two-storey home on a neighbouring
block, allowing access to the family home, waterfront and amenities including a jetty, swimming pool
and sprawling gardens.
The low-key transaction was not unique in the quiet residential peninsular which is as famous for its
sandstone architecture as it is for its high-profile residents with a penchant for landbanking. Estate
building in Hunters Hill is gathering pace. Further down Crescent Street, the Moufarrige family of
Servcorp managed office network owns two properties in the street with a combined value of
$9.2 million.
Around the corner on Viret Street, Chinese businessman Leo Zhang spent more than $5 million
amassing every apartment in the block, and is understood to be in negotations to purchase a thin
strip of public land connecting the block to the waterfront, reported to be worth more than $650,000 to
complete the waterfront compound.

"It's tightly held. There are some streets you walk down and realise every house in the street is owned
by one of about eight families," an agent familiar with the area says.

Agents in Melbourne and Perth have the same stories of single families snapping up adjoining blocks
in a street in the hope of creating an estate in which multiple generations can live.

Page25of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Transport magnate Lindsay Fox is well-known for his compound spanning three properties on the
corner of Irving Road and Albany Street in Toorak, two of which are believed to be permanently
vacant.

A house in Albany Road next-door to Fox's friend and associate Solomon Lew was bulldozed after
being bought for $4.8 million in 1992, with speculation that Lew wanted to build a tennis court on the
block that instead houses a free-standing carport.
Elsewhere in Melbourne, Sussan Group chief executive Naomi Milgrom is battling local council and
neighbours in her plans to demolish two heritage-protected Edwardian houses backing onto her
mansion in bayside Melbourne. A hearing on the proposed plans is due to take place at the end of
March.

Large, compound-style homes haven't always been popular, according to Dyson Austin valuer Simon
Feilich.

"Buyers went through this phase after the GFC when huge homes and conspicuous consumption was
frowned upon . . . and people know that having that much land is a huge statement," he says.
But improving confidence and higher levels of turnover on the property is in some cases, persuading
buyers to look to the house next door.
Feilich reports a rise in the number of enquiries for aggregations, and from buyers eager to buy an
adjoining property. Melbourne-based buyers' agent David Morrell has also noticed a rise in enquiry
levels for opportunities to create compounds.
And in a variation on the theme, the number of apartment amalgamations is rising, particularly in
Sydney and Melbourne.
"Its not an investment. People just want the large estate; they don't want to throw away money, but
they're not expecting super natural returns," Feilich says.
Sydney-based agent William Bridges agrees. "The logical buy for many places is your next-door
neighbour," he says.
The Eastern-suburbs former jockey and property stalwart has approached Westfield owner Frank
Lowy in past weeks to see if he was interested in buying the house next door to him on Wolseley
Road in Sydney's Point Piper that had just listed. Lowy declined.

But for some agents, an aggregation is risky. "There's examples where the owners have
amalgamated a couple of blocks, and really they've really marginalised themselves," Perth agent
Chris Shellabear said.

"The market going forward for these types of properties, especially if you know you'll want to sell it at
a particular point in time, can be tough."
The 4045 square metre Mosman Park home of Sharon Creasy, the retired wife of English-born
prospector Mark Creasy, will be the next compound-style estate to test demand for great estates.

The resort-style home with a pool, tennis court and gardens so large it is described as having its own
"micro-climate" was launched to the market in an international campaign in December with $30 to
$40 million hopes. "It suited our needs at the time," Creasy says.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

gcanne : Cannes International Film Festival | gmovie : Movies | nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | gcat :
Political/General News | gent : Arts/Entertainment | gfesti : Festivals | gfilmf : Film Festivals | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) | waustr : Western
Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140207ea280000g

Page26of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.