Range left in limbo after Abraham’s shock block

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Range left in limbo after Abraham’s shock block

Peter Klinger
260 words
2 December 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
First
8
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

The Hong Kong investor which stunned Range Resources on Friday by voting off most of its
directors says its actions were driven by disappointment because “the board and the management
failed to fulfil our expectations”.

In a letter to Range shareholders published on an investor chat site yesterday, Abraham Ltd said
“existing management is not sufficient in the near future to achieve the strategic goal” of boosting
production at the Perth company’s Trinidad oil fields.

Little is known about the people behind Abraham, which has owned a 14.3 per cent stake in Range
since earlier this year to be the $61 million-valued company’s biggest shareholder.

Range yesterday placed its shares in a trading halt, at 1.2¢, following Friday’s annual meeting rout at
which Abraham blocked the re-election of directors Christian Bukovics, Graham Lyon, Marcus
Edwards-Jones and chief executive Rory Scott Russell. It left Range with two directors, David Riekie
and Ian Olson, who were yesterday forced to call the halt until a third board member is appointed.

Range said it had “identified . . . two directors from Abraham . . . to join the board, with (an)
announcement expected shortly”.

Range shares have languished since falling from above 4¢ in July as it tried to arrange funds for its
Trinidad aspirations.
It remains unclear what impact Abraham’s actions will have on a $US50 million ($59 million) funding
deal Range struck with China’s Core Capital Management, which was due to be finalised within
weeks.

RE
PUB
AN

waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020141201eac200003

Page87of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.