WhyRome Sydney wasn’t built in a day

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

OpEd
WhyRome Sydney wasn’t built in a day

ANDREW CLENNELL
727 words
14 October 2014
Daily Telegraph
DAITEL
Telegraph
23
English
Copyright 2014 News Ltd. All Rights Reserved

NSW infrastructure projects are held back by bureaucracy and nimbyism

I turned 40 this year, which led me to wonder how old I will be when some of the state’s much vaunted
transport infrastructure projects see the light of day.

I’ll be 45 before almost all of them. In fact, when it comes to the completion of the West Connex I’ll be
pushing 50 — and that’s if there is no time blowout.

For the North West Rail and the light rail project through the city and out to the southeast, the projects
will be up and running, hopefully, by 2019. Then there is a second harbour rail crossing — should the
poles and wires sale get through the next election and the upper house.

Rome wasn’t built in a day, they say, but why the hell does it always have to take so long in this state?

I also sometimes wonder, considering how many construction projects are due to start before the 2015
election or be finished around the 2019 election, how many of the deadlines were set for political
reasons by former NSW premier Barry O’Farrell.

When it came to the Olympics in Sydney, by contrast, we seemed to just get things built. Everything was
on a tight deadline, with some planning approvals fast-tracked.

David Richmond, the former head of the Olympic Co-ordination Authority, former co-ordinator general
under the Iemma government and recently a consultant on the North West Rail project, defends the
pace of the projects but admits Sydney does have its challenges.
“You have certainly got a two to three-year lead time on any project,” Richmond says — that is, before
construction even starts.
He says construction on the $8 billion North West Rail project is is well under way.

Delays on projects can be loosely hung on three things — bureaucratic or process delays, delays
caused by the process of awarding contracts and nimbyism.

As an example of nimbyism Mr Richmond uses a Mosman street in which a number of development
company directors live.

“They have fought against every suggested development in the street,” he says. That made me laugh.
“This is not a communist economy. It’s not Eastern Europe or China, it’s a robust democracy,” Mr
Richmond argues. “Don’t forget that with each project large numbers of people are affected,” he adds.

“If the project were . . [to move too fast] you guys would be out there fanning community complaints like
‘outrageous, no consultation’.” Where the media’s project-killing narrative has changed in the past few

Page280of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.years is through The Daily Telegraph under the editorship of Paul Whittaker, with the paper
campaigning for a Badgerys Creek airport, a West Connex motorway and the sale of electricity poles
and wires to pay for more infrastructure. The paper’s position has been a big driver for governments,
state and federal.

The Telegraph has captured the public mood and influenced it. Sydney is fed up with the inertia and
wants things built and the city improved. Poll figures show that more than three quarters of
Sydneysiders supported a second airport after our campaign.

There could be even more done, it seems to me, but delays are being caused by government fears of
the March 2015 election.

A reminder of the sort of obstacles governments face, even from within, was on display at the weekend.

David Elliott, the Baulkham Hills Liberal MP, went public to say he opposed an unfiltered stack for the
tunnel on the North Connex project — the F3-M2 — which will be one of the first projects built under this
government.

Perhaps he should have just spoken to the minister and premier before going public.

The lost moment in all of this debate, it seems, was when former Labor premier Morris Iemma failed to
get his caucus to support the sale of electricity generators in 2008, the proceeds of which he was going
to use to build an underground metro system in Sydney, including a link to the northwest, and an M4
East.

Iemma and I used to talk at functions over a beer about his desire to build a network of underground
metro systems around the city to bust the congestion problem once and for all.Back then, I was 34.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document DAITEL0020141013eaae0004c

Search Summary

Text

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or entitys) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
01/09/2014 to 31/12/2014
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
2,847

Page281of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Timestamp

28 August 2018 23:21

Page282of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.