Bread maker feels the heat

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Bread maker feels the heat

BELINDA MERHAB
347 words
14 August 2014
Herald-Sun
HERSUN
HeraldSun
46
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

FOOD EMBATTLED breads and spreads maker Goodman Fielder is adamant another downbeat
profit result won’t imperil a $1.3 billion takeover offer for the company.
Goodman, whose brands include Meadow Lea and Vogel’s bread, suffered a net loss of $405.1
million in 2013-14, hampered by rising costs and price competition from rivals.

The result was also dragged down by a larger-than-expected $468.2 million in costs associated with
the ongoing restructure of its business, non-cash impairment charges, and losses on the sale of its
biscuits, meat and pizza divisions.

Stripping out those one-off charges, Goodman’s underlying net profit for its continuing operations fell
to $63.1 million from $75.7 million.

Chief executive Chris Delaney, when asked whether he was concerned the loss could derail a $1.34
billion takeover bid from an Asian consortium, said: “No, I’m not.” “Obviously the bidders, as part of
the due diligence process, had access to a significant amount of information about the company.

“They were aware of what we had guided the market and what our expectations were just as much as
any other shareholder was.” Hong Kong-based investment firm First Pacific and Singapore
agribusiness Wilmar International originally offered $1.37 billion for the troubled food maker in May
but lowered their bid to $1.34 billion after examining Goodman’s books. A shareholder vote is due in
November.

OptionsXpress market analyst Ben Le Brun said the bidders were likely already aware of the food
giant’s troubles but could further lower their offer.

“They’ve done it before so we couldn’t rule out the possibility that they’re going to do it again,
especially if Goodman Fielder keep reporting numbers like this,” he said.

Mr Delaney said Goodman was making progress on its strategy to return to profit but its efforts were
hampered by a record rise in farmgate milk prices in New Zealand and higher wheat prices in
Australia.

Goodman Fielder shares closed down 1c at 63c.AAP

CO
IN
NS

RE

fdgl : Goodman Fielder Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods
nnam : News Agency Materials | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion
Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

Page246of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

News Ltd.
Document HERSUN0020140813ea8e0003k

Page247of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.