Apartment sites snapped up EXCLUSIVE: OVERSEAS DEVELOPERS STRIKE

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Features
Apartment sites snapped up EXCLUSIVE: OVERSEAS DEVELOPERS STRIKE

BEN WILMOT, INVESTMENT
567 words
6 February 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
25
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

INTERNATIONAL developers are snapping up apartment development sites in Sydney with booming
prices allowing seasoned local players to cash in or ride the market themselves.
In the most prominent deal, property billionaire Bob Ell has cashed in on the Chinese investment
boom by selling an office tower in Milsons Point on Sydney Harbour for about $80 million to
successful mainland developer Bridgehill.

The Australian property legend will reap a gain of about $30m on the sale of the tower, 52 Alfred
Street, which he bought just four years ago from a Colonial First State-managed fund.

In a sign of the market shift, the highest value use of the 13 storey A-grade tower leased to top US
companyKimberly-Clark, is seen as conversion into apartments.
Bridgehill managing director Yi Bin Xu confirmed he would pursue a residential scheme and said he
was keen to present his ideas to local authorities.
Bridgehill is among the top buyers of apartment sites and its luxury projects have also won backing
from local and offshore buyers. It paid $82m last August for an old council depot in Zetland just south
of the Sydney CBD, where it is advancing plans for six towers with about 800 apartments.

It is also developing a three-tower project in Mascot that it will launch midyear. Bridgehill recently
pre-sold all the units in a luxury apartment conversion of the nearby TAL building in Milsons Point.

Agents CBRE's Justin Brown and Tim Rees brokered the deal, revealed by The Australian online, on
Tuesday night. ``Developers are taking a view on the inner city markets of Sydney which is that high
rates per square metre can be achieved for apartments without parking,'' Mr Brown said. ``That is
driving the value of the regeneration sites.''
An Asian investor last Friday forked out almost $50m for an amalgamated site in North Sydney at
144-154 Pacific Highway and 18 Berry Street. It carries a fresh approval for a 23-storey mixed use
tower, with the bulk devoted to 181 apartments, and work could start this year. Mike Stokes of
Chesterton International is believed to have brokered that sale but could not be contacted.

Savvy locals are also looking to feed demand for apartments from Asian buyers. Developer Allen Linz
of Rebel Property Group, one of the backers of the $450m The Pacific complex on Bondi Beach, is
rumoured to be looking at buying a tower in the Sydney suburb of Burwood, as part of a group of
wealthy investors.
The Michael Easson-led EG Property Group has been looking to sell the tower for more than $35m
for some months and it would suit Chinese buyers. EG just sold a Macquarie Park site to a Chinese
fund manager for a shade over $25.17m via Colliers.

Listed Australian players are active with the next major project to be launched in Sydney likely to be
at Lend Lease's Darling Harbour Live where about 500 apartments are planned.

Page77of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.On the development side, veteran investor Greg Shand's Milsons Point office tower is tipped to sell to
a residential developer for about $90m. The 19-level tower in Lavender Street carries approval for 95
units and is to be offered by CBRE's Scott Gray-Spencer and Jones Lang LaSalle's Rob Sewell and
James Aroney.

i5010022 : Residential Building Construction | i501 : Building Construction | iconst : Construction | icre
: Real Estate/Construction
c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140205ea260002o

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page78of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.