Sydney in the sky with diamonds

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Sydney in the sky with diamonds

Su-Lin Tan
664 words
4 October 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
9
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The city's future tallest residential tower, Greenland Centre, is ghetto-proofed.

The marketing pitch promises "a diamond in the sky".

Glossy paraphernalia for Greenland Centre's apartment building, to be the tallest residential tower
in Sydney, promises little expense will be spared in what will amount to a new kind of luxury living.

But will the $600 million building and its 500 new apartments solve some of Australia's chronic
undersupply of housing?

Some believe it may simply turn into another harbourside ghetto where so-called luxury apartments
are turned into overcrowded student share-housing, like the fate that has befallen Regis Towers on
nearby Pitt Street.

"I look at it and laugh because you cannot get diamonds until level 20 at least," Owners Corporation
Network chairman, Stephen Goddard says.

"Sydneysiders and foreign interest are notoriously view-focused.

"So anything below a harbour view cannot be a diamond in the sky! The first 20 levels have the
potential to be used as short-term letting which is another expression for hot-bedding.

"The only way to get around this is to enact a cultural shift by building good living spaces and
amenities."

In addition to being in the heart of Sydney, the Greenland Centre is in the middle of a vexed debate
about a housing bubble and whether Asian investors are fuelling speculative investments.
The Chinese government-backed Greenland Group is developing the tower as its first property
footprint in Australia.
It has promised to transform the former Sydney Water Board eyesore on the corner of Bathurst and
Pitt Street into a high-end city living precinct with a creative community hub, upmarket boutique
stores, security and concierge and floor-to-ceiling windows with panoramic views of the harbour.

"By creating dwellings, retail and hotels in the centre we are creating liveability in this city,"
Greenland Group's chief executive, Sherwood Luo says.

But the University of New South Wales' City Futures Research Centre director Bill Randolph says
his centre's research shows taller buildings attract a younger demographic, students and investors
and owners from south-east Asia.

"Taller buildings also attract renters who do not necessarily have big incomes," says Randolph.

Page148of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."But how a building turns out depends also on how it is marketed and who lives in it."

Greenland architects' BVN Donovan Hill principal Phillip Rossington, says Greenland's aspiration is
to achieve a property of the highest quality with finishes to fit.
"It is not designed for student rental. The sale prices suggest it is not going to be cheaply rented
out," he says.
"We have a retired couple downsizing out of Darling Point who purchased three apartments in the
top floors and have asked us to join the three units together."

"The centre's high net worth investors would not want to maximise yield at the expense of the
building value."

According to its owners, the 82-storey Greenland Centre, which would eclipse the current tallest
residential tower Meriton's World Tower on nearby Liverpool Street, has been sold to 40 per cent
owner occupiers and 60 per cent investors. Prices go from $528,000 to $1.8 million.

Another, similar city building, the $600 million 56-storey Lumière Residences near the Town Hall
has 456 units and 55 per cent owner-occupiers and the rest investors.
"Fifty-five per cent is high for owner-occupiers in the city," property agent Greencliff sales director
David Butt says. If the percentage of owner occupiers is indeed that high, the effectiveness of
Greenland's future owners corporation would be critical in ensuring overcrowding is prevented.

"It all comes down to how vigilant the body corporate is, that is, how involved the owners are," says
architect and planner Philip Pollard.

And whether the building helps solve Australia's housing shortage or turns into a poor investment,
will depend on the next moves to curb housing speculation by the Reserve Bank of Australia.

RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | greenl : Greenland | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | namz : North America | nswals : New South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141003eaa40000e

Page149of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.