Industry Trends And Developments - Food - Canada - Q3 2014

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Industry Trends And Developments - Food - Canada - Q3 2014

3,137 words
17 July 2014
BMI Industry Insights - Food & Drink, Americas
BMFAM
English
© Copyright 2014 Business Monitor International.

Key Industry Trends And Developments

Saputo Outlines Plans for Fiscal FY15

On releasing its FY results in June 2014, dairy giant Saputo stated that during fiscal 2015 it intends
to continue to improve its efficiencies. In Canada, the Dairy Division aims to pursue volume growth in
commodity and specialty-type cheeses and in the fluid milk category as well as looking for
opportunities in the value-added milk category, including specialty cheeses. The division will also
complete, in the first quarter of fiscal 2015, a project to consolidate distribution activities of the
Greater Montreal area into one distribution centre located in Saint-Laurent, Quebec.
On an international basis, the company intends to pursue sales volume growth in existing markets as
well as develop extra international markets from its operations in Argentina. Saputo also intends to
accelerate growth in Australia following its acquisition of Warrnambool. Indeed, CEO Lino Saputo
confirmed that the company is examining further possible acquisitions in Australia, the US, Canada
and Latin America. In the United States, potential acquisitions could cost less than CAD100mn to as
much as CAD4bn. According to Saputo, "The US industry still is very fragmented. So I think there are
some great opportunities for us that could be small, medium or large." He added that the company
may also look for acquisitions in Canada worth around CAD100mn and is eager to add to its new
foothold in Australia, where seven or eight players control up to 95% of the dairy industry. Due to
their growing middle classes, Latin American countries, such as Brazil, are also attractive according
to Saputo.
Maple Leaf Streamlines Meats Business
In spring 2014, following the sale of the Canada Bread business, Maple Leaf Foods announced
plans to "streamline" its management structure with the goal of improving the profitability of its
branded packaged consumer meats business. Details of the total numbers of jobs to be cut were not
disclosed. According to CEO Michael McCain, "These changes will support that future by
consolidating multiple layers of management into a streamlined, responsive and integrated structure."
In June McCain refuted recent press speculation that the business was up for sale, stating that "We
are very committed to the protein business. We have another six months to a year of activity and
hard work to complete that restructuring journey." The company has also introduced a "complete
protein snack" in a bid to get more Canadians to ensure they are getting an "adequate amount of
complete protein" in their diets.

Saputo in the Market For International Acquisitions
Saputo, one of the top 10 largest dairy companies in the world by sales and Canada's biggest, has
indicated it will continue its aggressive acquisition strategy. In our view, Saputo will likely
concentrate on expansion within key Latin America regions such as Brazil and Argentina, along with
new interests in Asia following its acquisition of a majority stake in Warrnambool Cheese and
Butter.

Saputo confirmed in early February 2014 that it had increased its control over Australia's
Warrnambool and has reaffirmed that it is still in the market for acquisitions, both domestically and
internationally. Saputo, along with rivals Parmalat and Agropur, control more than three quarters of

Page125of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.the Canadian milk market. Saputo has announced its intention to consolidate its leading position
within Canada, primarily in an attempt to increase its profit margins in the North American region. The
company is currently implementing a large-scale investment upgrade of its plants and equipment in
its Canadian operations, and in January, Saputo acquired the fluid milk activities of Scotsburn
Co-Operative.

Elsewhere, however, Saputo is primarily playing a volume game in order to take advantage of the
burgeoning dairy industry as quickly as possible. While the company takes a large share of its
revenues from the US market, the size of the industry means that Saputo is a minority player. The
company has made efforts to increase its presence in the US dairy sector with the acquisition of
Morningstar Food in 2012 for USD1.45bn. Saputo is, however, the third largest cheese producer
within the US, and as such will be making attempts to gain market share in the speciality cheeses
sector.
Internationally, Saputo is primarily looking to grow via acquisitions. The company is already the third
largest dairy processor in Argentina, and its recent takeover of Warrnambool precursors a move into
the highly lucrative Asian dairy market. International revenues, however, still account for a very small
portion of Saputo's overall revenues, suggesting that there is a great deal more activity left to come.
Could Do More Internationally
Saputo - Revenue By Geographic Region (CADmn)

Saputo has suggested that its primary focus of international expansion is currently Brazil, along with
consolidation within Argentina. Brazilian dairy production is the fifth highest globally, behind the US,
India, China and Russia, having doubled within 15 years. The Brazilian milk industry is dominated by
two entities: Dairy Partners of Americas, a partnership between Nestle and Fonterra, and domestic
firm Lacteos Brasil, which came about from a merger between Laticinios Bom Gosto and Leitbom in
2010.
After these two powers, the Brazilian dairy industry is very much fragmented, which allows Saputo
considerable scope for acquisitions. The company is certainly in a viable financial position to do so.
In FY2013, its total debt/ EBITDA ratio stood at 2.0x, even with its high-profile takeover of
Morningstar. The company has since brought this ratio down to 1.7x; in our view this will likely
increase its leverage, following previous years of a well-managed, low debt burden.
Agropur Embarks on Acquisition Spree
Canadian dairy co-op Agropur embarked on a round of acquisitions during 2013. Following Agropur's
merger with local peer Farmers Co-operative Dairy in April, the company then acquired Nova-Scotia
based Cook's Dairy a month later followed by British Columbian ice cream maker Coast Mountain
Dairy in July. The deal allows Agropur to add superior frozen products to its Island Farms brand,
extending its offering in British Columbia, according to Agropur CEO Robert Coallier. Coast Mountain
Dairy produces premium ice creams under the Sara's Old Fashioned and Mountain Pride brand, as
well as an economy line of ice cream and frozen desserts under the Arctic Star brand. Cook's Dairy
has been in operation since the 1920s and produces 2.7mn litres of dairy products annually.

In late 2013 Agropur announced a further two acquisitions, firstly purchasing own label and
ingredients supplier M. Larivee International. Agropur said the acquisition would help it build its
presence outside Canada. According to Agropur CEO Robert Coallier, "The acquisition of MLI goes
hand in hand with our desire to develop the export market. MLI's expertise will see us significantly
accelerate our development as well as access very promising markets."
This was followed by the purchase of Quebec cheese manufacturer Fromagerie Damafro. The latter
makes a range of dairy products, including cheese, Greek yoghurt and goat's milk and distributes its
cheese south of the border in the USA.
In March 2014 Agropur announced a merger with local dairy firm Dairytown Products. The deal was
approved by the producer-members of Dairytown in June by more than a 99% majority, with a turnout
of more than 80%. The merger was expected to close at the end of June.

Page126of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Foreign Companies Looking To Establish And Expand Canadian Operations

While the Canadian economy is showing signs of strain, foreign companies appear interested in its
longer-term potential, presumably also as an export base for the US. To this end, for example, in July
2013, Spain-based food processing company Natra announced plans to establish a new production
plant in London, Canada, with an investment of USD15.8mn. The move to develop the new facility,
which is expected to create 60 new jobs, is part of the company's strategy to cater to the rising
demand for its products and increase sales in the North American market. Natra said the 100,000
square foot facility is scheduled to start operations by early-2014 and will have an estimated output
of 12,000 tonnes.

In a related development, US Del Monte Fresh Produce plans to expand into Canada with the launch
of its first fresh-cut processing plant in the country. The company intends to open a processing
facility in Oshawa, Ontario, by Q4 2013. Del Monte's 108,000-square-foot plant is expected to
accommodate 16 trucks simultaneously and also serve as a forward distribution centre for fresh
produce.
In late 2013 Canada-based food technology firm EnWave signed a collaboration agreement with an
option to licence with US-based fish wholesaler Pacific Live LLC. Under the terms of the agreement
the Canadian company will develop a number of high-value, premium-quality dehydrated seafood
products using the Company's Radiant Energy Vacuum or REV(TM) technology for potential
distribution across the American and Asian markets.

At the same time Canada-based Conestoga Meat Packers is increasing the production capacity of its
facility in the Kitchener-Waterloo region of Canada by one-third, creating 100 new jobs. The
company is spending more than USD13.6mn to add 25,000 square feet of cooler space at the plant,
where it will place new refrigeration equipment. Conestoga's investment will be part funded by the
Southwestern Ontario Development Fund, which has given USD1.4mn towards the project.

Finally, KFC Canada, a subsidiary of US-based fast-food chain KFC, is set to open its new Select
restaurant concept in Toronto in December 2013. The food chain expects to attract masses with a
menu priced CAD5.99 (USDD.69), offering a rice bowl, and grilled chicken burritos with cilantro rice
and mango salsa. The company aims to expand in Canada, according to General manager Nicolas
Burquier.
In summer 2014 Canada-based food company Dr. Oetker Canada officially opened its new frozen
pizza production unit in London, Ontario. The unit, operational since mid-March 2014, will serve as a
production centre for the company's North American pizza operations. The plant is expected to
produce up to 50mn frozen pizzas a year for both Canadian and US markets.
Canadian Companies As Acquisition Targets

A number of Canadian companies have recently been acquired for foreign players. For example, in
November 2013, Spanish food processor Ebro Foods purchased Toronto-based baker Canada
Bread's pasta and sauce subsidiary Olivieri Foods - owned by Maple Leaf, for about USD120mn. The
transaction, completed at the end of 2013, will maximise the business value of its fresh pasta
business, according to President and CEO Richard Lan. Ebro said the acquisition will enable the
company to enter the fresh pasta and sauces segment in Canada through the leading brand.
Canada Bread is a leading producer and marketer of value-added flour-based products, such as
fresh bread, rolls, bagels and sweet goods, frozen partially baked or par-baked breads and bagels
and specialty pasta and sauces. CEO at Maple Leaf, Michael McCain said the money made from the
sale will be used in lowering the company's debt, reinvesting in its business and returning capital to
shareholders.
Previously, in October 2013, Maple Leaf Foods' share price increased following the sale of its
Rothsay rendering business. US-based Darling International has acquired Maple Leaf's Rothsay
rendering business for a consideration of USD645mn. The sale includes six rendering facilities
situated across Canada in Manitoba, Ontario, Nova Scotia and Quebec and a biodiesel facility
situated in Quebec.
In autumn 2013 Maple Leaf started an auction to sell a majority stake in its bakery businessCanada
Bread Company. In early 2014 Mexican food giant Grupo Bimbo announced the acquisition of
Canada Bread in a deal worth CAD1.83bn. The purchase builds on Bimbo's large US acquisitions in
recent years and strengthens its position as the top bread maker in North America. The deal was
completed in May 2014.
Canadian Investors Acquire UK's Burton Biscuits

Page127of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In November 2013, one of the UK's largest biscuit companies, Burton's Biscuits, was sold for around
GBP350mn to Canadian pension fund Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan, which also owns Camelot,
the operator of the UK's National Lottery.

Burton's, which markets brands such as Cadbury and Maryland biscuits, as well as Jammie Dodgers
and Wagon Wheels, recorded revenues of GBP333mn in 2012, with earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) of GBP34.6mn. Burton's earnings have grown at a
compound annual rate of 14% since 2009, with the company also reducing its leverage significantly
in recent years. The company has recorded sustained recent growth through strong performance of
its 'power brands', both domestically and internationally. Though the UK accounts for 85% of Burton's
total revenues, its international presence is varied and as such harbours the ability to expand within
many geographic markets.
Wide International Presence
Breakdown Of International Revenue (Excluding UK)

Representing the confidence in Burton's, some 30 companies were reportedly interested in the bid.
The purchase from Ontario Teacher's Pension Plan has fuelled speculation that Burton's could
expand its portfolio and manufacturing capabilities within Canada, which currently accounts for about
GBP4mn of the group's total revenues.

Product Recalls Weigh On Food Industry As Regulators Roll Out New Plan

The Canadian food market has witnessed a number of product recalls in recent months. Not only will
this have a negative impact on the performance of the companies in questions, but could also reflect
on consumer confidence in the industry as a whole. On the other hand, the timely recall and the
investigation by the Canadian Food Inspection Agency could conversely reaffirm consumer
confidence.

In May 2013, Canada's government introduced the 'Safe Food for Canadians Action' plan, aimed at
further strengthening the country's food safety system, Food Business Review reports. Agriculture
Minister Gerry Ritz said the plan will aim to tighten regulation, introduce effective inspection, a
renewed commitment to service and better information for customers. The Canadian Food Inspection
Agency is to launch significant food safety enhancements through the Action Plan over the next two
years and will work with consumer groups and industry to develop new regulations to implement the
Safe Food for Canadians Act.

Some of the most recent developments in this area include the following:
* In February 2013, Canadian Food Inspection Agency (CFIA) confirmed that Denmark-based dairy
companyArla Foods had recalled selected Mauri brand gorgonzola cheese. The recall has been
issued amid concerns the cheese products may be contaminated with listeria monocytogenes.
Shortly prior, the Canadian branch of food retailer Nestle recalled five flavours of its Buitoni pizzas,
reported CP24. While the Canadian Food Inspection Agency said there have been no reported
complaints in the country, there have been at least two reports in Europe.

* In March 2013, the Sesame Paste Tahina product was recalled by Canadian food manufacturer Clic
International. The product has been recalled owing to a threat of salmonella contamination.
* In April 2013, Stuffed Eggplants were recalled by Canadian food company Osmat Imports, amid
contamination fears. The Canadian Food Inspection Agency (CFIA) has confirmed the recall, stating
that there are concerns that the product could be contaminated with Clostridium botulinum.

* Around the same time, the Canadian Food Inspection Agency confirmed that St Thomas Fish
Market is recalling jars of bar clams amid concerns about Clostridium botulinum contamination. As of
yet, no reported cases of illness have been associated with consumption of these products, and it has
been stated that the recall was made voluntarily.

* In July 2013, Canada-based agricultural cooperative Agropur voluntarily recalled its Gorgonzola
Dolce Cheese because of possible contamination by Listeria monocytogenes. The CFIA is monitoring

Page128of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.the effectiveness of the recall of the product, which was sold across Alberta, Manitoba, Ontario and
Quebec and possibly in other parts of Canada.
* In August 2013, Canadian food company Diwa Products voluntarily recalled its own-brand grated
coconut products amid salmonella contamination concerns. The Grated Coconut originates from the
Philippines and has been sold frozen throughout Canada.

* In September 2013, Canada-based Ippolito Fruit and Produce issued a voluntary recall of selected
spinach brands amid concerns over salmonella contamination. The CFIA confirmed the recall, which
applies to specific batches of the company's Frisco's, Queen Victoria and Metro brands. The spinach
products are known to have been distributed throughout Ontario and Quebec and may also have
been circulated in other regions of Canada.

Interest In Healthy And Environmentally Friendly Alternatives

Demand for healthier food is increasing in Canada - in line with global trends - as consumers try to
adopt healthier lifestyles. The government's funding is also forthcoming in this direction, which can be
viewed as an effort to boost the Canadian nutritional products industry.

In early 2012, the government announced funding for a national multi-year Healthy Eating Awareness
and Education Initiative. The next phase will focus on promoting healthy eating by encouraging
consumers to reduce their intake of food and drinks high in calories, fat, sugar and sodium. Healthy
eating habits, such as eating more fruits and vegetables, will be promoted through various outreach
partnerships, social media engagement and web tools.

In October 2010, a total of 34 food companies including Kellogg's, PepsiCo, Campbell Soup
Company and Kraft Foods entered into a nutrition initiative - Nutrition Facts Education Campaign - in
Canada. The initiative has been developed by Health Canada, the government department dealing
with national health policy, and industry association Food & Consumer Products of Canada. The goal
of the campaign is to help consumers to understand the nutrition facts table on products; specifically
the data on packaging showing the percentage daily value. Minister of Health Leona Aglukkaq said
that the information in the nutrition facts table allows Canadians to make healthier food choices. In the
first year of the campaign, messaging was placed on more than 300mn units of products.

In a related development, in April 2013, Canadian sea food enterprise, AC Covert Distributor,
launched a new brand, reports Food Business Review. The brand Jail Island Seafood, intends to
support and improve the fishery industry by donating a percentage of its sales to projects set to
develop more eco-friendly and efficient methods of sourcing sea food. The products which will be
available exclusively through AC Coverts and its identified distributors are intended to provide
'responsibly caught fresh, local, premium and traceable sea food', according to AC Covert general
manager Mike McGlone.

More recently, targeting the wellness trend, PepsiCo Food Canada (comprising Frito Lay and Quaker
divisions) launched its new Harvest Crunch Quinoa Granola Bars. The new product, unveiled in
August 2013, has been created by Quaker Canada's research and development team as the first
quinoa bar to be sold at key MGR outlets across the country. Quaker's portfolio of health bars
already includes the well-known Harvest Crunch.

i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i413 : Dairy Products | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
gnutr : Nutrition | nimage : Images | gcat : Political/General News | gfod : Food/Drink | ghea : Health |
glife : Living/Lifestyle | ncat : Content Types
cana : Canada | caon : Ontario | caqc : Quebec | uk : United Kingdom | victor : Victoria (Australia) |
apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | eecz : European Union Countries |
eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
Business Monitor International
Document BMFAM00020141216ea7h0000p

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page129of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.