FARMERS SET FOR GROWING PROFITS

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
FARMERS SET FOR GROWING PROFITS

JOHN MCCARTHY
406 words
27 June 2014
The Courier-Mail
COUMAI
CourierMail
34
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

QUEENSLAND’S agriculture sector is on the cusp of a boom.

The state government released a report yesterday predicting strong growth over the medium term for
all the state’s major farm commodities.

But the industry hates the word “boom” because it means a bust is just around the corner, Agforce
chief executive Charles Burke said.

However, the conditions are there if it rains.

“It’s like a packet of two minute noodles: just add water,’’ Mr Burke said. “If the seasonal conditions
are favourable there are a lot of economic and structural issues that are in place for strong progress.’’
That will be good news for farmers with the report showing that the state’s broadacre farmers facing
an average income loss of $77,000 this financial year and that they have been chewing into their
equity which has fallen on average by $200,000.

But the Australian dollar also stands in the way with every US1¢ movement costing or earning about
$200 million for agriculture over a year.

However, ABARE’s Jammie Penm said global food demand would be strong towards 2015.

“Especially Asia, but we expect agricultural production in Asia will also increase, but I don’t think they
can be self-sufficient in every food,’’ he said.

Suncorp head of agribusiness Greg Leahy said farmers should focus on sending premium products to
Asia.
“Australia’s largest export of wine by bottle to China is in the $100-a-bottle category,’’ he said.
“We are currently producing enough food to feed 75 million middle class people. If we double that it
will still be only a couple of hundred million. We can’t feed them all so we need to concentrate on the
premium end.’’ According to the State Government report, Australia’s cattle herd will continue to move
north which will lead to an increase in slaughter numbers.

Pig meat production and prices in Queensland will also lead the nation and revenue in the egg
industry will jump 12 per cent.

Queensland’s wool industry will also grow steadily and the fruit and nut sector will have growth driven
by global demand.

Sugar and cotton are also expected to continue strong growth. Poultry will boom with Queensland
expected to take the lead in the sector.The report said Queensland’s agricultural exports are worth
almost $9 billion with another $3.6 billion shipped interstate.

Page86of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

i0 : Agriculture
c312 : External Markets | greg : Regional Politics | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document COUMAI0020140626ea6r000gq

Page87of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.