Gu pays $18.5m for prime Sydney site

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Gu pays $18.5m for prime Sydney site

Larry Schlesinger
388 words
26 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
40
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Chinese billionaire Richard Gu's AXF Group has paid $18.5 million to secure a prime development
site overlooking's Sydney's Hyde Park.
The developer, which has a large portfolio of residential projects under way in Sydney and
Melbourne, acquired the existing six-storey office building at 241 Castlereagh Street on a
500-square-metre site from Sydney lawyer John Landerer. Mr Landerer, the managing director of
commercial law firm Landerer & Co., paid $6 million for the office building 10 years ago.

He told The Australian Financial Review he had received a number of off-market, unsolicited offers
for the building. The site, which overlooks the southern side of Hyde Park, is likely to form part of a
future apartment project.
"[Apart from AXF], I also received offers from the owner of an adjoining site and from someone else
who wanted it as part of a bigger development site," Mr Landerer said.
The multiple off-market offers for the office tower demonstrate the level of appetite for residential
development sites in and around the Sydney central business district.
Lend Lease has sold more than $800 million worth of apartments off-the-plan for residential towers
at Barangaroo and Darling Harbour at rates as high as $40,000 per square metre. Chinese
developer Greenland has notched up $415 million worth of apartment sales for its mixed-use,
high-rise project on the former Sydney Water Boardsite in the CBD.
In February, Shanghai-based AXF Group and joint-venture partner, Ever Bright Group acquired
Fairfax House for $55 million as part of a bigger development play at Circular Quay. AXF is
negotiating to buy the next door Rugby Club building on Pitt Street and is also interested in the
adjacent Gold Fields House on Alfred Street.
AXF owns a prime development site on Russell Street in Chinatown with a development application
submitted last year for a 68-level residential and hotel tower.
In Melbourne, AXF has a 70 per cent stake in the $3 billion Eynesbury residential development
project in the city's western fringe.
Earlier this year, AXF won approval alongside joint-venture partner Barton Building Group, to build a
34-level residential tower in Box Hill, which will be Melbourne's tallest suburban skyscraper.

IN
RE

PUB

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited

Page167of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document AFNR000020140625ea6q0001c

Page168of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.