China bribe case shockwaves

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News - International News
China bribe case shockwaves

Lisa Murray AFR Correspondent and Matthew Cranston
535 words
11 December 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
10
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Shanghai The chairman of a Chinese company that has extensive property and mining interests in
Australia paid bribes to a senior government official, who has been sentenced to life in prison.

The bribes paid by Nanshan Group's founder, Song Zuowen, came to light in the case of Liu Tienan,
former Deputy Director of China's powerful National Development and Reform Commission. Mr Liu
was found guilty of accepting bribes by a Hebei court on Wednesday.

Mr Liu's case caused a stir in Australia when he was arrested last May. China's state-run media
reported at the time that he was in possession of 25 rare diamonds, 9 kilograms of gold bars and
$19 million in Australian currency. Other reports, not confirmed, suggested he was carrying an
Australian passport in a fake name and an airline ticket to Sydney. These Australian links did not
re-emerge during his court trial.

However, among the court's findings were the bribes paid by Nanshan, which has extensive business
dealings in Australia. It owns the Riverside Oaks golf resort near Sydney, beachfront properties in
Surfers Paradise and farmland in NSW and Tasmania. It also spent $US4.5 million ($5.4 million)on
a 20 per cent stake in mining company Gulf Alumina.

According to Mr Liu's verdict released on Wednesday, Mr Song paid the former official and his son
7.54 million yuan ($1.5 million) in exchange for project approvals and a favourable alumina sales
contract. It is unclear whether Mr Song is also under investigation. He has appeared at public events
as recently as October.
Nanshan is one of China's biggest companies with businesses covering aluminium, finance, tourism,
education and textiles. Mr Song is the major shareholder, making him China's 56th richest man, with
a US$2.1 billion fortune, according to Forbes Magazine.

Last year, Nanshan partnered the Australian wool industry's marketing arm, Australian Wool
Innovation Limited, to set up a development centre in Shandong Province. An AWI spokesman said
following the verdict it was "not at this time considering a change to the partnership." He said the
partnership was "a non-commercial arrangement" and not connected to Mr Liu's case.
All up, Mr Liu was found guilty of accepting more than 35 million yuan in bribes from five companies
in the ten years to 2012.

He was the first ministerial level official to be caught up in President Xi Jinping's anti-corruption
campaign after he came to power in late 2012. However, since then higher level officials have been
targeted.
On Saturday, China announced the arrest and expulsion from the Communist Party of former public
security chief Zhou Yongkang. Mr Zhou is the most senior official to be charged with corruption since
the Communist Party came to power in 1949.

Page174of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.His arrest effectively ends an unwritten rule protecting former Politburo Standing Committee members
from scrutiny. Mr Xi's campaign has also extended overseas. China launched "Operation Fox Hunt" in
July, which is targeting corrupt officials that have fled and taken their assets to countries such as
Australia, Canada and the United States.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

gbrib : Bribery | gcorrp : Corruption | gcrim : Crime/Courts | c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal Action | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gfinc : Financial Crime | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141210eacb0000b

Page175of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.