Fears visa scheme will inflate values

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Fears visa scheme will inflate values

Matthew Cranston and Larry Schlesinger
649 words
22 April 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
7
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The rapidly growing significant investment visa program is expected to bolster values of commercial
real estate, but some experts fear it could dangerously inflate prices.

The program, now under review by the Abbott government, is expected to hit $1 billion this month,
and another $2.6 billion worth of applications have been lodged.

Investment bank Moelis & Company is leading the charge and has more than $100 million committed
to its Moelis Australia Property Visa Fund.

The fund has bought a shopping centre in South Yarra, Victoria and is circling assets in Western
Australia and Queensland.

Moelis managing director Andrew Martin says the scheme will not have an inflationary effect on
commercial real estate values.

"When you look at the percentage of capital coming in from offshore, SIV is still very small," he says.
"And ultimately this goes to our track record, so there is no reason why you would overpay for an
asset."
Sentinel Property Group's Warren Ebert disagrees.

"What [SIV funds] can do is inflate the assets – they can overpay," Ebert says.
"Just look at the units in Sydney and Melbourne being purchased by them – they are crazy prices."

Sentinel has raised $180 million in equity since 2010 from local investors and is steering away from
significant investment visa funds because he believes the four-year time frame under the scheme
doesn't fit the structure of his vehicles.
Synergy Funds Management, part of Oliver Hume Real Estate, expects to raise $40 million over the
next 12 months from significant investment visa applicants.

The mortgage fund invests directly in Synergy development projects and syndicates.General
manager Michael Burstin says most of the significant investment visa money was going into bonds
and not real estate, so there was unlikely to be any inflation of prices.
Burstin says many of the real estate funds were unattractive to significant investment visa investors
because management fees and commissions were very high and because the fund, rather than the
investors, decided what assets to hold.
"If they do invest in property, they prefer to invest via a private company where they have more
control, which is also allowed under the SIV scheme," he says.

Page125of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.So far 47 per cent of the successful significant investment visa applicants have invested in Victoria,
and 37 per cent in NSW where the state government requires that a minimum of $1.5 million of the
required $5 million is invested in state bonds.

Queensland, Western Australia and South Australia have also attracted significant investment visa
migrants.Tough competition overseas

Still, the program faces some stiff competition from almost 30 countries. From Ireland and New
Zealand to Portugal and Saint-Kitts and Nevis, dozens of similar schemes exist.

In April, Australia reached 174 approvals with a combined investment of $870 million.

Moelis's Martin says the market was very competitive. "Governments have to be constantly
responding to this."

Portugal has granted 654 permits with a total of €400 million ($592 million) since its scheme started in
2012.

"It has been a great success so far," First Secretary of the Portuguese Embassy António Gaivão
says, "China, of course, leads the way with more than 500 permits, but the program has been very
well accepted in Russia, Brazil, Angola, South Africa, Lebanon and many others. "Actually, permits
have been granted to more than 30 nationalities so far, including New Zealand."

Canada recently closed its long-running Immigrant Investor Program, which enabled 130,000 wealthy
people, predominantly from China, the Philippines and India, to migrate to Canada.

The scheme has run since 1986 but was shut down by Canada's conservative government because
of its "limited economic benefit".
The scheme closed with a waiting list of 59,000 people – most from China – who will not have their
applications assessed. Canada's program was replaced by two pilot schemes.

IN
RE
PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140421ea4m0001r

Page126of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.