US traders termed 'macro-tourists'

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Market Wrap
US traders termed 'macro-tourists'

Sally Rose
807 words
16 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
27
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Hedge funds Australians understand the Chinese better
The boss of Pacific Alternative Asset Management Company (PAAMCO), of one of the world's biggest
hedge fund managers, thinks the industry is making a big mistake in shorting Australian assets on the
assumption the local economy will come under increasing pressure from slower growth in China.

"Shorting China is one of the most popular trades in the world at the moment and a lot of US hedge
funds have been shorting the biggest Australian banks, miners, and the Aussie dollar as a proxy trade,"
PAAMCO co-founder and chief executive Jane Buchan says. But she dismisses these traders as
"macro-tourists", saying people around Asia and in Australia have a much more sophisticated and
sanguine view of what is happening in China than most hedge fund managers based in the United
States and Europe.
"People in the northern hemisphere are so bearish on China due to a very simplistic view based on
what has happened in other developing economies historically. The power of what a command-control
government can achieve is being underestimated," she says. While Buchan agrees with the popular
view that Australian bank share prices face some risk from an "overheated" local housing market, she
is not tempted to short them due to her more positive view on Australian growth linked to China.

Nor does she think it is time to sell the local currency. "Shorting the Aussie dollar looks set to prove a
20-year widow-maker trade, much like shorting Japan bonds has been," she says.

PAAMCO has very little exposure to Australian assets, just "a small number of curve trades on the
yield curve and a couple of bonds in the oil and gas sectors, but nothing meaningful in equities",
Buchan says.
However she is keeping a close eye out on opportunities in the local merger and acquisition scene.
"Globally there has been a big uptick in M&A activity over the past few months. Geographic barriers to
deals are breaking down so more Australian companies are likely to find themselves targeted by
international suitors." 

Of particular interest to PAAMCO are mid-size companies that look attractive targets for larger, more
highly rated, companies.
Both the debt and equity in such target companies typically re-rate higher when swallowed by a larger
rival. Larger companies that are good candidates for a demerger also present good opportunities for
hedge funds to profit, Buchan says.

Another favoured ploy for PAAMCO managers is investing in companies that have had their credit
ratings slashed and are on the brink of collapse. Investing in distressed companies is risky, but if the
hedge fund shareholders can agitate to push bankruptcy proceedings through more quickly than the
market is pricing, then there is money to be made.

Page195of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Founded in 2000, PAAMCO is a $US9 billion ($9.6 billion) fund of hedge funds. It allocates
investment funds to emerging managers but does not buy them. There are currently about 40 hedge
funds in the stable. The fund's niche product targets the biggest institutional investors and targets
sovereign wealth funds and the 500 biggest pension funds globally.

Buchan travelled to Sydney in May spruiking for business. She met with the Future Fund and about
half a dozen of the largest superannuation managers in the country. Buchan, who was appointed to the
global Hedge Funds Standards Board last month, is scathing about what she sees as a proliferation of
"quasi hedge funds" damaging the industry's reputation. "There is no point in institutions paying a
premium for a long equity manager that takes some short positions using exchange traded fund
products just to label themselves a hedge fund," she says.

Escalating unrest in Iraq and the threat of US-led military intervention over the past week will have little
impact on PAAMCO's strategy because it is focused on making money out of company specific risks,
Buchan says.

The fund of funds has been reducing its already limited exposure to macro-economic risks over the
past six months in response to territorial disputes between Russia and Ukraine. Buchan and her team
will be paying close attention to crude oil prices, which have surged in response to an escalation in the
latest wave of conflict in Iraq which has the potential to disrupt global supply.
While PAAMCO has no direct exposure to the oil price, it does have significant indirect exposures
through stocks and bonds issued by energy producing companies – including a few Australian
producers. Regardless of what upsets occur on the global macro-economic stage, PAAMCO is unlikely
to be among a throng of investors rushing into the perceived "safe haven" asset of gold.
"Gold is the drug of choice for hedge fund traders. Once they start, they never get out," Buchan says.

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

ihedge : Hedge Funds | iinv : Investing/Securities | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | ialtinv :
Alternative Investments | ifinal : Financial Services
reqris : Suggested Reading Investing/Securities | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr
: Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | china : China | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140615ea6g00010

Page196of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.