PanAust investors keen for takeover update

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Market Wrap - Street Talk
PanAust investors keen for takeover update

Edited by Sarah Thompson, Anthony Macdonald and Gretchen Friemann
362 words
21 August 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
18
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The market is eagerly awaiting an update from PanAust on Thursday on the curious takeover that
has been dragging on around them for the past four months.

PanAust fielded a takeover offer from its biggest shareholder, Guangdong Rising Asset
Management (GRAM), in May, which valued the stock at $2.30.

Brisbane-based PanAust invited GRAM to do further studies on the deal, and little has occurred
since. Even due diligence finished seven weeks ago.

There has been no engagement between the PanAust board and GRAM, with PanAust claiming in
July that "multiple" parties have come forward and are also in the data room.

But few in the market believe the story. Sources say there isn't another credible buyer to show the
deal, let alone actively looking.
GRAM is also said to be struggling to firm up its indicative proposal, which has led to increased
uncertainty in the market over whether the Chinese company will stick around.
Rumours swirled this year that Guangdong were in fact open to selling their stake prior to the bid
becoming public.

The key concern appears to be the lack of detail in the due diligence around the Frieda Mine project,
PNG's largest currently reported copper, gold and silver resource, which PanAust owns. Recent
reports suggest the PNG government should oppose the sale and look to keep it in local hands.

Elsewhere, fund managers and analysts have some curly questions for education roll-up Vocation's
maiden full-year result on Thursday.

After starting life with a bang and three chunky acquisitions later, some investors want Vocation to
go back and explain the basics.
One of Vocation's original business, BAWM, for which it paid $102.7 million at the IPO, is
understood to have run into some headwinds in its home market of Victoria. The state changed its
education funding model and licensing process and there are questions as to exactly where that has
left BAWM's four key brands.

Vocation has said little publicly about the changes. And some of the shareholders are getting
restless.

NS

c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter

Page76of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140820ea8l0003p

Page77of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.