Food giant insists falling profits won’t sour takeover

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Food giant insists falling profits won’t sour takeover

401 words
14 August 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
25
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

AUSTRALIA’S biggest food maker insists a disappointing profit result and expectations of another
difficult year ahead will not derail a $1.3 billion takeover offer for the company.
Goodman Fielder, whose brands include Meadow Lea and Vogel’s bread, suffered a net loss of
$405.1 million in 2013-14 on the back of rising costs and price competition from its rivals.

The result was dragged down by a larger-than-expected $468.2 million in costs associated with the
ongoing restructure of its business, non-cash impairment charges and losses on the sale of its
biscuits, meat and pizza divisions.

Stripping out those charges, Goodman’s underlying net profit for its continuing operations fell to $63.1
million, from $75.7 million.

Chief executive Chris Delaney said the result was disappointing, with the new fin-ancial year also
shaping up to be difficult.
But he said he was not concerned the loss could derail a $1.34 billion takeover bid from an Asian
consortium.

“Obviously the bidders, as part of the due diligence process, had access to a significant amount of
information about the company,” he said.

“They were aware of what we had guided the market and what our expectations were just as much as
any other shareholder was.” Hong Kong-based investment firm First Pacific and Singapore
agribusiness Wilmar International originally offered $1.37 billion for the troubled food maker in May but
lowered their bid to $1.34 billion in July after examining Goodman’s books.
Goodman Fielder’s board has recommended shareholders accept the offer, with a vote expected in
November.

OptionsXpress market analyst Ben Le Brun said it was likely the bidders were already aware of
Goodman Fielder’s troubles but there was still a chance they could further lower their offer.

Mr Delaney said Goodman was making progress on its strategy to return to profit but its efforts were
hampered by a record rise in farmgate milk prices in New Zealand and higher Australian wheat prices.
It has struggled to recover those extra costs because of price wars with its rivals, with loaves of bread
and a litre of milk priced at just $1.
Goodman was also hurt by the disappointing performance of its spreads business, reliability issues
and the costs of delivering fresh bread. Goodman Fielder shares closed down 1¢ at 63¢.

CO
IN

fdgl : Goodman Fielder Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods

Page224of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020140813ea8e00048

Page225of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.