Good Time for Scentre to Sell Noncore Assets, says JPM -- Market Talk

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Good Time for Scentre to Sell Noncore Assets, says JPM -- Market Talk

1,427 words
27 August 2014
09:04
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

2303 GMT [Dow Jones] Scentre Group (SCG.AU) is likely to sell noncore assets to reduce its gearing to
within its 30%-35% target range, says J.P. Morgan. The broker believes Scentre has eight noncore
assets valued around A$1.4 billion ($1.3 billion). Selling these would reducing gearing to 34% but dilute
funds under management by 2.5%. "It would however, improve portfolio quality and growth prospects,
and we believe it is a better alternative than bringing in JV capital on the best assets. It appears an
opportune time to divest some of these assets, in our view, given the strength in transactional markets,"
the bank said. (rebecca.thurlow@wsj.com; @beckthurlow)

2250 GMT [Dow Jones] Vitamins and supplements maker Blackmores (BKL.AU) reported strong 4Q
sales and earnings, but J.P. Morgan cautions against extrapolating this growth rate into FY15, given that
the company was cycling a very weak quarter. While earnings before interest and tax rose 25% in the
final quarter of FY14, that corresponded to a period a year earlier when Ebit fell 27%. J.P. Morgan also
notes that two customers accounted for 50% of Blackmores's sales in FY14. "While this customer
concentration is a structural trend that is being seen across the industry as MyChemist and the grocery
chains take share from small pharmacy groups, we highlight that this remains a medium-term risk for the
business and the industry," J.P. Morgan says. It rates Blackmores at neutral, lifts its price target by 14%
to A$29.74/share. BKL last traded at A$29.10. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

2239 GMT [Dow Jones] -- A lot of financial chiefs already know exactly how much they would save on
their tax bills by moving their headquarters overseas. Accounting firmGrant Thornton International Ltd.,
for example, has seen an uptick in companies asking for consulting advice on tax inversions in the past
year, particularly large global corporations with at least half their revenues outside the U.S., global chief
executive Ed Nusbaum says. "A lot of companies are running the numbers to see what the impact is,
what the benefit would be, and what the cost would be," he said. (emily.chasan@wsj.com ; @echasan)

18:31 EDT - Pacific Brands' (PBG.AU) deal to sell its workwear division for A$180M is positive but it
doesn't solve all the clothing company's problems, with its core underwear and Sheridan divisions still
weak, says JPMorgan. It retains an underweight stance due the lack of any stabilization in Ebit, as well
as an absence of valuation support. The brokerage suggests further portfolio rationalization is likely to be
more challenging for PBG. Still, it nudges up its price target to A$0.49/share from A$0.46. PBG last
traded at A$0.58. (robb.stewart@wsj.com; @RobbMStewart)

18:20 EDT - Smartphones can be used today as medical tools, but that's only because a handful of
startups paved the way and navigated the difficult Food and Drug Administration pathway to get approval
for phone applications as actual medical devices. AirStrip Technologies, a company that just raised
$25M in new funding, was among those pioneering companies, getting FDA approval in 2005 for an
iPhone app that lets the phone work as a fetal monitor. The company will use its new funding to get into
home-monitoring and big-data analytics. Other startups with FDA approval for health apps include
AliveCor and Mobisante. (timothy.hay@wsj.com)

18:16 EDT - Motorola dominates in the area of walkie-talkies, which let service workers communicate
with one another while on the job. Now two former executives from the company, former CEO Ed
Zander and former Executive VP Richard Nottenburg, are among the investors of a startup that could
give Motorola competition in workplace communications. Theatro has produced 1,000 voice-activated,
wearable communications gadgets, which are about the size of a matchbook. The company is preparing

Page285of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.to ramp up production for a number of pilot tests. The devices work like walkie-talkies, but also give
workers access to internal computer systems. (timothy.hay@wsj.com)

18:13 EDT - Canadian miner Salazar Resources (SRL.V) is expecting to start production at its
Curipamba copper-gold project in Ecuador by 2017, with construction beginning in 2016, the company
says. "The project is at the evaluation stage," company CEO Fredy Salazar says. The company
recently signed a letter of intent with China's Guangshou Group to develop the project. Guangshou will
invest $50M in the Curipamba project in exchange for 60% equity interest in Salazar's Ecuadorian unit.
Ecuador is looking to develop its mining sector by attracting foreign investments.
(mercedes.alvaro@wsj.com)

17:49 EDT - The US government is planning to tax Mexican sugar imports, as early as next week,
following a petition from US growers, alleging Mexico's government subsidized its sugar production.
While the decision is preliminary, with the final word due out in January, the extra cost could trickle down
to consumer wallets, food-manufacturing groups argue. "Those duties, the cost does trickle down," says
Cory Martin, spokesman for the American Bakers Association. A glut of sugar in the US has been
crumbling and the domestic surplus could reach the lowest level in 40 years by September 2015,
according to the USDA. That could mean higher prices for food companies already grappling with higher
costs of commodities from coffee to cocoa to meat. (leslie.josephs@wsj.com)

17:43 EDT - Lululemon Athletica (LULU) was the only specialty retailer to post gains in traffic to its
website, both in unique and total visits, during the month of July, according to data from ComScore and
analysis from Barclays. On the whole, online traffic to the websites of 23 retailers meaningfully declined
during the month. Barclays notes that e-commerce represents approximately 15% of total apparel retail
sales, and that of all e-commerce purchases made during 1Q14, more than 80% were through desktop
browsing, compared to mobile purchases. (sara.germano@wsj.com)
17:31 EDT - Venture-capital firmKleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers has agreed to invest in Snapchat, the
messaging service, at a $10B valuation, say people familiar with the matter. Snapchat, which once
snubbed a roughly $3 billion acquisition offer from Facebook (FB), is in the process of raising a large
investment round and has met with financial firms and strategic investors in recent months. The Los
Angeles startup has begun to divulge details about its business plans to prospective investors. But an
11-figure valuation for a company with close to zero revenue would set a new high watermark even in
this era of investor optimism. (evelyn.rusli@wsj.com; @evelynrusli)

17:24 EDT - Don't tell Russian companies that U.S. sanctions are dinging business. Western sanctions
against Russian companies have so far been narrowly targeted, and Russian companies have said the
effects on business will be minimal. In calls with investors over the past month, Gazprom OAO and OAO
Rosneft have said they expect sanctions to have little effect on bottom lines. But Russia experts say the
stance is partly bluster. While sanctions may be narrow, the chilling effect of the blacklist are causing
U.S. and European companies to stay away from Moscow all together. (joel.schectman@wsj.com;
@joel_schectman)

17:13 EDT - Despite recent hawkish chatter from some top Fed officials, Thomas Lam of OSK-DMG
says he still thinks the Fed will wait until 3Q of next year to begin tightening monetary policy. Why? In
part because of caution over abrupt market reaction, Lam writes. "While we recognize that the typical
focus on real economy and inflation developments is important, the risks surrounding financial markets or
stability are likely to be crucial when assessing the timing and pace of the eventual monetary tightening
in the current environment," he says. "To wit, the risk management approach on future Fed policy should
apply to both macro economy and financial stability considerations." (pedro.dacosta@wsj.com)

To contact the Market Talk Editors,
Kevin Kingsbury, 212 416-2354, kevin.kingsbury@wsj.com
Cynthia Lin, 212 416-4403, Cynthia.lin@wsj.com
John Shipman, 212 416-2181, john.shipman@wsj.com
Patrick Sullivan, 212 416-2326, Patrick.sullivan@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

August 26, 2014 19:04 ET (23:04 GMT)

IN

i85 : Real Estate Transactions | iretreit : Retail REITs | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles |
i8150206 : Investment Trusts/Funds | i815020602 : Real Estate Investment Trusts | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | ireest : Real Estate

Page286of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c182 : Asset Transactions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities
Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020140826ea8q003vv

Page287of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.