Global players join CBH in effort to unseat GrainCorp

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

WestReg
Global players join CBH in effort to unseat GrainCorp

Brad Thompson
338 words
3 April 2014
The Countryman
CTM
First
9
English
(c) 2014 West Australian Newspapers Limited.

Global grain heavyweights and a Chinese conglomerate look set to follow CBH’s lead in putting the
squeeze on embattled GrainCorp on the east coast.
Logistics company Cube and Hong Kong-based Noble have formed a joint venture, trading as
Quattro Grain to develop a multi-user terminal at Port Kembla with annual capacity of 1.3 million
tonnes.

Port Kembla is 200km south of the site CBH is considering for a major investment in storage and rail
assets to supply its Newcastle Agri-Terminal.
Chinese conglomerate COFCO — fresh from buying a 51 per cent stake in Dutch grain trader
Nidera for $US1.3 billion ($1.4 billion) — is understood to be in talks with Noble about buying into
its agribusiness arm.

The Quattro venture may need Foreign Investment Review Board scrutiny if State-owned COFCO
jumps on board.

Industry insiders said COFCO’s involvement would test the Federal Government’s willingness to
accept foreign investment in the grains industry, in the wake of its decision to block US-based Archer
Daniels Midland’s $3.4 billion takeover of GrainCorp in December.

GrainCorp, weighed down with ageing storage and handling infrastructure, faces increased
competition at its NSW port facilities in Newcastle and Port Kembla. Cube and Noble have granted
call options to Sumitomo-owned Emerald and Cargill that allow each to take 20 per cent stakes in
Quattro.
Emerald managing director John Murray said the company’s receival sites in the Riverina and
central west NSW would feed grain into the terminal.

Mr Murray said Emerald had extended its lease of Cube locomotives and wagons as part of the
Quattro agreement.

Cube is also entering take-or-pay rail haulage contracts with Noble and Cargill. Cube will invest
about $50 million in the terminal and rail at Port Kembla.
It has spent $40 million in the past two months acquiring haulage targets.
Cube plans to raise $200 million via a backed placement.

CO
IN

grncrp : GrainCorp Ltd
i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming

Page141of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE
PUB
AN

waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document CTM0000020140402ea4300011

Page142of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.