3 Cheung Kong firms to acquire Australian gas pipeline firm Envestra

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
3 Cheung Kong firms to acquire Australian gas pipeline firmEnvestra

Peggy Sitopeggy.sito@scmp.com
517 words
30 May 2014
scmp.com
SCMCOM
English
(c) 2014 scmp.com. All rights reserved.

Cheung Kong (Holdings), Cheung Kong Infrastructure (CKI) and Power Assets have joined hands to
acquire Envestra, an Australian gas pipeline firm, in a cash deal worth A$2.37 billion (HK$17
billion).

The firms in the consortium are all controlled by Li Ka-shing, Asia’s richest man.

The cash offer is the latest in a string of overseas acquisitions by the Cheung Kong group of
companies as it rebalances its holdings in Hong Kong and on the mainland in favour of
international assets offering higher growth and returns.

In a statement to the Australian Securities Exchange on Friday, Envestra said its chairman and an
independent board committee unanimously recommended the cash offer of A$1.32 a share from a
group equally owned by the three firms.

CKI is a subsidary of Hutchison Whampoa, which is 49.97 per cent owned by Cheung Kong. Power
Assets is 38.87 per cent owned by CKI.
The offer price of A$1.32 a share values Envestra at about A$2.37 billion. The offer will be financed
through the existing cash reserves and credit facilities available to the three firms in the consortium,
according to the Envestra announcement.

CKI, through a wholly owned subsidiary, already owns 17.46 per cent of Envestra and is its
second-largest shareholder. Given that 80 per cent of Envestra’s gas coverage is in South Australia
and Victoria, the acquisition would enable us to further share our expertise and to explore
opportunities for synergy Kam Hing-lam, Cheung Kong Infrastructure

By accepting the consortium’s offer, Envestra is reversing its previous support for a share-swap
offer from its largest shareholder, APA, Australia’s largest gas pipeline group.

Envestra had recommended APA’s bid for about two months, but companies related to CKI opposed
it and unexpectedly submitted a higher, cash offer on May 9.

“Given that 80 per cent of Envestra’s gas coverage is in South Australia and Victoria, the
acquisition would enable us to further share our expertise and to explore opportunities for synergy,”
CKI group managing director Kam Hing-lam said in Envestra’s announcement.

Kam noted that CKI’s investment in Envestra in 1999 was its first entry into the Australian market.
CKI now has a portfolio of regulated energy businesses in Australia comprising SA Power Networks
and Victoria Power Networks.

According to Envestra, the deal is subject to conditions including approval from the Foreign
Investment Review Board of Australia, and the consortium is required to acquire a relevant interest
in more than 50 per cent of Envestra’s shares, including CKI’s existing stake.

Page8of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Separately, AS Watson said on Thursday it would sell its 50 per cent stake in a joint venture,
Nuance-Watson Group, which operates travel retail businesses in airports and duty-free stores in
shopping malls in cities including Hong Kong, Macau and Singapore and in mainland China.
The company will sell the interest in Nuance-Watson to its partner, The Nuance Group.

chkinf : Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings Ltd | ckh : Cheung Kong (Holdings) Limited | envest :
Envestra Ltd. | hutwam : Hutchison Whampoa Limited
i1300006 : Pipeline Transportation | i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i502 : Heavy
Construction | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | iconst :
Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest : Real Estate
c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
South China Morning Post Publishers Limited
Document SCMCOM0020140530ea5u0002v

CO

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page9of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.