Monumental as anything

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Traveller
Monumental as anything

Julietta Jameson
2,657 words
19 January 2014
Sun Herald
SHD
First
10
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Cover story - WORLD

. . . and that's just the lines to get in. Don't let the queues at the world's busiest tourist attractions defeat
you. In this cut-out-and-keep guide, Julietta Jameson reveals how to beat the crowds for 20 major
sights from the Taj Mahal to the Tower of London.

Unless you're into extreme adventure, you likely want your holiday to be an exercise in relaxation, not
survival of the fittest. But when your destination is a sea of noisy, jostling others looking for their own
slice of relaxation, every day can seem like a battle.

One strategy for dealing with the frustration of crowds is, of course, to avoid them: head off the tourist
trails and steer clear of the iconic landmarks where sightseers swarm.

The problem with that is, you're missing out. The world's busiest tourist attractions are busy for a
reason - they're amazing. People head in droves to the Eiffel Tower, the Taj Mahal and the Grand
Canyon because they are inspiringly beautiful and to see them is to be moved. So don't forgo them -
especially if it's your first time at a destination. Save the off-piste itineraries for return visits, and arm
yourself with strategies to beat the crowds. Here's 20 to help you tick off those bucket-list items with
minimal stress.

Eiffel Tower, Paris, France

Why go: Though it was built as a temporary exhibit, the Eiffel Tower remains the emblem of modern
Paris and the views are utterly stunning.

Opens: 9am-midnight June-September, 11pm rest of the year.

Strategy: Join the queue at the south pillar 15 minutes before opening. Take the stairs to level two,
where you have to buy a separate ticket for the four lifts to the third level. But before 10am, the wait
won't be too bad and not nearly as bad as down below. No stairs for you? Buy lift tickets online and
print prior. You'll avoid the ground-level lift queue, at least, and pass through a dedicated channel.

Tip: The best month to go is October. The summer season is over, it's still not too cold and Christmas is
yet to kick in.

Eiffel-tower.com

Magic Kingdom, Walt Disney World, Orlando, Florida

Why go: It's the most visited place on the planet for good reason - one of four parks in the Walt Disney
World complex, within it are six different "lands", rides for all ages, parades, fireworks, and seasonal
events. Last year, 17.5 million people visited the Magic Kingdom.

Page11of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Opens: 9am-11pm, shorter hours some holidays.

Strategy: Go in the lead-up to the cooler months' US holidays: Thanksgiving holiday week and two
weeks before Christmas are relatively quiet, so too the week after New Year's Eve. Another thing to
keep in mind is that peak time on any day is between 11am and 3pm.

Tip: A great time to line up for rides is when everyone else is lined up for fireworks.

Disneyworld.disney.go.com

Taj Mahal, Agra, India

Why go: Its beauty up close surpasses expectations - it really is one to see for yourself. The
17th-century monument to love is one of the most photographed buildings in the world.

Opens: Sunrise-sunset (closed Fridays). Night viewing is 8.30pm-12.30am full moon days, as well as
two days before and two days after.

Strategy: The Taj is enchanting at sunrise, and lucky for early birds, that time also happens to be the
best for beating the crowds.
Tip: Get a qualified guide, skip the night viewing and secure a nearby hotel with your own private view.

Tajmahal.gov.in

Vatican museums and Sistine Chapel, Vatican City, Italy

Why go: Michelangelo's ceiling in the chapel is alone worth the cost of entry. But as well as harbouring
a breathtaking collection of curios from all around the world, the museums contain some sublime
pieces of Renaissance art.

Opens: Tickets 9am-4pm; rooms 9am-6pm. Closed Sundays.
Strategy: Buy an online ticket up to 60 days in advance. It will give you a specific entry time and costs
€20 ($30) (€12 under 18). That's €4 more than buying at the door but when you see the line,
particularly in summer, you'll say a prayer of thanks.

Tip: Get to the Sistine Chapel an hour before closing time - considerably fewer people.

biglietteriamusei.vatican.va/

Versailles, France
Why go: A dizzying 10 million people a year visit Louis XIV's humble chateau and gardens. As
historically important as it is exquisite and an easy day trip out of Paris, Versailles is the definition of a
do-not-miss attraction.

Opens: Hours vary based on season, but first entry to the palace is 9am. Closed Mondays.
Strategy: Book online for a group tour. It allows you to forgo the queue and best of all, you see things
others won't: the King's Apartments, the Opera, and the Royal Chapel. You can check out everything
else once the tour finishes. (€16; €8 under 17)

Tip: Arrive late in the afternoon and, if it's summer, stay for one of the regularly scheduled
performances.

billetterie.chateauversailles.fr/

Basilica Di San Marco,

Venice, Italy

Why go: Glittering mosaics and priceless artworks lead a Vatican-defying opulence that is pure
Venetian splendour. This gorgeous cathedral took 800 years to build. The least you can do is give it an
hour of your time.

Opens: 9.45am-4.45pm, Sundays 2pm-5pm.

Page12of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Strategy: Go early. But a better bet is to book online for €2, which you can do up to 10 minutes before
your visit. Considering you can wait in the queue 45-plus minutes for free entry, that's a sweet deal. It's
only available April-October.

Tip: Consider a tour via venetoinside.com and others for extra access and insight.

Basilicasanmarco.it

Uluru, Northern Territory, Australia

Why go: Nowhere else in Australia can a visitor feel so connected to the indigenous spiritual heart of
the country. The physical presence of the rock is power unsurpassed.

Opens: Uluru-Kata Tjuta Cultural Centre is open 7am-6pm daily.

Strategy: Peak season is June to August. The rest of the year is less crowded but if you're not a fan of
heat, then try for shoulder times. Alternatively, just be prepared to arrive at your chosen viewing area a
good while before sunrise and take a picnic breakfast. Then you can walk into the scrub a little way
when the sun appears.

Tip: Book a tour led by local indigenous people.

environment.gov.au
Great Wall of China, Beijing (and other locations), China
Why go: Spanning nearly 9000 kilometres from the east to the west of China, 2000 years of history and
dating back more than 400 years BC, the wall writes the book on majestic.

Opens: Badaling, the most popular section, is open 6.40am-6.30pm.
Strategy: Your biggest competition for a great experience are the Chinese themselves. So plan your
visit around Chinese holidays. Spring Festival, or Chinese New Year is a no-no, so too the Chinese
holidays in the first weeks of May and October.

Tip: Beijing is freezing in winter, but there are smaller crowds at nearby wall access points.

Grand Canyon, Arizona, US
Why go: This steep, terraced formation carved by the Colorado River in Arizona shows millions of
years of natural history. It's awesome, in the true sense of the word.

Opens: The North Rim is only open May 15-October 15. The South Rim is always open.

Strategy: The South Rim, particularly in summer, is where all the action is. Some reports have 90 per
cent of visitors to the canyon congregating there. So head to the North Rim. It's a much longer drive but
the difference is chalk and cheese in terms of numbers. Tip: May to November, there is a bus shuttle
between the two rims. The trip is 4.5 hours one way. See trans-canyonshuttle.com.

Tip: Take a ride on the Grand Canyon Railway (thetrain.com).

Nationalparks.org

Pyramids of Giza,

Cairo, Egypt

Why go: One of the ancient wonders of the world, visiting the pyramids is an item on many a bucket list.
A marvel of human endeavour and truly iconic, the allure of Giza is enduring.

Opens: 7am-7pm. Shorter hours during Ramadan.

Strategy: The sad fact is that now is a pretty crowd-free time at the once busy pyramids, due to Egypt's
post-revolution situation. Visitor numbers are hugely down. When they pick up again (and they will), the
key is simply to go early, particularly if you want to go inside. A very limited number of tickets are
issued and they are on a first-come, first-served basis.

Tip: Don't listen to the hawkers. Heed the travel warnings (including those on the Australian
Government's Smart Traveller website) and employ a trusted guide.

Page13of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Touregypt.net, smartraveller.gov.au

Niagara Falls, Ontario Canada (also New York State, US)

Why go: Three falls creating the highest water flow anywhere on earth, astounding beauty spanning
two countries and a source of power for an entire Canadian state, Niagara leaves an indelible
impression.

Opens: Some services close in winter.
Strategy: Goat Island, Three Sisters Islands and Luna Island offer the least crowded vantage points.
But the best idea is to avoid summer. In fact, winter is pretty special. The Winter Festival of Lights sees
Queen Victoria Park, which surrounds the Canadian side, festooned with more than 2 million bulbs.
Tip: The Keg Steakhouse and Bar on the ninth floor of the Embassy Suites Hotel has a corker of a
view (Canada side).

niagarafallstourism.com

Tower of London

Why go: The Crown Jewels and a gory history are encased in this evocative fortress which is the
world's longest-running tourist attraction.

Opens: Tuesday-Saturday 9am-4.30pm; Sunday-Monday 10am-4.30pm.

Strategy: The tower is one of nearly 60 attractions included in the London Pass. Holders can skip the
entry queue, even if their visit is a last-minute decision (londonpass.com).

Tip: The Twilight Yeoman Warders' tours are the best bet. For £25 ($45), visitors get the inside word on
the monument at a most evocative time (7pm-8.30pm).

Hrp.org.uk/TowerofLondon

Grand Bazaar, Istanbul, Turkey

Why go: Open since the mid-1400s, one of the largest and oldest covered markets in the world is an
ornate rabbit warren of more than 3000 shops in 60 covered streets - an exhilarating feast for the
senses.

Opens: 9am-7pm, closed Sundays.

Strategy: Get there early and explore the main drags before 10am. As the crowds build, venture into
less touristy side streets, back alleys and courtyards as well as the outer fringes. You'll find a far more
local experience.

Tip: Seek out the tiny authentic kebab cafes where local workers eat.

Grandbazaaristanbul.org

Barcelona, Spain

Why go: It's a tourist magnet for good reasons: the legacy of Gaudi, the Picasso museum, gorgeous
beaches, the atmospheric Gothic old town and the Spanish way of enjoying life are just some of them.

Opens: This is a city that stays up late.

Strategy: Winter is a fantastic time in Barcelona. Some say it's when the city is reclaimed by its
residents. So while it won't be quiet (and whoever wants a quiet Barcelona isn't going for the right
reasons), there will be fewer English hens and bucks parties.

Tip: Check on English long weekends to avoid rampant gangs of lager louts.

Barcelonaturisme.com

Galleria dell'Accademia and Uffizi Gallery, Florence, Italy

Why go: If the Statue of David isn't enough reason, an amazing collection of 15th and 16th-century art
is kept safe in what is Europe's first school of drawing, the Galleria dell'Accademia. At the nearby Uffizi,
be wowed by Botticelli's The Birth of Venus.

Page14of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Opens: 8.15am-6.50pm. Closed Mondays.

Strategy: Early and/or pre-emptive is best. Book your tickets online for designated appointment times
and try to secure early-morning slots before the bus tours hit. High summer, as usual is the worst. May
is surprisingly calm (relatively).

Tip: Avoid the US summer school holidays when art students descend in droves.

Uffizi.org

Smithsonian, Washington DC, US

Why go: These are just two of the 19 in the world's largest complex of museums where there's literally
something for everyone. But these two include dinosaurs, outer space, animals, rockets and plenty
more to mesmerise both adults and kids.

Opens: 10am-5.30pm. Closed Christmas Day.

Strategy: Get there after school hours, or early - most school groups are there from noon to 3pm. But
these are the busiest museums on the planet so be mentally prepared for that.

Tip: Do your research and secure Imax and other theatre and attraction tickets as soon as you arrive.

Si.edu

Machu Picchu, Aguas Calientes, Peru

Why go: It remained abandoned and undiscovered for nearly 400 years. Now this enigmatic World
Heritage Inca site is an obligatory stop on any South American tour.

Opens: 6am-5pm daily. Some tour companies will organise night visits between 6pm-1am.

Strategy: Forgo the day trip out of Cusco and stay two nights, one before your visit and another the
night after so you have a full day with the option of visiting twice, early before the day trippers have
arrived and in the evening when they've left.

Tip: Looking for somewhere to stay close to the action? Machu Picchu Sanctuary Lodge by Orient
Express is right at the entrance and rated No.1 on Trip Advisor.

Machupicchu.gob.pe

Angkor Wat, Cambodia

Why go: This Hindu temple complex is one of the largest religious monuments ever built. Staggering in
scale and grandeur, it is remarkably preserved for a building that dates back to the 12th century.

Opens: 5am-6pm.

Strategy: High season is November to March. Late October is often not as busy. Everyone heads to the
temple for sunrise, and most head back to their hotel afterwards for breakfast. Bring a picnic and hang
around. The crowds don't build again till about 9am.

Tip: Lunchtime can also be a quiet interlude.

Tourismcambodia.com

Westminster Abbey
Why go: Built by King Edward the Confessor, the abbey has been the site of royal pomp and ceremony
since the 11th century. Its crowded interior tomb is a who's who of the history of the British monarchy.

Opens: 9.30am-3.30pm, 1pm-6pm Wednesdays, closed to visitors Sunday.

Strategy: The odd Wednesday opening times are a bonus for those who have done some research.
The morning puts off those who have made it to the abbey only to find the doors closed while other
visitors may not realise the extended hours at the end of the day. Plan to hit around 4pm.

Tip: Join a service on Sunday.

Westminster-abbey.org

Page15of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Louvre, Paris, France

Why go: The world's most visited art gallery is home to thousands of masterpieces and considered a
crowning glory of European civilisation. The Mona Lisa and Venus de Milo are the tip of the iceberg.

Opens: 9am-6pm most days, 9am-8pm Wednesdays and Fridays.

Strategy: Go late on a Wednesday or Friday, say about 5pm or 5.30pm. Take advantage of the fact that
while others are leaving the gallery to go freshen up and eat, you may not need to queue for the Mona
Lisa.

Tip: The Louvre is included in the Paris Pass (parispass.com).

Louvre.fr/en

ABOUT THE WRITER

Julietta Jameson would rather be in Rome, but her home town, Melbourne, is a happy compromise. A
gypsy at heart, she loves hotels, train stations, airports, road trips and inspiring others to love them too.

RE

PUB
AN

london : London (UK) | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr :
Australia | eecz : European Union Countries | eland : England | eurz : Europe | nswals : New South
Wales | uk : United Kingdom | weurz : Western Europe
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SHD0000020140119ea1j00037

Page16of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.