"I' m all for selling produce to China and reaping the

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

NEWS
"I'm all for selling produce to China and reaping the

376 words
18 October 2014
The Warrnambool Standard
FWARST
2
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

"I'm all for selling produce to China and reaping the benefits. But it is madness to sell our assets
to the highest bidder and hope everything will be rosy. It won't."
Tasmania-based Linear Capital is acting for a Chinese company which it describes as having
"established brands and long experience" in China.

Moyne Shire mayor James Purcell said the state government should impose a 50 per cent stamp
duty on foreign investment in farmland.

The Vote 1 Local Jobs party founder said the cash raised would then be redirected into a first farm
owners grant.

"Foreign investors understand that south-west Victoria is prime agricultural country yet no one in
government does," Mr Purcell said. "We should be charging 50 per cent stamp duty on all foreign
purchases of Victorian land, be it farming or residential.

"All funds raised would be redirected into assisting the next generation of south-west farmers. It's
about smart foreign investment, not a free-for-all approach that we currently have."
Mr Chant said he understood the pressures many dairy farmers of retirement age felt, but a
Chinese deal was a "poisonous option".
"It's been suggested that this is a way for dairy farmers to retire with dignity," he said.

"There's no dignity in this. I've got no problem with farmers from any country coming here and
setting up a farm as an individual. This is different. This is a foreign government, not a foreign
company, a foreign government that will control large slabs of the south-west."

Linear Capital has a particular focus on linking farms in the Camperdown, Cobden, Heytesbury,
Simpson and Terang districts traditionally considered prime dairy territory.
What remains unclear is the location of two milk processing plants proposed by Linear, or
whether the group would acquire existing sites such as Murray Goulburn's Koroit factory or
Warrnambool Cheese and Butter at Allansford.

Both the Victorian Farmers Federation and UDV president Tyran Jones have broadly supported of
the Linear-Chinese proposal. But Mr Tuohey said the Chinese company should use domestic
labour first.

alex.sinnott@fairfaxmedia.com.au

RE

PUB

china : China | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited

Page186of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document FWARST0020141017eaai00003

Page187of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.