Hangover, part II

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Features - Features
Hangover, part II

Simon Evans
1,246 words
31 January 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
44
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Retail Paul Rayner has gambled on Treasury Wine Estate to survive in a crowded Australian market –
and lost, writes Simon Evans.

Paul Rayner's worst nightmare is coming true. The former tobacco executive who stepped up to
become chairman of Treasury Wine Estates in September 2012, exerted clear authority a year later
when he axed chief executive David Dearie in September.

Dearie was blamed for the sloppy inventory controls in the United States at the heart of an
embarrassing profit downgrade and $160 million in writedowns that were revealed by Treasury in July,
2013. When he received his marching orders, Rayner relied on one of his own boardroom colleagues,
Warwick Every-Burns, to step into the driver's seat and run the company while a long search
continued to find a successor.
As so often happens when a board of directors takes control of a company, some of the commercial
nous, gut feel for the industry and relationships with the trade may slip and suffer.

Rayner, a former chief operating officer of British American Tobacco Australasia and a former finance
director of British American Tobacco for six years until 2008, and his right-hand man Every-Burns, a
former Clorox cleaning products executive, are in the spotlight for all the wrong reasons.
A 20 per cent share price plunge on Thursday, after a $40 million profit downgrade in December as
the Australian business hit the skids and China sales slumped as government-imposed austerity
measures hurt sales of higher-priced wines, has dragged investor confidence in Treasury to rock
bottom.

Every-Burns and Rayner quickly instituted a management shake-up soon after Every-Burns took over
the top job on an interim basis. A simplified structure was put in place after being announced on
November 27. But the troubles this time have emerged in the Australian business, which had
previously been a strong performer and was a shining light in the Treasury stable. Much of the
management focus has been on the serious problems in the United States, but in a perverse situation,
Australia is now a trouble spot.Gambled and lost
Treasury has a glittering collection of wine brands in its portfolio which are the envy of rivals. They
include Penfolds, Wolf Blass, Lindemans, Wynns and Rosemount. Every-Burns and Rayner have
backed the power of those brands to continue to thrive in a crowded market where hundreds of brands
compete for the drinkers eye on retailer's shelves.

They have gambled and lost. In December, sales and profits slumped badly in Australia in the crucial
month of December. Treasury lifted prices on a number of brands in the commercial category of $5 to
$10 a bottle and thumbed its nose at being part of the aggressive promotional drives and discounts
with the big liquor retailers of Woolworths and Coles in the lead-up to Christmas.

Page240of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It has turned into a disaster. The heat is also on Treasury in the form of a class action planned by
lawyers Maurice Blackburn over last year's surprise profit downgrade in July. The latest downgrade
raises more questions about management systems and disclosure. Maurice Blackburn's Ben Slade
said the latest downgrade raised further questions about transparency in Treasury's operations.

Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch analyst David Errington warned in late October of the dangers of
focusing too much on the United States, in a note that seems to have eerily come true. He said at the
time that Treasury should sell its US wine business because it would be too much of a management
distraction. He added it was a "material drag'' that needed to be sold off, with the risk being that a
poor-performing business might negatively influence the better performing parts.
Rayner has been strident in his view that the US operations are an integral part of the
Treasurybusiness and won't be offloaded.

However, the new element that has since been injected is the different strategy implemented by those
managing the Australian business when it comes to discounting and enforcing price rises at such a
difficult time in pre-Christmas trading.
It has simply caused mayhem. The latest share price slump wiped $590 million from the market
capitalisation. It also makes Treasury much more vulnerable to an offshore predator, particularly a
cashed-up buyer from China or a private equity operator eyeing a quick turnaround, just as industry
conditions appear to be improving and the Australian dollar falls, making exporting wine a more
profitable proposition.A bad time for the industry
Industry conditions have been very difficult for Australian wine companies generally over the past few
years.
Ferrier Hodgson partner John Hart, a wine industry expert, said it should be remembered that at its
heart, wine is an agricultural industry with a long lead time. For each of Australia's 2500 wine
companies, whether they be large or small, it is difficult to consistently produce solid profit increases.

"There are long cycles,'' Mr Hart said.
The three to four years' lead time for vineyard plantings, the capital investment required in plant and
equipment that is only being utilised for part of the year and the prospect of being tripped up by
changing consumer demand for different wine varieties and styles means it is a difficult industry.

He cited the example of a slow wane in demand for sauvignon blanc in white wines, which means
producers heavily weighted towards that variety would come under more pressure.

"Sauvignon blanc now seems to be going out of fashion,'' he said.
Mr Hart said the biggest factor in the overall success of the wine industry was the Australian dollar.
When the currency was trading around US50¢ more than a decade ago, Australian exports surged.

But when it reached parity with the US currency then rose to US$1.10 it was a substantial squeeze on
margins. Combined with a grape oversupply (which has now largely diminished) there was an
extended period of difficult times.
The Australian wine retailing market can be a fickle beast.

Long-time observers who throw their minds back to around 2002 will recall the flipside of being too
aggressive with discounts and promotions and the problems that can bring, so perhaps Treasury
management need a touch of sympathy.

Strangely enough, that involved some of the very brands in the spotlight now. In 2002, former
Southcorp boss Keith Lambert went on a discounting rampage to try to expand market share for
brands including Rosemount after Southcorp and the former privately-held Rosemount merged.

That too turned out to be a disaster, costing Lambert his job and ultimately paving the way for
Southcorp to be taken over by Foster's in 2005 to form an even bigger wine business alongside the
Foster's beer business.

For long-time Treasury shareholders who are glass half-full types, there is one interesting point to cling
on to for a tiny sliver of happiness.
When Treasury split from former parent Foster's Group in May 2011 to become a stand-alone wine
company that was largely debt-free, its share price on the first day of trading – May 9, 2011 –was
$3.45.

Page241of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Treasury shares finished on Thursday at $3.64 so those who were there at the start are still in front on
paper. But this will be small consolation, because Treasury has been as high as $6.47 in mid-May
2013, before its troubles began.

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

trzwn : Treasury Wine Estates Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i426 : Wine | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge :
Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North
America
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140130ea1v0001l

Page242of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.