Kewarra gets a kickstart

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Kewarra gets a kickstart

NICK DALTON
448 words
29 August 2014
Cairns Post
CAIRPO
Cairns
3
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

FORMER dotcom entrepreneur Sean Howard is forging ahead with a $100 million retirement village,
aged-care facility and residential estate at Kewarra Beach.
The project is back on the books after the sale of the resort, land and the development proposal to
Chinese investor Benny Wu fell through.

Resort general manager Mark Carrette said it was business as usual for the resort and Mr Howard’s
original plans. “The resort is not for sale ... it’s still in his (Mr Howard’s) hands,’’ he said.

Mr Carrette said a business plan involving the resort, the aged-care facility and the retirement village
was being adhered to. He said development approvals and licences were in place.

“It’s still moving along. It’s waiting for the land sell off,’’ Mr Carrette said.
He said the start of the retirement and aged-care projects was subject to the sale of 24ha in
Cottesloe Drive being sold by the Castalia Group head office in Melbourne.
Mr Carrette said there was development approval for 170 residential blocks on the site.

He said the land was in the process of going to market for expressions of interest.

Mr Carrette said construction of the aged-care and retirement developments was unlikely to start this
year and a timetable had yet to be determined.

When Mr Howard announced the aged-care and retirement project three years ago, it was expected
about 60 subcontractors and tradies would be hired with the 95-bed federally funded aged-care
facility employing 120 full-time staff at its peak.

At the time he said the aim was to lure cashed-up “empty nesters” from Sydney, Melbourne and
Brisbane to retire in the Far North. He said the Kewarra Retirement Village would combine the resort
with the aged-care centre and the residential estate.
It is understood Mr Wu, a Hong Kong-based multimillionaire, is concentrating on his other
purchases in the Far North, including Double Island, which he bought off Mr Howard for an
undisclosed sum in November, 2012.
It was listed for $8 million. Mr Wu had planned to spend $10 million upgrading the island resort.
Last year he bought the Acacia Court Hotel on the city’s Esplanade with plans to extend the
property to an adjacent block of land and Whitfield House, which operates as a high-end wedding
and function centre with four suites adjoining Flecker Botanic Gardens.

Page228of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It is expected to eventually become Mr Wu’s family home.Mr Carrette said in the meantime there
were plans to renovate the Kewarra Beach Resort in the next two years after a $1.9 million upgrade
three years ago.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document CAIRPO0020140828ea8t00015

Page229of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.