Farmers ready to harness markets

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

OPIN
Farmers ready to harness markets

712 words
21 August 2014
Queensland Country Life
FQLCOL
18
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

THE Royal Queensland Show is over again for another year but what would the show be without the
farm animals?
Most of the people I spoke to told me the farm animals, including the dairy cattle, were a key part of their
Ekka experience. Many dairy farmers enjoy showing their cows and find the interaction with other
farmers to be most enjoyable, but it is still a huge commitment and a lot of work for them to put on their
part of the Ekka.

An even bigger burden that dairy farmers are carrying for the rest of the community comes with the
trade sanctions that have evolved from the conflict in Ukraine and the terrible loss of life from the
downing of a Malaysian airliner.
Russia has banned Australian imports, including dairy, in response to a range of trade sanctions that
Australia, the US, and the EU had placed on Russia in response to the Ukraine conflict.

This will create a substantial disruption for Australian exporters. Russia has also imposed bans on the
half a million tonnes of dairy product the European Union exports.This displaced dairy product will see
European dairy product looking for a home outside of their home market, and they will be helped by the
European Governments dairy support arrangements. This will adversely impact the volumes available
and prices received for our dairy products in our traditional markets.
Dairy farmers have been placed in this situation through no fault of their own and through circumstances
far beyond our control.

Farmers understand the complexity of the Russian situation, but we see there are positive solutions if
the government can take some criticism from its friends in the world of big business and the scorched
earth economic rationalists. The government must help to find new and better markets for the Australian
dairy industry, particularly through the delivery of an effective strong FTA with China. It is not good
enough to say we can send our displaced Russian dairy product to China - we need a long term strong
FTA with China.

They also must fix the market domination and market failure that has devalued the domestic industry.

I was disappointed to see the government, along with some political and economic commentators,
quickly dismissing the Russian ban as having little impact on Australian farmers because of the relative
small volumes of product sent to Russia from Australia. This misrepresents the true situation as
Australian dairy exporters will now have to compete with the displaced EU product in other markets.
Interestingly, there appears to be no sanctions being applied to product coming from New Zealand and if
so it would appear New Zealand has once again gotten the drop on us in both the local and international
markets.
While visiting the Ekka, some people asked me why Australian dairy farmers have not managed to band
together into one large coop or collective bargaining group, as has occurred in New Zealand the
formation of Fonterra. Such a move would be restricted in Australia, but in NZ it was encouraged by
government, which saw the benefit of having a powerful farmer controlled group that put New Zealand

Page66of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.product first in both the domestic and international markets and made maximising farmer returns a key
aim.

Even in the last 12 months we have seen the government put restrictions on attempts by Murray
Goulburn to purchase Warrnambool Cheese and Butter and thereby gain more competitive power. This
saw WCB instead sold to the huge Saputo Company from Canada.

At our local Queensland and northern NSW level, we need to think outside the square and investigate
the full range of options that are available to increase farmers' bargaining positions and allow the
industry to profitably grow and develop new markets for the benefit of the farmer and the country as a
whole. Otherwise the kids at the Ekka will be left wondering just what animal does milk come from.

And another thing: It was welcome last week that the State Government has drought declared several
more council regions in south east Queensland, but the domestic and international market situation also
needs to be addressed for farmers to recover when the season recovers.

IN

RE

PUB
AN

i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming |
ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
russ : Russia | austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific
| asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries |
eeurz : Central/Eastern Europe | eurz : Europe | ussrz : CIS Countries
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FQLCOL0020140820ea8l0002z

Page67of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.