Foreign buyer rule enforcement needs strengthening: committee

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Foreign buyer rule enforcement needs strengthening: committee

By business reporter Michael Janda
660 words
27 November 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) News
ABCNEW
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

A parliamentary committee has recommended stronger enforcement of rules around foreign property
investment.

In particular, the committee has urged the Government to bring in tougher penalties for breaches and
more resources to detect illegal real estate buying and ownership.

The Commonwealth Treasurer Joe Hockey earlier this year tasked the House Economics Committee with
looking at how effective the rules around foreign residential real estate investment are.

After six public hearings and 92 submissions, the committee has found that the rules themselves are
sound, but that the Foreign Investment Review Board's (FIRB) enforcement of them and penalties for
breaching them are grossly inadequate.

The committee's chairman, Liberal MP Kelly O'Dwyer, said there has been no court action for breaches of
the rules since 2006 and it "defies belief" that there have been no breaches over that period.

"There has been a significant failure of leadership at FIRB, which was unable to provide basic compliance
information to the committee about its investigations and its enforcement activity," she told Parliament
when tabling the report.
The report identified four key weaknesses in the foreign real estate investment regime: a lack of timely
data; inadequate investigation and enforcement; weak penalties; and a lack of resources for FIRB.

Recommendations for reform

That has led the committee to make 12 recommendations to strengthen the enforcement and
effectiveness of the current rules, which limit overseas resident non-citizens to buying newly built, rather
than established, properties.

The key recommendations are:
The collection of a fee from would be foreign property investors to fund FIRB's investigation and
enforcement operations - Parliamentary Budget Office finds that a $1,500 charge would raise $158.7
million over four years;
Civil penalties for breaches of the rules linked to the value of the property, up from a current $85,000
maximum penalty;
Fines for any third party (such as lawyers, conveyancers, developers, real estate agents or family) who
knowingly assist foreign buyers to breach the rules;
The Government to collect any capital gains made by foreign investors who illegally purchased
established residential properties;

The introduction of a national land title register to record the citizenship and residency status of real
estate buyers;

Greater data sharing between the Immigration Department and FIRB.

Page73of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mixed reaction to report

The committee's Labor deputy chairman Ed Husic has condemned much of the report as a "new tax grab"
on foreign investors, prompted by racially charged media reports.

"While some good might have the chance to emerge from the inquiry, and some modest compliance
measures might make the light of day, one hopes this report dissolves from memory and fast," he told
Parliament in reply to Ms O'Dwyer's statement.

Joe Hockey was asked at a press conference this morning whether he would act on the report.

"I haven't read the report. If FIRB needs to be fixed, we will fix it," he responded.

The Housing Industry Association's chief economist Harley Dale said foreign investment has been
important for boosting residential construction, but a modest fee is unlikely to significantly reduce
overseas interest.

"It's unlikely to materially have an impact on the demand for new housing, and nor would you want it to,
because that new housing is playing a very important role in growing the broader domestic economy," he
said.
The most recent FIRB figures found that foreign residential property investment in the first nine months
of last financial year was worth $24.8 billion, up 44 per cent on the amount approved over the entire
2012-13 financial year.
The 2012-13 figures show that real estate (residential and commercial) was the biggest sector of
foreign investment in Australia worth a total of $51.9 billion, the majority of which was commercial.
China was the biggest source of that investment ($5.9 billion), with Canada ($4.9 billion) and the USA
($4.4 billion) close behind.

e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
FIRB

NS
RE
IPD
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCNEW0020141127eabr0000a

Page74of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.