Buyers chase top hotels

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Commercial realestate
Buyers chase top hotels

Carolyn Cummins Commercial Property Editor
521 words
29 November 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
30
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Hotels are the hottest ticket in town with sales reported at record levels and significant developments
under way across the country.
A forecast rise in tourism, boosted by the signing of the free trade agreement with China and a more
agreeable Australian dollar for inbound visitors, has helped increase demand for the bricks and
mortar side of the business.

It is expected that buyers will be lining up for the Sydney Hilton property and the rumoured possible
sale of the Westin, Sydney, after the record price paid of $463 million by the China based Sunshine
Insurance Group Corporation for the five-star Sheraton on the Park, Sydney.
The sale was the largest single hotel asset deal in Australia, previously held by the Four Seasons
Hotel Sydney, which sold for $340 million in 2013. JLL's Hotels & Hospitality Group advised the
seller on the sale of the Sheraton on the Park.
It comes as Accor announced the development of a new Pullman hotel near Mascot, Sydney and
the Jerry Schwartz planned hotel at Darling Harbour, to be managed by Sofitel.
At its inaugural annual general meeting, the Mantra Group's chief executive, Bob East, told
shareholders its Sydney central business district properties performed strongly from late September
to the first week of October, thanks to a variety of big events.
Craig Collins, chief executive, Australasia, at JLL's Hotels & Hospitably Group, who led the Sheraton
sale said the high price for the Sheraton on the Park has completely recalibrated the pricing of CBD
hotels in Sydney.

"International investors are becoming increasingly interested in the Sydney five-star accommodation
market due to its strong trading performance, future trading upside and benign supply pipeline," Mr
Collins said.

"Sydney five-star hotels are currently trading at around 89 per cent occupancy, intensifying the
already competitive accommodation market and making it very difficult to book a room between
Monday and Thursday."
Mr Collins said that during the past few years, groups from Singapore and Hong Kong have largely
dominated the market and acquired most Australian CBD hotels. While south-east Asian investors
continue to have a strong focus on the Australian hotel sector, Chinese investors have become a
major player only over the past 18 months.

"Sydney is currently undergoing a significant amount of office construction and infrastructure related
development, and JLL anticipates that the increased hotel demand associated with these projects
will create healthy trading conditions for the hotel sector over the medium term," Mr Collins said.

Page280of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Peter Harper, senior vice president, investment sales, at JLL's Hotels & Hospitality Group, said in
what has been one of the most active years in history, there have been several notable transactions
in metropolitan Sydney. "These include the Chifley Penrith, Sydney International Airport Inn, Vibe
North Sydney and Blue Woolloomooloo, Mr Harper said.

"Furthermore, regional hotels have become a renewed and major focus of investors this year. We
have undertaken three major hotel transactions alone in Wollongong while the Hunter, Newcastle
and the Blue Mountains remain highly sought investment destinations."

i6651 : Hotels (except Casino)/Motels | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | i66 : Hotels/Restaurants |
i665 : Lodgings | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality | ireest : Real Estate |
itourm : Tourism
gtour : Travel | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020141128eabt00061

IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

Page281of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.