MZI Resources secures another off-take deal for Keysbrook mineral sands project

MZI Resources secures another off-take deal for Keysbrook mineral sands project

HD
BY
Angela Kean
WC
267 words
PD
14 January 2014
SN
SNL Metals & Mining Daily: West Edition
SC
SNLMMDW
VOL Issue: 78819
LA
CY
LP

English
Copyright 2014. SNL Financial LC

MZI Resources Ltd. has now contracted about 60% of annual production from its Keysbrook mineral
sands project in Western Australia with the inking of another off-take agreement, the company said Jan.
13.

Tricoastal, part of Hainan Wensheng High-Tech Materials Co. Ltd., the largest mineral sands processor in
China, has agreed to buy all of the zircon concentrate from the project.

The sales agreement with Tricoastal, which is also a major shareholder of MZI with a 4.6% stake, is for
five years with an option to extend for a further five years.

MZI now has sales agreements in place covering about 50% of the forecast annual revenue from
Keysbrook, and is currently in off-take talks with a number of other parties for the project's high-grade L88
titanium dioxide product.
The company is also in negotiations with potential lenders to secure the remaining half of the debt
funding required for Keysbrook, and expects conditional credit-approved offers to be received within
weeks.
MZI had earlier locked in a US$3.5 million short-term loan facility from Resource Capital Fund VI LP to
continue funding the development of the project while finalizing longer-term debt funding.
The short-term loan was necessary after one of the lead banks that had agreed to arrange debt financing
for the project pulled out in mid-October 2013.
South Africa-based Nedbank Capital, the other mandated lead arranging bank, has received credit
approval for a 50% share of the Keysbrook debt finance facilities.

olyres : MZI Resources Ltd.
imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i231 : Non-metallic Mineral
Mining/Quarrying
c33 : Contracts/Orders | c333 : Non-governmental Contracts | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Contracts and Proposals

TD

CO
IN

NS

RE
IPD
PUB SNL Financial LC
AN

Document SNLMMDW020140117ea1e00016

Page276of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.