Regulator told to rein in finances

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Finance
Regulator told to rein in finances

JOHN DURIE
1,363 words
24 January 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
15
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE impending departure of long-running Australian Competition & Consumer Commission chief
executive Brian Cassidy comes as the minister in charge of the regulator, Bruce Billson, has given the
watchdog a blast over its lack of financial controls.

Billson, the Small Business Minister, has oversight of the ACCC as part of his portfolio and is
unimpressed with its level of financial controls.

He has read the riot act to ACCC chairman Rod Sims and says it needs to get its controls in order for
him to push for an extra $100 million in funding over the next few years.

The move comes ahead of the imminent announcement from the government on the panel that will
conduct its ``root and branch'' review of competition policy.

The membership of the review panel is key as the extraordinarily wide terms of reference needs
careful management.

Joe Hockey has already made clear the ACCC's financial management was allowed to run loose
under the previous government, and Billson followed this up with a statement late yesterday.

``Mr Cassidy's departure comes at a time of great focus to improve internal governance,
accountabilities, operational efficiencies and financial prudence within the organisation,'' he said.

``Late last year, it was revealed that the ACCC would run out of money in April.''

In last year's budget the ACCC was given $175m with extra allowances if necessary to run court
cases.

The public attack on the ACCC's financial management mirrors the tactics used by then Liberal
treasurer Peter Costello back in January 2004.

In a letter to then ACCC chair Graeme Samuel, Costello said: ``I am aware that the current financial
difficulties precede your appointment. However, the ACCC's financial position is unacceptable to the
government.''

The letter noted Ernst & Young had been hired to audit the ACCC. It is understood Billson has also
hired an outside firm to audit the ACCC.

Cassidy told colleagues on Wednesday that he would retire in May after 13 years on the job and the
suggestion that his departure is anything more than his desire to travel more is rejected by insiders.

While the ACCC chairman tends to hog the limelight, the chief executive plays a key role in managing
the 884 staff at the regulator.

Cassidy came to the post at the end of Allan Fels's reign, stayed through the Graeme Samuel era and
the early part of Rod Sims's term. Sims has two deputy chiefs in Mark Pearson and Rayne de Gruchy.

Page268of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.A decision is yet to be made on who will take the top job and

Continued on Page 22

Continued from Page 15

clearly the financial controls will be part of that process.

In Sims's time, some high-profile outsiders joined the staff including general counsel Wendy Peter and
former Mallesons partner Roger Featherstone as a consultant.

The ACCC's independence is critical to the performance of its role, so any public ministerial blasts of
its management worries outsiders as a potential prelude to more controls.

This time the previous government is blamed for what some in the Abbott government describe as
``shambolic'' financial management and ``quite troubling'' financial controls.

A positive spin to the statement would say the noise will help get the extra funding required.

Telco eyes Asia
TELSTRA is chasing a potential $2 billion market with its landmark joint venture talks with
Indonesia's Telkom Indonesia as part its network application services (NAS) expansion into Asia.

Its global enterprise chief, Brendon Riley, hopes to conclude the talks early in the second half of this
year.
The move follows Telstra's establishment of beachheads in Singapore and Hong Kong to sell its
cloud-based services.

Riley's $5bn portfolio includes big business and government services, but the $1.5bn in revenues
from NAS is the fastest-growing part -- up by some 18 per cent in the last year.

The Indonesian talks have been going on for some time but it is notable that Telstra chair Catherine
Livingstone was a member of Tony Abbott's mission to the country last year.

Assuming the talks are successful, this will be Telstra's first significant involvement in Indonesia and a
welcome boost to its efforts to widen its Asian reach. Chief executive David Thodey has talked up
Asian expansion as the next growth leg for the company.

Running for cover

IAG boss Mike Wilkins is by some accounts heading into a virtual brick wall, with revenue growth
slowing and Merrill Lynch reasoning that the industry has hit a cyclical peak. This theory found some
clear support yesterday as the company's update showed $360m in reserve releases would help
offset falling revenue growth, which will be more like 3-5 per cent than the previously stated 5-7 per
cent.
The statement's timing -- just a few weeks after the company raised $1.2bn in new equity to help
fund its overly generous $1.8bn Wesfarmers insurance acquisition -- was also not great.

The stock finished off its lows but closed down 4.1 per cent at $5.59 as sentiment was not too
positive.

Last month, the stock, which has had a near-term high of $6.20, fell as low as $5.40.

Then again, with a calendar 2013 stock price outperformance of some 9 per cent, some might say it
was due for a slowdown.

CommSec argues the big picture thematic holds true, with the Wesfarmers deal, if approved, meaning
less competition and better pricing power.

This is something the ACCC will obviously consider.

The underlying insurance margin at 13.5 per cent was right on market estimates so the real questions
are about future growth.

In its defence, IAG noted that the loss of Victorian fire service levies cost it about $107m from the top
line, which would explain the lower revenue estimates.

Page269of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.What was at first glance a profit upgrade quickly became a downgrade, with Goldman Sachs
describing the revenue numbers as ``disappointing''.

The most disappointing feature was the release of the numbers so soon after Wilkins hit the market
with his hand held out looking for cash and saying everything was fine.

It is still fine in the near term, but not quite as sunny as some may have thought.

Northern Star rises
BILL Beament and his team at Northern Star, helped by a run in the company's share price, are busy
buying up Australian gold assets jettisoned by Canadian giant Barrick.
The company, with a market value of $424m, is in the process of a $100m placement underwritten by
RBC at 86c a share. The company's shares closed on Wednesday at 99c, but big trades on
Tuesday, when the stock closed at $1.01 share, have some folk talking.
Among the 8.6 million shares that changed hands that day was a line of four million by Hartley
Pontoon at 95c a share.

That was on a day when the average price paid was just over $1 a share, so you would have to say
whoever was trading was determined, as they say.

Barrick has made clear it wants to clean up its Australian portfolio and Beament's team is helping
itself to the loot with $100m worth of acquisitions.
On top of the Plutonic gold mine late last year, yesterday it revealed it had snapped up Barrick's 51
per cent of the East Kundana mine and 100 per cent of Kanowna Belle.

Northern Star will now become the fifth-largest ASX-listed goldminer. Beament used to work for
Barminco, the contractor that ran the old Barrick mines, so knows what he is dealing with on the
ground.

The questions some others have is just who was trading ahead of yesterday's news?

The stock has run ahead of its peers, up from 62c early last month to a high of just over $1, so you
can understand why some wanted to take some money off the table.

But the timing of trades ahead of yesterday's deals was either informed, inspired, lucky or unlucky,
depending on how you view the story from here. Northern Star declined comment yesterday.

CO
NS

RE
PUB
AN

auccc : Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c34 : Anti-Competition Issues | csmlbs : Small
Business/Entrepreneurs | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140123ea1o0001q

Page270of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.