Twiggy strikes $103.3m paydirt

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Twiggy strikes $103.3m paydirt

PAUL GARVEY, Dividends
542 words
2 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
18
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE bank account of Andrew “Twiggy” Forrest will swell by another $103.3 million tomorrow when
he collects what must rank as one of corporate Australia’s largest ever individual dividend payments.
But with iron ore prices continuing to plunge, the upcoming dividend looks likely to be the biggest —
if not the only — one he will enjoy for some time.

The 10c a share fully franked dividend was declared by iron ore miner Fortescue Metals at its
full-year results last month. It matched the interim dividend paid by the company earlier this year, but
— with Mr Forrest having increased his stake in Fortescue since the interim result — the total
dividend he will collect tomorrow will be even bigger than six months ago.

The interim dividend payment preceded a series of significant investments by Mr Forrest.

In the weeks following that payment, he spent an estimated $40m buying Western Australia’s largest
meat processor, Harvey Beef, as well as $16.7m on more shares in Fortescue.
While Fortescue is shipping more tonnes of ore than ever before, the plummeting iron ore price
could force the company to scale back or even scrap dividends in the year ahead.
The benchmark iron ore price has fallen by almost 39 per cent this year to about $US81.40 a tonne,
its lowest level in five years.

Analysts have been trimming their dividend forecasts for Fortescue in recent weeks on the back of
the weakness, and Credit Suisse analyst Paul McTaggart last week said he no longer expected
Fortescue to pay a dividend at all in 2015.
Fortescue chief executive Nev Power last week said the company would reassess shareholder
returns in February but emphasised the continued repayment of Fortescue’s debt position would
remain a priority.

The continued slide in Fortescue shares since it announced its full-year result means it is unlikely Mr
Forrest and other shareholders will take advantage of the company’s dividend reinvestment plan.
The DRP was priced at $3.9602 a share, but with the stock falling to $3.44 apiece yesterday
shareholders could buy shares on market at a cheaper price.
Mr Forrest is by far Fortescue’s biggest shareholder, with the 1.03 billion shares owned by the
company’s founder representing just under 33.2 per cent of stock.

Fortescue shares have fallen 42.5 per cent since peaking at $6.02 apiece in February. The drop has
wiped more than $2.5 billion off the value of Mr Forrest’s stake.
Fortescue this year put the finishing touches on an expansion that took the nameplate annual iron
ore production capacity of its Pilbara network to 155 million tonnes.

Page334of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.But the company believes it can exceed that figure and reduce its operating costs as it improves
efficiencies across its network.
Speaking at a conference in Melbourne last week, Mr Forrest flagged the potential for the company
to ship up to 170 million tonnes of iron ore this year.
The iron ore price has been falling this year in response to slower economic growth in China and a
wall of new supply, predominantly from Fortescue and its Pilbara rivals, BHP Billiton and Rio
Tinto.BHP PERSISTS WITH IRON P18

ambol : Fortescue Metals Group Ltd
i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i211 : Metal
Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c1512 : Dividends | c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter |
nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141001eaa20002b

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Search Summary

Text

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or entitys) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
01/09/2014 to 31/12/2014
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
2,847
28 August 2018 23:28

Page335of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.