Aquila closer to mining lease for W Pilbara project

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
VOL
LA
CY
LP

TD

News Stories; Other News
Aquila closer to mining lease for W Pilbara project

Marnie Hobson
460 words
11 June 2014
Platts SBB Steel Markets Daily
STEELDLY
ISSN: 1935-7354, Volume 8, Issue 113
English
© 2014 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

Aquila Resources has moved closer to securing a mining lease for its West Pilbara iron ore project in
Western Australia, after signing native title agreements with one of the three Aboriginal groups, the
company said Wednesday.

"The Native Title agreements will allow for the development of mine and rail infrastructure on native title
claim areas," Aquila said in a statement. The company said it remains in negotiations with the other
two groups and these talks are expected to be finalized in the September quarter.

Native Title agreements comprise of milestone and production payments to provide for ongoing and
education support for the native title claim groups, Aquila said.
The miner is developing the 30 million mt/year West Pilbara iron ore project as a 50:50 joint venture
with American Metals & Coal International. It will also require a 282 km railway and port capacity at the
undeveloped Anketell Point, located west of Port Hedland.

Both partners have, however, been in dispute over the past year about the budget for the estimated
A$7.4 billion ($6.9 billion) project.
Aquila recently received an unsolicited A$1.4 billion takeover offer from China's Baosteel and
Australian freight company Aurizon. Both companies made a play for Aquila in early May and Aurizon
said at the time its involvement is to facilitate independent rail and port infrastructure for the West
Pilbara iron ore project and other projects in the region.
Company takes 12% stake in Aquila
On Wednesday Aquila also said an unidentified buyer bought around 50 million of its shares,
representing about a 12% stake, at A$3.75/share ($3.52/share), beating the recent takeover bid of
A$3.40/mt.
"Aquila welcomes this recognition that the value of the company's shares is well in excess of the
current A$3.40/share conditional off-market takeover offer by Baosteel Resources and Aurizon," Aquila
said in a statement. While the identity of the buyer is unknown, Aquila acknowledged press reports
suggesting it was Mineral Resources Ltd.

Mineral Resources released a statement Wednesday requesting a halt in the trading of its shares until
Friday, pending a further announcement to the market "regarding speculation in this morning's press
regarding Mineral Resources purchasing shares in Aquila Resources."
Mineral Resources is an Australia-based mining service, contracting, processing and commodities
production company. It produces iron ore and manganese and exports polyethylene pipeline
fabrication and pipe lining, according to its website.

Aquila expects to know the identity of the buyer by Thursday morning, as it will be required to file a
substantial shareholder notice by 9:30 am Sydney time (23:30 GMT Wednesday).

Page202of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Marnie Hobson

CO
IN

RE
IPD
PUB
AN

aqures : Aquila Resources Ltd. | dorval : Aurizon Mines Ltd | hclamn : Hecla Mining Co
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i22 : Primary Metals |
ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Projects
The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Document STEELDLY20140625ea6b00024

Page203of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.