Brothers continue $1bn splash

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Finance
Brothers continue $1bn splash

BEN WILMOT, PROPERTY
529 words
7 March 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
21
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

SINGAPOREAN billionaires Robert and Philip Ng have upped their exposure to the Australian
property market with the purchase of a Sydney tower that takes their local development pipeline to
more than $1 billion.
The Ng family's Far East Organisation, the largest private property developer in Singapore,
yesterday bought the Ausgrid building on Sydney's George Street for $151.8 million.

The price, as with many of the group's purchases, was higher than expected. The vendor, the NSW
government, said the sale freed up funds for essential services and infrastructure.
The Ng brothers, who inherited a property empire from their father Ng Teng Fong, who developed
more than 700 hotels, malls and apartment blocks in Singapore and Hong Kong, are worth
$US11bn ($12.1bn), according to Forbes magazine.
The magazine valued their private real estate holdings in Far East Organisation at more than
$US6bn but their purchases in Australia may leave this figure in need of revision.
In a near unprecedented spree, the brothers have outlaid about $800m on Australian commercial
property and hotel businesses in less than a year.
Just two weeks ago, the group bought two Park Street buildings overlooking Sydney's Hyde Park
from Kyko Group for $127m.
The site, which includes Kerry Packer's former headquarters, is tipped to be converted to
apartments, once tenants such as Bauer Media shift out.
The group bought 227 Elizabeth Street last November for about $143m and is planning a luxury
apartment conversion. It also picked up the Clocktower Square in Sydney's Rocks district for $72m
from local billionaire Bob Ell, who has been selling to cashed-up Asian groups.

Far East is not constrained to buying office buildings.

Last October, it blew local institutions out of the water with a $205m play for Perth's Harbour Town
Centre, and it later made a near $300m offer for Sydney's Harbourside Shopping Centre.

The surge in the family's interest in Australia kicked off last April when its listed hospitality arm, Far
East Orchard Limited, struck a deal to invest $225m in well-known hotel and property player Toga
Group, adding to its existing local hotel brands.
Those familiar with the Ng family said the company was in no rush to develop its purchases.
``They are land-banking these sites,'' said one executive, who added the group was able to beat
local and international competitors by taking a bet on what Australian property might be worth in 25
years.

Page12of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The largest part of the Ng family's fortune is held in Tsim Sha Tsui Properties, headed by older
brother Robert, in Hong Kong. Philip oversees the Singapore interests, Forbes said. But late last
year they picked up a retreat on Scotland Island in Sydney's north that could give them a base from
which to oversee their local operations.
NSW Finance and Services Minister Andrew Constance said the sale, brokered by Macquarie
Capital, ``significantly exceeded'' the building's retention value. In a nod to Far East Organisation's
ambitions, he said the Ausgrid building had the potential to be converted into a hotel, retail and
residential complex.

PRIMESPACE P27

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | hkong : Hong Kong | singp : Singapore | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | china : China | chinaz : Greater
China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern
Asia | nswals : New South Wales | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140306ea370002h

Page13of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.