Corangamite mayor calls for more foreign dairy investment

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

news
Corangamite mayor calls for more foreign dairy investment

EVERARD HIMMELREICH
402 words
27 October 2014
The Warrnambool Standard
FWARST
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

NEW sources of investment capital needed to be found for the dairy industry " including foreign
ownership of dairy farms, Corangamite mayor Chris O"Connor says.
Cr O"Connor, who earlier this month backed a proposal by an investment firm with Chinese links
to buy about 50 south-west dairy farms, said Australia's negotiations for a China-Australia free
trade agreement "is the single most important piece of work the federal government will do for
Corangamite and Australia's farm sector".

Cr O"Connor devoted all of his mayor's report, to be delivered to tonight's Corangamite council
meeting, to call for the local dairy industry to take advantage of China's growing demand for dairy
products.
He said it was vital the federal government completed a free trade deal with China that was better
than New Zealand achieved in 2008.

New Zealand's free trade agreement had given it an enviable advantage over Australian producers
and was one of the reasons why NZ's exports to China were now valued at $5 billion, while
Australia's were only $500 million.
"It is also one of the reasons that while New Zealand has increased dairy production from nine
billion litres to 20 billion litres. Australian production has fallen from 12 billion to nine billion," Cr
O"Connor said.

"It is vital the federal government can complete what has been termed a "New Zealand-plus" trade
deal with China as soon as possible," he said.

Cr O"Connor said the Japan-Australia free trade agreement yielded minimal benefits for the
Australian dairy industry.
The industry would be outraged if the past nine years of negotiation for an agreement with China
yielded another disappointing result, he said.

"If there needs to be some trade-off with foreign ownership of farm land, then under controlled
circumstances that would not necessarily be a bad thing.
"Currently 98 per cent of our dairy farms are fully Australian owned, and with the low investment on
farms we have witnessed over the past five years, I believe new sources of investment capital need
to be found.

"Foreign investment, along with super funds and other innovative forms of private investment,
would take up some of the backlog of farms that need new investment or ownership," Cr O"Connor
said.

IN

i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming |
ilsfarm : Livestock Farming

Page190of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE

PUB
AN

e512 : Physical Trade | greg : Regional Politics | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic
News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics
austr : Australia | china : China | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FWARST0020141028eaar0002y

Page191of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.