China Pulls Permits From Some Infant-Formula Makers; Food-Safety Push Aims to Bolster Local Producers in Market Led by Imported Brands

SE
HD

BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
ED
LA
CY
LP

TD

World
China Pulls Permits From Some Infant-Formula Makers; Food-Safety Push Aims to Bolster
Local Producers in Market Led by Imported Brands
Chuin-Wei Yap
705 words
30 May 2014
17:17
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

BEIJING—China's food-safety regulators pulled production permits from more than a third of the
country's infant-formula makers, pushing for consolidation and greater control in an industry that has
suffered quality scandals.
The China Food and Drug Administration said on Friday that it granted production permits to 82
companies out of 133 that had applied, as it wound down a six-month review that officially ends on
Saturday.

The review caps a six-year campaign to rebuild China's dairy industry after a scandal over
melamine-tainted baby milk in 2008 put local brands under a cloud. The incident killed six infants and
sickened 300,000 others. Beijing has sought to reshape the industry, in part to force it to compete more
effectively with foreign brands.

"On the question of consolidating these 51 companies, we are coordinating with the industry ministry
on how to approach it. Consolidation will increase as we step up supervision," said Ma Chunliang, a
supervisory department head with the administration, at a briefing on Friday.

Of the 51 infant-formula producers that didn't make the cut, 23 had asked for extensions for further
review, said Bi Yu'an, a supervisor with the administration. It wasn't immediately clear when the
government would decide on the extensions.

Last year, the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology said it wanted to shrink the sector to 50
manufacturers by 2018.

Administration officials credit tighter restrictions, including the certification process and more stringent
spot checks, for an unblemished record in the past year.
China has prioritized food safety and building a strong domestic food industry, as consumers flock to
imported foods, citing lack of trust in local producers as a main concern. The slimmed-down domestic
industry will be competing with about 41 foreign enterprises that are allowed to import and sell infant
formula here, said Yingchao Zhang, an analyst with investment bank North Square Blue Oak. Foreign
brands account for about 55% of China's infant-formula market, analysts say.

While regulators' core motive is improving food safety, there is also an element of local protectionism,
said David Mahon, a dairy expert and managing director of investment consultancy Mahon China
Investment.
"There's an ongoing struggle for market share for China's local infant formula manufacturers," said Mr.
Mahon, adding that "they are under huge pressure to perform against foreign makers."

Page256of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Because of high growth and profit margins in China's infant formula market, many companies have
jumped in to sell to consumers, creating a highly fragmented market. But the fragmentation has made it
difficult for regulators to keep a tight watch over food safety.
China continues to be a price-taker in the global baby-milk market, despite a market that is poised for
further growth as Beijing relaxes its one-child policy. As public trust in domestic producers plunged
after the 2008 scandal, Chinese families looked abroad for infant milk powder.

Authorities acted last year to stem what they said were high prices charged by foreign producers. The
National Development and Reform Commission, China's top economic planning agency, fined six
global dairy companies 669 million yuan ($109 million) on complaints of "anticompetitive" practices.
Currently, infant formula sold in Europe for about 130 yuan is sold in China for as much as 470 yuan,
said Jiang Yujun, deputy director of the National Dairy Industry Engineering and Technology Research
Center. Premium domestic brands were pricing at similar levels, which is buoying prices across the
board, Mr. Jiang said. Such prices are typical for tins of formula that range from 800 to 900 grams
each.
Chinese food regulators also said Friday they have applied the same quality standards to domestic
brands as they do with imports, as another means to force prices to converge.

"Everyone here hopes that domestic infant-formula powder producers will account for an ever
increasing share of the market," said Mr. Jiang.

Corrections & Amplifications In an earlier version of this article, the caption on the accompanying photo
incorrectly identified the person portrayed as a customer, not a store employee.

csfada : China Food and Drug Administration
i413 : Dairy Products | i0 : Agriculture | ibabyf : Baby Food | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
mdair : Dairy Markets | e1110 : Agricultural Production | c26 : Product Safety | c13 :
Regulation/Government Policy | cbrand : Branding | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m141 :
Agricultural Commodity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mlvstk : Livestock/Meat
Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E
Industry News Filter
china : China | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | asiaz : Asia | apacz : Asia Pacific |
easiaz : Eastern Asia | austr : Australia | nz : New Zealand
China News
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document WSJO000020140530ea5u00336

CO
IN

NS

RE

IPD
PUB
AN

Page257of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.