Indonesian food manufacturer signals interest in buying Australian peanuts

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Indonesian food manufacturer signals interest in buying Australian peanuts

Carl Curtain and Lucy Barbour
551 words
5 November 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) News
ABCNEW
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

The head of one of Indonesia's largest food manufacturers says there is potential for his company to buy
peanuts and soybeans grown in northern Australia
Wisma Garuda Food, which has an annual turnover of $600 million, produces snack foods, biscuits and
dairy products.

CEO Hartona Atmadja, who's in Darwin for the Food Futures conference this week, says much of the
company's raw product is imported from the US, India and Brazil.

But he says other commodities could be sourced from Australia if the future.

"We still have to import a lot of raw materials like wheat, corn or soy beans or sugar," he said.

Mr Hartono says peanuts in particular could be grown for the Indonesian market.

"Forty per cent of our total consumption of peanuts comes from Indonesia but the other comes from
imports," he said.

"We import a lot [of peanuts] from India because of variety and the quality."

While Australian peanut growers are pleased at the prospect of trading peanuts with Indonesia, chief
executive of the Peanut Company of Australia, John Howard, says it's only a long term opportunity.

"It's mainly a Spanish type of peanut (that Indonesia wants), which is a smaller one and very low yielding
and we grow very little of that in Australia," he said.

But he says it's 'exciting' that Indonesia is interested.
"Presently they're getting peanuts from China and India and by coming down here and talking about it,
they're wanting someone else to fill that market."

Mr Howard says the industry may need to rethink the varieties of peanuts it's currently growing, if it's to
capitalise on Indonesia's demand.

"There's a lot of barriers in it, but the main one is varieties that can grow a yield that can give a return that
makes the investment worthwhile.

"And because we have a very minimal, to say the least, Spanish-type crop in Australia, we really haven't
got the genetics."

Mr Hartono argues there could be an easier way to open the Indonesia market to Australian peanuts.

He says although Australia grows a different variety than what Indonesia currently seeks, this could be
overcome.
"We need to change the behaviour of the consumer if we use peanuts from Australia as well as China,"
he said.

Page137of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."We need to build a stronger linkage between farmers' associations, the business community and
government to government as well.

"I would like to see the Northern Territory and Indonesia build a stronger linkage," he said.

Professor of agricultural economics Bustanul Arifin, from the University of Lampung, agrees it is possible
for Indonesia to take produce other than beef and wheat from Australia.

But he says that, whatever the commodity, it would have to meet specific guidelines.

"As long as the demand could be met, the price is accessible and you produce efficiently, and we don't
have it at home, I think the government will encourage businesses to find sources from outside.

"But this current government is emphasising on producing at home for the moment," he said.

Meanwhile, Mr Howard is sceptical about the idea of Australia providing soybeans to Indonesia because
the crop is too small to meet demand.

IN
NS

RE

i01001 : Farming | i0 : Agriculture
e51 : Trade/External Payments | gsci : Sciences/Technologies | ecat : Economic News | gcat :
Political/General News
austr : Australia | indon : Indonesia | nterry : Northern Territory | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz
: Australia/Oceania | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | seasiaz :
Southeast Asia
food

IPD
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCNEW0020141105eab50002t

Page138of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.