Jacqui the yap in Clive’s PUP

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

OpEd
Jacqui the yap in Clive’s PUP

Daniel Meers and Peter Jean
1,155 words
29 August 2014
The Advertiser
ADVTSR
Advertiser
25
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Rogue PUP senator Jacqui Lambie is turning into a loose cannon for her party leader Clive Palmer with
statements so outrageous even he would think twice about repeating them. Daniel Meers and Peter
Jean report.

ANY public misapprehension Jacqui Lambie is a puppet PUP of Clive Palmer has been well and truly
dispelled. After several days of reflection, Mr Palmer this week issued a sincere public apology for his
televised brain explosion about Chinese “mongrels’’, saying he realised his comments had been hurtful
to Chinese people everywhere.

But there will be no such apologies from Senator Lambie.
She reiterated her fear of a Chinese invasion and also announced on Facebook that “non-ethnic’’
Australians need legal protection from vilification under the Racial Discrimination Act.

The potty-mouthed Tasmanian senator who wants a wealthy, well-hung man, believes Australia should
buy missiles to fire at the Chinese when they come to invade us and turn our grandchildren into
slaves.

The above paragraph would be funny, if Ms Lambie didn’t hold the balance of power in Australia.

Prime Minister Tony Abbott can not get any legislation passed without the support of Ms Lambie and
Mr Palmer’s Palmer United Party (PUP).

Put simply, the chief dog has bought a PUP that has a bigger bite than himself. And he doesn’t know
what to do with her. Any attempt by Palmer to put Lambie on a tight leash could see her flee the
kennel.

The single mother of two decided to join PUP because she didn’t have enough money to run as an
independent.

Senator Lambie is good with other people’s money. She even got the defence force to pay for a breast
reduction as part of compensation she claimed from back problems sustained while working in the
Defence Force for over a decade.
The former military truck driver’s decision to use the billionaire mining magnate’s money to run for
Parliament worked. She was elected with just 6.6 per cent of the vote and now earns about $200,000 a
year for the next six years.

Her foray into public life has been littered with gaffes and wild statements. Comments like these: “If
anybody thinks we should have a national security and defence policy which ignores the threat of a
Chinese communist invasion, you’re delusional and got rocks in your head,” she said in a written
statement.

Page219of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“Both Labor and the Liberals/Nationals have failed to build an Australian military that is able to defend
us ... and stop our grandchildren from becoming slaves to an aggressive, anti-democratic, totalitarian
foreign power.” As government Minister Barnaby Joyce said: The comments would be funny if she’d
had 15 beers.

Senator Lambie, for all her madness, is an influential senator and her comments are looked at globally.
Such idiocy has the potential to put Australia’s $150 billion trade relationship with China at risk.

Then there are her views on a potential suitor: “They must have heaps of cash and they’ve got to have
a package between their legs. They don’t even need to speak.” Her open-book approach got even
more open when she spoke about her bikini line on a radio program.
“Right now the state I’m in, you’d want to bring out that whipper snipper first,” she said. “It’s a very
scary area to talk about this morning.” Yes, that’s who is running our country at the moment.

Her views on politicians are just as fascinating. She once said Mr Abbott needs a bucket of cement.

“You’ve got one of two choices. You can run and hide or you can say to yourself ‘here’s a bucket of
cement - toughen up’.” There are mixed views in the corridors of power in Canberra over Jacqui
Lambie. Some think she is dumb and has no idea what is going to come out of her mouth. Others
believe the woman from Burnie, in Tasmania’s north, is far more conniving than people give her credit
for.
They think she knows how to milk the media. This article suggests that could be true.

She knows her market. She knows Tasmanians want a street fighter who will stick it up Canberra.

What is of concern, is the damage Senator Lambie could do, both to Australia and the fledgling Palmer
party.

There is already strong speculation she was disappointed Glenn Lazarus was made chief PUP in the
kennel. Mr Palmer doesn’t want to push his luck too far.

Senators Lazarus and Lambie have publicly denied this. “We love each other deeply,’’ Mr Lazarus said
before the pair exchanged a chaste kiss for the camera yesterday.
Mr Palmer can shut anyone up and can buy almost anyone he wants. But he doesn’t know how to
solve a problem like Jacqui.

Without all the PUPs in one kennel, Mr Palmer’s clout as Australia’s most influential politician is shot.
He knows that. He flew to Western Australia after describing the Chinese as “mongrels” to ensure his
Chinese- born senator Dio Wang was still in the kennel.

He is acutely aware that Senator Lambie is a loose cannon. A public rebuke could cause her to jump
ship and form a voting bloc with other minor party senators.

Senators only face election every six years, so Ms Lambie would have about five years to build her
personal brand in Tasmania and raise the funds needed to successfully stand for re-election.
That’s Mr Palmer’s biggest fear – that brand Jacqui, as ridiculous as it is, could become too big for the
Palmer Party.

Expect a few more dial tones while Clive works out how to solve his biggest problem.

Ms Lambie’s dream to land a well-hung man may be easier to achieve.

WHO IS JACQUI LAMBIE Born: Ulverstone, Tasmania, February, 1971.

Senator: Palmer United Party, 2013.

Children: Single parent of two adult sons.

Career background: 10 years in army transport management and military policing. Left the army:
Following a medical discharge after suffering a back injury in 1997.

She pursued a 10-year battle for compensation from the defence forces – including treatment for
depression and alcohol and pharmaceutical abuse – since her discharge.

Page220of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Her military compensation was cancelled in 2001 after a private investigator’s report, but she won a
case to have it reinstated in 2006.

Political career: Started when she was given work by former Labor senator Nick Sherry as part of her
rehab in 2008, moving on to Liberal Party politics. Campaigned for a Tasmanian senate seat as an
independent last year, then joined the Palmer United Party.

Job priorities: Veterans’ affairs and the economic future of Tasmania.In an interview last year, Ms
Lambie pledged to be a bigger pain in the “rear end” for Tony Abbott than Pauline Hanson.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | tasman : Tasmania | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document ADVTSR0020140828ea8t000e3

Page221of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.