The Halal food market

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
VOL
LA
CY
LP

TD

The Halal food market

Said Kamal Shah
1,004 words
15 September 2014
The Frontier Post
ASFROP
XXVII
English
Copyright © 2014. The Frontier Post

Beef is up-and-coming industry in Ireland in 2103-2104. Pakistan is a 3rd preeminent milk producer in
the world. The over all Halal Food Market bulk has been reported to be USD 634.5 billion US$ 651
during 2010, according to the World Bank First EAP Regional Agribusiness Trade and Investment
Conference held in Singapore on "Agro-enterprise Without Borders". It was estimated that the potential
value of the halal food industry range between USD 600 and US$ 2100billion.

The concept of halal is associated with food products which are of high quality in terms of cleanliness,
sanitation and compliance with religious requirements. According to the latest available estimates for
2010 by the Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO), world production of meat will be approximately
283 million tons. The top ten producers of bovine meat are China, the United States, Brazil, India,
Russia, Canada, Argentina, Australia, Japan and the Republic of Korea. However, the ranking of the
countries changes when exports are taken into account. China, India and Australia are the top three
producers of sheep and goat meat; while New Zealand, Australia and Mongolia are the top three
exporters.

As a part of the agricultural production system, livestock farming is a qualification to mitigate the poverty
from Pakistan. It supplements other income generating activities to eradicate poverty and create
adequate opportunity for enhanced rural and peri-urban employment, income generation and economic
access to food. The horizontal expansion in livestock farming is still in progress. The increasing human
population of the urban areas, the rising income levels and the awareness about need of animal proteins
in human diet, has resulted in increasing demand for milk and meat. This demand for food items and the
rising levels of prices, calls for expansion of dairy and livestock industry.
During 2012 the population of cattle, buffaloes, sheep and goats was 36.9, 32.7, 28.4 and 63.1 million
respectively, in Pakistan out of which the share of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa was 20.1, 7.1, 12.7 and 17.8%
respectively for the four species. As for other provinces of the country, the livestock farms in KP are
established without scientific planning for construction of buildings, roads, water supply and drainage and
other requirements of the people and the farms. The 14.84 million sheep and goats valuing Rs.160
billion are reared by farmers in various parts of the province.
Domestic poultry population of the country is 70.7 million out of which 29% is contributed by KP. The
total meat produced in the country during the year 2011-12 was 3.23 million metric tons out of which the
share of beef, mutton and poultry was 1.77, 0.63 and 0.84 million tons respectively.

The sheep and goats farms in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa are owned and managed by shepherds, their
families and the hired labor. Their living standard is low due to low profitability of the farms. The high and
non-regulated cost of inputs and state-controlled lower price of the products make the profit margin low.
Lack of state-subsidy and hostile marketing system bulldoze enterprises. Under such circumstances the
living standard of the farmers is definitely deteriorated.

The farmers have little chance to send their children to better educational institutions, which usually are
expensive. The children usually discontinue their education after passing primary schools. A so-called
self employment is provided to the children by their parents at the dairy farms and their potential for
better contribution to the society is wasted.

Page40of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The farming system for sheep and goat production is in still its primitive form based upon opportunity
cost, instead of new investment. The huge investment made by the ancestors of the farming family and
the rising levels of unemployment compel them to stick to the business, willingly or non-willingly. The
farming family tries to continue the business without calculating the financial inputs and products, and
the products have been reported to recover only 75% of the cost of productivity.

Under such type of income levels the farmers possesses no capital to invest in strengthening their
business. The traditional farmers survive under miserable conditions for decades or their business is
squeezed to a smaller size or total extinction. The status of non-investment make the operations
inefficient and resultantly the production cost further increases, making the profit margin further narrower.
Sheep, goats and poultry farmers have to interact with market for procurement of inputs and sale of
products. The marketing system is hostile to the farmer and attempts to get benefits out of his business
without providing support and productive inputs. Resultantly, all the market forces around the farms get
wealthier while the farmer gets poorer and ultimately, is compelled to abandon his business.

Loans are provided in some instances to the farms by dealers on very high interest rates, sometimes
exceeding 50% per year. The amount has to be returned in installments, which come from sale of the
animals. Although the present farming system cannot exhibit its profitability and enterprising capacity, the
use of improved practices can enhance the profit rates. Appropriate breed selection and adoption of
improved health, feeding and management practicesmay result in accelerated growth rate and fertility of
animals by up to 5 times of the existing levels.

Limited drinkers availability at a poultry farm under observation of one our scientists was identified as a
major cause of reduced profitability. Development and introduction of improved practices would improve
the products quality, enabling it to pass through the certification process and pleasing to the eye the
profit margin. Being an Agricultural country it is expected from Government of Pakistan to assist livestock
deptt so they will provide guidelines, road-map and an engine for growth of the local sheep/goats/poultry
production farms into viable enterprises capable of producing clean food for local market and export and
generating self employment for the youth especially the graduates in animal social sciences, agriculture
and business administration.

IN
NS

RE

ihalal : Halal Food | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
c312 : External Markets | c31 : Marketing/Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | pakis : Pakistan | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | dvpcoz
: Developing Economies | indsubz : Indian Subcontinent | sasiaz : Southern Asia

PUB The Frontier Post
AN

Document ASFROP0020140915ea9f0000c

Page41of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.