In a somewhat convoluted way, we're buying back the farm

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business - Opinion & Analysis
In a somewhat convoluted way, we're buying back the farm

Ross Gittins - Ross Gittins is the economics editor.
1,025 words
22 March 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
6
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Did you know that, at the end of last year, the value of Australians' equity investments abroad
exceeded the value of foreigners' equity investments in Australia by more than $23 billion?
It's the first time we've owned more of their businesses, shares and real estate ($891 billion worth)
than they've owned of ours ($868 billion).

These days in economics there's an easy way to an exclusive: write about something no one else
thinks is worth mentioning, the balance of payments. We'll start at the beginning and get to equity
investment at the end.

Before our economists decided the current account deficit, the foreign debt and our overall foreign
liability weren't worth worrying about, we established that, when measured as a percentage of national
income (gross domestic product), the current account deficit moved through a cycle with a peak of
about 6 per cent, a trough of about 3 per cent and a long-term average of about 4.5 per cent.

Those dimensions were a lot higher in the global era of floating exchange rates than they'd been in the
era of fixed exchange rates (which ended by the early '80s). This worried a lot of people, until
eventually economists decided the new currency regime meant there was less reason to worry.

This explains why economists haven't bothered to note that for four of the past five financial years, the
figure for the current account deficit as a percentage of GDP has started with a 3. And, as we learnt
earlier this month, the figure for the year to December was 2.9 per cent.

So it seems clear that recent years have seen a significant change in Australia's financial dealings with
the rest of the world. And the consequence has been to lower the average level of the current account
deficit.

The conventional way to account for this shift is to look for changes in exports, imports and the "net
income deficit" - the amount by which our payments of interest and dividends to foreigners exceed their
payments of interest and dividends to us.

The first part of the explanation is obvious: over the past decade, the world's been paying much higher
prices for our exports of minerals and energy. This remains true even though those prices reached a
peak in 2011 and have fallen since then.

On the other hand, the prices we've been paying for our imports have changed little over the period.
So, taken in isolation, this improvement in our "terms of trade" is working to lower our trade deficit and,
hence, the deficit on the current account.

Next, however, come changes in the quantity (volume) of our exports and imports. Here, over the full
decade, the volume of imports has grown roughly twice as fast as growth in the volume of exports.
Until the global financial crisis, we were living it up and buying lots of imported stuff. And maybe as

Page141of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.much as half of all the money spent on expanding our mines and gas facilities went on imported
equipment.

The more recent development, however, is that the completion of mines and gas facilities means
enormous growth in the volume of our mineral exports - with a lot more to come. At the same time, as
projects reach completion there's a big fall in imports of mining equipment. That's a double benefit to
the trade balance and the current account deficit.
Turning to the net income deficit, it's been increased by the huge rise in mining companies' after-tax
profits, about 80 per cent of which are owned by foreigners. Going the other way, world interest rates
are now very low and likely to stay low.

Put all that together and it's not hard to see why current account deficits have been lower in the years
since the financial crisis, nor hard to see they're likely to stay low and maybe go lower in the years
ahead.

The current account deficit has to be funded either by net borrowing from foreigners or by net foreign
"equity" investment in Australia businesses, shares or real estate. This means the current account
deficit is the main contributor to growth in the levels of the national economy's net foreign debt, net
foreign equity investment and their sum, our net foreign liabilities.

Historically, our high annual current account deficits worried people because they were leading to rapid
growth in the levels of our net foreign debt and net total liabilities.

But looking back over the past decade, and measuring these two levels relative to the growing size of
our economy (nominal GDP), there's no longer a clear upward trajectory. Indeed, it's possible to say
our net foreign debt seems to have stabilised at about 50 per cent of GDP, with net total liabilities
stabilising a little higher.
Over the decades, the level of net foreign equity investment in Australia has tended to fall as big
Aussie firms become multinational by buying businesses abroad and Aussie super funds buy shares in
foreign companies, thus helping to offset two centuries of mainly British, American, Japanese and now
Chinese investment in Aussie businesses.
But the net total of such equity investment is surprisingly volatile from one quarter to the next, being
affected not just by new equity investments in each direction, but also by "valuation effects" - the ups
and downs of various sharemarkets around the world as well as the ups and downs in the Aussie
dollar. Between the end of September and the end of December, net foreign equity investment swung
from a net liability of $27 billion to a net asset of $23 billion. This was mainly because of valuation
effects rather than transactions, so I wouldn't get too excited.
What it proves is that, these days, the value our equity investments in the rest of the world isn't very
different from the value of their equity investments in Oz.

IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

icre : Real Estate/Construction
eblpy : Balance of Payments/Current Account | e1118 : Trade Figures | nedc : Commentaries/Opinions
| reqrcr : Suggested Reading Construction/Real Estate | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e51 :
Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr :
Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140321ea3m00059

Page142of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.