Primrose Ave site comes up smelling roses

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Primrose Ave site comes up smelling roses

Sales wrap Mercedes Ruehl
936 words
8 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
42
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

A developer has purchased a 2778-square-metre development site in Sydney's Rosebery for about
$8 million. The 12 Primrose Avenue property is located east of Botany Road and west of Southern
Cross Drive within the increasingly gentrified and rapidly developing suburb of Rosebery.
Rosebery is a mixed industrial and residential suburb, situated on the edge of Sydney's central
business district.

The property represents a small raw development site with two street frontages on Primrose
Avenue and Rosebery Avenue.

On both frontages the building is two levels, joined by a single-storey linking annex. On the Rosebery
Avenue frontage, the site becomes L-shaped with part utilised as a car park.

The deal was brokered by JLL's Sam Brewer and Keegan Ridings.
"We have once again seen a record price in the South Sydney market with this sale, which resulted
in a rate per potential approved gross floor area (without bonus) of $2879 per square metre," Mr
Brewer said.
A residential development site with prior approval for a townhouse complex at Carina Heights in
Brisbane's south-east has been sold for $3 million to GVG Group.
The approximately 1-hectare site at 18 Bendena Terrace, Carina Heights was sold following a
tender campaign conducted under instructions from liquidator Nick Combis of Vincents Chartered
Accountants.
Ray White Special Projects' Mark Creevey and Tony Williams handled the sale which received 107
enquiries. Mr Williams said the site was designated "Emerging Communities" by Brisbane City
Council and earth works and retaining walls have been partially commenced.
"The property is approximately nine kilometres south-east of the Brisbane CBD and approximately
1.8 kilometres from one of Queensland's largest shopping centres, Westfield Carindale," he said
An office freehold in Melbourne has sold to a local investor for $5.7 million. The four-level office
building sits on a site area of about 695 square metres, comprising a substantial building of 1594
square metres. It also features a 15-metre frontage to Burke Road and provides 22 fully secured car
spaces accessed from the rear of the property.
The property was offered subject to a new lease to major international insurance and warranty
specialists The Warranty Group over levels 2 and 3, as well as to professional recruitment firm Staff
Aid on level 1. The remaining 340 square metres of level 1 is now available for lease.

Page65of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Fitzroys agents Michael Ryan and Peter Weatherby handled the Expressions of Interest campaign.
Mr Ryan said the property attracted interest from investors and partial owner-occupiers.

"These parties were attracted to the exceptional opportunity to acquire a refurbished office building
with a fully leased net return of approximately $450,000 a year, securely leased to international and
local tenants in a prime Camberwell location," he said.
A private investor has purchased a 525-square-metre office in Queensland's Kangaroo Point from a
private syndicate for $4.35 million with a passing yield of 13.59 per cent.
The property is fully leased to ASX-listed WDS Pty Ltd for their Energy and Mining division until
March next year. The property at 75 Main Street comprises a three-storey office building boasting
high-quality office accommodation following a complete re-build in 2007.
The sale was negotiated by Mike Walsh and Sam Byrne, JLL.
The agents said the purchaser was attracted to the strong initial yield, despite a short-term lease
expiry, and the ability to redevelop the property.
An offshore Chinese developer has purchased an open-plan office in the Melbourne CBD for
$1.26 million.

The 420-square-metre unrefurbished space on the fourth floor of 20 Queen Street comprises an
older style fit-out, incorporating a boardroom and executive offices.
The property, which was sold at a rate of $3000 per square metre, received five expressions of
interest to purchase according to selling agents Tom Tuxworth, Chris Pharr and Ed Wright of CBRE.

"Offshore developers who have been highly active in purchasing large development sites in the
Melbourne CBD are now looking for commercial office space for their headquarters," Mr Tuxworth
said.
A vacant retail property in Melbourne that had been owned by a local family for over 30 years has
sold to a local investor for $1.1 million at auction.
The 931 Burke Road shop in Camberwell property sits on a land area of approximately 177 square
metres, with improvements comprising a two-level building of approximately 200 square metres with
ground floor retail plus first-floor residence.
The purchaser intends to refurbish and re-lease the property, which is located close to Camberwell
Railway Station. Fitzroys agents Michael Ryan and David Bourke handled the campaign on behalf of
the vendor.
A franchisee of car servicing group Ultra Tune Milton has picked up an office in Brisbane for
$1.05 million. The tenanted property at 10 Heussler Terrace, Milton, comprises a 526-square-metre
site and is being leased by a car service company for $60,000 a year,
Ray White Industrial's Paul Anderson said the buyer intended to occupy the property once the
current lease expires.
"This is the fourth flood-affected property we've sold since 2011 and on each occasion the prices
have been stronger than when purchased between 2005 and 2007," he said.
He said the property is strategically located about five kilometres from the Brisbane CBD, with easy
access onto the Inner City Bypass (ICB), Coronation Drive, the South East Freeway, Kelvin Grove
Road and Waterworks Road.

Submissions to mruehl@afr.com.au

IN
NS

RE

PUB

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia
Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | queensl : Queensland
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited

Page66of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document AFNR000020140507ea580002u

Page67of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.