Asians in for slice of action

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Asians in for slice of action

327 words
3 July 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
25
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

MEADOWLEA margarine and Mighty Soft bread are the latest Australian household brands set to fall
into foreign hands.

The troubled owner of the breads and spreads brands, Goodman Fielder, has accepted a $1.34
billion takeover offer from Hong Kong-based investment group First Pacific and Singapore
agribusiness Wilmar International.

The Asian pair have been trying to buy the Australian food maker for several months.
Their original offer of $1.27 billion in April was rebuffed, so they sweetened it to $1.37 billion in May.

However, having examined Goodman Fielder’s books in recent weeks, the pair have decided to lower
the bid by 2.5¢ a share.
The board of Goodman Fielder, whose brands also include Praise, White Wings, Helga’s and Wonder
White, is recommending shareholders accept the offer.

Goodman Fielder’s shares fell 2.5¢, or 3.7 per cent, to 65.5¢ yesterday. Morningstar equities analyst
Peter Rae said it was a reasonable offer given there were no other suitors.
“Goodman Fielder is in a tough business with the major supermarkets, Coles and Woolworths,
holding such strong bargaining power, which makes it difficult for them to pass on price increases,” he
said.

Goodman Fielder chairman Steve Gregg said the latest takeover offer represented a positive outcome.

“It provides an opportunity to further leverage our strong consumer food brands in Australia and New
Zealand to grow our business across the Asian region,” he said.

The offer will need support from 75 per cent of Goodman shareholders and approval from Australia’s
Foreign Investment Review Board and authorities in New Zealand and China.

AUSSIE BRANDS GOBBLED UP *Peters Ice Cream now owned by Europe’s R & R *Foster’s:
Britain’s SAB Miller *Uncle Tobys: Swiss giant Nestle *Nobby’s Nuts and Smith’s Chips: US-based
PepsiCo *Arnotts biscuits: America’s Campbell Soup *Aeroplane Jelly: America’s McCormick &
Company*Vegemite: US-based Kraft Foods

CO
IN
NS
RE

fdgl : Goodman Fielder Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods
gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

Page6of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020140702ea7300059

Page7of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.