Greenland to buy farm as it lifts offshore presence

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Greenland to buy farm as it lifts offshore presence

GREG BROWN, DEVELOPMENT
514 words
19 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
28
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

ONE of China’s largest developers, the state-owned Greenland Holding Group, aims to double the
revenues of its Australian business next year to about $1.5 billion.
The group’s global chairman, the Shanghai-based Zhang Yuliang, who is in Australia to discuss the
free trade agreement signing between Australia and China, said the group would aim to increase its
offshore presence to offset a slowing residential market in mainland China.

The Australian understands that Greenland made a play for Goodman Group’s Cambridge Office
Park at Epping in Sydney’s northwest. The 8314sq m site has the potential for about 500 apartments.

“We are growing very fast and progressing very smoothly over the world including the market in
Australia,” Mr Zhang said.

He surprisingly revealed yesterday that Greenland would enter the Australian agricultural sector
through the purchase of a local beef, dairy or wine company.

He said Greenland aimed to be a major player in the sector and would export commodities to
mainland China. Sources suggest that interests associated with Hong Kong-listed property giant
Country Garden are also aiming to enter the sector.
“Due to the economic development, Chinese people’s consumption habits are changing,” Mr Zhang
said. “Our next step is to acquire such kinds of Australian companies and import more Australian
products into China,” The free trade agreement will cut tariffs for Australian imports to China in
agricultural commodities such as dairy, beef and wine.
Under the agreement, private companies will avoid Foreign Investment Review Board screening for
investments of less than $1bn.

Investments by state-owned companies will be reviewed regardless of their size. Mr Zhang said the
agreement would lead to a surge of investment from Chinese companies.
“As a Chinese entrepreneur, I am very happy that this FTA is finally signed; it means that there will be
great room for the future development of bilateral economic and trade.” He said Greenland was not
dissuaded by the tougher regulatory hurdles for investment by state-owned companies.

“(Until) now we haven’t felt that the approval process of the Australian government is very strict,” Mr
Zhang said. “Actually we are not a pure state-owned company. Not only do we have equity from
government but also from other companies.” Greenland, which is on track for global revenue this year
of about $75bn, has been the most aggressive Chinese property developer to expand abroad since
2013, investing a total of $20bn in projects across nine countries.
The group is targeting overseas earnings to exceed 25 per cent of its total property revenue by 2020,
up from less than 10 per cent now.

Page20of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It expects to garner local revenue of about $750 million this year on the back of apartment sales in
its first two projects, The Greenland Centre in the Sydney CBD and North Sydney’s Lucent
project.Greenland has joined forces with James Packer’s Crown Resorts to bid for the
multi-billion-dollar Queens Wharf casino, hotel and apartment project in the Brisbane CBD.

sgregc : Greenland Holding Group Company Limited
i501 : Building Construction | i5010021 : Land Development/Subdivision | iconst : Construction | icre :
Real Estate/Construction
e512 : Physical Trade | gdip : International Relations | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat :
Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations
austr : Australia | china : China | greenl : Greenland | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz :
Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North
America | nswals : New South Wales
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141118eabj0001t

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page21of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.