Robb tackles a $1.2 trillion challenge

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

EARLY GENERAL NEWS
Robb tackles a $1.2 trillion challenge

COLIN BETTLES
821 words
29 May 2014
Farm Weekly
FFARMW
14
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

WHEN Tony Abbott declared Australia open for business during his euphoric election night victory
speech last year, he was foreshadowing a not-so-subtle challenge for one of his key Cabinet
members, Andrew Robb.

Within a few short months, the Trade and Investment Minister would be lunching in Singapore with
six potential investors managing $1.2 trillion dollars between them in sovereign wealth funds.

But with only one of them investing $200 billion in Australia, his challenge is selling the nation's
business strengths and opportunities, to attract the other $1 trillion locally, including injecting foreign
funds to grow Australian agriculture and agribusiness.

In Opposition, Mr Robb carried a heavy workload as the Shadow Finance Minister and chairman of
the Coalition's policy development committee, where his diligent work ethic combined with effective
stakeholder consultation, was highly rated.

At one stage, Julie Bishop lobbied to retain both of her shadow portfolios in Trade and Foreign
Affairs, should the Coalition win government, but that move failed to eventuate.

Ms Bishop was eventually appointed Foreign Affairs Minister in Mr Abbott's first ministry while Mr
Robb was given the triple whammy of Trade, Investment and Tourism.

As the minister responsible for tourism, Mr Robb doesn't wear the official title of Tourism Minister but
that portfolio has been moved into one of his agencies, Austrade, to support the new Government's
focus on international tourism.

Understanding the weight of his key challenge to sell Australia's strengths to the world, the former
National Farmers' Federation boss and Victorian Liberal MP has wasted no time making strong
inroads and goes about his task without an assistant minister or parliamentary secretary.

Since the nation's 69th ministry was sworn in last September, he's attended 27 investment round
table meetings in 10 different countries.
He spends two-thirds of his time abroad on government business and is often accompanied by
farming and agribusiness leaders seeking opportunities to boost Australian food and fibre exports.
This month, he also participated in the 2014 APEC trade ministers' meeting in China and returned to
Singapore for talks on the Trans Pacific Partnership agreement.

Mr Robb has been heavily involved in concluding Free Trade Agreements with Korea and Japan
which have been largely applauded by the farm sector.
But there's still plenty of work ahead to conclude a historic trade deal with China by the year's end.

Page101of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Speaking to Fairfax Agricultural Media, Mr Robb said to capture the future opportunities and
advantages heading Australian agriculture's way, particularly in China, high quality exports were a
prime focus of trade negotiations.

A key sales point, which is helping to relieve some of his work-load, is Australia's solid reputation for
producing high-quality farm products.
"I'm travelling the region endlessly and the clean green healthy brand of Australia is gold," he said.

"If you go to Taiwan and places like that, they're demanding 'Aussie beef, Aussie beef' and if you go
to Shanghai they also want Aussie beef. Brand Australia is so strong.
"The Chinese see the blue skies and the clean and healthy food here and the high end of their
middle class this exploding middle class are prepared to pay for brands.
"You see them in all of the brand stores and the same is true for food.

"We're a high cost country and it's no different for our farmers.

"But if we get into those higher valued ends of the market, we'll get a return that'll warrant the cost
structures we've got in Australia."
Mr Robb said concluding an FTA with China by the year's end would provide preferential access for
Australian agriculture and yield greater export opportunity.
"I can see with the New Zealanders, they cut a deal with China four years ago and their dairy has
increased in revenue by $2.2 billion in that time, while our dairy revenue from China has increased
by $60 million," he said.

"We just have to be at the high value end of the market because there will be a lot of other
competition at the mass end of the market.
"Take beef we sold 60,000 tonnes two years ago and 260,000 tonnes last year to China.

"They went from about 12th in our customer base to third in one year.

"It'll probably go up and down a bit because it's an immature market for us but any market that can
jump into third for beef in one year tells you a much bigger story about the opportunities across the
board."

Mr Robb says foreign capital is critical to his role and taking Australian businesses "to another level
in all of the things we're good at and to stay in front".

IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

i01001 : Farming | i0 : Agriculture
e512 : Physical Trade | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | china : China | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FFARMW0020140528ea5t00010

Page102of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.