President role 'an honour'

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Good Taste
President role 'an honour'

JOHN LEWIS
835 words
19 November 2014
Newcastle Herald
NEHR
First
35
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

food&wine

Hunter winemaker Neil McGuigan has been shoulder-tapped for a key position in a prestigious global
competition, writes JOHN LEWIS.

IT is a position previously occupied by such global wine notables as Robert Mondarvi, Odette Pol
Roger, Max Lake, Wolf Blass and Baroness Philippine de Rothschild, and its new holder is
55-year-old son of the Hunter, Neil McGuigan .
In Britain last week, Neil was announced as the 2015 president of the International Wine and Spirit
Competition (IWSC) - one of the most prestigious and independent wine competitions in the world.

He is only the fourth Australian to hold the presidency in the 44-year history of the IWSC, and his
appointment was announced at a black-tie banquet and awards presentation night in London.

The other three Australians to hold the IWSC presidency have been surgeon, author, Hunter
winemaker, bon vivant and wine judge Dr Max Lake, Rosemount founding managing director Chris
Hancock and South Australian winemaking legend Wolf Blass.

Neil McGuigan is chief executive of ASX-listed winemaker Australian Vintage Ltd (AVL) and no
stranger to IWSC triumphs.

He led the McGuigan arm of AVL to win the titles of International Winemaker of the Year and
Australian Producer of the Year in 2009, 2011 and 2012.

McGuigan was the first winemaker to claim these awards three times.

Neil said the IWSC presidency was "quite an honour for a guy from the Hunter Valley" and for the
McGuigan brand and Australian wine.
During 2015 he will host landmark IWSC events and tastings in London, Dusseldorf, Hong Kong and
Vancouver.
He said he would be encouraging more wine companies around the world to become involved in
competitions like the IWSC.
Such judgings recognised excellence and helped the global wine industry raise the bar by eliminating
wine faults and embracing new styles.
Neil is a member of the fourth generation of McGuigan wine men, who also include his brothers,
Hunter vigneron Ross, and celebrated wine industry leader and newly anointed Newcastle NRL
Knights chairman Brian.

Page201of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Neil and his siblings were steeped in the time-honoured routines of vineyard and winery as they grew
up at Branxton next to the historic Penfolds Dalwood cellars managed by their father Perc.

After graduating with a Roseworthy College winemaking degree, Neil joined Brian as a winemaker at
Wyndham Estate where he rose to become group production director.
After Wyndham was swallowed up by Pernod Ricard in 1989 in a $73 million takeover, Neil joined
Brian and Fay McGuigan and brother Ross in establishing the McGuigan Brothers brand, which was
to later to grow into AVL.
In 1994 he left the McGuigan company to begin a six-year stint as part-owner and winemaker at Briar
Ridge at Mount View.

In 2000 he left Briar Ridge to become general manager-chief winemaker at Rothbury Estate and then
in 2004 he rejoined Brian at McGuigan Simeon Wines (now AVL) as general manager of production
and wine supply.

In July 2010 he was appointed chief executive of AVL, a position in which his formidable skills in
marketing, wine production and innovation have shone.

Casella moves on Lehmann
THE Yenda-based Casella family wine company, which last year was Australia's third largest
producer and seller of branded wine, looks set to take over Peter Lehmann Wines (PLW).
Casella has made a $57 million, $1.50-a-share buyout offer for the Barossa Valley venture founded
in 1978 by Peter Lehmann .
The buyout has been accepted by PLW 86 per cent shareholder, the Swiss-based Hess wine and
beverage group, and by Margaret Lehmann and her family, who hold a 10.4 per cent stake.

In endorsing the buyout, Margaret said John Casella was a winemaker, sharing the values that led to
the creation of PLW, and bringing back the patient private ownership that better suited the cyclical
nature of the wine industry.

Peter Lehmann , known universally as the Baron of the Barossa, died in 2013 at the age of 82.
In 2003 he took a pivotal role in Hess gaining a controlling stake in PLW after a corporate battle that
saw it trump a takeover offer from the giant UK-based Allied Domencq plc.

Casella's managing director, John Casella , said he wanted to increase production at the PLW
Tanunda winery and lift Casella's presence in the premium segment of the wine market.

The Casella enterprise was founded by Filippo and Maria Casella , who migrated to Australia in 1955
and began making wine at Yenda, in the NSW Riverina, in 1965.
The company's phenomenal success has been based on its Yellow Tail brand wines, that sell 12.5
million cases a year around the world.

Casella's 250,000-tonne-capacity Yenda winery is Australia's biggest production facility. The
company boasts that its 174,000-tonne 2013 grape crush was the equivalent of three times the
weight of steel used in the Sydney Harbour Bridge.

IN

RE
PUB
AN

i426 : Wine | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge :
Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document NEHR000020141119eabj0001a

Page202of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.