36 Hours: Sydney, Australia

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

Travel Desk; SECTTR
36 Hours: Sydney, Australia

By INGRID K. WILLIAMS
1,859 words
19 January 2014
The New York Times
NYTF
Late Edition - Final
8
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.

In ever-sunny, easygoing Sydney, don't let the famous attractions circling the handsome harbor
consume all your attention. Focus instead on the evolving neighborhoods where art spaces are cropping
up beside train tracks, and innovative, chef-driven restaurants are opening at a rapid clip. If you're
searching for flash, look to Darling Harbour, where celebrity chefs like David Chang and Luke Nguyen
have opened outposts in the Star, a ritzy casino and entertainment complex that reopened in 2011 after
a renovation costing around $800 million. For more discreet indulgences, seek out the diminutive
drinking dens that now pepper the city, the result of a change in local liquor licensing laws that finally
made business viable for small bars. Then when it's time to dry out, the natural beauty of Australia's
most populous city will be waiting along the sandy beaches that lie just minutes from downtown. And
don't worry, you're bound to pass a certain opera house along the way.

FRIDAY

TD

1. Modern Masters | 3 p.m.

Sydney is the pre-eminent place for art on the continent, in part because of the city's soaring multistory
arts spaces. First hop over to the White Rabbit Gallery (free), which focuses exclusively on contemporary
Chinese art. Rotating exhibitions draw from the gallery's vast collection, which includes stunning pieces
like a life-size wire motorbike by Shi Jindian, a pile of Ai Weiwei's sunflower seeds, and Tu Wei-Cheng's
reproduction of a chocolate shop stocked with tank- and bomb-shaped confections. Then head uptown
to the Rocks precinct where the renovated Museum of Contemporary Art reopened in 2012 with a new
five-story wing. Most interesting are the temporary exhibitions, like last year's captivating Anish Kapoor
retrospective and, now, a thought-provoking collection from Yoko Ono.
2. Duck, Duck, Dumplings | 6 p.m.

In a city flush with excellent Asian restaurants, one of the most exciting is Mr. Wong, a two-level,
Chinese-inflected establishment hidden down a narrow lane. The restaurant's elegant interior features
wood-beam ceilings, bamboo-framed chairs and rows of plump ducks hanging in the kitchen window.
After seeing the fowl, it will be difficult to pass up the Chinese roasted duck (half order, 34 Australian
dollars, about the same in U.S. dollars) or the Peking duck pancakes (half order, 45 Australian dollars),
but save room for a platter of delicious steamed dim sum (32 dollars).
3. Culture Carriage | 8 p.m.

Near the ascendant Redfern area, a 19th-century industrial complex where railroad cars were once
constructed is now a cavernous cultural hub called Carriageworks. Located at the old Eveleigh Railway
Yards, the venue hosts myriad contemporary arts events -- everything from offbeat plays to large-scale
art exhibitions -- in its multiple performance and exhibition spaces. Look out for an ambitious installation
by Christian Boltanski this month, and performances from the Samoan choreographer Lemi Ponifasio's
company of Maori dancers, MAU, in May.

Page17of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.4. Basement Bars | 11 p.m.

Finding Sydney's most atmospheric bars is no easy task. For example, to reach the Baxter Inn, you walk
down an unmarked alley, through an unkempt courtyard and down a flight of industrial-looking steps to a
nondescript basement door. When you're mumbling, ''This can't possibly be right,'' heave the heavy
portal open to enter an attractive, dimly lighted saloon with vintage boxing posters on the walls and
hundreds of fine whiskeys lined up behind the bar. Another hip hangout squirreled away from view is
Frankie's Pizza. The front half of the bar is a kitschy homage to a pizzeria, with plastic checked
tablecloths and Chianti-bottle candleholders, while the rear half houses a rollicking American dive bar
circa 1987, with pinball machines flashing and deep cuts from Guns N' Roses blasting. There are also
tasty sausage pizzas and craft beers from around the world, so plan for a very late -- and fun -- night.

SATURDAY
5. Seaside Salutations | 9 a.m.

Greet the morning with a series of sun salutations in stupendously scenic environs. About a mile south of
the more famous Bondi Beach, along a breathtakingly beautiful waterfront walkway, is Bronte Beach, a
boomerang of golden sand nestled between wind-worn cliffs, a verdant public park and the Tasman
Sea. Here, in full view of the aquamarine water, Yoga by the Sea holds restorative hatha classes in a
beachfront studio (23 Australian dollars). Sessions are also held at Bondi and Tamarama beaches, but
finding your center amid the sea breezes and rhythmic crashing of waves in Bronte is hard to top. After
class, cool off with a dip in the sea or stake out a spot on the beach for a blissful, extended savasana.
6. Bronte Bites | 12:30 p.m.

From the beach, it's a short (albeit steep) uphill walk to Three Blue Ducks, a casual restaurant opened by
three surfer friends. The vibe is laid-back -- colorful murals painted across the walls, fresh air wafting
through open doors and windows -- but the organic-focused menu reflects a fine-dining sensibility.
During the antipodean summer, try a bright salad from the ever-changing menu; a recent standout
included spicy duck, green mango and bean sprouts. Then scope out the backyard garden that most
likely supplied some of the produce that graced your plate. Lunch for two, about 50 Australian dollars.
7. Neighborhood Shops | 3 p.m.

Spend the afternoon strolling through Surry Hills, a tranquil neighborhood where the tree-lined streets
are home to organic markets, sidewalk cafes and stylish shops. Give your wandering purpose with a
shopping tour beginning at Mushu, an eclectic boutique brimming with vintage-inspired clothing, delicate
jewelry and bright leather bags. Then cross the road to the Standard Store, an airy shop stocked with
printed sundresses, striped sailor shirts and polished brogues for dapper ladies and gents. Afterward,
head to Workshopped, a cool housewares store packed with Australian-designed products, from copper
pendant lamps to amber glass jam jars.
8. Grill Guys | 7 p.m.

Stick around Surry Hills for supper at Porteño, a lively Argentine restaurant owned by the chefs Ben
Milgate and Elvis Abrahanowicz. Dine on whole suckling pig and milk-fed lamb, roasted over an open
flame for eight hours, or try a steak cooked on the smoking parrilla. Should you find yourself waiting for a
table, head upstairs to Gardel's Bar, where you can whet your appetite with a Fernet Branca and cola --
a popular tipple in Argentina. Dinner for two, about 100 Australian dollars.
9. Little Darlings | 10 p.m.

After dinner, head north to Darlinghurst, a slightly scruffier area dotted with great watering holes. Start at
Red Lily, a tiny Indochina-inspired cocktail bar that serves creative concoctions like the Pham Fatale
(kaffir lime leaf vodka, lychee and ginger liqueurs, lemon, and coconut water; 18 Australian dollars).
Continue the bar crawl at Shady Pines Saloon, a basement bar that could double as a taxidermist's lair.
It's easy to settle in here, shelling peanuts, listening to honky-tonk, petting the stuffed bull head and
drinking beer all night. But if you tire of the tongue-in-cheek Americana, head out for a nightcap at Hinky
Dinks. At this '50s-themed bar, claim a seat on the banquettes and order one of the irresistibly cutesy
cocktails, like the Hinky Fizz: strawberry-and-prosecco sorbet, gin, St-Germain, peach bitters and
grapefruit juice served in a sorbet cup (18 dollars).

SUNDAY
10. Bread and Brett | 10 a.m.

Page18of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Start the morning mingling with the many neighborhood pooches that accompany their owners outside
Bourke Street Bakery, a local institution that recently opened a fifth location. At one of the original cafe's
sidewalk tables, linger over a short black and a pear-and-berry muffin or sweet pistachio crème brûlée
tart. Then grab a loaf of sourdough and walk up the block to the Brett Whiteley Studio (free), the former
home and workplace of the prominent Australian artist. Now an exhibition space under the auspices of
the Art Gallery of New South Wales, the studio contains some of Whiteley's abstract and surrealist
pieces, as well as his well-preserved loft workshop, complete with unfinished works, reference books and
inspiration wall.
11. Harborside Hideaway | 12:30 p.m.

Seaside beaches like Bondi can get crowded, so instead soak up the sun harborside. One secluded
swath of soft golden sand on the harbor's eastern edge is Camp Cove Beach, where clear turquoise
water laps the shore. It's the sort of secret spot where Sydneysiders come for a picnic, a swim and a
reminder of the fantastic nature that lies so close to their concrete metropolis. To reach this hidden
beach, take the ferry from Circular Quay to Watsons Bay, a relaxing ride that also affords a fine view of --
what else? -- the white wedges of the iconic Sydney Opera House backed by the steel arch of the
Sydney Harbour Bridge.

THE DETAILS

1. White Rabbit Gallery, 30 Balfour Street; whiterabbitcollection.org. Museum of Contemporary Art, 140
George Street; mca.com.au.

2. Mr. Wong, 3 Bridge Lane; merivale.com.au/mrwong.

3. Carriageworks, 245 Wilson Street; carriageworks.com.au.

4. The Baxter Inn, Basement, 152-156 Clarence Street; thebaxterinn.com. Frankie's Pizza, 50 Hunter
Street; frankiespizzabytheslice.com.

5. Yoga by the Sea, Bronte Surf Club; yogabythesea.com.au.

6. Three Blue Ducks, 141-143 Macpherson Street; threeblueducks.com.

7. Mushu, 540 Crown Street; mushu.com.au. The Standard Store, 503 Crown Street;
thestandardstore.com.au. Workshopped, 8 Hill Street; workshopped.com.au.

8. Porteño/Gardel's Bar, 358 Cleveland Street; porteno.com.au.

9. Red Lily, 60 Crown Lane; redlantern.com.au/redlily. Shady Pines Saloon, 4/256 Crown Street;
shadypinessaloon.com. Hinky Dinks, 185 Darlinghurst Road; hinkydinks.com.au.

10. Bourke Street Bakery, 633 Bourke Street; bourkestreetbakery.com.au. Brett Whiteley Studio, 2
Raper Street; artgallery.nsw.gov.au/brett-whiteley-studio.

11. Camp Cove Beach, Cliff Street, Watsons Bay.

LODGING

The QT Sydney (49 Market Street; qtsydney.com.au) opened in September 2012 with 200 rooms spread
within two historic buildings: the Gowings department store and the heritage-listed State Theater. Rooms
feature a chic, theatrical style, with bowler-hat lamps and oxblood skins draped on beds. The quirky
décor extends to the hotel's restaurant, cocktail bar, spa and barbershop. Doubles from 295 Australian
dollars.

The 2012 opening of the redesigned Park Hyatt Sydney (7 Hickson Road; sydney.park.hyatt.com)
ushered in a new era of luxury lodgings in the city. In the hotel's 155 rooms and suites, clean lines and
neutral tones prime the star attraction: balcony views of the city skyline, the Sydney Opera House, and
the sparkling harbor. Doubles from 1,060 Australian dollars.

ART

NS

Above, Bronte Beach. Left, Frankie's Pizza has a dive bar in back with pinball machines, pizzas and craft
beers; the ferry to Watsons Bay and its more secluded beach, with the Opera House beyond.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JACK ATLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS
gart : Art | gcoart : Contemporary Art | gtour : Travel | nartrw : Art Reviews | gcat : Political/General News
| gent : Arts/Entertainment | glife : Living/Lifestyle | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce :
FC&E Exclusion Filter | nrvw : Reviews

Page19of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South
Wales
Travel Desk

IPD
PUB The New York Times Company
AN

Document NYTF000020140119ea1j0003a

Page20of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.