Road to Rio: Lynch’s love of the game

Road to Rio: Lynch’s love of the game

9 August 2014
00:00
theAustralian.com.au
NLAUSW
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

The Australian

HD
CR
WC 1,118 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

WHEN Chris Lynch was recruited by Geelong Football Club in 1972, he asked his employer for a job at
Melbourne headquarters.
But the mining company he worked for, CRA (now Rio Tinto), was not keen to play second fiddle.

“The answer was ‘no, you’ll be more interested in football than working, so good luck with the football’,”
says Lynch, who ended up playing five games with the Cats in the VFL.

Four decades later he is back working as an executive director at Rio, helping oversee what has so far
been the successful transformation of a company that lost its way through some value-destructive
acquisitions under previous management.

He is also a potential future chief executive.

This week, Lynch and current chief executive Sam Walsh surprised the market by announcing they had
met a target of reducing Rio’s annual costs by $US3 billion six months early. This helped beat first-half
profit expectations, pay down debt and set the scene for big capital returns for investors.

With the target — which was put in place by previous management — met, Walsh and Lynch have now
set down one of their own, removal of another $US1bn of costs by the end of next year.

Unlike the previous goal, this one has not been delivered from the top down.

“We’ve just been through a round of plan review committees, and we challenged them (the individual Rio
businesses) about how much we could take out of the cost structure in 2015,” Lynch says of how the
target was arrived at.

“The low-hanging fruit is gone but, equally, there is good momentum.”

The path Lynch, 60, took to finance director at Rio has been an unusual one.

A former Transurban chief executive and BHP Billiton chief financial officer who missed out on the top job
to Marius Kloppers in 2007, he was in February last year drafted back to executive life from the ranks of
Rio’s non-executive directors by Walsh.
“I thought I was too young and had too much energy to not continue to pursue an executive career,” says
Lynch, who moved to London with his wife and two children to take up the role.

“I had no thoughts about taking this particular role but it was a good opportunity to get in and help Sam
get it done, and I love this business (mining).”

With Walsh, who had been appointed to the top job a month earlier, Lynch set about meeting the cost-out
target set by previous chief executive Tom Albanese.

“Sam had to decide whether he wanted to buy into that target or modify it — to his credit he took it on,”
Lynch says.

Over the next 18 months, the pair set about winning back the confidence of the market by delivering cost
savings and strengthening the balance sheet.

Page135of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In the early 2000s, when Lynch was working for BHP, Rio had a reputation as a stable, low-spending
company that made sensible acquisitions and was strong on delivery.
By the start of last year that reputation, apart from strength of project delivery in iron ore, was shot. The
main problem was the 2007 $US38bn cash acquisition of Alcan. It was seen as overpriced by most at
the time, failed to predict a coming wave of Chinese aluminium capacity that depressed prices and was
debt-funded just before the onset of the credit freeze that sparked the global financial crisis.
The Alcanpurchase was at least partly driven by the desire to defend a coming takeover attempt by BHP,
which the Rio board had already been made aware was in the wings.

It worked, because BHP walked away from the bid during theGFC, partly because it was not willing to
take on Rio’s crippling $US40bn of debt.

Rio recovered after a massive rights issue to pay down debt. But when the market turned positive, the
company showed it had learned few lessons by paying $4bn for Mozambique coking coal play
Riversdale Mining in 2011.

The value of this was written down by $US3bn at the start of last year when it was revealed Rio misjudged
coking coal markets, the quality of the resource and the intentions of the government. This month the
business was sold for just $US50 million. Mr Albanese lost his job after the writedown and Mr Walsh,
whose iron ore unit had been humming throughout all the turmoil, was installed as chief executive.

“When I was talking to Sam about coming on board, we sat down and talked about what the agenda
would be and our thoughts coincided,” Lynch says.

“We had to deliver cost savings, we had to strengthen the balance sheet, we had to strengthen up a lot of
internal processes and we had to develop more leadership talent.”

Overshadowing all of this was the need to win back market confidence through consistency of delivery.

Thursday’s interim result shows that Rio has done what it planned 18 months ago.
Costs have been removed, debt has been paid down to a level that the company is comfortable with and
capital spending has been reined in.

Now, with the board’s permission, Walsh and Lynch can start returning cash to shareholders. If cashflows
stay at current levels, they could have an extra $US5bn a year to return to shareholders once capital
spending and regular dividends are taken care of.

Lynch says the biggest part of turning things around at Rio was getting the organisation to buy in to the
plan and understand it was necessary.
“One of the great things about the people in this company is once they see the challenge and can identify
what the task is they are very good at delivering,” he says.

Lynch is 18 months into a four-year contract, one year longer than that of his chief executive, Walsh, who
says he will stay on as long as the board will have him.

The stability under Walsh and Lynch has meant Rio chairman Jan du Plessis, who has regularly had his
hands full with Rio during his five-year stint, also now feels comfortable taking on the role of chairman of
brewing giant SABMiller next year.

Du Plessis’s declaration this week that he was keen to stay on at Rio for a few more years sparked
speculation the board was planning to install a new chief, potentially Lynch, when Mr Walsh’s contract is
up at the end of next year. Lynch will not be drawn on the CEO speculation.
“That’s entirely for the board, I’m fully occupied with what I’m doing at the moment,” he says.

CO bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
IN
NS

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
gozftl : Australian Rules Football | gspo : Sports/Recreation | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nrgn : Routine General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB News Ltd.

Page136of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document NLAUSW0020140808ea88000uq

Page137of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.