Elephants in the boom contemplate a jumbo merger

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Elephants in the boom contemplate a jumbo merger

BARRY FITZGERALD, MATT CHAMBERS, MERGERS
1,083 words
11 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
28
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Glencore is hoping diversification might tempt its target Rio
APART from the value question, Rio Tinto chief executive Sam Walsh sees a $190 billion merger with
Ivan Glasenberg’s Glencore as being fraught with difficulties, having compared it with trying to get two
elephants into a single bed.

“How do you actually make that work without one falling out,’’ the urbane grandfather and milk jug
collector told Bloomberg last December in a London interview.

The trouble is, his adversary Glasenberg, a triathlete and a race-walker of some talent in his younger
days and a man who enjoys the thrill of the hunt as all traders do, thinks Rio-the-elephant has a wound
that he can exploit.
A South African who carries an Australian passport from his days as a coal trader in Sydney,
Glasenberg has zeroed in on Rio’s heavy reliance on iron ore for its earnings as a weakness that a
merger with Glencore could fix. After all, Glencore is the most diversified of all of the resource
companies thanks to its global trading arm and agricultural commodity interests.
Iron ore has been in free fall this year. That it is down by 40 per cent from last year’s annual average
of $US135 a tonne to less than $US80 a tonne is a key factor in Rio’s relative underperformance on the
market.

On Barclays’ numbers, Rio is trading on a 2015 prospective price/earnings multiple of 8.7 times. That
compares with 10.7 times for Glencore, and 10.8 times for BHP Billiton.
In July, Glasenberg — the richest mineral resources company executive in the world, courtesy of his
$US6bn ($8.6bn) stake in Glencore — decided the time to act on Rio’s vulnerability to iron ore price
weakness had arrived.

Acting on that vulnerability could deliver Glencore something Glasenberg has long coveted, and
something that for all of its diversity, Glencore has no meaningful presence in — iron ore. Rio’s Pilbara
operations are best-in-class, a point it felt the need to highlight this week in response to both the
Glencore approach, and BHP’s warning it was after Rio’s lowest-cost producer status.

Glasenberg picked up the phone and called Rio chairman and fellow South African, Jan du Plessis,
suggesting a merger between the two companies — one that would also knock BHP off its perch as the
world’s biggest mining company.

Come early August, Rio rebuffed the mega-merger approach, something that both Rio and Glencore
were only to confirm on Tuesday after a London report by Bloomberg said Glasenberg had responded
to the rejection by “reaching out’’ to Rio’s 9.8 per cent shareholder, China’s state-owned Chinalco.
The Chinalcostake is a throwback to early 2008 when Rio was reeling from the GFC. BHP’s then chief
executive Marius Kloppers was also close to making a hostile $US150bn scrip bid for the company,

Page181of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.one which the young South African said was both compelling and one for all seasons. It wasn’t, with
BHP walking away in November 2008, blaming the fallout from the GFC.
Chinalco’s earlier dawn raid on Rio was seen as a response to Beijing’s fears that a BHP-Rio
combination would have undue influence over iron ore prices.

Beijing — and European antitrust regulators — were equally alarmed when a planned $US116bn
combination of the Pilbara iron ore operations of BHP and Rio was proposed in 2009, only to be
abandoned in 2010 after it became clear it would not gain clearance from antitrust regulators.

The aborted merger was bitterly disappointing for BHP, whereas Rio had effectively stumbled into
preserving its independence, given the iron ore merger was unveiled with a $US15bn rights issue that
allowed Rio to call off the garage sale of $US19.5bn in iron ore and copper interests to Chinalco
under an earlier recapitalisation proposal. Chinalco has been tight-lipped about a Glencore-Rio
merger, saying only it would like to protect its equity investment in Rio, on which it is down by half.
Because of Glencore’s limited iron ore interests, China will not be alarmed about the potential
combination, although the copper production and copper trading presence of a merged group could
well prompt it to seek remedies to its satisfaction, as was the case with Glencore’s takeover of its 34
per cent-owned Xstrata last year. But commentary about what hurdles there are around a merger
proceeding presupposes that there will be one. Rio made clear in this week’s belated confirmation that
it had rejected Glencore, and that it would be staying the course under Walsh.

Since Walsh was called up by De Plessis to replace Tom Albanese as CEO in January last year he has
said time and again that merger and acquisition activity is not on the agenda.
While his comments on M&A have been taken to mean that Rio was in no hurry to get back on the
M&A wheel after its disastrous Alcan and Riversdale acquisitions, they can also be viewed against
Rio’s long understanding that Glasenberg has had the company in his sights — as early as 2007 by
some accounts.
Comments earlier this year by Glasenberg that the mining majors like Rio had killed the super-cycle by
massively increasing supply are now seen as part of his strategy to switch investors on to the need for
greater diversification at Rio through a merger with Glencore.

But not wanting to detract from Glencore’s own exposure to commodities where oversupply has
become a problem, Glasenberg said in August that super-cycle was not dead. “It is there, the demand
is there; it’s a matter of what people are going to do about supply,’’ Glasenberg said. His criticism of the
Pilbara expansions, and the role they have played in bringing down iron ore prices down, is not shared
by investors.

Colonial First State’s $2.2bn global resources fund, which has BHP, Rio, Vale and Glencore in its top 5
holdings, says the expansions are shareholder-friendly. “The price is obviously suffering from the
supply growth exceeding demand growth,” fund manager Todd Warren said. “But in the medium-term,
more supply will be needed and the most profitable tonnes on the planet are mined in the Pilbara
region by BHP and Rio Tinto.

Walsh would undoubtedly agree. Glasenberg too.TERRY MCCRANN P32

CO

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

almcor : Aluminium Corporation of China Limited | bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | march : Glencore PLC | rtz :
Rio Tinto PLC | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC | craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | i2245 : Aluminum | i8396 :
Diversified Holding Companies | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | ibcs : Business/Consumer
Services | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c34 : Anti-Competition Issues |
cmerg : Mergers | cacqu : Acquisitions | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141010eaab0009u

Page182of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.