*Prima BioMed Announces Strategic Acquisition Of Immutep SA >PRR.AU

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

*Prima BioMed Announces Strategic Acquisition Of Immutep SA >PRR.AU

1,509 words
2 October 2014
21:00
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

2 Oct 2014 07:00 ET Press Release: Prima BioMed Announces Strategic Acquisition of Immutep SA
Prima BioMed Announces Strategic Acquisition of Immutep SA

SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA--(Marketwired - Oct 2, 2014) - Prima BioMed Ltd (ASX: PRR) (NASDAQ: PBMD)

Highlights

-- Prima to acquire French biopharmaceutical

company Immutep SA for up to

US$28M

-- Expands presence in the rapidly growing immuno-oncology industry
-- Diversifies product pipeline and provides partnerships with global

pharma

companies

-- Potential revenue streams through milestone payments and licensing

agreements

-- Up to US$37.4M funding from US institutional investor Bergen

Prima BioMed Ltd (ASX: PRR) (NASDAQ: PBMD) ("Prima" or the "Company") announces that it has
reached an agreement to acquire Immutep SA ("Immutep"), a late stage privately owned
biopharmaceutical company in the rapidly growing field of immuno-oncology ("Acquisition"). Prima will
pay consideration of up to approximately US$28 M through a combination of cash, shares and warrants
subject to the achievement of certain performance milestones. The transaction is to be funded via an
investment agreement with Bergen Global Opportunity Fund, LP ("Bergen").

Immutep has been developing a number of complementary types of cancer immunotherapies based on
its patented Lymphocyte Activation Gene 3 (LAG-3) technology. Its lead product IMP321 has been
tested in various clinical trials to date, both alone and in combination with other therapies. Immutep
holds the world-wide rights (excluding China and Taiwan) to commercialise IMP321. This includes trials
in chemo-immunotherapy, a combination of immunotherapy and chemotherapy which significantly
enhances patients' immune response to cancers.

Lucy Turnbull, Chair of Prima BioMed, said: "This is the most significant announcement in Prima's
history. It is the result of a long and diligent search process led by new Chief Executive Marc Voigt as
part of our business development program. It considerably strengthens our position in
immuno-oncology, which is forecast to grow to a US$35B industry by 2023(1) ."

"It significantly expands our clinical development product portfolio to other categories of
immunotherapies beyond cancer vaccines, which includes our current lead product CVac(TM). It also
provides us with partnerships with several of the world's largest pharmaceutical companies," she said.

Page291of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Immutep's development partnerships, which will provide future milestone payments and royalties to
Prima, include:

-- IMP321: a Phase II chemo-immunotherapy trial combining IMP321 with

first

Chinese pharma company Eddingpharm. Eddingpharm has exclusively
Taiwan

line chemotherapy for metastatic breast cancer ("MBC") in partnership
with
sub-licensed IMP321 for development in China, Hong Kong, Macau and
and this could result in undisclosed milestone payments and royalties.
Prima will take over responsibility for the development of IMP321 in
rest of the world;

the

-- IMP731: a Phase I clinical trial program in auto-immune diseases in

partnership with GlaxoSmithKline ("GSK") with potential milestone
payments of up to approx. US$100m and additional royalties;

-- IMP701: an immune checkpoint blocker pre-clinical program in cancer

immunotherapy partnered with CoStim (Novartis). Financial details are
undisclosed but include milestone payments and royalties.

In addition, Immutep currently generates modest revenues from commercial sales of LAG-3 research
reagents.

The completed Phase II trial of IMP321 in MBC demonstrated a doubling of the tumour response rate in
30 patients treated with chemo-immunotherapy versus chemotherapy alone. Planning for a new Phase II
clinical trial program with IMP321 in chemo-immunotherapy or in other combinations will commence
following completion of the transaction.

Marc Voigt, Chief Executive of Prima, said: "This presents a major opportunity to grow and strengthen
the Company. It provides Prima with a diverse pipeline of early- and mid-stage development candidates
and the opportunity to develop other pre-clinical candidates. This is based on a technology which has
been endorsed by several major pharmaceutical companies. Through strategic partnerships with these
companies we also now have potential near term and future revenue streams with no development cost
to Prima."

"Through this transaction, combining experience of personalised cancer therapy at Prima Biomed with
the immunotherapy innovation and expertise of novel cancer targets at Immutep, Prima steps to the
forefront of cancer immunotherapy development, including mono-therapy and combined approaches.
This is a very exciting prospect," he said.

Immutep has a R&D laboratory outside Paris, France where additional research projects for its LAG-3
technology are being explored. Immutep has 11 patent families covering its technology which are all
exclusively licensed or owned, with one jointly owned with the Institut National de la Santé et de la
Recherche Médicale ("INSERM"), a major French public health research organisation.

John Hawken, Chief Executive of Immutep said: "I have every confidence in the Prima team and it gives
me great personal satisfaction to hand over Immutep to Marc and his colleagues."

Immutep's founder and Scientific and Medical Director, Professor Frédéric Triebel will join Prima as its
Chief Scientific Officer, along with his scientific team, to oversee the LAG-3 development program and to
advise on the ongoing development of CVac. Professor Triebel, an eminent scientist in cancer
immunotherapy, originally developed the LAG-3 technology in collaboration with the Institut Gustave
Roussy (IGR), one of the world's leading cancer-research institutes based in Paris, and Merck Serono.
He was Professor of Immunology at Paris University and a Director of an INSERM Research Unit from
1991-1996 prior to founding Immutep in 2001.

Commenting on the transaction, Prof. Triebel said: "The team is very excited about joining Prima. We
believe that the combination of therapies targeting different tumour escape mechanisms is about to
change the way we treat a complex disease such as cancer. In immuno-oncology combination is key."
Acquisition funding
The total consideration of up to approximately US$28 M will be funded with:

Page292of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.-- up to US$18

M in cash, partly based on the achievement of key milestones;

-- the issue of Prima Ordinary Shares totalling approximately US$3 M and

based on a VWAP calculation; and

-- the issue of 200 M warrants equating to a consideration value of

approximately US$7 M.

In order to fund the acquisition and provide ongoing working capital, Prima has secured an investment
agreement with Bergen Global Opportunity Fund, LP ("Bergen"), a New York institutional investor
managed by Bergen Asset Management for up to US$37.4 M over a 24-month period (the "Funding").
Details of the Funding are set out in a separate announcement lodged with the ASX simultaneously with
this announcement.
The Acquisition is conditional on obtaining shareholder approval at the Company's AGM for an
increase in its share placement capacity in order to fund the Acquisition.

About Immunotherapy and LAG-3/IMP321

Immunotherapy is a process whereby a disease such as cancer is treated by either activating or
suppressing components of the immune system to generate a response. LAG-3, or Lymphocyte
Activation Gene 3, is able to stimulate and in other cases inhibit an immune response, through
involvement in a number of immune pathways.
Immutep's lead product IMP321 (a LAG-3Ig fusion protein) works by binding to a receptor on antigen
presenting cells (APC's) such as dendritic cells to activate them. The APC's are important for showing
cancer antigens to T cells and activating them to destroy cancer cells. IMP321 is a first-in-class APC
activator.

Immutep's other products include IMP701, an antagonist antibody that acts to stimulate T cell
proliferation in cancer patients, licensed to CoStim (Novartis) and IMP731, a depleting antibody that
removes T cells involved in autoimmunity, licensed to GSK. In addition, there is the potential for a
number of other products coming out of the company's research efforts.
Details for a conference call to discuss the acquisition of Immutep will be announced in the coming
days.

About Prima BioMed

Prima BioMed is a globally active leader in the development of personalized immunocellular therapeutic
products for the treatment of cancer. Prima is dedicated to leveraging its technology and expertise to
bring innovative treatment options to market for patients and to maximize value to shareholders. Prima's
lead product is CVac(TM), an autologous dendritic cell-based product currently in clinical trials.
www.primabiomed.com.au

(1) Citi Research, 22 May 2013 - "Immunotherapy - The Beginning of the End"

For further information please contact:

USA Investor/Media:

Adam Holdsworth

ProActive Capital

+1 (646) 862 4607

Email Contact

Australia Investor/Media:

Mr Matthew Gregorowski

Citadel Communications

+61 (0) 422 534 755

Email Contact

Page293of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Europe Investor/Media:

Mr. Axel Muhlhaus

edicto GmbH

+49 (0) 69 905505-52

Email Contact
2 Oct 2014 07:01 ET *Prima Biomed to Acquire French Biopharmaceutical Company Immutep for Up to
$28 Million

2 Oct 2014 07:02 ET *Prima Biomed: Deal to Be Funded Via Investment Agreement With Bergen Global
Opportunity
2 Oct 2014 07:02 ET *Prima Biomed: Up to $37.4 Million Funding From Bergen

2 Oct 2014 07:04 ET *Prima Biomed: Secures Investment Agreement With Bergen for Up to $37.4
Million Over 24-Month Period

(MORE TO FOLLOW) Dow Jones Newswires (212-416-2800)

October 02, 2014 07:04 ET (11:04 GMT)

IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

i2569 : Biotechnology | i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences
ctrial : New Product/Service Testing | c23 : Research/Development | gchemo : Chemotherapy | gcancr :
Cancer | c334 : Licensing Agreements | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 :
Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News |
c22 : New Products/Services | c33 : Contracts/Orders | cactio : Corporate Actions | gcat :
Political/General News | ghea : Health | gmed : Medical Conditions | gtrea : Medical
Treatments/Procedures | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document DJDN000020141002eaa20013v

Page294of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.