Record price for site that may be home to hundreds

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Record price for site that may be home to hundreds

284 words
20 August 2014
Parramatta Advertiser
PARRAD
Parramatta
3
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

A  MASSIVE apartment complex with almost 1000 new homes is likely to be built after a huge Melrose
Park site sold for $135 million.
The 4.8ha site bounded by Victoria and Wharf Rd was bought by Chinese property group Aqualand
Australia last week and is Western Sydney’s biggest development site sale this year.

The development is also expected to include retail space and roads. Agent Harry Bui from property
firm Colliers International said demand for these type of residential sites was strong from local and
offshore developers.
“This sale of this asset was hotly contested by 11 parties, both local and offshore developers,” Mr Bui
said.
“We had a lot of Asian-based developers interested in this site, highlighting the ongoing demand from
these offshore investors in the Sydney market.” The site was jointly owned by Parramatta Council and
Roads and Maritime Services. It includes a mini-golf amusement park and vacant land.
Parramatta Council chief executive officer Greg Dyer said because of the site’s zoning the expectation
was that it would be turned into an apartment complex.
“Our planning indicates a little less than 1000 apartments on the site is technically feasible. It’s
somewhere between 930 and 940 apartments,” he said.

“We’d be looking to maintain a good standard, high quality product, environmentally sustainable and
basically working towards increasing the available stock of housing in the LGA.” Mr Dyer said the sale
was an opportunity for council to invest in other assets.Parramatta Lord Mayor John Chedid said the
sale would help revitalise Melrose Park and provide apartment housing to cater for the city’s growing
population.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
News Ltd.
Document PARRAD0020140819ea8k0001b

Page16of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.