Two S'pore start-ups head Down Under for listings

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Money
Two S'pore start-ups head Down Under for listings

573 words
30 January 2014
Straits Times
STIMES
English
(c) 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

TWO Singapore start-ups have decided to head Down Under to mount public listings there.

Group discount start-up Dealguru Holdings, set up in 2010, merged with two other leading
regional e-commerce start-ups to form iBuy, which was listed on the Australian Securities
Exchange (ASX) last month.

It raised A$37 million (S$41.4 million), to be used to increase its product-sourcing base in
Shenzen, China, and for market expansion, said a media release.

Second, mobile micro- blogging site Mig33 is preparing for an ASX listing in a reverse takeover.
It has reached an agreement to acquire ASX-listed mining firm Latin Gold. Mig33 will be folded
into Latin Gold, and the company will then be known as Mig33.

No further details are available as yet.

Both companies say they have found that the ASX had more experience in listing Internet and
digital businesses than Singapore.

Mig33 founder Steven Goh said that "there is a track record of digital assets being listed in
Australia which are being valued properly".

"It appears to be still early days in other markets. It may be in the future we will seek a cross
listing in Singapore," he said.

Dealguru's transformation into iBuy saw it merging its group-buying firms Deal.com.sg and
MyDeal.com.my with two other similar firms Beecrazy from Hong Kong and Dealmate in
Malaysia.

The listing has also transformed the business into a general e-commerce store with a strong
group-buying platform.

Mr Patrick Linden, co-founder of Dealguru and now iBuy's chief executive, is vying for the top
spot in South-east Asia's e-commerce industry.

"The general e-commerce prospects are very good, and forecasted to grow 28 per cent annually
for the next five years," he told The Straits Times.

"Our competitors here like Q10 and Zalora are more focused. Q10 is a marketplace where
merchants and buyers get together to sell products. Zalora focuses on fashion goods."

iBuy aims to be a one-stop general e-commerce store selling a wide variety of products such as
food, electronic gadgets, kitchen equipment and even expensive handbags from Prada and
Gucci.
"We have 15,000 products selling across Hong Kong, Malaysia and Singapore. We will be
expanding our product line-up as well as starting operations in the rest of South-east Asia," he
said.

Page18of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Its product-sourcing base in Shenzen, China, also has a warehouse where it stores its goods
before they are shipped for sale.

"The warehouse is also where we will be doing quality checks on products," said Mr Linden.

He added that it may also acquire other companies so as to grow faster.
According to iBuy's media statement, the company has about 300 employees and 138 million
customers

For Mig33, Mr Goh said the listing will let it grow through partnerships and acquisitions.
The company had transformed itself last year from an Internet chat platform for feature phones
into a microblogging site.
It now has more than three million active monthly users on its platform.
The company will continue to be headquartered in Singapore, even though its listing is on the
Australian bourse.

GRACE CHNG

ART

IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

Mr Patrick Linden (above), co-founder of Dealguru and now iBuy's chief executive, is vying for
the top spot in South-east Asia's e-commerce industry. -- PHOTO: DEALGURU
iecom : E-commerce | iint : Internet/Online | itech : Technology
c14 : Stock Listings | c02 : Corporate Changes | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
singp : Singapore | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Singapore Press Holdings Limited
Document STIMES0020140129ea1u0001n

Page19of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.