Chinese take northern beaches for 40pc premium

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Chinese take northern beaches for 40pc premium

Matthew Cranston
516 words
12 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
37
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

A Chinese-backed investor has paid close to a 40 per cent premium to book value for the Dee Why
Marketplace on Sydney's northern beaches.

The buyer will pay Sydney investment house Ashe Morgan $34 million for the centre representing a
significant premium to the $24.4 million book value recorded in June this year.

The sale not only reflects the demand from China but also for development opportunities in the
northern beaches area.

Ashe Morgan principal Alton Abrahams said the buyer had provided a 20 per cent deposit to secure
the sale which is due to settle this month. "We have taken advantage of demand in the market for
these types of assets and taken some very healthy returns," Mr Abrahams said.
Preliminary calculations by Ashe Morgan indicate that once completed this sale will provide its
investors with an internal rate of return of more than 25 per cent per year.

The Dee Why Centre, covering just under 5000 square metres is anchored by a Woolworths and eight
speciality stores. There is no redevelopment approval in place but the new Chinese backed owner is
likely to develop the property with apartments in mind.
Billionaire Harry Triguboff's Meriton bought the separate Dee Why Town Centresite from Brookfield
Asset Management last year for a reported $50 million and has plans to redevelop it into four towers.
At the time of purchase Mr Triguboff said there was little supply of apartments in Dee Why.
Mr Abrahams did not comment on the buyer of Ashe Morgan's retail centre but he said he was happy
with the price paid.

He told The Australian Financial Review that Ashe Morgan would now pursue several opportunities in
the market. Earlier this year Ashe Morgan purchased the $150 million Harbour Town retail complex
in Melbourne and last month it and co-investors Bricktop and Marquette Properties bought the Post
Office Square retail complex in Brisbane for $67 million from Novion Property Group.

Ashe Morgan has been looking to raise capital for a new fund which would include the Post Office
Square asset. It has estimated that the property is already worth more than $70 million after CBRE
brokered a 15-year lease over the busy carpark at the centre.

Ashe Morgan and Bricktop are forecasting the new fund will pay a distribution yield of 9 per cent per
year. Ashe Morgan has also sold its Marsden Park shopping centre in Brisbane's south for about
$50 million to the Queensland Investment Corporation.

The 8000-square-metre centre is an enclosed single-level neighbourhood centre. It opened in 1985
and is anchored by a full-line Coles supermarket and 42 specialty retailers.

Page85of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The centre has development potential for expansion that may include an additional supermarket and
specialty stores which could raise the total gross lettable area to more than 16,000 square metres.

Such redevelopment plays have been front and centre for QIC.

On Wednesday QIC will officially commence major works for its Grand Central shopping centre in
Toowoomba,

Key points

IN
RE

PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
austr : Australia | china : China | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141111eabc00034

Page86of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.