Chevron chatter signals trouble

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Chevron chatter signals trouble

680 words
24 September 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
Second
4
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

The drums are beating louder and louder that Andrew Forrest is preparing to get involved in the stoush
between the Onslow community and Chevron , builder of the $29 billion Wheatstone LNG plant about
20km south of town.
The iron ore billionaire would not comment yesterday but chatter suggests he is siding with the
townsfolk in their campaign to overturn Chevron’s decision to house the 300-odd Wheatstone
operational FIFO workforce in accommodation at Wheatstone, rather than in Onslow as per Chevron’s
earlier commitment.

Forrest’s family homestead, Minderoo , is between Onslow and the Wheatstone project area. Whether
his objection to a FIFO camp at Wheatstone is based on proximity to Minderoo Station and its cattle is
unclear.

It would not be the first time the Fortescue Metals Group chairman and Chevron have been on
opposing sides.

A plan by Forrest to supply Onslow with potable water, in part to cover demand from a supposed influx
of Wheatstone workers, was hanging in the balance earlier this year when Chevron and the Water Corp
pushed on with plans for a desalination plant for Onslow.

Incidentally, a residual saline stream produced during the desalination process was to be pumped into
Quick Mud Creek, which runs through Minderoo Station.

FIRING CRACKERS

In what was surely one of the most well-attended office opening parties in history (particularly for an
office that only employs two permanent staff) about 200 oil and gas aficionados turned out to celebrate
the ribbon cutting at Woodside’s Singapore digs on Monday night.

Held at the lavish Fullerton Bay Hotel’s rooftop bar, guests could sip their Tiger beer while overlooking
Marina Bay.

Woodside flew over executive vice-president Rob Cole for the event, which, coincidentally, allowed the
affable Cole a chance to watch Perth’s own Daniel Ricciardo zoom around the Marina Bay circuit on his
way to a podium finish.

Cole enlightened the crowd about some of Woodside’s recent business achievements.

But halfway through the speech he was interrupted by two minutes of fireworks shooting off the top of
Singapore’s UBS building.

“That cost us a fortune,” Cole quipped.

Singapore being Singapore, fireworks are as common as sweaty underarms, and no doubt UBS
executives were probably just celebrating the end of a Monday.

Page168of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Cole added that the company had been pushing for a Singapore office for a long time to jump on to the
“increasingly innovative and diverse relationships” coming out of the financial hub.
Although it only has two permanent staff right now, the company expects a further 10 or so to arrive in
the next 12 months. Woodside employees coming through the travel hub are also expected to use the
office regularly.

“In closing,” Cole said, summing up his speech. “Hmmm, the fireworks were meant to happen now.”

GUY HAS A BALL
After close to two years as the Bull’s resident China commentator, Robert Guy is off to Hong Kong
once he has filed his final Observed column tomorrow. Guy has been appointed the inaugural
managing editor of Barron’s Asia . His partner Yvonne Ball bade farewell to her employer Fortescue
Metals Group on Friday afternoon, an event highlighted by the iron ore miner’s external affairs boss
Tim Langmead breaking into song as part of festivities. No word yet whether Langmead’s boss, Nev
Power , has nominated Langmead for the next season of The X Factor. Maybe Fortescue bean counter
Stephen Pearce can use Langmead for backing vocals in his band Flipside.

A SEXY FIND?
Something is stirring at one of our favourite gold stocks, Paynes Find Gold , which went into a trading
halt yesterday pending a “material acquisition”.

The Bull has had a soft spot for the innocuous Paynes Find for some time. After all, name another
explorer with a sex toys purveyor as its major shareholder.

The Malcolm Day -chaired Delecta now owns 48.9 per cent of the penny dreadful, having picked up the
shortfall from Paynes Find’s recent rights issue.

With Peter Klinger, Nick Sas,

Sean Smith and Nick Evans

CO
IN

ambol : Fortescue Metals Group Ltd | socal : Chevron Corporation
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | i211 : Metal Ore
Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia

NS
RE
PUB West Australian Newspapers Limited
AN

Document TWAU000020140923ea9o00019

Page169of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.