Ready to ‘nail’ China FTA

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

EARLY GENERAL NEWS
Ready to ‘nail’ China FTA

PHILLIP COOREY and ANGUS GRIGG
731 words
13 November 2014
The Land
FTLAND
6
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

TALK of the decade-long Australia-China free trade agreement (FTA) reaching a conclusion
intensified after Trade Minister Andrew Robb's latest talks in Beijing with his Chinese ministerial
counterpart, Gao Hucheng.

The ministerial discussions arrived on the back of a week of intense negotiations with Australian
agricultural representatives in Beijing for the APEC summit, including the Australian cattle and sheep
meat councils and the National Farmers Federation.

Mr Robb said last Friday's meeting with Minister Gao on the FTA was "very constructive" and
"substantial progress" was made.

But he said "there are still a couple of issues we need to further negotiate".

"There is no reason to believe we can't nail those before President Xi arrives and that's certainly the
intent, but... nothing's agreed until everything's agreed," he said.

Mr Robb declined to elaborate on what the two sticking points were.

"The best purpose will be served if we conclude these negotiations not in the public eye because
there's a lot at stake... and we don't want to inadvertently trip up those negotiations because of
certain speculation or because of things said by people who aren't aware of what really is going on
within the context of this FTA," he said.

It is thought the deal will be a staged agreement to enable Prime Minister Tony Abbott to meet his
self-imposed deadline while leaving more time to resolve disputed issues.
"It means better quality products for Chinese consumers; it means more opportunities for Australian
exporters," Mr Robb said.

Cattle Council of Australia chief executive Jed Matz says the red meat industry's key message to
Australian negotiators was to have an FTA signed equivalent to or better than the New
Zealand-China FTA, with import tariffs eventually eliminated.
NZ's FTA with China secured phased tariff elimination on beef and sheep meat exports across nine
years, from 2008.
In recent years, China has purchased increasing amounts of Australian farm produce, despite often
high tariff levels.
This has made it politically less painful for Beijing to lower barriers for the likes of beef, dairy and
wine.

By contrast, the country's service sector remains relatively undeveloped and the government is
reluctant to allow too much exposure to foreign competition.

Page30of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.While Trade Minister Andrew Robb said Australia had achieved more concessions from Beijing on
services than it had given any other country, it was understood this area would be pushed further in
coming years.
Since Prime Minister Abbott visited China earlier this year to start negotiations, two of the sticking
points have been foreign investment rules surrounding State-owned enterprises (SOEs) and China's
demands to be able to import labour for its State-funded projects.
Beijing wants its SOEs to be free from approval by the Foreign Investment Review Board (FIRB) for
deals less than $1.08 billion, which is the same threshold as the United States, Japan and South
Korea were granted in bilateral trade deals for all private investment.

Government negotiators are considering several models for loosening the FIRB restrictions on SOEs
by considering a more liberal regime for investment in greenfield projects and a more liberal regime
for SOEs that have fully transparent listed entities which can establish they are not arms of
government policy.

Another source suggested Canberra was willing to accede to the request to extend the threshold to
SOEs, but could not accommodate Beijing's other key demand around greater access for cheaper
Chinese labour.

Mr Robb has explicitly ruled out any deal that would undercut Australian wages and conditions.

Shadow Agriculture Minister Joel Fitzgibbon and Shadow Trade Minister Penny Wong both warned
the Abbott government must deliver a high-quality FTA with China that's in Australia's national
interest, "not a second-rate deal struck solely for the Prime Minister's political interests".

"Labor is concerned at reports from Beijing the government is preparing to cut Australian sugar
producers out of the proposed FTA with China," they said in a statement.
"We are also concerned the FTA may fail to put Australia's dairy industry on a competitive footing
with the New Zealand dairy industry in the Chinese market."

n Foreign investment slow, see p8.

COLIN BETTLES, PHILLIP COOREY and ANGUS GRIGG

CO
IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

naffed : The National Farmers' Federation
i0 : Agriculture
c312 : External Markets | e512 : Physical Trade | gpol : Domestic Politics | c31 : Marketing/Markets |
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News | gcat :
Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | beijin : Beijing | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FTLAND0020141112eabd0002w

Page31of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.