Agency Of The Year 2014: Agencies

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Agency Of The Year 2014: Agencies

3,021 words
1 December 2014
Campaign Asia Pacific
MEDIAM
70
English
Copyright 2014. Haymarket Media Limited. All rights reserved.

CREATIVE AGENCY OF THE YEAR

AUSTRALIA

GOLD

M&C Saatchi
In 2014, M&C Saatchi Australia placed greater focus on innovation with the creation of a dedicated
innovation team called Tricky Jigsaw as well as investments in developing people, spaces and ways of
working to nurture an 'innovative mindset'. The dedicated innovation team, consisting of eleven
specialists, work out of a lab but anyone in the agency can build and experiment with the latest
technology and tools.

To bolster all-round innovation efforts, the agency hold an annual innovation incubator where all staff
pitch their innovations to an internal panel. The five deemed most interesting are given the funding to
develop their idea from prototype through to MVP (minimum viable offer).

Supporting this effort is Spark Internship, a creative technology internship programme that sources five of
the brightest young creative graduates to work in the agency for a six-month period. Four of the interns
now have full-time positions working for Tricky Jigsaw.

The innovation focus has impacted the agency's work. 'Clever buoy' was an R&D initiative that created
shark-detection technology to alert beach-goers of shark danger via the Optus Network. The project was
used instead of an advertising campaign and within the first month had a social media reach of 19
million, 485 global news stories and elicited 84 per cent positive sentiment towards the Optus brand.
M&C Saatchi Australia saw a 16 per cent revenue growth in 2014. It won 16 new accounts and didn't lose
any of its 43 existing clients.

SILVER

Clemenger BBDO

Clemenger BBDO has focused on raising the bar of its digital capabilities and producing innovative digital
strategies and content The direction has shown through in its digital work and a good example was the
destination marketing campaign for Tourism Victoria, the 'Remote-control tourist'.

The agency has also focused on running intensive digital training across all its offices to equip its team,
where the motto is 'dream in digital'. Another investment has been in programmes to attract, grow and
nurture the best talent in the market. The Clemenger Group Recruitment initiative has helped the agency
fill 14 positions and attract 1,212 potential employees to its database, reducing the substantial costs of
recruitment.

Other developments regard process and a new way of working called 'Humans don't do what you think.'
This involves mapping consumer behaviour and generating insights, which will change, modify or

Page140of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.reinforce behaviour. It a shift away from generating brand awareness and salience to instead provoking
and inciting 'empirical behavioural change'.

BRONZE

Leo Burnett National

Leo Burnett National has shown strong revenue and profit growth, an increase in staff numbers and low
staff turnover. The figures shared with Campaign cannot be published here due to confidentiality.

The agency's notable work in 2014 includes Samsung S Drive that tackled the high incidence of car
accidents among Australian drivers under the age of 25. The S Drive app turned smartphones into
safe-driving companions and recruited young drivers via traditional and social media, which had a strong
uptake.

The agency continues to retain its major clients, many of which it has held for over 10 years. New clients
include Woolworths, one the largest supermarket chains in Australia.

NEW ZEALAND
GOLD

DDB New Zealand

2013 was a difficult year for DDB New Zealand. Key talent changes, client CMOs changing, international
client alignments and client losses presented challenges to the agency. To top it off, Volkswagen, a
globally aligned client, changed local management and parted ways with DDB. After nine consecutive
years of growth, the agency was in shock.

A simple and clear plan was drawn up to refocus the agency. Some key outcomes included innovation for
its clients. The Sky Game of Thrones Twitter campaign for the launch of Game of Thrones season 4
engaged over 66 million people from around the world and was the largest ever live-streaming event in
Australia and New Zealand. Every tweet with the hashtag #bringdowntheking tightened a noose around a
statue the agency had erected of King Joffrey, eventually toppling him.

Other key initiatives happened internally. The formation of 'Shaper', an innovation lab, allows staff to work
on products and services and take them to market for commercial success. Currently, two products are in
the prototype stage.

The agency also launched an in-house content creation team, designed to create low-cost,
fast-turn-around film and visual content, primarily for use in the digital/social space. The unit comprises
multi-disciplined producers and film production professionals.

SILVER

Colenso BBDO and Proximity New Zealand

In 2014, Colenso BBDO and Proximity New Zealand introduced project management and business
management training to change the way the agency manages ideas and services its clients.

The initiative came from a need to extend communication and strategy beyond clients' senior
stakeholders and into the clients' organisations The move was also to create greater professionalism in
production and project expertise to better handle pieces of work the agency had never done before.

The agency has also launched several innovation efforts by creating products, designing technology, and
building new revenue-raising models. Key client projects in this domain included Pedigree 'Share for
dogs', 'NZ Breast Cancer', Mars 'Whiskas catlife' and BNZ 'EmotionScan'.

New clients for the agency are Fonterra Global, Sky City, Brand Auckland, Fonterra Social, PK (Wrigley),
NZ Story and MIT.

BRONZE

FCB New Zealand

FCB New Zealand focused on strategies to maintain its rate of growth in 2014. The size of the market,
combined with category exclusivity had put a ceiling on local new business potential and a weak
Australian offering was preventing FCB from contesting larger trans-Tasman opportunities.

Page141of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.To address the challenges, the agency chose to invest a higher percentage of revenue back into the
business in order to break through to the next growth phase. People development and the recruitment of
top talent with digital media, design and production specialisms were among the top priorities. The
development of proprietary technology to automate the production of digital display banners and deliver
greater speed to market as well as developing internal production resources and partnerships made up
the other areas of focus. Enhancement of its digital offering was recognised with the Mercury Energy
win.

Other notable client wins include Reserve Bank, Inland Revenue, and European Motor Distributors.

MEDIA AGENCY OF THE YEAR

AUSTRALIA
GOLD

Universal McCann Australia

UM has a lofty objective: to be the world's most dynamic and creative connections agency. This year, it
set two measurable objectives - to increase year-on-year billings by 20 per cent and profit by 10 per cent.
Through a combination of hard and smart work, the agency enjoyed a strong year of growth in a
pessimistic market. New business came from the likes of Coca-Cola, Tourism Queensland and William
Hill, with no erosion of margin. Billings increased by 55 per cent according to Recma and profit rose 12
per cent. Universal McCann Australia also became the most awarded media agency globally.

SILVER

OMD Australia

OMD is a philosophical agency. It doesn't want to be the biggest, just become gradually bigger; it doesn't
claim to be the best, but strives to always be better. This year, its steady approach showed strong results,
bringing in 18 new clients including Heinz and Cisco as well as numerous local brands. This yielded close
to USdollars 100 million in new billings while retaining 98 per cent of existing business. The agency's
revenue grew by more than 60 per cent year-on-year.

BRONZE

Carat Australia

Carat aims to be Australia's most ambitious and innovative media agency, and to build better business
value through its command of convergence. This year investments in this vision led to significant billings
and revenue increases, and the agency now represents 60 per cent of Dentsu Aegis Network's growth
charter for 2015.

NEW ZEALAND
GOLD

OMD New Zealand

In New Zealand, OMD set out to position itself as a better media agency for people to work at, and in turn
the preferred partner for clients to work with. This philosophy helped create room for growth in a
saturated market. The agency has clients in nearly every category, so it is limited in terms of new
business opportunities. Nonetheless, it managed to grow and maintain strong profitability thanks to a
clearly defined vision and culture and intelligent use of sub-brands. OMD achieved its targeted 10 per
cent revenue growth in a declining market off a high base, and posted year-on-year digital revenue
growth of nearly 25 per cent, driven by mobile and SEO.

SILVER

PHD New Zealand

PHD's year has been based on gaming. That does not mean the agency has slacked off work - quite the
opposite. This year it really put into action its Source gamified approach to working, leading to expanded
business from long-term clients such as Unilever and Vodafone, and wins from Auckland Council, Guthy
Renker and Avis among others. The agency retained all clients during the eligibility period, as well as
nearly 90 per cent of staff. Year-on-year revenue grew 13 per cent.

BRONZE

Page142of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.MediaCom New Zealand
MediaCom New Zealand aims to be a top-three agency with billings of USdollars 100 million by the end
of 2015. This year it made impressive progress towards that goal, doubling billings to around USdollars
85 million. Under the global mantra 'People first, better results', it has built a culture that staff are proud
to be part of and that clients appreciate as well.

DIGITAL AGENCY OF THE YEAR

AUSTRALIA
GOLD

WiTH Collective Australia

Four-year-old WiTH Collective grew to 38 employees in 2014 while doubling its profits and winning a new
client every month - all without running the 'pitching treadmill'. The agency, which completed 266 projects
in the course of the year, credits its success to sophisticated clients, a rapid idea-development process,
cloud-based internal tools and a refusal to outsource anything. New clients in 2014 include Symantec,
FlexiGroup and Pfizer. WiTH claims a retention rate of 92 per cent and paid bonuses twice during the
year. Looking ahead, the agency plans to launch a digital media performance, data and analytics unit
during the first part of 2015.

SILVER

Leo Burnett Australia

Leo Burnett had an unusually strong year, exceeding its objectives in revenue growth and profit growth.
The agency won lead creative and digital duties for Woolworths Supermarkets, among the top
advertisers in the country. Other new digital business wins included Honda, SPC, Kelloggs and Be
Natural. Looking ahead, 2015 will see Jarek Ziebinski stepping up to chairman and CEO of consolidated
Leo Burnett operations across Greater China and Asia-Pacific, a strategic move to achieve greater
scale and efficiency.

BRONZE

Isobar Australia

Focusing investments on its people, existing clients and internal systems and processes, Isobar beat its
revenue and profit goals while also growing its team. The agency cites its NowLab technology unit, Story
Lab content unit and Idea Accelerator fund as elements that delivered for clients and enhanced the
bottom line.

NEW ZEALAND
GOLD

Colenso BBDO and Proximity Auckland

Colenso BBDO and Proximity Auckland prides itself on doing the work no one else can do, which means
pushing the boundaries of digital work. The agency claims no client losses in more than two years, while
also boasting seven new business wins (including Sky City; Fonterra for social media and global strategy
for Anchor; and the New Zealand International Convention Centre) and significant increases in
investment from existing clients such as Volkswagen and Burger King. The company believes that a
combination of technology partnerships, agile development, in-house production for social media and a
focus on consumer experience design played important roles in turning out innovative and effective work.

SILVER

DDB Group New Zealand

In a strong comeback from an 'annus horribilis' in 2013, DDB scored six new-business wins (including
BMW Mini and Icebreaker), as well as new responsibilities from existing clients (such as Sky TV's
video-on-demand service and Lion's Speight's beer). The agency also did well in awards shows,
including its haul of five Gold, 11 Silver and 10 Bronze at Spikes. On the personnel front, the agency
made 'world-class' hires in Damon Stapleton as chief creative officer and Haydn Kerr as creative director
for all digital work.

PR AGENCY OF THE YEAR

Page143of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AUSTRALIA
GOLD

Edelman Public Relations Australia

In 2014, Edelman PR Australia focused on adapting to the changing needs of CMOs and the demand
from brands to have earned media and owned newsroom-style storytelling and social. The realignment
allowed the agency to grow its revenue by 36 per cent this year.

Key innovations from the agency included the launch of a new 'living brand' methodology and product
offering such as the 'creative newsroom' to better integrate social community management, real-time
analytics, creative and paid media for clients. The agency also hired staff with specialist skill sets beyond
its core expertise, grew its digital team and brought in an executive creative director and strategy director.

SILVER

Pulse Communications Australia

In 2014, Pulse Communications started three initiatives to help push the agency forward. 'Bold insight'
saw the launch of a number of new tools and expanding the planning team. 'Brave ideas' was a new
creative philosophy putting new technology and social-empowered ideas at the heart of the agency.
Pulse developed a creativity training manual and programme, leading to everyone in the agency
receiving creativity training. 'Brilliant impact', launched in July, is a proprietary measurement system to
help clients measure public relations campaigns.

The agency had a strong year in terms of new business, managing to win all but one of its pitches this
year. New clients include Microsoft, Ebay, American Express, NAB, Conga Foods, Coca Cola Red
Social, New South Wales Government, Havaianas, TripAdvisor and H&M.

BRONZE

Haystac Australia

Haystac Australia defined its core belief as 'influence is everything' and then sought to quantify its
position as an influence leader. The agency launched a range of tools and products via four distinct
streams to enhance its clients businesses. 'Haystac strategic' is a suite of proprietary research tools.
'Haystac Innovation' is a creative hub for developing channel neutral big ideas, content creation and
digital tech development. 'Haystac Live' is a content generating command centre with integrated planning
for multi-channel campaigns. 'Haystac Analytics' offers insights and analysis to help clients improve how
they connect and engage through 50 individual metrics across six products. New clients include
Chocolateria San Churro, Asahi Beer, Super A-Mart. The agency retained 95 per cent of its existing
clients including Google, Harley Davidson Australia and MYOB.

SPECIALIST AGENCY OF THE YEAR

AUSTRALIA/NEW ZEALAND
GOLD

WiTH Collective Australia
Also the Gold winner in the Digital Agency category, WiTH credits its digital and results-centred approach
for a number of achievements in the previous 12 months. The agency delivered a project in less than 10
days for Google after being chosen over agencies in Australia and the US. Cisco went with WiTH over its
global agencies to launch its first direct-to-consumer cloud-based product. The agency also started doing
global work for Pfizer - the only agency outside the client's globally aligned relationship with WPP. And
WiTH's work is now running across Asia-Pacific for Symantec, for whom the agency developed a platform
that is now a core revenue driver.

SILVER

Mnet MOBILE

According to Mnet Mobile, the future of communication and engagement resides on mobile devices. The
agency says it is driven by 'creating the new and the next'. Its patented technology (HARK) allows apps
to synch with audio-visual content, capturing device movement, GPS and other data, comparing it to a
database and then delivering feedback in milliseconds. One example put clothing from catwalk models

Page144of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.onto mobile phones for immediate purchase opportunities. The technology garnered 51 new clients for
the agency over the past year, boosting revenue by 51 per cent and profit by 600 per cent.

BRONZE

Outware Mobile

Outware Mobile combines user and design expertise with software engineering to create mobile
experiences that it hopes will be intuitive, effective and engaging. Company-wide hackathons,
incorporating Google Glass, iBeacons and near-field communications (NFC), helped the agency develop
process and product improvements, as well as win new business. The tournaments contributed to a 73
per cent revenue increase this year. Staff numbers grew from 60 to 95, and the agency claims to have
the largest iOS and Android development teams in Australia.

INDEPENDENT AGENCY OF THE YEAR

AUSTRALIA/NEW ZEALAND
GOLD

The Hallway Australia

Was Hallway instrumental in the rise of 'agencies of specialists' from an era of specialist agencies? The
company claims to have all specialist skills under one roof and one P&L, positioning itself as having
specialist skills rooted in one discipline, but with the ability and experience to work across channels. New
business included Google, ANZ, Fairfax, NSW Government and GSK. Revenue grew 44 per cent
year-on-year and profits went up 40 per cent.

SILVER

MATCH Media Australia

Match Media is focused on diversifying its services in SEO, social, analytics and trading in an effort to
become a full service agency. The move has paid off, with a 27 per cent increase in revenue. Innovation
was also a central theme for Match Media's strategy in 2014. An example of this can be seen in the
mobile space for work done for home-loan operator RAMS, delivering a 17 per cent increase in
conversion rates.

BRONZE

Barnes, Catmur and Friends New Zealand

Barnes, Catmur and Friends believe 2014 was a banner year for the agency with several awards and
increase in its overall rankings. In an increasingly fragmented industry compounded by shrinking
marketing budgets, the agency operates an end-to-end model comprising strategy, creativity, social,
digital, direct mail, retail and design.

--------------------

Did you find this article useful? Why not subscribe to the magazine? Please call 08451 55 73 55 for more
information or visit www.haysubs.com

CO
IN

nwsasa : M&C Saatchi PLC
i838 : Advertising | iadv : Advertising/Marketing/Public Relations | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services |
imark : Marketing
austr : Australia | auckl : Auckland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nz : New Zealand

RE
PUB Haymarket Media Limited
AN

Document MEDIAM0020150109eac10002a

Page145of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.