Kakadu's Ranger at crossroads as market weighs end of ERA

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Kakadu's Ranger at crossroads as market weighs end of ERA

Peter Ker
2,792 words
29 November 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
8
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

COVER STORY

The indigenous Mirarr people, whose traditional lands have hosted Ranger, face an important moment if
the mine closes, writes Peter Ker.

The skies above Jabiru are busy. Birds of prey circle endlessly.

Brown falcons or whistling kites are a constant presence above this part of Kakadu National Park.

It creates a fitting mood for a place facing an uncertain future. Jabiru is a town in limbo.
Four decades after arriving, uranium miner Energy Resources of Australia (ERA) will decide soon
whether it will continue digging.

There is a chance it will choose not to, which will bring down the curtain on perhaps the nation's most
controversial mine, Ranger.

Built on the faultlines of environmental and indigenous land rights policy, Ranger is at a defining
moment. It has provided fuel to nuclear power stations of the world but the end of its working life is up for
serious consideration.

Depressed commodity prices, revived environmental concerns and tightening purse strings have made
the decision over a new mining development at Ranger a close call.
Having reluctantly accepted mining on their ancestral lands, the indigenous people who live beside the
nation's biggest uranium mine could soon watch the interloper depart.

Whether life will be better when the mine goes is far from clear.
The end of mining at Ranger would be celebrated by some.

Environmentalists have long despaired at a mine so close to one of the nation's most famous national
parks.
The fact Ranger produces uranium - the radioactive nature of which can be dangerous in certain
circumstances - has only turbo-charged the opposition.
"Exploitation of uranium within the World Heritage property of Kakadu National Park, effectively against
the current wishes of significant traditional owners and others, is a historical aberration and ought to
finish as soon as possible," says Peter Garrett, who was minister when ERA was granted permission to
conduct further exploration at Ranger. His decision was constrained to ruling on matters relevant to a
certain environmental act.

Page239of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The process for environmental approvals for the development of the mine is continuing under a new
government but Garrett said Ranger had been a blot on the landscape since day one.

Most affected during the past 37 years have been the indigenous Mirarr people, whose traditional lands
have hosted the mine.

As late as the 1970s, the Mirarr people lived in these monsoonal wetlands, with little intrusion from white
Australian culture.

"There weren't many white people out here permanently before 1980, something like six or so across the
whole region," said Justin O'Brien, the chief executive of the Mirarr's Gundjeihmi Aboriginal Corporation.

The town of Jabiru was built quickly to support the mine and within one year the Mirarr had become a
racial minority.

A sealed road connection to Darwin came only in 1974, and the first stage of Kakadu National Park was
not declared until 1979. Many viewed that as a political compromise to offset the nationwide controversy
over uranium mining in the region.

With an ancient culture that places special importance on the land, the construction of several huge
mining pits was distressing for the Mirarr people.
The fact that a 1977 act of Parliament allowed mining to go ahead on Mirarr lands without their express
consent - despite the same act giving a right of veto to most of the nation's other indigenous groups -
only entrenched feelings of dispossession and resistance to the mine.

But over time the Mirarr have scored some important wins, which have improved the relationship with
mining to a degree.

ERA's desire to mine a sacred site close to Ranger called Jabiluka was largely put to bed in 2005, after
a decade of campaigning that resulted in thousands travelling to Kakadu to create an anti-mining
blockade, and say hundreds arrested. ERA has promised not to mine Jabiluka without Mirarr consent.

There was also the signing of a revised agreement for Ranger last year, ensuring greater royalty flows to
the Mirarr and creating a system for back-payments. Royalties for Mirarr, calculated on revenue from
annual production at Ranger, tally about $49 million over the past four years.
ERA estimates it has paid $62.7 million to indigenous groups over the same period, on top of the
royalties paid to governments.

O'Brien says the relationship between the Mirarr and ERA, while always cautious, was better now than
in the past. "Coming off a hell of a low base, the relationship with them is pretty good at the moment
compared to other times," he says.
While acknowledging the pain of the early years, some of the mining industry's more considered minds
privately ponder whether, now the egg is scrambled, the Mirarr will be better off if ERA decides to end
mining in the next few months.

The mine dominates the local economy. ACIL Tasman judges ERA to be the source of 87 per cent of
Jabiru's regional gross value added activity in 2012, as well as leasing 66 per cent of private dwellings in
the town. More than a third of school students were children of mine workers.

Malcolm Fraser, the prime minister who controversially approved Ranger in 1977, has no regrets.

"I think there has been a benefit. It was always intended to be of benefit to the Aboriginal people," he
says.

The traditional owners' representatives in 1977, the Northern Land Council, did eventually agree to
mining going ahead, he added.

Mr Garrett was less convinced saying: "Whilst there has been income flowing through to certain parties,
on balance it has not been a positive for the traditional communities."

The Mirarr might be asked soon to approve a mine extension at Ranger. ERA has spent the past three
years evaluating a new underground mine that would operate until 2021, when the licence expires. It if
wanted a new licence it would have to apply for one.

Mr O'Brien said it was too early to say if Mirarr elders would give their consent should ERA decided the
underground project was viable.

Page240of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.ERA estimates the extension project, known as the Ranger 3 Deeps, would deliver $10 million to $30
million in annual royalty flows to the Mirarr if approved, but Mr O'Brien said the decision would not be
based on money. "You don't see much naked self-interest here. When you ask some of the older women
about the big financial implications of their decisions, particularly Jabiluka, which is ruled out by young
and old, they say 'don't worry, none of that was here before'," he said.
"People might say 'how can a small clan of Aboriginal people who have benefited from mining even
think twice about it?' Well, because they live downstream and below the bloody thing. You have
hundreds of incidents, leaks and spills. It is with all that in mind that the Mirarr consider the current
proposal at Ranger 3 Deeps."

A precedent for refusing the cash exists nearby. Traditional owner of Koongarra, Jeffery Lee, turned his
back on millions of dollars of royalties from French uranium miner Areva. Instead he had his land
absorbed into the national park.

Nor would the Mirarr be short of a dime if the royalty flows ceased.
During Mr O'Brien's tenure the Mirarr's money has been invested in stocks, bonds and financial
instruments, with millions managed by firms like Morgan Stanley.
The portfolio includes a stake in the 15-storey Scarborough House building in Canberra that houses the
Federal Health Department.
O'Brien acknowledges that some spending might need to be curtailed if the royalty flows from mining
were to cease. But he said the Mirarr could still look after their families and fund the odd social program.
Some in the mining industry believe younger generations of Mirarr will prove more open to mining than
the current elders.

Mr O'Brien insisted the Mirarr remained united.

"There will be one view," he said.

"Those elders rarely make a major call on anything without everyone being present."

About 12 per cent of ERA's workforce are indigenous, and while it would be happy to employ Mirarr
people, no Mirarr people work for the company.

As fate would have it, ERA could barely have picked a worse time to evaluate a new development.
Prices for uranium have dived since the 2011 earthquake and tsunami sparked a nuclear crisis in
Japan.
Most Australian uranium miners haven't made a profit since. ERA has received just $US46 ($54) a
pound for its product during most of this year. That is 12 per cent below the price it received in 2009.

Commodity prices are not the only threat to the project going ahead. A series of recent events also has
shaken investors' confidence.

A tank failure in December last year spewed toxic substances around the Ranger site and prompted a
six-month shutdown. Despite official surveys suggesting none of the substances escaped into Kakadu, a
fierce debate ensued over the mine's social licence to operate in such a delicate and difficult location.

The exploration results for the project have also fuelled concerns, with some analysts expressing alarm
at the quality of some sections of the underground geology and cases of unstable rock formations.

At the same time ERA's 68 per cent shareholder, Rio Tinto, is aggressively cutting back capital spending
on new projects.

With Rio focused on boosting dividends rather than building large numbers of new mines, many doubt it
will be willing to spend the hundreds of millions of dollars that would be required to go ahead with a new
underground mine at Ranger.

When the geological concerns were reported to the market in July, Credit Suisse published the most
pessimistic research note on the project to date.

"We believe the results of the Deeps resource drilling are poor," the note said. "Ranger Deeps either
adds value or there is close to none, and risks are increasing towards the latter. If ERA announces at the
end of this year that Ranger Deeps is not viable, then the share price should collapse to very low levels."

Page241of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The geological results have been better since then, with the amount of uranium in the Deeps estimated
now to be 6 per cent higher than thought previously.
Credit Suisse no longer covers the company. Among those that do, most analysts say the project's
chances are finely balanced.
"If uranium prices can hold above $US40 per pound, then the project potentially looks more viable than
it has done for much of the past year. But the project may yet require higher prices still," Bank of
Montreal analyst Edward Sterck said.
JP Morgan analysts said the weak uranium prices, combined with the 2021 expiry of the mining lease,
put ERA in a difficult position.

"... the project likely needs prices of $US50 ... to $US60 per pound over the life of the project."

RBC Capital Markets noted recently the underground project comprised 99 per cent of ERA's share
price value, meaning the ultimate decision would have a very "binary" impact on the stock price.

RBC analyst Chris Drew said he thought the project was probably viable but continued weakness in the
uranium price could limit enthusiasm for it.
"It is going to depend a lot on the uranium market. The main thing is the resource looks consistent with
what they were expecting. You've also got some good grades there as well, so it would support an
economic operation based on our relatively conservative uranium price forecasts," he said.

ERA chief Andrea Sutton said the geological results had been consistent with expectations, and
sufficiently good for the company to conduct less drilling than planned.
The spot uranium price enjoyed a small surge in early November, and while the longevity of that rise is
unclear, Sutton said the company was confident the price would rebound in the medium term.
"You look at the challenges of climate change, Japan's power needs and the construction in China, and
we do still see that medium term (uranium demand) strengthening," she says.

While some remote communities face poverty and unemployment when a local mine shuts, the Mirarr
are confident they can thrive in the modern economy when mining eventually does leave town.

With Kakadu on their doorstep, tourism is already an established industry, and the Mirarr run a handful
of small businesses in the region focused on the tourist dollar.

One Kakadu highlight tourists do spend money on are the hearty barramundi fillets Peter Wilson serves
at Kakadu Lodge.
Cooked in the pan and served with a melting knob of herb butter, the barramundi is one of the reasons
Mr Wilson's outdoor bar and bistro won a Gold Plate at this month's Territory dining awards. But despite
his success, Wilson says tourism in Kakadu is getting harder.

Visitors to Kakadu have been sliding since 2000 and the demographics that do visit are often not the
highest yielding.

"Last year was the worst year for tourism ever that I can remember. This year is marginally better, but it
would need to be," he says.

He is convinced the Jabiru region cannot survive on tourism alone.

"In this region you have a 100-day season. You have 100 days of viable occupancy that is profitable,
then you've got maybe 100 days of break-even occupancy and then you have got 160 days of pouring
money down the toilet," he says.

"It needs diversification. For the town to thrive it needs commercial input into it, people who want to be
service providers and have businesses not just based on tourism.

"The big challenge for Jabiru is what it wants as its focus after ERA, and that is very much my focus
too."

Uncertainty over the longevity of ERA is not the only thing undermining investment in the town. Jabiru
exists under a similar lease to the one the mine operates under, meaning no business has certainty of
tenure beyond 2021.

Page242of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."Why would any business person invest in infrastructure when they know there is uncertainty about
what is going to happen," Wilson says.

Without fresh investment in facilities, the decline in tourist numbers could be hard to turn around, he
says.

"At the moment we are just going through the motions."
Mr O'Brien stresses that tourism wasn't the Mirarr's only option beyond mining, with land management
also a big opportunity.

Investigations into carbon farming in Kakadu suggest 35 to 50 jobs could be created in that industry,
while the Mirarr are also optimistic about the trend for indigenous rangers to be spread through the
national park in land-caring and maintenance roles.

"There are many social co-benefits that come with that sort of work in terms of working on country and
they are long articulated," Mr O'Brien says.

Should the economic and regulatory hurdles be cleared there is one last uncertainty surrounding the
Ranger Deeps project that could yet become an issue.

ERA and the Mirarr appear to disagree over whose will would prevail under a scenario where the
company wanted to proceed but the Mirarr did not.

Sutton says ERA would work closely with the Mirarr to help them understand the full impact of the
project, and the company hoped to win their support.

But when asked if ERA legally required permission from the Mirarr to conduct the extension, the
company indicated it did not.
"ERA has an authority to mine and produce uranium oxide at the Ranger Project Area until January
2021," ERA says in a statement.

O'Brien has a different view.

"I would say that in this day and age, particularly given the ignominious history of conflict here, that is a
requirement," he says.

When asked if that requirement was stated explicitly by law, O'Brien says: "You could argue that it is,
and you could argue that it is not."

Perhaps there's one last battle to be fought over Australia's most contentious mine.

Yellow cake road

1969
Ranger ore bodies discovered

1977

Federal parliament grants right to mine at Ranger

1980
Mining begins

1981
First drum of uranium produced

1994
Mining complete in Pit 1

1996
Mining approved in Pit 3

1997

Page243of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mining of Pit 3 begins

1998

Large protest sees hundreds arrested

2009

Discovery of 3 Deeps underground resource announced.

2011
Fukushima disaster sends uranium price diving

2012
Mining complete in Pit 3

2013

New agreement with local indigenous groups

Federal government declares fresh environmental assessment required

Tank failure results in toxic leak

2014

Draft environmental impact statement submitted to government.

2015
Target for start of mining at 3 Deeps

2021

Right to mine expires

IN

RE
PUB
AN

iuran : Uranium Ore Mining | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020141128eabt0004r

Page244of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.