Spit land ruled out for Gold Coast casino

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Spit land ruled out for Gold Coast casino

Matthew Cranston
309 words
27 August 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
38
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The Newman government has reneged on the sale of land at the Gold Coast Spit to be used as part
of a $7.5 billion resort with a cruise ship terminal and casino.

After leaks to local media, the Queensland government gave an initial briefing to the ASF
Consortium, which is planning the resort.

The consortium is backed by high- profile Chinese investors including China State Construction
Engineering, China Communications Construction and CCCC Guangzhou Dredging.

Deputy Premier Jeff Seeney said after community concerns, vacant land north of Sea World, called
Doug Jennings Park, would not be made available to the ASF Consortium as part of its application
for an integrated development licence.

ASF Consortium spokesman and prominent investor in his own right Allan Fife appeared to
immediately confound Mr Seeney's statement.

"The consortium revised plans earlier this year to ensure there was no development on Doug
Jennings Park," Mr Fife said. "The consortium looks forward to receiving further information this
week regarding requirements under the integrated resort development process, including detailed
proposal documents.
"We will work closely with the state government and City of Gold Coast to deliver a solution that
addresses community feedback."

Mr Seeney said the decision was based on community response.
"The very clear message from all Gold Coast MPs is that the community does not support the
development . . . and wants The Spit retained as a recreational area," he said.

Repeated failure to see the land developed has raised concerns from other international developers
who believe the government was never serious about developing the land.

Singapore-based Sembawang tried to develop the area north of Sea World last year and was
repeatedly stymied by the state government. Then Sembawang chief executive Richard Grosvenor
said the company would not be "gulled into any further participation".

IN

RE

PUB

ireest : Real Estate | i97912 : Gambling Industries | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ilea :
Leisure/Arts/Hospitality
china : China | austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited

Page217of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document AFNR000020140826ea8r0002t

Page218of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.