Premier off to G20 before Xi's visit

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Premier off to G20 before Xi's visit

By DANIEL McCULLOCH
296 words
15 November 2014
Launceston Examiner
FEXANP
Examiner First Edition
6
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

PREMIER Will Hodgman will today fly to Brisbane to represent Tasmania at the G20 summit.

He will attend the global economic forum flanked by all state and territory leaders.

Mr Hodgman will meet Prime Minister Tony Abbott and Treasurer Joe Hockey this weekend,
while rubbing shoulders with powerhouses of major advanced and emerging international
economies.

He will also attend a speech to be given by US president Barack Obama.
The Premier will return to the state in time to welcome Chinese President Xi Jinping and his wife,
Peng Liyuan, on Tuesday.

The exact itinerary for President Xi's Tasmanian trip is not yet confirmed, but the visit is being
touted as a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for the state.

President Xi's visit will coincide with a TasInvest Conference taking place in Hobart next week.
More than 200 international delegates are set to attend the sold-out event, with representatives
from over 80 international investors.
Eight ChineseFortune 500 companies will be represented at the three-day conference, along with
ambassadors from seven Chinese ministries.
Attendees will visit the $103 million Craggy Ridge eco-tourism project and Ashgrove Dairy Farm
in the state's North.

The sites were selected to highlight the North's tourism and agriculture potential.

Premier Hodgman said yesterday the conference reflected what was an incredibly exciting time
for the state.
"(TasInvest) will give a very clear message to the rest of the world that we're open for business,"
he said.
"TasInvest is sold out . . . there are going to be six or seven hundred people coming to dinner
when we say, 'Come and look at us as an investment destination'."

RE

PUB
AN

queensl : Queensland | tasman : Tasmania | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FEXANP0020141114eabf0000z

Page126of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Page127of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.