Lawmaker calls for UK probe into CY’s deal

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Local (Hong Kong News)
Lawmaker calls for UK probe into CY’s deal

Joyce Ng, James Griffiths and Benjamin Robertson
500 words
11 October 2014
South China Morning Post
SCMP
1
3
English
(c) 2014 South China Morning Post Publishers Limited, Hong Kong. All rights reserved.

Listing Authority could become third body to investigate after letter from Kenneth Leung
A Hong Kong lawmaker will file a request for a British regulator to look into Chief Executive Leung
Chun-ying’s HK$50 million deal with an Australian company.

The deal is already facing two possible investigations by Hong Kong’s graft-busters and the
Australian Federal Police.

A tax issue has also emerged, with accountants saying Leung should pay profits tax for the HK$50
million received from Australian engineering firm UGL.

Kenneth Leung, the legislator representing accountants, said he had drafted a letter to the UK
Listing Authority (UKLA). “I hope the Listing Authority can look into the matter in the interests of
transparency and compliance,” he said yesterday.

On Wednesday, a Fairfax Media report alleged Leung Chun-ying pocketed HK$50 million from
UGL six months before he took the city’s top job. UGL bought the insolvent DTZ Holdings plc for
£77.5 million in late 2011. The property service firm was listed in London and had him as a
director.
A side deal arose from the purchase two days before Leung resigned from DTZ. It stipulated he
would receive £4 million, equal to HK$50 million, in 2012 and 2013.
UGL and Leung both said the money was to prevent him from joining or forming a rival firm within
two years. But the deal also contained an “additional commitment” by which Leung agreed to “[act]
as a referee and an adviser from time to time”.

The clause raises questions about whether Leung can take up a paid advisory job for a
commercial entity while serving as the city’s chief executive.

Kenneth Leung said he would ask UKLA to check if DTZ and Leung Chun-ying had complied with
listing rules and the Companies Act, and whether Leung, as a director, had fulfilled his duty to look
after the firm’s interests – considering the payments had led to a reduced purchase price.

The Royal Bank of Scotland, DTZ’s only secured creditor at the time, said it was “not aware of the
terms or amount” of Leung’s deal. UKLA would not comment.

Australian senator Christine Milne said: “Corporate donations and politics are a toxic mix. People in
Hong Kong are fighting for a stronger democracy while we in Australia are watching our
democracy die under the weight of corruption.”

The Australian Federal Police said they were still determining whether to start an investigation.

Page153of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Philip Hung, ex-president of Hong Kong’s Taxation Institute, said Leung should have paid profits
tax for part of the fees for his “advisory” service. “Even though he said he did not deliver any
service, it is still taxable income since he has received the money and the contract was signed
locally,” Hung said.

Leung’s office would not say whether or not he paid profits tax.

dtc : DTZ Holdings plc | uklsta : UK Listing Authority | aufpol : Australian Federal Police | uncont :
UGL Ltd.
i834 : Real Estate Agents/Brokers | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest : Real Estate
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
hkong : Hong Kong | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
| bric : BRICS Countries | china : China | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
South China Morning Post Publishers Limited
Document SCMP000020141010eaab0003e

CO

IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

Page154of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.