Miner to continue $2m drilling plans

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

news
Miner to continue $2m drilling plans

376 words
22 October 2014
North West Star
FNWEST
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

AN exploration company will continue its $2 million drilling program in Mount Isa to follow up its
positive results.
Chinalco Yunnan Copper Resources told the ASX earlier this week that it intended to continue further
drilling in the North West region and to become a mid-tier mining group in two years.

The North West Star has recently published the news of positive findings at the explorer's drilling site of
Jubilee " 5.5 kilometres south of the former Mary Kathleen mine site.

But the recent ASX report endorsed by CYU managing director Paul Williams states another drilling
program on the Jubilee site will begin in early November at an estimated cost of $345,000.
"CYU's management team believes that the current difficult mining conditions for resource companies
and projects in an ideal acquisition environment," Mr Williams said.

"As a result, CYU is continuing detailed technical due diligence of certain existing projects that may
lead to the formal pursuit of a commercial opportunity in the coming months."

CYU will also become the sole holder of tenure interests that fall within the Mary Kathleen joint venture
portfolio, after Goldsearch Ltd recently diluted its interests to a 1.75 per cent net smelter royalty.

Mr Williams said Goldsearch Ltd was diluting its interests to pursue a significant opportunity in the
health-care sector.

"CYU will finalise these dilution arrangements with Goldsearch over the coming weeks," he said.

The Jubilee prospect is part of CYU's Mount Frosty joint venture with Mount Isa Mines, which is also
part of the Mary Kathleen joint venture.

"Under the terms of the Mount Frosty farm-in agreement, in order to secure an initial 51 per cent
interest in the underlying tenure the Mary Kathleen Joint Venture needed to incur exploration
expenditure of at least $1.5 million and to have drilled more than 3000 metres prior to February, 2015,"
the managing director said.

"Mount Isa Mines has now confirmed its agreement that the criteria have been satisfied and
arrangements are being made to have the 51 per cent interest ... transferred to CYU and for a formal
Joint Venture agreement to be prepared," the report said.

CO
IN

RE
PUB
AN

cyccpp : Chinalco Yunnan Copper Resources Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2114 : Copper Ore/Nickel Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources |
imet : Mining/Quarrying
queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FNWEST0020141023eaam00005

Page237of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.