*S&P Takes CLP Holdings Off Watch Neg; Afrms 'A-' Rtg; Otlk Neg

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

*S&P Takes CLP Holdings Off Watch Neg; Afrms 'A-' Rtg; Otlk Neg

2,062 words
13 May 2014
20:35
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

13 May 2014 06:35 ET Press Release: S&P Takes CLP Holdings Off Watch Neg; Afrms 'A-' Rtg; Otlk
Neg

The following is a press release from
Standard & Poor's:

-- However, we expect CLP Holdings' sound and stable regulated

-- The negative outlook reflects our view of the limited headroom in

-- CLP Holdings' primarily debt-funded acquisitions of additional
interests in generation assets in Hong Kong will weaken the company's
financial strength over the next two years, in our opinion.
businesses
in Hong Kong to underpin its credit profile.
-- We are affirming our 'A-/A-2' corporate credit ratings on CLP
Holdings. We are also affirming our 'cnA-1' short-term Greater China
regional
scale rating on the company. At the same time, we are lowering our long-term
Greater China regional scale rating on the Hong-Kong based utility to
'cnAA-'
from 'cnAA' in line with the negative outlook. We are removing all the
ratings
from CreditWatch, where they were placed with negative implications on Nov.
19, 2013.
CLP
Holdings' financial risk profile in 2014-2015, which could further
deteriorate
if the company's portfolio rationalization strategy does not generate cash
flows in a manner as timely as we expect.
HONG KONG (Standard & Poor's) May 13, 2014--Standard & Poor's Ratings
Services
said today that it had affirmed its 'A-' long-term corporate credit rating
on
Hong Kong-based utility CLP Holdings Ltd. The outlook is negative. We also
affirmed our 'A-2' short-term issuer credit rating and 'cnA-1' short-term
Greater China regional scale rating on the company. In line with the
negative
outlook, we lowered our long-term Greater China regional scale rating on CLP
Holdings to 'cnAA-' from 'cnAA'. We removed all ratings from CreditWatch,
where they were placed with negative implications on Nov. 19, 2013.

Page12of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."We affirmed the rating mainly because we expect CLP Holdings' sound and
stable regulated businesses in Hong Kong to underpin its financial
performance
over the next two years," said Standard & Poor's credit analyst Gloria Lu.
"This is even though the completion of CLP Holdings' acquisitions of
generation assets in Hong Kong will substantially increase its leverage."
CLP Holdings, through its 100% subsidiary CLP Power Hong Kong Ltd. completed
the Hong Kong dollar (HK$) 14 billion acquisition of additional interests in
Castle Peak Power Co. Ltd. (CAPCO) and Hong Kong Pumped Storage Development
Co. Ltd. (PSDC) on May 12, 2014.
We expect CLP Holdings to have limited financial headroom for the rating in
2014-2015. The acquisitions of CAPCO and PSDC will increase the company's
total debt by about HK$12 billion in 2014 (after factoring in the portion of
the acquisition funded by the perpetual securities which Standard & Poor's
regards as having "intermediate" equity content). CLP Holdings may take on
additional debt of HK$4 billion by the end of 2015 to fund its planned
capital
expenditure.
The operating environment for CLP group's businesses outside Hong Kong,
particularly in Australia, remains tough. We expect weak electricity demand,
depressed wholesale prices, and a policy change to repeal carbon
compensation
to subdue the company's financial performance in 2014-2015. CLP group will
benefit from a renewal of its development plan with the Hong Kong government
for another five years, in our view. The approved capital expenditure plan
until September 2018 will ensure predictable returns and cash flow growth in
the group's enlarged assets. In other markets, the group should benefit from
a
more steady performance of the power generation business due to weak coal
prices in China (Fangchenggang) and improving coal supply in India
(Jhajjar).
We expect CLP Holdings' portfolio rationalization strategy to generate cash
flows to help the group to reduce its leverage within the next two years. We
assume that the company will execute the strategy on time and in line with
our
expectation.
"The negative outlook reflects our view of the limited headroom in CLP
Holdings' financial risk profile in 2014-2015," said Ms. Lu. We believe the
company's financial risk profile could further deteriorate if its portfolio
rationalization strategy is not executed in a manner as timely as we expect.
The continued weak performance of CLP Holdings' Australian business and
increased working capital for funding higher fuel costs could also drag the
company's financial performance. We expect CLP Holdings' performance to
improve from 2016 onwards. But this hinges on a meaningful and sustainable
recovery of the company's Australia and India businesses, where
uncertainties
surround the likelihood of the structural improvements materializing as
expected.
We could lower the rating on CLP Holdings if the recovery of the group's
Australia and India businesses as well as the sale of non-core assets take

Page13of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.longer than we expect. A downgrade trigger could be the ratio of FFO to debt
of less than 23% by the end of 2016. We could also lower the rating if CLP
Holdings makes any unanticipated material debt-funded acquisitions or
investments.
We could revise the outlook on CLP Holdings to stable if the company
executes
its asset divestment plan smoothly and improves the performance of its
Australia and India businesses more than we anticipate. We would also expect
the company to implement a disciplined capital expenditure and investment
plan
to improve its leverage. An indication of such an improvement would be a
ratio
of FFO to debt at a sustainable 25% or higher.
RELATED CRITERIA AND RESEARCH
Related Criteria
Corporate Issuers, Jan. 2, 2014

-- Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors For Global
-- Corporate Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
-- Corporate Methodology: Ratios and Adjustments, Nov. 19, 2013
-- General Criteria: Country Risk Assessment Methodology And

2013
Entities And Insurers, Nov. 13, 2012

-- General Criteria: Methodology: Industry Risk, Nov. 19, 2013
-- Group Rating Methodology, Nov. 19, 2013
-- Key Credit Factors For The Regulated Utilities Industry, Nov. 19,
-- Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate
-- Stand-Alone Credit Profiles: One Component Of A Rating, Oct. 1, 2010
-- Use of CreditWatch And Outlook, Sept. 14, 2009
-- Hybrid Capital Handbook: September 2008 Edition, Sept. 15, 2008
-- 2008 Corporate Criteria: Rating Each Issue, April 15, 2008

Assumptions,
Nov. 19, 2013

Related Research
-- CLP Power Hong Kong Ltd.'s Proposed Perpetual Securities Assigned
'BBB+' And 'cnAA-' Ratings, April 28, 2014
-- Research Update: CLP Holdings And CLP Power Ratings Remain On
CreditWatch Negative, Feb. 19, 2014
-- Research Update: CLP Holdings Ltd. And CLP Power Hong Kong Ltd.
Ratings Placed On CreditWatch Negative On Proposed Acquisition, Nov. 19,
2013
Complete ratings information is available to subscribers of RatingsDirect at
www.globalcreditportal.com and at www.spcapitaliq.com. All ratings affected
by
this rating action can be found on Standard & Poor's public Web site at
www.standardandpoors.com. Use the Ratings search box located in the left
column.
Primary Credit Analyst: Gloria Lu, CFA, FRM, Hong Kong (852) 2533-3596;
Secondary Contact: Johnson Ng, Hong Kong (852) 2533-3575;

gloria.lu@standardandpoors.com

johnson.ng@standardandpoors.com

No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations,
model, software, or other application or output therefrom) or any part
thereof

Page14of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.(Content) may be modified, reverse engineered, reproduced, or distributed in
any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without
the prior written permission of Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC or
its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any
unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party providers, as
well
as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees, or agents
(collectively
S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness, or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors
or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the
results obtained from the use of the Content, or for the security or
maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an "as
is" basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR
DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT'S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED, OR THAT THE
CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no
event
shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect,
incidental,
exemplary, compensatory, punitive, special or consequential damages, costs,
expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income
or
lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by negligence) in
connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of
such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the
Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not
statements of fact. S&P's opinions, analyses, and rating acknowledgment
decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or
sell
any securities or to make any investment decisions, and do not address the
suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content
following publication in any form or format.
relied
on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment, and experience of the
user, its management, employees, advisors, and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or
an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has
obtained
information from sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an

The Content should not be

13 May 2014 06:35 ET Press Release: S&P Takes CLP Holdings Off Watch -2-

audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of
any information it receives.
To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to
acknowledge
in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain
regulatory purposes, S&P reserves the right to assign, withdraw, or suspend
such acknowledgement at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties
disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the assignment, withdrawal, or
suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage
alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other
in

Page15of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective
activities. As a result, certain business units of S&P may have information
that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established
policies and procedures to maintain the confidentiality of certain nonpublic
information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally
from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves
the
right to disseminate its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and
analyses are made available on its Web sites,
www.standardandpoors.com (free
of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com and www.globalcreditportal.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via
S&P
publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about
our
ratings fees is available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
Any Passwords/user IDs issued by S&P to users are single user-dedicated and
may ONLY be used by the individual to whom they have been assigned.
No sharing of passwords/user IDs and no simultaneous access via the same
password/user ID is permitted. To reprint, translate, or use the data or
information other than as provided herein, contact Client Services,
55 Water Street, New York, NY 10041; (1) 212-438-7280 or by e-mail to:
research_request@standardandpoors.com.
Copyright (c) 2014 by Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC.
All rights reserved.

13 May 2014 06:43 ET *S&P Affirms Corporate Credit Rating for CLP Holdings at 'A-/A-2' >0002.HK

13 May 2014 06:44 ET *S&P Negative Outlook for CLP Holdings Reflects View of Limited Headroom in
Financial Risk Profile >0002.HK

(MORE TO FOLLOW) Dow Jones Newswires (212-416-2800)

May 13, 2014 06:44 ET (10:44 GMT)

CO
IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

chlp : CLP Holdings Ltd
i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | iutil : Utilities | i16101 : Electric Power Generation | ieutil : Electric Utilities
c174 : Corporate Credit Ratings | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c152 : Earnings Projections | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | nenac : Energy Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News |
nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | c15 : Performance | c17 : Funding/Capital | c172 : Corporate
Debt Instruments | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin :
FC&E Industry News Filter
hkong : Hong Kong | austr : Australia | china : China | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz :
Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document DJDN000020140513ea5d001s6

Page16of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.