Burying Past with N-deal

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Burying Past with N-deal

1,038 words
11 September 2014
New Indian Express
NIEXPR
English
(C)2014 The New Indian Express Group

Burying Past with N-deal

Harsh V Pant

Burying past differences, Australia and India opened a new chapter in bilateral ties when during prime
minister Tony Abbott’s visit last week the two nations signed an agreement on civil nuclear cooperation
that entitles India to buy uranium from Australia after years of negotiation. Abbott underlined that the
decision signalled trust with the “world’s emerging democratic superpower”. This deal became possible
because according to Abbott, “India has an absolutely impeccable non-proliferation record” and “has
been a model international citizen” threatening none. It was the Australian prime minister’s predecessor,
Julia Gillard, who had paved the way in 2012 for a uranium safeguards agreement that has finally
allowed the country to export uranium to India. The safeguards pact is viewed as critical by those who
have opposed the changing Australian policy of nuclear trade with a country like India that has not signed
the Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT). By underlying strict requirements on the safe use of nuclear fuel and
specifying regulations in consonance with the global nuclear regime, Canberra is keen to signal its
continued adherence to international nuclear standards even as it reaches out to New Delhi to give a
boost to its mining industry.

Though the safeguards pact took almost two years to finalise, the change of policy by Canberra has been
a remarkable development and needs to be recognised as such. Australia has the world’s largest
deposits of uranium, and major Australian mining companies are looking to expand production as the
global demand for nuclear power grows over the next decade. India’s civilian nuclear industry is
expanding, as the number of operating plants is expected to increase from 20 to more than 60 over the
next decade. Gillard was successful in persuading her Labour Party in 2011 to overturn the party policy
of opposing uranium sales to a nation that was not a signatory to the NPT, despite significant opposition.
The Labour government’s decision to reverse the Australian policy of allowing the sale of uranium to
India as enunciated by its predecessor had been a big blow to Australia-India ties. It was Kevin Rudd, the
former Australian prime minister, who had imposed the ban, on the grounds that India was not a
signatory to the NPT. Washington had to pull out all the stops in convincing the Gillard government that,
given the strategic importance of India, Canberra needed to change its policy on uranium sales.

And Gillard could point to the US-India civil nuclear pact that has brought India into the global nuclear
mainstream. Australia has the world’s largest deposits of uranium, so it always made economic sense
for it to sell more to an energy-hungry India. Moreover, it is difficult for Canberra to justify a ban on
uranium exports to India, a fellow democracy and a country with impeccable non-proliferation
credentials, while continuing to send uranium to China, which has been the most important factor in the
weakening of the non-proliferation regime in view of its relationship with Pakistan. Australia has 22
bilateral nuclear cooperation pacts with countries, including the US, China, Taiwan and South Korea.
Even as other nuclear-supplier nations have been lining up to sign civil nuclear pacts with India, Australia
found itself marginalised. After the Nuclear Suppliers Group, of which Australia is a member, decided to
carve out an exception for nuclear material exports to India in 2008 by granting it a special waiver, there
was no logical reason for Australia to continue with its policy of a ban on uranium sales to India.
Moreover, the geostrategic environment in the Indo-Pacific has undergone a rapid transformation in
recent years, with the rapid rise of China.

Washington has been working to transform the US-Australian partnership from “an Asia-Pacific alliance
to an Indo-Pacific alliance”. Australia’s ties with China have also been difficult in recent years and

Page316of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.building bridges with India underlines the evolving strategic reality in the region. The two states have a
shared interest in managing the Indo-Pacific commons, including the very important sea lanes of
communication. Closer maritime cooperation between New Delhi and Canberra is crucial in managing
the growing turbulence in the Indian Ocean region. In a sign of growing defence ties between the two
sides, A K Antony became the first Indian defence minister to visit Australia in 2013. Bilateral trade
between Australia and India is growing and is projected to reach $40 billion by 2016 as negotiations on
the Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement continue. India is now the fifth largest market for
Australian exports. As the Indian economy grows, Australia will continue to be a major supplier of
minerals and fuel. Bilateral trade with India is worth only $15billion—about a tenth of that conducted with
China, Australia’s top trading partner.

Despite recent tensions regarding attacks on students of Indian origin, Australia has continued to grow in
importance as a destination for higher studies. Indians are Australia’s fastest growing immigrant
community. It was in 2009 that the two sides decided to elevate their ties to a “strategic partnership.” But
as is true of all such “strategic” partnerships, nothing substantive has come out of it. The Indian
bureaucracy has mastered the art of scuttling momentum in any relationship, and India-Australia is no
exception. With Abbott’s visit, Australia has underscored its commitment to its ties with India and
signalled its seriousness about a robust partnership. As a gesture of goodwill, a $5.6m Shiva Nataraja
which was bought by the National Gallery of Australia, and a $300,000 stone Shiva with Nandi were
handed back to the Indian government, after the latter requested their return in March. Abbott wants a
“partnership commensurate with our countries’ history and heritage, and our people’s easy rapport with
each other— mines and minds, if you like”. It is time now for New Delhi to reciprocate. The last trip to
Australia by an Indian prime minister was in 1986. There is more to the India-Australia relationship than
“cricket, Commonwealth and a common language”. And New Delhi should not be shy of taking
advantage of this growing convergence.

IN
NS

RE

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
e512 : Physical Trade | gdip : International Relations | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic
News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations
austr : Australia | india : India | ndelh : New Delhi | delhi : Delhi | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz
: Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | indsubz : Indian Subcontinent | sasiaz : Southern Asia

PUB Express Publications (Madurai) Limited
AN

Document NIEXPR0020140911ea9b0005r

Page317of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.