Brown’s Woolies deal offers boost

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Brown’s Woolies deal offers boost

Eli Greenblat, Wine
549 words
11 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
21
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE 125-year-old family owned winemaker Brown Brothers believes supplying the supermarket giants
with exclusive labels could emerge as an exciting new growth platform for the sector as some shoppers
drift away from private label wines to brands they recognise and trust.

The latest financial documents lodged with the regulator show Brown Brothers, one of Australia’s
biggest family owned wine groups, recorded a full-year net profit of $5.04 million for fiscal 2014, up
sharply from the $2.1m profit recorded last year. Revenue was flat at $84.4m. The profit jump was given
a boost from a reduction in costs.

Brown Brothers chief executive Roland Wahlquist told The Australian the company had begun
supplying an exclusive product to Woolworths, a two-litre Moscato cask in the shape of a handbag,
which had proved very popular, and the winemaker was keen to also forge exclusive deals with rival
Coles.

Mr Wahlquist said there was demand from supermarkets for exclusive products from winemakers such
as Brown Brothers as they sought a middle ground between the proliferation of private label, or
supermarket-owned brands, and independent labels.

“They are moving away a little bit from pure private label, buyers’ own label, to exclusive brands,
exclusive labels, and I think that’s an improvement where they (supermarkets) trust the brand and
management of the brand to a winery, but it’s just sold through a single channel,” Mr Wahlquist said.
“And it’s a way of actually meeting the needs of retailers because they want products that are exclusive
to them so they have a unique offer to their consumers, and then don’t have to compete head to head
on price with the other chains.” The trend comes as Woolworths and Coles have invested millions of
dollars in creating in-house wine brands, which have seized shelf space from outside wines. The
proliferation of private label wines owned by the supermarkets has proved a headache for the sector.

In 2012, Ross Brown, a former boss of Brown Brothers and currently its executive director, criticised
retailers for flooding stores with private label wines, which he said were “hollow”, “copycats” and
“masquerading as real brands”.

But a middle ground could be forming where supermarkets are forging deals with winemakers to supply
them with exclusive product such as Brown Brothers’ Moscato handbag cask. Treasury Wine Estates,
owners of Penfolds, Wolf Blass and Lindeman’s, recently launched an exclusive label for Woolworths
under its Pepperjack brand.

“They (supermarkets) like to have an exclusive range of product and we are tempting to meet their
needs with that,” Mr Wahlquist said.
Turning to the rest of the business, Mr Wahlquist said the strong Australian dollar had constricted
export sales while an oversupply of wine locally had produced difficult trading conditions at home.
He said Brown Brothers was still generating growth in China despite the austerity drive, which had hurt
many wine brands and other luxury products.“China is actually doing quite well for us. We have growth

Page180of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.there, off a relatively low base, because in China we have really focused on wines people drink rather
than the ‘trophy’ end of the market and so the austerity program in China hasn’t really affected us.”

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

i426 : Wine | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge :
Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods
c151 : Earnings | cgenpr : Generic Products | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing/Markets | cbrand :
Branding | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E
Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141110eabb0002r

Page181of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.