$36m for North Fremantle site

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
$36m for North Fremantle site

Marissa Lague
445 words
6 August 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
First
15
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

A Chinese group with mining interests in WA has paid $36 million for the former Matilda Bay
Brewing site in North Fremantle.
The unnamed group is planning to build an apartment project on the 2.9ha Stirling Highway
property, which has city-centre zoning allowing for a mixed-use development that could also include
office space and peripheral retail.

The property was sold by Knight Frank and managing director John Corbett said it had a plot ratio
allowing for about 60,000sqm of apartment space and other commercial uses, subject to council
approval and design guidelines.
“This is a premium site with the potential for panoramic ocean and river views located just 350m
from Leighton Beach and 400m from the Swan River,” Mr Corbett said.

“The North Fremantle area is undergoing a massive transformation with projects such as Leighton,
Minim Cove, the Tasker site and other planned projects that will make this one of the most desirable
locations in WA.”

Building heights are expected to allow for a development ranging from four to eight storeys.
The property, used by Matilda Bay Brewery as a production, storage and distribution facility,
includes offices and a warehouse and was sold by the McGilvray family, who have owned it since
the 1980s.
Mr Corbett said the $36 million deal was the biggest development site sale outside the city for the
past two years.

“Typically there is strong demand up to $15 million or $20 million but when you start going above
that, there’s less capital available. Having regard to that and the size of the site, I think it was good
buy for the purchaser and equally a good result for the vendor,” he said.
The property was first offered for sale last year and has been under contract for the past six
months.
“The buyer has mining interests here and they see this unique site as a chance to diversify and as a
good development deal,” Mr Corbett said.
The deal follows a new wave of commercial property sales to offshore Asian buyers who are
investing in Perth’s property market.

Mr Corbett said subject to development approvals, there would be strong demand for apartments.

Page172of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“There’s a cross section of people who grew up in the western suburbs and the Fremantle area who
are finding it increasingly hard to buy homes and there’s an opportunity here to build affordable
product on this site, which is close to the city, Claremont, the beach and Fremantle,” he said.

“The other big plus is that there are very few other sites around where this type of development
could be replicated.”

eldixl : Foster's Group Ltd | sabrew : SABMiller PLC
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i427 : Brewing | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge :
Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods
c182 : Asset Transactions | c24 : Capacity/Facilities | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate
Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin :
FC&E Industry News Filter
waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140805ea860001f

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page173of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.