Transpacific Industries' new boss set to plug landfill gap

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Market Wrap - Street Talk
Transpacific Industries' new boss set to plug landfill gap

Edited by Sarah Thompson, Anthony Macdonald and Jake Mitchell
427 words
28 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
18
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

It's no secret that Transpacific Industries boss Bob Boucher has been looking to plug the gaps in the
waste handler's east coast landfill footprint.

Lifting "internalisation rates", which means dumping waste in your own rubbish tip rather than
someone else's, is a key plank in the American's strategy.

Margins on waste dumped in Transpacific's own landfills can easily be twice as healthy as using a
third party. But the company's Erskine Park landfill in Sydney has approximately two years of useful
life remaining and the Clayton site in Melbourne is likely to stop accepting waste in 2017.

So Boucher has been shopping and the likely acquisition target or joint venture partner will be
someone with landfill in Sydney or Melbourne.
Construction materials company Boral has landfill at Deer Park in Melbourne. Hanson's Wollert
Landfill is also a possible solution in Melbourne. Dial-A-Dump has two landfill sites in Sydney. Its
colourful founder, Ian Malouf, is believed by some to be a seller.

The various state governments are also potential partners. Transpacific has run the ruler over all of
those options and Street Talk understands the company will do a deal before Christmas.

But the Australian waste sector has been an investment banker's best friend given the huge volume
of deals, and it is believed a wider consolidation play could be in the offing.

Transpacific itself gorged heavily during the Terry Peabody days pre-GFC and then spent the years
after the crash selling businesses.

There have been long and persistent rumours that the French parents of SITA (owned by
GDFSuez)and Collex (owned by Veolia) want to exit Australia. The other big players are Germany's
Remondis and private operator JJ Richards.

But Boucher has indicated he will boost waste volumes through small bolt-ons and better sales and
marketing, so any near-term merger and acquisition activity will be on the landfill side.
After selling its New Zealand business to China's Beijing Capital Group (BCG) for $880 million this
year, Transpacific has the balance sheet to do a deal. Interestingly, BCG and another Chinese
player are believed to have approached various members of the top five in Australian waste
management in recent months.

Sita and Collex would be obvious targets and indeed Transpacific itself.
Deustche Bank ran the recent New Zealand waste management sale, while Macquarie Capital
helped the company through the credit crisis.

Page47of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

i9211 : Waste Management/Recycling Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | iewm :
Environment/Waste Management
genv : Environmental News | gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia
Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141127eabs00034

Page48of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.