Brownes leader pushes support for local industry

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

WestReg
Brownes leader pushes support for local industry

Brad Thompson
415 words
30 January 2014
The Countryman
CTM
First
8
English
(c) 2014 West Australian Newspapers Limited.

The nation may be left to mourn the domestic industry, Brownes managing director Ben Purcell
has warned, as overseas companies snap up Australia’s agribusiness operations.

Mr Purcell said the recent explosion of overseas interest in the industry raised fundamental
questions about the lack of domestic investment in food processing and agriculture.

“We need to be less pleased with foreign investors paying over-the-odds for our businesses and
more concerned about what it is that they can see that we can’t see,” he said.
Mr Purcell urged more debate on the issue, as Canadian dairy giant Saputo last week celebrated
its victory in the long-running battle for control of Warrnambool Cheese and Butter Factory.

Victorian-based co-operative Murray Goulburn conceded defeat last Thursday and will sell its 17.7
per cent share to Saputo as part of a deal that values Warrnambool at a maximum of $537 million.
Saputo, Italy’s Parmalat, Chinese conglomerate Bright Foods and Japan’s Kirin are among the
global heavyweights, with a growing footprint in the Australian dairy industry.

Mr Purcell said it was time to consider their motivation.

“I think foreign investors, particularly Asian investors, have a fundamentally different view on
long-term price and that is why they see value in things we don’t see value in,” he said.

Mr Purcell urged Federal and State governments and the Australian superannuation industry to do
more to support Australian-controlled agribusiness operations.

“Otherwise we could have a situation where a lot of the critical manufacturing and processing
assets in the country are outside our control,” he warned.

Murray Goulburn blasted Australia’s regulatory process after losing the three-way battle with
Saputo and Australia’s Bega Cheese over Warrnambool.

The co-operative said it faced longer delays in having its bid approved by Australian Competition
Tribunal than Saputo did in having its bid assessed by Foreign Investment Review Board.
Murray Goulburn will receive at least $92.9 million for the sale of its stake to Saputo, and make a
before-tax-and-costs gain of about $51 million.
Saputo will pay up to $9.60 a share if its stake in Warrnambool passes 90 per cent, a $5.09
premium to the trading price in September when the takeover battle kicked off.

Parmalat hinted at a big investment in WA processing last year, with Harvey Fresh regarded as its
prime target.

Page43of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO

IN

RE

PUB
AN

mryglb : Murray Goulburn Co-operative Company Limited | wcbfch : Warrnambool Cheese and
Butter Factory Company Holdings Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy Products | i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document CTM0000020140129ea1u00014

Page44of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.