Out of the comfort zone

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Features
Out of the comfort zone

Emma Wells
1,377 words
9 November 2014
The Sunday Times
ST
1; National
34,35
English
© Times Newspapers Limited 2014

Looking to invest in a city home? Make sure you know your neighbourhoods. Pick one of these 10 and
you can find a pad that's still on the up, says Emma Wells
If you fancy yourself as a bona fide overseas property investor, then you no doubt congratulate yourself
on thinking beyond the obvious. Not for you the traditional Spanish holiday villa, run-down French gîte
or Bulgarian flat in your quest for the next global hotspot. But to really stay ahead of the game, say the
experts, you'll have to take a big leap out of your comfort zone.

"It is important to look at micro-locations to outperform the market," says Liam Bailey, Knight Frank
estate agency's head of research. "The relentless march of gentrification and upscaling of
neighbourhoods in inner urban areas in the world's leading cities offers opportunities."
1 WEST KOWLOON, HONG KONG "Asian arts capital" is probably not what springs to mind when you
think of Hong Kong. But a "cultural quarter" is under way on the western edge of Kowloon. Plans to
transform the eerily quiet area into a buzzy harbourfront include museums and a high-speed rail link that
will connect it to the rest of the city and to mainland China.

According to Knight Frank's number-crunchers, homes here can cost up to 50% less than prime
property in the wider city. At the Harbourside development, a 1,051 sq ft unit is for sale for HK$39m
(£3.15m). Visit hongkonghome.com for comprehensive listings.

2 RUNDA AND GIGIRI, NAIROBI Suburban East Africa is not the most obvious move for cautious
British investors, but in these adjacent areas north of the Kenyan capital's central business district,
Knight Frank quotes discounts of up to 50% for a prime home, compared with other desirable
neighbourhoods in the city.

Separated from the CBD by the urban Karura Forest, Gigiri has beautiful high-end properties that
appeal to the many workers at the local international offices and diplomatic missions from the UN,
according to Faraaz Charania, head of marketing for Pam Golding Properties in Kenya. He is selling a
four-bedroom bungalow, with 2.6 acres adjoining the forest, for 245m Kenyan shillings (£1.7m; pictured
opposite).
Runda, a private estate built on a former coffee plantation, is popular with senior business executives
and expats, as well as for rentals.

3 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT, CAPE TOWN Few British buyers tend to head away from Cape
Town's sun-drenched shores to the CBD, or "City Central", as the locals call it, where the permanent
population has leapt from less than 2,000 to more than 5,000 in the past five years. Prices in this
upcoming neighbourhood can be 44% lower than in wider Cape Town: two-bedroom flats typically go for
ZAR2.75m (about £155,000).

"The area attracts a mix of high-earning professionals, creatives, families and young entrepreneurs,
who love the combination of historic Cape environment and trendy atmosphere," says Laurie Wener,

Page27of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.managing director for the Western Cape Metro region at Pam Golding Properties. A one-bedroom,
one-bathroom flat overlooking Greenmarket Square, with views of Table Mountain and the city, would
make a perfect lock-up-and-leave (ZAR1.2m; 00 27 82 331 4261, knightfrank.co.za).
4 BUSINESS BAY, DUBAI The vast new waterside, office and residential area known as Business Bay
— former scrubland bordering downtown Dubai — has had a few false starts. In the past 12 months,
however, many projects have been refinanced, and residential prices have risen by about 18% in a
year, according to Edward Macura, managing director of Core Real Estate in the city (core-me.com).

Knight Frank data shows that properties here can cost 40% less than in the rest of prime Dubai, but
don't expect a homely address — "Executive Towers" and "The Citadel" are as imaginative as it gets.
SPF Realty is selling a one-bedder in the Clayton Residency for AED1.55m (£260,000; 00 971 4 339
6222, spfrealty.com).

5 TOYOSU-KACHIDOKI BAY AREA, TOKYO This vacant stretch of land, close to the CBD and on
Tokyo Port, is about as big an opportunity you can find in Asia's most populous city. Knight Frank's
research shows that a home here can still cost up to 35% less than elsewhere in Tokyo, but with work
for the 2020 Olympics set to involve several "legacy" buildings, this could be changing soon. The
average local price is £510 a sq ft.

"Most properties on the market in Kachidoki and Toyosu are resale flats in high-rise buildings," says
Yukiko Takano, manager at Japan Sotheby's International Realty, who is selling a two-bedder in the
Kachidoki View Tower for 59.8m yen (£330,000; 00 81 3 3449 3355, sothebysrealty.com).

6 TIONG BAHRU, SINGAPORE The words "Singapore" and "hip" aren't often found in the same
sentence, but this revived 1930s housing estate is now the place to be seen. New cafes and
bookshops, designer boutiques and second-hand record shops, along with traditional food stalls and
old-timers playing streetside mah jong, have revived Tiong Bahru's fortunes. And you can still pick up a
property for 33% less than the city average. See what's for sale in the area at tiongbahru.sg, and
check tiongbahruestate.com for daily updates on events.

7 16TH ARRONDISSEMENT, PARIS With film-star residents, art-deco architecture, museums and
some of the city's top tourist sights, Passy, as it is known to Parisians, is rarely considered a place for
bargain-hunters. A four-bedroom flat on the second floor of a period building is on sale for €1.886m
(£1.48m; 0870 011 5151, frenchestateagents.com).
"Prices have remained firm over the past five years," Knight Frank's Bailey says, "but, importantly, they
remain below the levels seen in the most established arrondissements, the 6th, 7th and 8th. If you want
a safe but buzzing area, this is it."
8 VICTORIA PARK, LONDON E3 Yes, yes, we know it's not abroad (unless you're an expat), and there
have been so many London regeneration stories, it's hard to believe there are any neighbourhoods left
to gentrify. But Knight Frank has picked out Victoria Park, in the borough of Hackney — northeast of the
City, with London's tech scene pushing demand and values from the south, and the Olympic Park to the
east — as one with plenty of potential. You can still buy a home for up to 15% less than in the wider
city: flats start at £350,000, but family homes around the park can run into the millions.
9 BARANGAROO, SYDNEY Last summer, all 159 flats in the two Barangaroo South blocks sold within
three and a half hours of going on sale, including a four-bedroom penthouse for AUS$10.5m (about
£5.7m). Over the next 10 years, 1,000 flats have been masterplanned for the harbourfront district, until
recently a disused wharf on the western edge of Sydney's central business district. It is wildly popular
with Chinese buyers, and James Packer should get the go-ahead to build a casino.

According to Knight Frank, the discount for a prime home in this neighbourhood sits at about 13%.
Savills Australia puts the average price of a luxury off-plan two-bedder in Sydney at AUS$2.76m.

10 WILLIAMSBURG, NEW YORK "In 10 years, Williamsburg has transformed from a mecca for artists
displaced from Manhattan's quickly changing East Village to hipster central, attracting both young
professionals and international buyers looking for a bit of authentic NYC grit along with fabulous yet
affordable condo living," says Uri Hanoch, a broker for Douglas Elliman Real Estate.

The average price per sq ft for new-build condos was $850 four years ago; today, it's about $1,400
(£880). Yet, although huge retailers such as Apple and Whole Foods Market have established their
presence in this part of Brooklyn, Bailey says you can still buy a fantastic home for up to 13% less than
elsewhere in the Big Apple, as the market is not fully mature yet.

RE

hkong : Hong Kong | kenya : Kenya | captw : Cape Town | sydney : Sydney | africaz : Africa | apacz :
Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | bric : BRICS Countries | china :

Page28of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.China | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies
| eafrz : East Africa | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales | safr : South Africa | souafrz :
Southern Africa
News UK & Ireland Limited
Document ST00000020141109eab9000jf

PUB
AN

Page29of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.