Former hotel site generates buyer interest, controversy

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Former hotel site generates buyer interest, controversy

Linh Ly
291 words
4 June 2014
Moonee Valley Leader
MOONEV
MooneeValley
5
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved

THE former Racecourse Hotel site has been put on the market, two months after its developer was
issued a new planning permit for 300 apartments.
Foreign developers are swooping in on the 3773m block, owned by Oz Property Group, which has
approval for a 21-storey tower with 300 residential and 87 serviced apartments and ground floor retail.

Oz Property Group director Raghav Goel declined to comment but confirmed the site was on the
market.
The sale is being managed through CBRE, which is touting the location as one of Melbourne’s most
prominent corner development sites.
Senior negotiator Ed Wright said the company had fielded interest from China, Malaysia, Singapore
and local parties and had received offers “north of $16 million”.

The 21-storey building was approved in 2010 at the Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal and
amended to increase the number of dwellings to 300.

Moonee Valley Council and residents have staunchly opposed the plan since it was first flagged as a
27-storey tower, saying it would exacerbate traffic issues at the roundabout on Epsom, Ascot Vale and
Racecourse roads. Councillor Jim Cusack believed whoever bought the site would follow through with
the permit – which expired in November 2016 – but hoped they would reduce the number of single
bedrooms.

Flemington Association vice-president Jennie Gallivan said one of the major concerns about 1 Ascot
Vale Rd was that it would set a precedent for high rises, which was already happening with a
Flemington racecourse redevelopment on the horizon.“We do feel that we’re under siege and that
everyone wants a part of Flemington and the developers and the State Government in particular are
honing in,” she said.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
News Ltd.
Document MOONEV0020140603ea640000i

Page24of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.