Media Release: Australian Bauxite Development Pty Ltd

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Media Release: Australian Bauxite Development Pty Ltd

929 words
26 August 2014
AAP MediaNet Press Releases
AAPMPR
English
© 2014 Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

MEDIAMedia release distributed by AAP Medianet.

Australian Bauxite Development's Inaugural Board

Australian Bauxite Development Pty Ltd (ABD) today announced its inaugural Board, including its
Chairmanship by Australian mining industry leader, Nick Stump.
ABD is developing a $580 million bauxite mining project across two zones of the Aurukun region of
Cape York in Far North Queensland. Over 50 years from 2016, the project is scoped to deliver some 500
regional jobs, $400 million in stakeholder profit share to local indigenous people, and $3 billion in
resource royalties and tax revenue.

To best pursue bauxite development on indigenous land in Aurukun, the ABD Board is formed on a
'fit-for-purpose' basis with representatives of investment partners, the indigenous people and Traditional
Owners of Aurukun, and bauxite mining experts.

ABD will shortly finalise an Indigenous Land Use Agreement with the Wik and Wik Way people, and
respond to the Queensland Government's invitation for proposals to develop bauxite mining and its
benefits on the Cape York Peninsula.

Mr Nick Stump, Chairman of ABD and the former CEO of Comalco Ltd and MIM Holdings, said: "I am
pleased to accept the role of Chairperson of ABD because it is a very strong commercial opportunity, a
very strong economic opportunity for Queensland, and an unprecedented social advancement
opportunity for the disadvantaged indigenous people of Aurukun.

"I have recently been supporting the University of Queensland's Indigenous Enterprise Initiative which
assists in in building businesses that generate an economic and social dividend back to Indigenous
communities.

"ABD is uniquely positioned to deliver on that promise, as well as broader benefits for Queensland,
through a governance structure with first-rate industry and technical experience, a very solid financial
base, and unprecedented 15% project ownership participation for the Aurukun people.

"ABD is now responding to the Queensland Government's invitation for a new proposal for the timely
development of the Aurukun bauxite deposit, and will be seeking a Mining Development License on the
foundation of an Indigenous Land Use Agreement and a Cultural Heritage Protocol, both of which we are
close to finalizing.

"When the potential development area is treated as a whole, it is the most significant opportunity in
Queensland to move from indigenous poverty to indigenous prosperity through real ownership,
participation and career development."

The list of ADB Board members and their brief bio's follows.

FOR MORE INFORMATION: PETE SHMIGEL (CROSBY|TEXTOR) 0419 541 531
Nicholas Withrington Stump, Chairman. Nick Stump (M App Sc, Hon D Eng, F Aus IMM) has 40 years'
experience in the mining industry and was formerly CEO of Comalco Ltd and MIM Holdings Ltd. He has
extensive experience in project development, construction, operations, OH&S and environmental

Page389of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.management. His career started with CRA Ltd (now Rio Tinto) in Broken Hill, and he and his family
moved to a number of remote locations where he saw first-hand the issues facing indigenous
communities. In 2000, he and others proposed the setting up of the Sustainable Minerals Institute at The
University of Queensland, and he became Chairman of its Advisory Board. He and the University have
since pursued an "Indigenous Enterprise Initiative" within the Institute.
Christopher Steven Coudanaris, Company Secretary. Chris Coudounaris (B Com LLB) was a Partner at
Gadens until 1996, specializing in corporate & commercial law. Following this, he went into sole practice.
Chris has held numerous public and private company directorships.

John Robert Benson. John Benson (BEc) has established a successful track record securing project
approvals, developing company strategies and negotiating contracts, including Indigenous Land Use
Agreements. Specifically within the mining and power industries, John has built an extensive network
across South East Asia, China and Australia and has demonstrated a capacity to assemble a
professional project team able to deliver major and complex operations.

Gina Louise Castelain. Gina Castelain is a Wik and Wik Way woman, who's traditional country includes
the Aurukun wetlands. Her mother, Norma Chevathun, was a prominent indigenous leader in the
1980s-90s and one of the original Wik native title claimants. Gina is Managing Director of Wik Projects
which operates two local indigenous businesses. Aurukun Earthmoving, one of these businesses,
provides contract work to Rio Tinto Alcan's operations in Weipa.

Llyle Chad Kawangka. Llyle Kawangka is a Wik and Wik Way man from the North Watson area and a
young leader in his community. He is a Board Member of Ngan Aak-Kunch Aboriginal Corporation
(NAK), which represents the native title interests of the Wik, Wik Way and Kugu people of Australia's
northwest Cape York region.

Cheryl Aurelia Koesdjojo. Cheryl Koesdjojo (MA; BSc; BAe) was a vice president in Citigroup Special
Situations Group, specializing in South East Asia investments where she was involved in investments
including private equity placement in Indonesian's second largest coal mine. Before that, she was an
associate in McKinsey Singapore Corporate Finance division.
Thomas Soon Seng Tan. Thomas Tan (B Eng) is a Director at Bestford Captital Inc, with a keen focus on
the private equity market. Projects have included natural resources development and export, oil and
gas, marine and offshore, and internet technology. He carried over substantial portfolio construction and
management experience from the banking sector when he was with UBS Wealth Management in the
Active Advisory Team. Thomas also sits on the Board of Directors at Tembusu Partners and at Value
Land. The latter of which is a Singapore incorporated property development company, with more than
one million square metres of residential areas in China.

ENDS

SOURCE: Australian Bauxite Development Pty Ltd

NNNN

NS

gland : Land Use | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | npress : Press Releases | gcat : Political/General
News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd
AN

Document AAPMPR0020140826ea8q000e0

Page390of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.