Asian bank seeks better investments

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Financial Services
Asian bank seeks better investments

Clancy Yeates
555 words
15 April 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
19
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

One of China's most powerful banks is seeking to strike better deals when it invests in Australia, as
part of a global push to improve its lending quality.

ANZ Bank on Monday became the latest lender to announce an agreement with government-owned
China Development Bank, broadening a 2009 memorandum of understanding with the bank.

Under the widened agreement, ANZ will operate as an adviser to CDB on its investment and lending
decisions in Australia – where the Chinese bank is eyeing resources and infrastructure projects in
particular.

After several of CDB's foreign deals turned sour, including being the main lender to Citic Pacific's
troubled iron ore project in Western Australia, the Chinese lender wants to improve the financial
performance of its investments overseas.

ANZ said the latest agreement, which followed a meeting between ANZ chief executive Mike Smith
and CDB chairman Hu Huaibang in Beijing at the weekend, would help CDB achieve "better
commercial outcomes."

"This will not only support the growing two-way trade and investment relationship between
Australia/New Zealand and China, but will also help to aid transparency and improve the economics
of Chinese investments," ANZ's chief executive of international and institutional lending, Andrew
Geczy, said in a statement.
It was also intended to provide local companies with greater access to Chinese capital.

"This agreement will give Australian companies the option of direct access to CDB and its
associates when they're looking for equity investment from Chinese state-owned enterprises," Mr
Geczy said
It comes as the major banks seek to promote investment from China, which is already Australia's
third largest source of foreign direct investment behind the United States and Britain.

For ANZ, which is pursuing Asia-linked growth and has a large institutional lending business, the
agreement could also provide increased access to domestic clients.
CDB bankrolls much of China's investment in infrastructure, but it has also been trying to expand its
presence overseas.

It has also formed partnerships with other banks, including a tie-up with British lender Barclays last
month and a memorandum of understanding with National Australia Bank last year.
Chinese investment in Australia is emerging as a key part of any free trade deal between the two
countries, and was discussed during last week's visit to the country by Prime Minister Tony Abbott.

Page197of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The government is expected to increase the hurdle at which Chinese investment attracts official
scrutiny, as it has done in agreements with Japan and Korea.
While major banks are pushing for higher Chinese investment, the fact that that investment is often
state-backed remains contentious.

Therefore, the finance industry has been keen to talk up the benefits of higher investment in
Australia.
Treasury's Foreign Investment Review Board approved $15.8 billion in inflows from Chinese
investors in 2012-13. Mining accounted for more than half of the approvals, while real estate was
the second biggest industry sector for investment.
ANZ has forecast direct investment from China in Australia could surge to $200 billion by 2030 and
is lobbying for negotiations over the free trade agreement to be resolved quickly.
Key points Powerful China bank signs agreement with ANZ Bank for investment advice. Move is
intended to give local Australian companies greater access to Chinese capital.

skfdev : CITIC Pacific Limited
i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
e512 : Physical Trade | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat :
Economic News
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140414ea4f0000t

CO
IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page198of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.