DLA Piper appoints Employment partner Brett Feltham

HD DLA Piper appoints Employment partner Brett Feltham
WC 1,026 words
PD
8 April 2014
SN
News Bites - Private Companies
SC
NBPRCO
LA
English
CY
Copyright 2014. News Bites Pty Ltd.
LP

NEWS BITES - PRIVATE COMPANIES
[Company Release]

TD

DLA Piper has appointed Brett Feltham as a partner in the firm's Employment group. He commences in
the firm's Sydney office on 7 April 2014.
DLA Piper has appointed Brett Feltham as a partner in the firm's Employment group. He commences in
the firm's Sydney office on 7 April 2014.

Brett was previously a partner at Hunt & Hunt and before then led PricewaterhouseCoopers' Employment
and Workplace Relations team.

A highly respected employment lawyer with broad ranging experience in workplace relations,
discrimination and work health and safety issues, Brett specialises in cross-border employment
arrangements and the employment and securities law aspects of executive remuneration and employee
equity and cash incentive arrangements. He regularly advises clients on complex and strategic
employment matters, including C-suite level terminations.

Andrew Darwin, Managing Partner Australia at DLA Piper commented: "We have a very strong
employment group, both globally and in Australia, and this appointment demonstrates further
enhancement of our cross-border capabilities. Brett's strong ability to relate technical issues to the
commercial environment will no doubt be well received by our clients, as will his experience in high level
and complex employment matters."
Brett Feltham said: "I am delighted to be joining DLA Piper. Given my cross-border experience, the firm's
vast global reach and multi-jurisdictional clients represents a huge advantage. I look forward to working
with the team and contributing to the firm's strong employment practice."

Click here for the full original announcement
COMPANY BACKGROUND

ACTIVITIES
DLA provides legal advisory services. The firm's areas of practice include corporate, banking, litigation,
property and construction, human resources, insurance, shipping, intellectual property, and transport.
The firm is headquartered in London, United Kingdom with additional offices in Belgium, Denmark,
France, Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, and Russia.

BUSINESS NEWS ROUND UP
04 April 2014: DLA Group: Eten project bond named "Project Finance Deal of the Year" by International
Financial Law Review
[Company Release] Planta de Reserva Fria de Generacion de Eten S.A., a Peru-based power generation
company, received the "Deal of the Year" award in the Project Finance category from International
Financial Law Review. DLA Piper advised BTG Pactual as arranger and placement agent of the US$132.8
million project bond offering by Eten to finance a 20-year concession to build, develop, operate and
maintain a new thermal cold reserve power plant, transmission line and related infrastructure in the Reque
district in the province of Chiclayo, Peru. Last month, the Eten transaction was also recognized as "Latin

Page107of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.American Project Bond Deal of the Year" and "Overall Latin American Deal of the Year" by Project
Finance Magazine.

Click here for the full original announcement

02 April 2014: DLA Piper launches leadership alliance for women in Australia
[Company Release] DLA Piper launches its global Leadership Alliance for Women (LAW) program in
Australia this month, with inaugural events being held in Sydney and Perth as part of a global initiative to
provide current and future leaders with opportunities to build valuable business connections, develop client
relationships and strengthen leadership skills for future success. DLA Piper launches its global Leadership
Alliance for Women (LAW) program in Australia this month, with inaugural events being held in Sydney
and Perth as part of a global initiative to provide current and future leaders with opportunities to build
valuable business connections, develop client relationships and strengthen leadership skills for future
success. "Meet the leaders: Inspiring women in business' marks the official LAW launch in Sydney on
Wednesday 9 April.

Click here for the full original announcement
01 April 2014: DLA Piper recognized as a technology "Powerhouse" by BTI Consulting Group
[Company Release] DLA Piper is pleased to announce that the firm has been recognized as a technology
"Powerhouse" by the BTI Consulting Group in its newly published 2014 BTI Client Relationship
Scorecard. DLA Piper is pleased to announce that the firm has been recognized as a technology
"Powerhouse" by the BTI Consulting Group in its newly published 2014 BTI Client Relationship
Scorecard. BTI also ranked DLA Piper number 20 out of 650 law firms serving large clients for having the
best client relationships, placing the firm on the "Power Elite" list. Between March and July 2013, BTI
conducted interviews with 300 corporate counsel at large and Fortune 1000 companies about what law
firm activities drive superior client relationships.

Click here for the full original announcement
01 April 2014: DLA Piper plays lead role advising on the Mersey Gateway project
[Company Release] DLA Piper has advised Halton Borough Council on the Pound600 million Mersey
Gateway Project, a major scheme to build a new six-lane toll bridge over the Mersey between Runcorn
and Widnes. DLA Piper has advised Halton Borough Council on the Pound600 million Mersey Gateway
Project, a major scheme to build a new six-lane toll bridge over the Mersey between Runcorn and Widnes.
One of the leading project finance mandates in the UK at present, the DLA Piper team advised on the
procurement of a private sector partner for the design, build, financing, operation and maintenance of the
new 1 km long cable-stayed bridge over the River Mersey and tolling of the crossings. This major project
saw the team provide advice on planning, land acquisition, compulsory purchase orders, tolling,
legislative frameworks and the implementation of new legislation, as well as providing strategic advice on
the procurement process, structural approaches and bespoke documentation for the bridge. The
multi-disciplinary DLA Piper team comprised lawyers from the firm's Finance & Projects, IPT, Real Estate
and Employment groups across its Manchester, Liverpool, Leeds and London offices.

Click here for the full original announcement

01 April 2014: DLA Piper successfully defends St. Jude Medical in guidewire patent infringement case
[Company Release] DLA Piper has secured the dismissal of patent infringement claims against
subsidiaries of St. Jude Medical Inc., a global medical device manufacturer, by device maker Volcano
Corp. DLA Piper has secured the dismissal of patent infringement claims against subsidiaries of St.

Click here for the full original announcement

CO diblup : DLA Piper
IN
NS

i835 : Legal Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
c411 : Management Moves | c1521 : Analyst Comments/Recommendations | c1522 : Share Price
Movement/Disruptions | npress : Press Releases | c15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | c41 :
Management Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce
: FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | uk : United Kingdom | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
| eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | nswals : New South Wales | weurz : Western Europe

RE

IPD ACTIVITIES; BUSINESS NEWS ROUND UP

Page108of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB News Bites Pty Ltd (Europe)
AN Document NBPRCO0020140408ea480002t

Page109of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.