Adani may build own terminals

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

MarketWatch
Adani may build own terminals

Bridget Carter
283 words
24 July 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
27
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

INFRASTRUCTURE: Indian mining giant Adani Group could sell its $2 billion Abbot Point coal port
in north Queensland, but retain the right to build two more terminals at the site for its own use,
according to an industry analyst.
The company has called on investment banks for proposals for the port, including a sale, partial sale
or refinancing.

Adani owns not only the Abbot Point port, 25km northwest of Bowen on Queensland’s north coast, but
also the Carmichael coalmine in Queensland’s Galilee Basin, as well as the railway to transport coal
to port, bound for India and China.
The company has plans to expand the port from its existing two terminals, a move that would
increase current annual coal shipping capacity from 50 million tonnes to 70 million tonnes.

While approval has been granted for the expansion, Adani was still awaiting approval to conduct
dredging for the port from the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. Adani has previously said it does not
comment on speculation.

However, one scenario could be that Adani sold off the existing port, now used by customers including
BHP Billiton, Rio Tinto and Glencore Xstrata. It could then build the expansion, which it would keep to
export its own coal.

This would effectively create Abbot Point 1 and Abbot Point 2, a source said.Among potential buyers
could be Canadian private equity giant Brookfield and other infrastructure players that have previously
competed for Australian ports recently placed on the market. However, the level of interest would
depend upon the strength of the “take or pay” grant that would guarantee the income, given the
weakening coal export conditions, according to a source.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

adappt : Administrative Appeals Tribunal | adexns : Adani Enterprises Ltd
i5020017 : Harbor Construction | i111 : Coal Mining | i1 : Energy | i502 : Heavy Construction | ibasicm :
Basic Materials/Resources | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction | imet :
Mining/Quarrying | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140723ea7o0001m

Page76of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.