Fish-and-chip visas

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Fish-and-chip visas

Nathan Mawby property reporter
378 words
20 September 2014
Herald-Sun
HERSUN
HeraldSun
27
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

FAST food stores are at the top of the menu for hungry Chinese investors. A mix of fish-and-chip
shops, bakeries, cafes and pizza stores have emerged among the more popular businesses being
sought out by those hoping to migrate.
And by spending at least $200,000 on a small business here they become eligible to purchase
residential property without restrictions, as part of the Business Innovation and Investment visa
program.

Demand from mainland China for such businesses has prompted a Melbourne based
Chinese-language real estate portal ACproperty.com.au to begin offering businesses for sale
alongside homes.
ACproperty.com.au spokeswoman Esther Yong said the group had been approached by Chinese
migrants asking to buy a business, which can help fast-track applications.

“It’s less than a month old, but we have been getting quite a lot of responses though,” Ms Yong said.
“They’re looking for really small businesses, $2 shops and fish and chip shops.” The site, which will
be launched formally next month, now lists dozens of fast food businesses for sale in Melbourne’s
suburbs.

Harry Song Lawyers migration agent and lawyer Harry Song said the 188 visa was less popular than
the less restrictive 163 visa that preceded it, but his firm still worked with about 100 people pursuing
the visa a year.
But a Melbourne business broker working with Chinese buyers said he was working with up to 20
Chinese a month as part of the visa program, and that numbers were rising.
New Century Real Estate and Business Brokers managing director Kim Ke said many were looking
to escape concerns over political and economic instability in China.

He said due to the visa’s requirements of having run a successful business in their home country,
many of those working with his business are millionaires.
“They are quite wealthy, most of them ... most of them will buy property once they buy the
business,” Mr Ke said.

Coalition MP Kelly O’Dwyer, who is heading up an inquiry into foreign investment in Australian
property, earlier this week said the Foreign Investment Review Board had failed to ensure foreign
investors have been purchasing property appropriately.nathan.mawby@news.com.au

NS

gcat : Political/General News

Page222of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

PUB
AN

china : China | austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document HERSUN0020140919ea9k0003g

Page223of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.