IPOs dominate CEO package rises

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
IPOs dominate CEO package rises

Comment Michael Smith
504 words
10 December 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
36
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Big bonuses awarded in the lead-up to stockmarket floats had the biggest influence on the average
pay packets of the country's top paid bosses in 2014.
The fact that two chief executives of newly listed companies outflanked the usual banking and mining
bosses in The Australian Financial Review's 2014 executive salary survey says a lot about the current
environment.

Corporate earnings are recovering but growth remains lacklustre and established companies remain
under pressure to keep the lid on fat short-term bonuses.
In this context, Nine Entertainment boss David Gyngell's total salary of $19.6 million looks staggering.
But it needs to be viewed in the context of the broadcaster's journey from the brink of receivership to
market listing. His salary package reflects performance hurdles established by its former private equity
owners.Little-known in second
More remarkable is the arrival of little-known Kevin Chin in second place on the list, with a total salary
of $13.3 million. Chin runs investment group Arowana International, which is worth $155 million. But
the float of its education arm called Intueri in New Zealand during the year meant Chin was reward
handsomely under the company's policy of giving employees a 20 per cent chunk of the proceeds
when its enterprise value increases more than 8 per cent. Proxy advisors are aghast at the curious
arrangement but shareholders cannot complain as they approved the package.
Those floats, along with almost a dozen others, and private equity-style remuneration deals skewed
the list in 2014. Average CEO salaries increased by 7 per cent in the year but they would have only
risen by 4 per cent excluding the newly listed firms and Mr Chin's bonus. This reflects the demise of
the pre-financial crisis pay deals. Short-term bonuses are shrinking, and new CEOs are being paid less
than their predecessors. Remuneration is weighted more towards long-term bonuses.Familiar faces

More familiar faces make up the rest of the list. News Corporation's Robert Thomson came in third with
a salary of $13.2 million, with more than half made up of long-term incentives. A bonus scheme
reflecting a jump in Macquarie Group's share price during the year meant Nicholas Moore received a
48 per cent pay rise. He was in fourth place just ahead of James Hardie chief Louis Gries.
Departing Westpac chief Gail Kelly pocketed $11 million, making her the highest paid bank boss,
although this was mostly due to performance shares that vested during the year.

While first-strike rules have made boards think twice about awarding hefty bonuses, they have had little
impact on pay packets. The downturn in the mining industry and an exodus of many long-serving
business leaders in the past year or two are translating into less generous remuneration packages.
Salaries peaked in 2007 when they jumped 28 per cent before diving by 20 per cent in 2009.

NS

cexecp : Executive Pay | c41 : Management | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types |
nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter

Page241of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141209eaca00024

Page242of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.