China eyes investment boost

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
China eyes investment boost

Clancy Yeates
576 words
15 April 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
21
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Banking - ANZ secures key advisory role
One of China's most powerful banks is seeking to strike better deals when its invests in Australia, as
part of a global push to improve the quality of its lending.

ANZ on Monday became the latest lender to announce an agreement with government-owned
China Development Bank, broadening a 2009 memorandum of understanding with the bank.

Under the widened agreement, ANZ will operate as an adviser to CDB on its investment and lending
decisions in Australia - where the Chinese bank is eyeing resources and infrastructure projects in
particular.

After several of CDB's foreign deals turned sour, including being the main lender to Citic Pacific's
troubled iron ore project in Western Australia, the Chinese lender wants to improve the financial
performance of its investments overseas.

ANZ said the latest agreement, which follows a meeting between ANZ chief executive Mike Smith
and CDB chairman Hu Huaibang in Beijing on the weekend, would help CDB achieve "better
commercial outcomes".

"This will not only support the growing two-way trade and investment relationship between
Australia/New Zealand and China, but will also help to aid transparency and improve the economics
of Chinese investments," ANZ's chief executive of international and institutional lending Andrew
Geczy said in a statement.
It also intended to provide local companies with greater access to Chinese capital.

"This agreement will give Australian companies the option of direct access to CDB and its
associates when they're looking for equity investment from Chinese state-owned enterprises," Mr
Geczy said
It comes as the major banks seek to promote investment from China, which is already Australia's
third-largest source of foreign direct investment behind the US and Britain.

For the ANZ, which is pursuing Asia-linked growth and has a large institutional lending business, the
agreement could also provide increased access to domestic clients.
CDB bankrolls much of China's investment in infrastructure, but it has also been trying to expand its
presence overseas.

It has also formed partnerships with other banks, including a tie-up with British lender Barclays last
month and a memorandum of understanding with National Australia Bank last year.

Page152of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Chinese investment in Australia is emerging as a key part of any free-trade deal between the two
countries, and was discussed during last week's visit to the country by Prime Minister Tony Abbott.
While major banks are pushing for higher Chinese investment, the fact that it is often state-backed
remains contentious. Therefore, the finance industry has been keen to talk up the benefits of higher
investment in Australia.
Chief executive of the Financial Services Council John Brogden last week said China's investment
here remained relatively small, and hit out at "negative" media coverage of the issue.
"The fears around Chinese investment in Australian agriculture are unfounded," he said.
"Negative references to Chinese investment in Australian agriculture are not only wrong but have a
negative impact on potential investment and growth in agriculture and in other sectors."
Treasury's Foreign Investment Review Board approved $15.8 billion in inflows from Chinese
investors in 2012-13. Mining accounted for more than half of this, while real estate was the
second-biggest sector.
ANZ has forecast direct investment from China in Australia could surge to $200 billion by 2030 and
is lobbying for negotiations over the free trade agreement to be resolved quickly.

skfdev : CITIC Pacific Limited
i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | i8396 : Diversified Holding
Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140414ea4f0002v

CO
IN

RE

PUB
AN

Page153of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.