French boss wants more bubbles in economy

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
French boss wants more bubbles in economy

Eli Greenblat
528 words
7 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
21
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Philippe Guettat would love Australians to have a bottle of chilled champagne on their dining table —
not just at Christmas or on a birthday but all year round, taking a leaf out of the French way of life.

This is not an unusual dream given Mr Guettat is the global chief executive of Martell Mumm
Perrier-Jouet, a division of French drinks giant Pernod Ricard, putting him in charge of iconic
champagne brands GH Mumm and Perrier-Jouet.

He is also the boss of Martell cognac, which due to the austerity drive in China has suffered sharp sales
declines, making Australia’s double-digit growth in champagne consumption even more alluring to the
French group.

Mr Guettat believes as Australians increasingly grab for a bottle of champagne — one of his brands
preferably — the nation could quickly rise up the ranks to become one of the biggest drinkers of bubbly
in the world. Australia has climbed from eighth to sixth-biggest importer of champagne, helped by
slowing sales in other parts of the world beset by financial crisis and recession, just as local drinkers are
enjoying champagne at sliding retail prices.

“I think we should see this progress even faster, and I believe very quickly Australia will be a top five
champagne market globally. This could happen pretty quickly, actually,’’ Mr Guettat told The Australian
from inside the Mumm marquee at Melbourne’s Spring Racing carnival, where the brand is official
champagne of the event.

It is estimated 10,000 bottles of Mumm will be opened at Flemington over the carnival, which along with
its sponsorship of Formula 1 racing are the champagne house’s key promotional platforms for the
Australian market.

Mr Guettat said Australia was perfectly placed to consume more champagne. “First of all it has a strong
wine culture, a lot of understanding of what wine is really about,” he said. “Australia also has a strong
bubbly culture with very good sparkling wine here, and really that’s helped to build awareness of
champagne. There is also a strong aspiration here for the French way of life, and a lot of kinship as well
between the Australian and French culture.’’ Mumm has poured millions of dollars into the Australian
market over the past four years, helping the nation become the champagne house’s biggest export
market. More Mumm is sold in Australia than in traditionally strong champagne markets including
Britain, Germany and Italy.
Mumm, the third-biggest selling champagne brand in Australia, is still easily outsold by Moet &
Chandon, which is believed to have more than 50 per cent of the local market.

Champagne sales in Australia have been boosted by the relatively buoyant economy, especially when
compared with the struggling economies of Europe and North America, while a strong exchange rate
combined with intense competition between retailers Woolworths and Coles has pushed down the
average price of champagne to historically low levels.Mr Guettat said Mumm was growing faster than
the market and taking customers from other brands. He said the key to fuelling growth in Australia was
to widen the beverage’s appeal.

Page87of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

ichmpc : Champagne/Cognac | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks |
ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods | iluxgds : Luxury Goods
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141106eab700062

Page88of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.