UnionPay China 's way to pay

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Market Wrap
UnionPay China's way to pay

Jamie Freed
1,281 words
3 February 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
20
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Tourism Businesses need to get China-ready if they want to benefit from Chinese spending.
This week's Chinese New Year holiday marks the peak of annual spending for Chinese tourists in
Australia, a rapidly growing market now worth $4.6 billion a year. Chinese visitors are filling up hotels
and splurging on luxury goods across capital cities and at popular tourist destinations like the Gold
Coast and Cairns. But few Australians realise that paying for accommodation and other purchases
often isn't as easy for Chinese visitors as it is for those of other nationalities.

Chinese tourists in Australia have a reputation for making many high-end purchases in cash. Contrary
to popular belief, that isn't some sort of strange cultural trait. The likely reason is that the hotel or shop
they are in does not accept UnionPay, the monopoly credit and debit card payment scheme in China.
"In China, imagine [UnionPay] is Visa, MasterCard, American Express and EFTPOS put together,"
said Sydney-based James Yang, the chief representative of UnionPay International South Pacific.
There are 3.9 billion UnionPay cards on issue and only 1.35 billion Chinese residents, meaning most
adults have at least three cards and some have up to a dozen. Chinese tourists are only allowed to
take $US5000 ($5700) or the equivalent in cash out of their country.

But if there are UnionPay facilities available in the host country, the spending power is capped only by
the credit card limit. There are no conversion fees from Australian dollars to yuan.

National Australia Bank (NAB) was the first of the big four banks to catch on to the attractions of
UnionPay, signing a deal back in 2006 when the Chinese tourism market was worth about $1.7 billion
a year. The deal meant Chinese tourists, students and recent migrants could access the entire NAB
network of ATMs and EFTPOS terminals across Australia, so long as merchants opted in to accept
UnionPay, as they do with Visa, MasterCard and American Express. This gave an instant advantage to
NAB in pitching for business clients with Chinese customers.

Key entertainment and shopping destinations including Crown Casino, The Star in Sydney and Phillip
Island reportedly switched their transactional banking services to NAB to gain access to UnionPay
cardholders, and last year the deal was extended to online payments. But for the businesses that didn't
use NAB as their bank and offer UnionPay, the only practical option for Chinese tourists is to head to
an ATM and withdraw up to the daily limit of $1800 per UnionPay card to pay for hotels and other daily
expenses, with no protections from theft or fraud. That is far from ideal.
"Chinese in one way are very conservative," Mr Yang said. "They don't want to risk their cash,
especially when they travel around in another country. They would like to have something to guarantee
their comfort or something to give them comfort, and for retailers the confidence leads to sales."
Now that Chinese tourism spending continues to grow at a rapid rate, more Australian businesses are
catching on to the attractions of UnionPay. Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) and David Jones

Page24of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.were among those rolling out UnionPay facilities last year, although CBA offers it to merchants but
does not offer ATM access like NAB.

"Since announcing our UnionPay rollout, we have recently experienced an increase in inquiries from
new merchants eager to be able to accept UnionPay cards," a CBA spokesman said.
"In part this is a realisation of the potential of a UnionPay customer to spend more on a transaction."
Mr Yang said the average size of a UnionPay transaction in Australia is about $800, which is about
five times larger than for Visa and MasterCard, with purchases including university fees and cars for
migrants without local credit histories. "The Chinese love shopping," Mr Yang said. "It is very, very
important for them."
Despite that, some banks have been slower to see the benefits. ANZ Banking Group signed a
memorandum of understanding with UnionPay more than a year ago but it has yet to be finalised. The
deal covers Australia, New Zealand and other Asia-Pacific countries including merchant payments,
contactless transactions, and ATMs. Therefore, the rollout is more complex than it was for NAB and
CBA.

Westpac Banking Corphas yet to cut even a preliminary deal. Westpac was unavailable for comment.

"The big banks here are very busy and profitable and those kinds of projects are long-term projects and
a long-term investment," Mr Yang said of ANZ and Westpac. "They have started doing the evaluation
and talking to UnionPay on how to meet the demand from their merchant clients."

That means UnionPay only has about 40 per cent coverage in Australia at a time when annual
spending on the cards in the country has grown from nothing in 2006 to about $1 billion in 2013.

"For our customers, it has been very successful," NAB executive general manager of everyday banking
and payments John Murphy said. "The volume we are handling on behalf of UnionPay has doubled this
year and is up 10-fold from 2011 on a low base. I think it is reflective of the increase in travel for people
from mainland China."
When Mr Yang arrived in Australia three years ago, it had only one-fifth the annual transaction value
of Singapore – a country which has closer cultural links to China and receives more Chinese tourists.
But now Australian transactions have grown to about half the level in Singapore and show little sign of
slowing, particularly as Chinese tourists tend to take far longer holidays.
HSBC Australia head of commercial banking James Hogan says his bank's local business is
benefiting hugely from the boom in Chinese tourists with HSBC UnionPay cards, which can be used in
its local ATMs. "When you look at the spend of Chinese tourists arriving in Australia – and many will be
HSBC China customers – on average those tourists spend $7000 each," he said. "That amounts to a
lot of tourist spend."
Mr Yang said that, in part due to the acceptance from CBA and David Jones, UnionPay's transaction
value rose by 60 per cent last year and individual transaction numbers were up 78 per cent. He
expects a 50 per cent rise in transactions over the Chinese New Year period this year relative to last
year.

Yet Mr Yang is still setting his sights higher. He wants UnionPay to have at least 80 or 90 per cent
acceptance in Australia, anticipating that annual tourism spending by Chinese could double to
$9 billion by 2020.

"It is a tough job, but we do see the light at the end of the tunnel because the Australian government
has a China Ready program," he says.
China Ready & Accredited provides a government-backed accreditation scheme for businesses which
have trained their staff on how to deal with Chinese tourists. "One of our partners is UnionPay," China
Ready & Accredited chairman Gary Crockett said. "It plays an essential and fundamental role in the
lives of Chinese travellers."

Mr Yang is also encouraging more retailers who accept the card to advertise that fact in their windows
just as Australians look for a Visa or MasterCard sign when shopping overseas.
"Signage is very important," he said. "When Chinese see [UnionPay] signage they feel a sense of
welcome[ness], a friendly sense. So they are always looking for the shops that have displayed the
UnionPay logo. They see the logo and they know the shop knows about Chinese business and how to
take care of them."

Page25of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | ifinal : Financial Services
reqrbc : Suggested Reading Banking/Credit | gtour : Travel | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat :
Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr :
Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140202ea230001b

Page26of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.