The industries set to fly and fall during 2014: IBISWorld

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

The industries set to fly and fall during 2014: IBISWorld

by SmartCompany
1,261 words
13 January 2014
Smart Company
SMACOM
English
© Copyright 2014 Private Media Partners Pty. Ltd. All Right Reserved.

As Australian companies usher in the new year, IBISWorld reveals the five industries expected to
soar and the five expected to sink.
Diamond and gemstone mining tops the list of growth industries in Australia, with an impressive
24.0% rise anticipated for 2014, followed by superannuation funds, organic farming, online shopping
and internet publishing and broadcasting.

Meanwhile, other industries are probably not as celebratory about the new year, with revenue from
video and DVD hire, sugar cane growing, mineral exploration, newspaper publishing and horse and
dog racing forecast to decline in 2014.

Industries set to fly
Diamond and gemstone mining
IBISWorld forecasts the diamond and gemstone mining industry will grow by 24.0% over 2014 to
$821.9 million, identifying the industry as the top performer. Growth will be underpinned by output
from the underground Argyle Diamond Mine in Western Australia, which was previously under
development.

Australia’s diamond and gemstone production and exports are expected to increase significantly over
the course of 2014.

This reflects fresh production capacity coming online and strong demand from South-East Asia due
to rising median incomes.

High quality stones as a share of total output is expected to increase, which will have a positive
impact on total industry revenue.

A continued weakening of the Australian dollar from record highs will also support revenue generated
from US-denominated sales of diamonds.

Superannuation funds

Revenue in the Australian superannuation sector is forecast to rise in 2014, as sharemarkets
worldwide return to levels similar to those prior to the global financial crisis. IBISWorld expects the
industry to grow by 23.0% over the year to take revenue to $356.6 billion.

In July 2013, the federal government increased the super guarantee charge percentage to 9.25%,
which will rise by a further 0.25% in July 2014. This will continue to positively affect the sector by
increasing contributions income.

A stable Australian labour market is a key factor driving growth in the industry.

Characterised by a growing labour force, the conditions in our employment market mean more
people are contributing to superannuation than before.

Organic farming

Page54of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IBISWorld anticipates revenue for Australia’s organic farming to increase by 13.7% over 2014 on the
back of strong consumer demand, with revenue expected to reach $707.7 million.

Increased demand for the sector’s produce will be driven by higher levels of household disposable
income, health consciousness among consumers and increasing environmental awareness.

Production is anticipated to increase because of supply chain improvements, more refined
processing capabilities and increased variety in the sector.

A broader selection of organic foods in supermarkets, independent retailers and markets should
assist in increasing sales and driving revenue for primary producers. This will include more
private-label organic products available at lower price points.

Online shopping
Forecast to grow by 12.3% in 2014 to reach $13.2 billion in revenue, the online shopping sector will
offer consumers more choice and more competitive prices than ever before.

As there are no geographical boundaries, parallel imports, increased competition and global sourcing
will reduce the cost of online shopping to the end user, driving its appeal."

Australian consumers are price-conscious going into 2014 and online shopping allows them to hunt
for the greatest bargains from retailers both locally and abroad.

Increasing internet penetration, particularly in rural areas, is expected to bring more consumers to the
online marketplace – partly facilitated by the rollout of the National Broadband Network (NBN).

More traditional retailers are beginning to join the online sphere in order to remain competitive, with
their shop fronts acting as convenient locations for pick-up and returns.

Internet publishing and broadcasting

IBISWorld forecasts that the internet publishing and broadcasting industry will grow by 11.4% in 2014
to reach $1.7 billion.

Key factors tipped to drive this growth include increasing internet penetration, developments in
internet technology and the ongoing rollout of the NBN, which will increase accessibility to video and
audio content.
Higher consumer and business expenditure is expected to lead to more revenue from subscriptions,
which is the most successful model to date.
The ease of setting up operations makes it viable for current publishers to transition print models to
online or combine the two, and for new publishers to start the journey in the online world.

Story continues on page 2. Please click below.

Industries set to fall

 

Video and DVD hire outlets

IBISWorld predicts video and DVD hire outlets will be affected by significant competition from pay TV,
the internet and new online entrants to the market, such as streaming services. This will negatively
affect growth, with revenue predicted to fall by 14.8% in 2014 to $534.2 million.

Other retailers of DVDs and videos, such as speciality technology and department stores, will
continue to channel revenue away from the industry into growth sectors servicing trends in the digital
space.

Traditional video and DVD hire from rental outlets has been on a significant declining trend for some
time. Improvements in technology will continue to make it easier and cheaper for end users to
purchase movies and other media over the internet.

Sugar cane growing 

Revenue for the sugarcane industry has been negatively affected by adverse growing conditions,
particularly those attributable to extreme weather patterns over the past five years. IBISWorld
predicts that industry revenue will slump by 11.4% in 2014 to $1.1 billion.

Page55of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Volatile fluctuating prices and global production had intensified industry revenue volatility.

The high Australian dollar reduced the industry’s international competitiveness and choked export
markets in developing countries and established partner nations.

Mineral exploration 

IBISWorld forecasts that the mineral exploration industry will contract by 7.7% over 2014 for the
mineral exploration sector in Australia, with the industry affected by increasing global mineral output
and a slowing Chinese economy.

These adverse global conditions have suppressed world prices for the major commodity groups upon
which the exploration industry depends.

The fall in investment in exploration also follows established miners shifting their focus from
exploration to production.

Newspaper publishing

Consistent with expectations and the long-term trend, readership of print publications will continue to
decline as consumers turn to alternative news and information sources, particularly the internet.
IBISWorld predicts that in 2014 the industry’s revenue will fall by 6.3% to $4.0 billion.

The industry, which services the domestic market, is facing higher competition from overseas
mastheads, particularly from Fleet Street and the American press, which offer both global and
domestic perspectives.

Horse and dog racing

IBISWorld forecasts that the horse and dog racing industry will slump 3.7% to generate revenue of
$1.6 billion in 2014.

Tightening government regulations and restrictions have resulted in fewer quality horse imports into
Australia, negatively affecting betting revenue and attendance figures. Coupled with unfavourable red
tape, interest in racing events by Australian consumers is also in decline, making the current and
medium-term environment challenging for the sector.

Falling attendance by regular racegoers is further hampering the industry. Groups like Tabcorp offer
convenient gambling to the public, but the proliferation of corporate bookmaker services available
online and on smartphones is leading to drops in attendances, which is further stifling the industry.

As wagering revenue has moved away from previously state-owned TABs, racing authorities have
been unable to gain complete access to all industry-related betting activity and this has further
reduced revenue.

For more information on these, or any of Australia’s 500 industries, log onto www.ibisworld.com.au,
or follow IBISWorldAU on Twitter.

IN

RE
PUB
AN

i656000301 : Etailing (B2C) | ipension : Pension Funds | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i81502 :
Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | iretail : Retail
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Private Media Partners Pty Ltd.
Document SMACOM0020140114ea1d0000j

Page56of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.