U.S. E-Marketers Seeking Growth Increasingly Look Overseas; Payscout Helps Clients Expand Into Australia

HD U.S. E-Marketers Seeking Growth Increasingly Look Overseas; Payscout Helps Clients Expand Into

Australia

09:48

WC 1,152 words
PD 10 December 2014
ET
SN PR Newswire (U.S.)
SC PRN
LA
CY Copyright © 2014 PR Newswire Association LLC. All Rights Reserved.
LP

English

As e-commerce growth shrinks and competition tightens at home, U.S.-based
online retailers are seeking opportunity--and finding acceptance--Down Under.
Payscout's turnkey solution to global payment processing helps U.S.
e-merchants manage risk as they establish themselves in the booming Australian
market.

LOS ANGELES, Dec. 9, 2014 /PRNewswire-iReach/ -- After a decade and a half of red-hot growth, the
U.S. e-commerce market is beginning to mature. While growth has by no means stopped--Forrester
Research projects a 13% increase for total U.S. e-commerce sales in 2014 over 2013(1) --slowing market
expansion and increasing competition make it more and more difficult, especially for small and
medium-sized businesses (SMBs), to attain the kinds of year-over-year sales increases they have enjoyed
in the past.

TD

Photo - http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20141209/163284LOGO

In the scramble for increased domestic online sales and market share, it can be easy, according to some
observers, for U.S.-based SMBs to neglect the opportunities offered by overseas markets. "Australia, for
example, is a natural," says Payscout CEO Cleveland Brown. "As with any new market, of course, there
are risks: Australia has strict taxation laws and a relatively complex banking system. An experienced
global merchant services provider (MSP), however, can help U.S.-based SMBs manage those risks. And
the rewards are there: Australia is a prosperous, English-speaking country with a rock-solid economy, a
high per-capita income, and a big appetite for American goods."

Australia is also a global pacesetter in online shopping. According to a study by the Australian
e-commerce firm Big Commerce, Australia leads the world in the rate of new online stores opening, with a
200% increase from 2010 to 2012. Not only that, Australian shoppers spend more per order than anyone
else. While the global average spend for online shoppers is $116 per order, in Australia it is a whopping
$142, the highest in the world, and a 20% jump from 2012.(2)

Australians have also been deemed receptive to the mobile strategies U.S.-based e-marketers have spent
the last few years developing. According to figures from the National Australia Bank, smart phone
penetration is currently at 54%, and is expected to reach 70% by 2017. Mobile commerce sales reached
$5.7 billion in 2012, accounting for almost one-third of the online total. Comments global fashion
consultant Luna Vega, "The Australian population is receptive to creative and unique shopping
experiences. Australians are extremely active on Facebook, YouTube, and Tumblr, so focus your social
media efforts on creating unique and engaging experiences on these main channels." (3)

There are, says Vega, a few particular considerations to be made when marketing to Australians. "There
are Internet bandwidth restrictions in their market. Most Australians have a daily cap on their mobile and
Internet bandwidth usage, so having a robust hosting server and creating a site with optimized load time is
important."

Australia is in a remote part of the world, many thousands of miles from other English-speaking nations, so
it has grown up with a self-sufficient local economy, including a robust and competitive retail sector. This is

Page279of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.reflected in its e-commerce habits; though Australians are spending more time and money online, the
large majority of their purchases are still made from Australian-based companies.

"This might at first look like a disadvantage to U.S.-based firms," observes Brown, "but in fact it is a great
opportunity. The domestic share of Australian retail consumption is beginning to decline, making room for
new international retailers to stake their claim."

The fact that trends are changing rapidly is perhaps best exemplified by e-commerce trends in New
Zealand, Australia's island neighbor and cousin. According to the 2014 Nielsen Online Retail Report, 34%
of the total amount New Zealanders spent shopping online last year was spent overseas, an increase of
26% the previous year and double that of 2010.(4)

In addition to being rife with opportunity, Australia is also a relatively safe market in which to do business.
Within Australia, the incidence of charge-backs and refunds is low(5) , as is the incidence of card fraud.(6)

"Payscout assists U.S.-based eMerchants wanting to do business in Australia so that they can do so in
confidence," says Brown. "As an experienced global MSP, we understand the complexities of the market
and can help them manage risk while taking advantage of a truly spectacular growth opportunity."

About Payscout, Inc.:

Payscout is a Global Merchant Service Provider (MSP) and Payment Service Provider (PSP) with tier-one
bank sponsorships in the United States, Latin America, Caribbean, Asia-Pacific, and Europe. Payscout
assists SMBs and Enterprise companies with payment processing solutions for brick-and-mortar and
eCommerce transactions. Payscout is one of the few providers with a true Global Payment Solution,
encompassing all merchant risk verticals. Payscout is a new generation provider of merchant banking
services, specializing in online/eCommerce retailers with a predominant proportion of card-not-present
transactions. Payscout's services are provided on a state-of-the-art, web-based user portal, incorporating
expert interaction directly between their highly-trained staff and the customer business owner or senior
management. With clients in every state, Payscout serves the credit card processing needs of thousands
of businesses, across a multitude of industries. Payscout's global partnerships include VISA USA, Bank of
America Merchant Services, VISA Europe, VISA Latin America, VISA Asia Pacific, MasterCard Worldwide,
China Union Pay, Deutsche Bank, First Data and Payscout Brazil. For more information about Payscout,
visit www.payscout.com.

1. Indvik, Lauren, "Forrester: U.S. Online Retail Sales to Hit $370 Billion

by 2017," mashable.com, March 12, 2013.
mashable.com/2013/03/12/forrester-u-s-ecommerce-forecast-2017/

2. Le Couteur, Sophie, "New data explains booming Australian e-commerce

industry," CMO, June 27, 2013.

cmo.com.au/mediareleases/16749/new-data-explains-booming-australian-e-com

merce/

28,

3. Vega, Luna, The Australian E-Commerce Market Boom, lunavega.net, July

2014. lunavega.net/2014/07/australian-e-commerce-market/

4. "Where Kiwis Shop Online," eCommerce.org.nz, July 10, 2014.

ecommerce.org.nz/2014/07/where-kiwis-shop-online/

5. "What is a chargeback and how do I keep them to a minimum?" gtp

iCommerce,

gtp-icommerce.com/viewStory/Reducing+Chargeback+Rates

6. "Latest Statistics on Payments Fraud in Australia," Payments News,

December

2009.paymentsnews.com/.m/2009/12/latest-statistics-on-payments-fraud-in-a

ustralia.html

Media Inquiries:

Karla Jo Helms

Page280of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.JoTo PR

888-202-4614

www.jotopr.com

Media Contact: Karla Jo Helms, JoTo PR, 888-202-4614, khelms@jotopr.com

News distributed by PR Newswire iReach: https://ireach.prnewswire.com

SOURCE Payscout, Inc
Web site: http://www.payscout.com

CO frstr : Forrester Research Inc
IN

i656000301 : Etailing | iecom : E-commerce | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | iint : Internet/Online | iretail : Retail |
itech : Technology | i83952 : Market Research/Public Relations | i8395201 : Market Research/Opinion
Polling | iadv : Advertising/Marketing/Public Relations | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
npress : Press Releases | ncat : Content Types
austr : Australia | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North
America

NS
RE

IPC NND
PUB PR Newswire Association, Inc.
AN Document PRN0000020141209eac9000re

Page281of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.