Australia signs FTA with China : shift from mining to dining

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Press Release
Australia signs FTA with China: shift from mining to dining

HSBC Bank
941 words
18 November 2014
10:56
Scoop.co.nz
SCCONZ
English
Copyright 2014, scoop.co.nz All Rights Reserved.

Australia signs FTA with China: Supporting shift from 'mining to dining'
Australia signed a long-awaited free trade agreement with China, its largest trading partner, coinciding
with today's state-visit by China's president, Xi Jinping. As expected, the FTA sees tariffs on Australian
agricultural products lowered and thresholds increased on Chinese private company investment in
Australia. More surprisingly, Australian services providers have been given priority access to the Chinese
market. This includes allowing Australian tourism operators to buy hotels and restaurants and insurers to
access the third-party insurance market. The FTA should help to bolster Australia's already strong links to
Asia and the ongoing 'rebalancing' of Australia's growth towards the non-mining sectors. Australia's
agricultural and services industries are set to be key beneficiaries, helping to shift growth from mining to
'dining'.

Facts
• Australia has completed negotiations for a FTA with China, after almost a decade of trade rounds.

• The parliamentary secretary to the Australian Prime Minister announced that, over time, up to 95% of
Australia's exports will enter China tariff free as a result of the agreement.
• For agriculture, Australian dairy producers are set to get tariff free access to the Chinese infant formula
market (current tariffs are 15%) within four years (equivalent to New Zealand's FTA deal) with broader
dairy tariffs set to be phased out over nine years. Tariffs on beef (currently 12-25%) are to be phased out
over nine years. Sheep meat is to see its 23% tariff phased out over eight years. Tariffs on Australian
wine exports to China are also set to fall to zero (from 14-30%) over the next four years. Other goods,
including barley, seafood, skins, leather and horticultural products are to see tariffs eliminated over
coming years.

• For mining, tariffs on alumina, zinc, nickel, copper and uranium are to be removed. Coking coal tariffs of
3% will be removed and the 6% tariff on thermal coal will be removed after two years.
• For services, Australian businesses will get greater access to Chinese private hospitals and nursing
homes, tourism operators will be able to be buy restaurants and hotels and Australian insurance
companies will get access to the third-party insurance market.
• Foreign investment rules will be changed, with the threshold for Chinese investment by a private
company in Australia, without Foreign Investment Review Board (FIRB) approval, lifted from $A248
million to $A1.087 billion, in line with other Australian FTA's. Chinese state-owned enterprises will
continue to need to apply to the FIRB for all investment approvals.
• Chinese workers may also have greater access to the Australian labour market, with the Australian
government agreeing to a case-by-case application process for Chinese investors to bring in migrant
workers.

Page228of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.• The Australian media are reporting that the agreement could boost Australia's economy by $A18 billion
over ten years (1.1% of GDP) (see 'The Australian', 17 November 2014), although there is clearly
significant uncertainty around any specific estimates given the interaction of various policy measures and
uncertainty about the general outlook.

Implications
As widely anticipated, Australia signed a free trade agreement with China today. The signing coincided
with Australia's hosting of the G-20 meeting in Brisbane last weekend and a state-visit by China's
president, Xi Jinping, which includes a speech to Australian parliament today, only the second speech by
a Chinese president to Australia's parliament in history.

Many of the announced changes as a result of the FTA were as expected, including reductions in
agricultural tariffs, coal tariffs and the lifting of thresholds on Chinese private sector investment in
Australia. Key amongst these is the reduction in tariffs on Australia's dairy and meat exports, which will
put Australia on an equal footing to New Zealand over coming years. Australia's agricultural exports to
China were worth $A9 billion in 2013, with significant scope for expansion. In terms of foreign
investment flows, the FTA will see Chinese private companies able to invest up to $A1.087 billion in
Australia, up from $A248 million, without approval from the Foreign Investment Review Board, although
there were no changes in access for Chinese state-owned enterprises.
The surprises were for Australian services exporters and in terms of improved scope for Chinese
investors to import Chinese labour into Australia, albeit with approval required on a case-by-case basis.
Australia's services exports to China are currently around $A7 billion (4% of total exports to China) and
there is significant scope for service exports to pick up in coming years, given services account for the
bulk of Australia's output and as a developed economy, the services sector has high productivity. The
agreement on services is being billed by the Australian government as the best deal China has given on
its FTA agreements (see ABC News website, 17 November 2014).
Although Australia's trade ties to China are already strong, most of this trade is currently in minerals and
energy. The free trade agreement should help to encourage growth in Australian exports of agricultural
products and services to China's rapidly growing middle classes. This should help to support Australia's
great rebalancing act, from mining investment led growth towards the non-mining sectors of the economy.
Although mining will continue to be an important part of Australia's export basket, dining is also expected
to support Australia's growth. Australia's FTA with China should help support a dining boom as the
mining boom comes to its end.

Click here for the full report.

ENDS

NS

RE

e512 : Physical Trade | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | e51 : Trade/External Payments | gpol :
Domestic Politics | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General
News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E
Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

PUB Scoop Media Limited
AN

Document SCCONZ0020141118eabh00067

Page229of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.