Goodman Fielder shares halted on possible ownership change

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Goodman Fielder shares halted on possible ownership change

Paul McBeth
277 words
15 May 2014
15:51
BusinessDesk
BUSWNZ
English
Copyright 2014. Content Ltd.

Goodman Fielder shares halted to mull "potential change of control transaction'

May 15 (BusinessDesk) - Shares in Goodman Fielder have been halted while the food ingredients
maker contemplates a takeover offer, just over a fortnight after receiving a A$1.27 billion bid led by
the world's largest palm oil processor, Singapore-based Wilmar International.

The Sydney-based Goodman requested its NZX and ASX-listed shares be halted "in relation to
information received by the company in respect of a potential change of control transaction which is
under consideration," it said in a statement to the ASX. The shares closed unchanged at 73 cents on
the NZX, and were down 0.4 percent to 67.2 Australian cents on the ASX before the halt.
The notice comes two weeks after Wilmar teamed up with Hong Kong-listed investor First Pacific Co
to make an 65 Australian per share offer for the Australasian food ingredients maker, which the board
rejected as opportunistic and materially undervaluing the firm.
Wilmar bought a 10 percent stake in Goodman in 2012, and registered interest in the food ingredients
maker's assets which were up for sale at the time.

In February, Goodman forecast normalised annual earnings to be "broadly in line" with the previous
year's A$185.6 million as soaring milk prices and intense competition in baking goods eroded
profitability.
The maker of household brands including Vogel's bread, Meadowfresh milk and yoghurt, and
Meadowlea butter and margarine has been cost cutting, restructuring and divesting over the past
three years, to focus on its core brands and reduce debt.

(BusinessDesk)

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

fdgl : Goodman Fielder Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods
c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
nz : New Zealand | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Content Ltd
Document BUSWNZ0020140515ea5f0008e

Page138of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.