Highlights of AAP Finance Wire Feb 18, 2014

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Highlights of AAP Finance Wire Feb 18, 2014

620 words
18 February 2014
Australian Associated Press Financial News Wire
AAPFIN
English
(c) 2014 Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

HIGHLIGHTS Updated highlights of the AAP Finance Wire for Tuesday, Feb 18:

MELBOURNE - BHP Billiton has predicted a strong year ahead for both the global economy and itself
after it announced a a surprisingly strong half year profit based on cost slashing. (BHP, with factboxes,
on file)

SYDNEY - Departing Coca Cola-Amatil boss Terry Davis hopes consumers and retailers have realised
that if they don't buy Australian produce, there won't be any Australian farmers. (COCA COLA-AMATIL,
with factboxes, on file)

SYDNEY - The economy is showing signs of getting stronger and that means more interest rate cuts
from the central bank are unlikely. (RBA MINUTES on file)

SYDNEY - The minutes of the Reserve Bank of Australia's latest board meeting make it clear that
jobseekers should not get excited about the prospect of a quick improvement in the labour market.
(RBA NA on file)
SYDNEY - The maker of Bonds underwear is looking to hike prices by as much as 10 per cent to offset
a slide in the Australian dollar. (PACIFIC BRANDS, with factboxes, on file)

SYDNEY - Seven West Media believes 2014 will be a better year for free to air television as its
advertising market improves for the first time in years. (SEVEN WEST, with factboxes, on file)

PERTH - Port and rail operator Asciano will cut dozens of jobs after upgrading profit targets due to
growth in its Pacific National Coal division. (ASCIANO on file)
SYDNEY - The trucking company involved in a fatal fuel tanker crash in Sydney is looking to cut
hundreds of jobs, and expects to post a $38 million half year loss. (MCALEESE on file)
SYDNEY - Sydney's Wet'n'Wild theme park made a profit of almost $6 million in its first few weeks of
operation. (VILLAGE ROADSHOW on file)

MELBOURNE - International pathology, imaging and medical centres operator Sonic Healthcare says
Germany is the best place for it to acquire more pathology businesses. (SONIC on file)
MELBOURNE - Global packaging giant Amcor says solid growth in emerging markets such as China
has contributed to a 21 per cent rise in profit from the group's continuing operations. (AMCOR on file)
PERTH - Steel and mining group Arrium expects iron ore prices to remain at solid levels this year as it
returned to profit thanks to record mining earnings. (ARRIUM on file)
BRISBANE - The company behind the famous Hills Hoist clothes line has made a sizeable profit after
selling off its steel business to focus on health and security devices (HILLS on file)
SYDNEY - It made millions by floating its boat. Now recently listed ferry and tour operator SeaLink
Travel Group says solid profit and revenue for January has put it on track to meet the full-year profit
forecast lodged on its ASX debut. (SEALINK on file)

PREMIUM FINANCE STORIES

Page12of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The following finance stories and features are available on AAP's premium FinEx content service.

For access to AAP's FinEx content please contact our Newswire Team on (02) 9322 8405. AAP's FinEx
content desk can be reached on 02 93228738.

SYDNEY - The RBA clearly wishes it won't have to cut interest rates again, but if wishes were horses
beggars would ride. (FINEX: RBA RATES on file)

See on general file:

CANBERRA - Almost 1000 Alcoa workers are assessing the personal cost of the aluminium giant's
decision to close three factories but Victorian premier Denis Napthine believes Geelong will bounce
back from the blow. (ALCOA)

CANBERRA - Federal Treasurer Joe Hockey insists this weekend's G20 meeting will be important for
Australians as it focuses on future global growth and jobs. (G20)

Also Stocks Aust, Dollar Aust, Stockwatch and Finance Briefs on file.

AAP gfr/dmc

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

amtl : Coca-Cola Amatil Ltd | coca : The Coca-Cola Company
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer
Goods | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
ncdig : Corporate Digests | npred : Economic Predictions/Forecasts | ncat : Content Types
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific
| ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales
Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd
Document AAPFIN0020140218ea2i0018i

Page13of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.