Chinese company want to process Kimberley sorghum for alcohol

Chinese company want to process Kimberley sorghum for alcohol

17 July 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) News
ABCNEW
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

Tyne McConnon

HD
BY
WC 456 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Chinese company, Kimberley Agricultural Investment (KAI), says it plans to use the Kununurra sugar mill
to process sorghum for the alcoholic spirit Baijiu.
The company, which is developing stage two of the Ord irrigation scheme, has , which hasn't been
operational for seven years.

TD

KAI says it still plans to develop a sugar industry in the Kimberley, but until more land is acquired, it will
focus on crops like sweet sorghum.

KAI wants to use the former sugar mill to produce the base ingredient for Baijiu, an alcoholic drink mostly
consumed in Asia.

Baijiu is produced from sweet sorghum, which KAI is currently .

KAI's Jim Engelke says they are still studying the potential of the crop.

"We first have to convince ourselves that growing sweet sorghum in the Ord will be of a suitable quality
and quantity which makes the process viable."
He says the purchase of the mill indicates a level of confidence within the company, that a sorghum
operation can be viable.

"There are two sides to the coin," Mr Engelke said.
"The Australian side [of KAI] needs to learn a bit about Baijiu, and perhaps the parent company,
Shanghai Zhongfu, needs to learn a bit about growing sorghum in Australia.
"I guess we are convinced, but there are a few wrinkles to iron out."

When the mill stopped production in 2007 after the collapse of the sugar industry, many of its parts were
sold, and the parts left haven't been maintained.

Mr Engelke says the mill will need a lot of work before it could be functional again.

"There are milling trains that will have to be put back in, there are shredders that have to put back in,
there's a whole lot of electrical cabling that has to be replaced.

"There's a lot of work there at a fairly significant cost."

As the trials on the sweet sorghum continue, Mr Engelke says work will begin on the mill.
"We have already had engineers from both China and Australia look through the sugar mill, so we do
have some idea."
KAI has not confirmed how much it paid for the mill, however it's understood to be over the $1.5 million
former owners, Cambridge Gulf Limited (CGL), paid for it three years ago.

Page157of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.If more land is acquired by KAI in the Ord and a sugar industry is developed, Mr Engelke says a seperate
sugar mill would be constructed.
"Really the purchase of the old sugar mill is perhaps you could see it as a stepping stone to getting to
that bigger sugar mill.

"Also allowing us to have some sort of processing industry in the Ord."

IN
RE

i01001 : Farming | i0 : Agriculture
china : China | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
austr : Australia | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries |
dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

IPD rural
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCNEW0020140717ea7h000e2

Page158of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.