Warning for farm exports, as Chinese counterfeiters rip off Aussie products

Catherine McAloon

HD Warning for farm exports, as Chinese counterfeiters rip off Aussie products
BY
WC 989 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

15 December 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) News
ABCNEW
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

An Australian farmer who has been exporting to China is pulling his product out of the market over
counterfeit concerns.
His move comes as Australian agriculture eyes the fresh opportunities of exporting to China under the
recently agreed free trade agreement.

TD

Victorian producer David Blackmore, of Blackmore Wagyu Beef, has been selling his product to high-end
restaurants in China for several years, but has recently become aware of counterfeit products being
passed off as his beef, which fetches a premium price.  
Mr Blackmore says the potential damage to his brand reputation, from lesser quality rip-offs, means he
would rather pull out of the market.
"We sell beef to up to 20 countries, every month. Every piece of beef is sold before it's actually
processed. We've got more demand for our product that we can meet, so rather than damage the brand,
we would pull out of China," Mr Blackmore said.
With brand reputation critical to his company’s business, Mr Blackmore doesn’t want to jeopardise that
by being exposed to counterfeiters.
"We don’t want our brand reputation ruined by other beef that’s not ours, that is sold with our brand on
it," Mr Blackmore said.
Intellectual property lawyer Stephen Stern, of Corrs Chambers Westgarth, has acted for a number of
Australian exporters whose products have been subjected to counterfeiting in China. He says the practice
is commonplace. 

"Back in the 80s and 90s it was luxury good products and watches. From the 2000s onwards it's any
particular product that will sell," Mr Stern said.
Mr Stern says counterfeiters in China are becoming increasingly sophisticated, making the fakes harder
to detect.

Counterfeits becoming more sophisticated
"You are not dealing with Ma and Pa organisations. You are dealing with large scale commercial
factories that use commonly equipment that can cost some tens of thousands of dollars to manufacture
the counterfeit product.

"There are small factories, there are backdoor businesses all over the place that manufacture a range of
counterfeit products, but it goes from small, right up to full-time industrial manufacture of products that are
of not unacceptable standard," he said.
In Mr Blackmore’s case, a head chef for a five-star hotel in Shanghai, who had been using Blackmore
Wagyu Beef for a period of time, contacted the company when he noticed a change in quality of meat.
"When he described what cut he was taking, we didn’t even export it to China, so immediately we start
thinking there is something seriously going wrong," Mr Blackmore said.

Page122of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.To ensure the integrity of its product, Mr Blackmore’s company had been placing a plastic insert with their
logo and brand name printed on it inside packaging with the meat before it was vacuum-sealed shut.

"We found that the cryovac bag, and our logo that was going inside the bag, the insert, was all being
counterfeited," Mr Blackmore said.

"Our insert is a food-safe plastic, the ink is imported and it’s actually got a code in. We could immediately
work out that this wasn’t our logo."
Lawyer Stephen Stern says counterfeiting in China can range from look-alike products to identical rip-offs.
He acted for the Treasury Wine EstatesGroup, when the luxury Penfolds wine brand was targeted by
counterfeiters.

"One of the more famous ones in which we acted was a product that looked virtually identical, except it
was called 'Benfolds'.
"It was extremely hard to detect that the first letter was a B, and not a P, unless you looked for it."
A spokesperson for the brand says Penfolds keeps a continuous global watch on all of its wines. 

"Penfolds has in place a dedicated network in high risk areas, using lawyers and investigatory agencies,
and works closely with local authorities," the spokesperson said. 

"Penfolds protects its rights vigilantly and has in place multiple, dedicated processes to combat
counterfeiting and fraudulent mimicking of the Penfolds brand and wines."

Anti-counterfeiting laws

Mr Blackmore says he’s asked Australian authorities to investigate the counterfeiting of his beef, but no
further action has been taken.
New laws introduced in China in April this year aim to give greater protection to trademark owners, but
lawyer Stephen Stern says it's too early to say whether they will be effective.
"There certainly are a series of changes being put through by the Chinese Government. That’s in part
because the government recognises that there are Chinese brands, Chinese trademarks that are
valuable. It’s not simply the foreigners who are at risk from counterfeiting.

"With any new law, there is always  period of uncertainty. 

"The law takes time, so it’s unlikely you’ll be able to get an immediate result simply through civil litigation."

Mr Stern says that, even with legal protection, shutting down counterfeiters is not simple. 
"The problem of course in China is it can be a bit like 'whack 'em all' - you manage to sue one infringer,
that's great, but two more pop up in surrounding provinces the following week, or the following month," Mr
Stern said.
He says the other concern for Australian companies trading in China is that it’s not uncommon for their
trademark to be registered by someone else.
"I’ve seen other cases where the Australian business has been selling products to China for a year or
two or three years and then found that a Chinese national has registered the Australian trademark and is
using that to ‘greenmail’ the Australian business, because with a trademark registration the Chinese
national can sue the Australian company for trademark infringement and stop their sales.
"If you’re launching products into China, be aware that not only do you have to register your brand, but
you may end up fighting ongoing battles against counterfeiters. It’s common place."

IN
NS

RE

i01001 : Farming | i0 : Agriculture
c312 : External Markets | gcount : Counterfeit/Forgery | c314 : Pricing | c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal
Action | c31 : Marketing/Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gcrim :
Crime/Courts | gfraud : Fraud | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive
News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

Page123of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IPD counterfeits
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCNEW0020141214eacf000jm

Page124of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.