Names sign on for access to NFSA review

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Arts
Names sign on for access to NFSA review

Michael Bodey
900 words
21 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
17
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

More than 100 notable film industry types, including The Australian’s David Stratton, documentary
filmmaker Bob Connolly, author and screenwriter Frank Moorhouse and actor Jack Thompson, have
called for a more “open and accountable process to manage change at the National Film and Sound
Archive”. The co-signed letter to NFSA chairman Gabrielle Trainor, and copied to Arts Minister George
Brandis, opposition arts spokesman Mark Dreyfus and Greens leader Christine Milne, seeks access to
the release of the Loebenstein NFSA Business Review that preceded mooted changes to the structure
of the agency and staff reductions of more than 10 per cent. The letter, which expresses “our concern at
the management and other changes currently being undertaken by the National Film and Sound
Archive”, also asks for an open forum to discuss publicly any changes. Those willing to add their names
to the letter can go to www.filmalert.net/news.

THE Australian erotic drama starring Emmanuelle Beart, My Mistress, has secured sales to Britain,
Russia and Hong Kong. Stephen Lance’s debut feature, in which the French star plays an S&M
mistress who befriends a teen boy (Harrison Gilbertson), will premiere at the Melbourne International
Film Festival in July before a spring release here.

THE last night of the Monty Python Live (mostly) series of shows from London will be broadcast into
more than 100 Australian cinemas on August 6. More follow-on broadcast dates will also be confirmed.
The shows at London’s O2 Arena marks the first time the stars of Monty Python have shared a stage
since performing at the Hollywood Bowl in 1980, and 40 years after they last appeared on stage in
Britain. John Cleese, Terry Gilliam, Eric Idle, Terry Jones and Michael Palin will perform in what is bound
to be a lucrative venture as it beams to more than 1500 cinemas in 20 countries. Australian cinema
tickets are on sale from Friday May 23. All major exhibitors — Village, Event, Greater Union, Dendy,
Hoyts, Kino, BCC and Palace — are participating.

MELBOURNE colleagues of Wendy Hughes are invited to a celebration of her life next week hosted by
the Melbourne Theatre Company. Friends and industry colleagues of the much-loved actor, who died in
March, can attend the celebration on Sunday, June 1, at MTC’s Southbank Theatre at 140 Southbank
Boulevard.

THE Australian Academy of Cinema and Television Arts has opened entries for the fourth AACTA
awards short film and feature film categories and introduced an Excellence In Shorts program. It has
reduced entry fees for short films this year and will launch the Social Shorts initiative, in which those
short films not nominated for an award will still be shown and discussed via AACTA online channels.
The Social Shorts program will be curated into comedy, drama and independent (self-funded) categories
for exhibition and additional acknowledgments.

AUSSIE expat director Craig Gillespie’s latest film, Million Dollar Arm, starring Jon Hamm, has opened
to middling box office in the US. The Mad Men star plays a US agent who tries to convert Indian
cricketers to Major League baseball. It opened with $US10.5 million ($11.33m) to rank fourth for the
weekend behind Godzilla’s $US93m. Rose Byrne’s chops as a comic actor grow as Bad Neighbours
added another $US25m for a $US90m total. Gillespie, who started here as a TV commercial director,
began his career in the US with Mr Woodcock before breaking through with Lars and the Real Girl in

Page98of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.2007 and a series of episodes of United States of Tara. He directed Fright Night in 2011. Jonathan
Teplitzky’s The Railway Man added $US305,000 to bring its US box office to $US2.7m.

IN Australia, Godzilla recorded the biggest opening weekend of the year, earning $6.7 million from 498
screens. Bad Neighbours continued to perform, earning $3.1m in its second week for $12m while The
Grand Budapest Hotel keeps on keeping on, up to $10.56m in its seventh week. Craig Monahan’s local
film, Healing, starring Hugo Weaving and Don Hany, earned $72,825 in its second week, for a
disappointing total of $204,869.

HUGH Jackman’s whirlwind tour promoting X-Men: Days of Future Past took him away briefly from Joe
Wright’s production of Pan. The prequel to JM Barrie’s original stage play Peter Pan or The Boy Who
Wouldn’t Grow Up began filming a fortnight ago with Jackman, Garrett Hedlund, Rooney Mara and
Amanda Seyfried.

AUSTRALIAN producers Emile Sherman and Angie Fielder, and See-Saw Films’ Iain Canning, have
secured a $12m worldwide distribution deal for their film Lion, based on the true story of a five-year-old
Indian boy separated from his family aboard the wrong train, and who finds his way home decades later
via his investigations on Google Earth from his Australian home. The film is adapted by Candy’s Luke
Davies from the novel A Long Way Home by Saroo Brierley. It will be directed by Top of the Lake
director Garth Davis. The film is co-financed by Screen Australia and begins production in August.
Sherman and Canning’s See-Saw signed the deal with Harvey Weinstein’s The Weinstein Company,
which distributed The King’s Speech and is partnering with See-Saw on Justin Kurzel’s Macbeth,
starring Michael Fassbender.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

gmovie : Movies | nmovrw : Movie Reviews | gcat : Political/General News | gent : Arts/Entertainment |
ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nrvw : Reviews
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140520ea5l0003v

Page99of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.