Inghams offers echo foreign interest in farmland investments

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Inghams offers echo foreign interest in farmland investments

Carolyn Cummins Commercial Property Editor
433 words
10 June 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
24
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

The $650 million sale of Ingham Enterprises, the country's largest poultry company's property
portfolio, has moved a step closer with the vendor and advisers assessing a wide range of offers
received.
Rural property is growing in stature as an investment class.

Reflecting this, UBS Global Asset Management has established an Australian and New Zealand
Farmland investment advisory service. The investment strategies will offer institutional investors
either directly owned and operated farmland, or directly owned farmland operated by leading
farmers.
Trevor Cooke, UBS Global Asset Management's head of global real estate for Asia Pacific, said
Australia was an important supplier of high-quality, traceable food to export markets, in particular
Asia, with growing demand for such products and increasing consumer ability to purchase.

"Our farmland investment capability will look to attract much needed equity capital to support growth
and expansion of the agricultural sectors across Australia to meet this increasing demand," Mr
Cooke said.

While the first round of bids for Ingham were submitted in April, the complexity of the deal has
extended the process.

The two portfolios were put on the market in March, in what was described as a "once in a
generation" sale and leaseback, by the private equity group TPG.

The assets comprise 53 industrial and agricultural properties across Australia and New Zealand.
The cash is to be reinvested into the business.
It is said the assets have generated interest from investors in the Middle East, China and other
Asian-based private equity firms.
Some local real estate investment trusts such as Goodman Group have also shown interest, but
more for the industrial assets.
CBRE's Danny Thomas and Mark Granter are managing the sale process, but have declined to
comment on any updates.
The Ingham family sold the business to TPG in March last year for $880 million, allowing the sole
patriarch, Bob Ingham, to focus on his horse racing operations.
Australian property and real estate investment trusts remain the favoured market for overseas
cash.

Page23of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Last week the Singaporean group Frasers Centrepoint made a $2.6 billion cash offer for the
diversified REIT, Australand.

Frasers' bid is valued at $4.60 per Australand share, including the interim dividend, which puts it at
about a 20 per cent control premium, which was higher than the current cash and scrip bid from
Stockland.
Another sale is the Paradise Bay Island Resort, in the Whitsundays near Hamilton Island.
The eco-friendly resort is being sold by CBRE Hotels' Don Watson-Brown.

ubs : UBS AG
i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest : Real Estate | i814 : Banking
| i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
ereal : Real Estate Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | nz : New Zealand | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140609ea6a00049

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

Page24of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.