Chinese lapping up dairy farms

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Chinese lapping up dairy farms

SUE NEALES, Rural reporter
864 words
16 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
19
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

EXCLUSIVE CHINESE investment is flooding into Australia’s dairy industry, with four
multi-million-dollar mega-deals in progress that are likely to see Chinese state-owned companies
taking big stakes in all Australia’s largest dairy farming operations.
In western Victorian, about 50 dairy farmers between Colac and Mount Gambier have signed individual
option deals to sell their farms, worth a collective $400 million, to a secretive Chinese-dominated
dairy conglomerate being put together by Tasmanian-based property developer Troy Harper.

The 50 farms together run 90,000 cows producing 500 million litres of milk a year, about one-twelfth
of Victoria’s total milk supply.
The plan is for the newly aggregated farms to boost their milk production by at least 50 per cent, to
supply two new consortiums-owned processing plants to be built in western Victoria that would process
and export $700m worth of prized infant milk formula into China and other global markets.
Mr Harper, who describes himself as a private equity facilitator through his company Linear Capital,
would only reveal that the Chinese part-owner of the massive new dairy venture was a “major
dominant state-owned Beijing-based player” in the food industry, with established brands, trading might
and retail power.
He declined to name the Chinese company — there is speculation it is the dominant COFCO Group,
China’s largest food processing, manufacturer and trader, or its listed subsidiary China Food — or to
name the other global and Australian investors who took up the other 49 per cent of the as-yet
unnamed new dairy behemoth.

But Mr Harper said the full extent and details of the deal would become clearer in the next two days.
“We have partnered with a major group out of China; this is about putting together a new way of doing
things, building a global business and getting a better deal for farmers,” he said yesterday.

“They were looking to try and find a piece of the industry and restructure it so it worked for them; we
were asked to (assemble an entity) to supply to the scale of 500 million litres of milk a year; it has
taken eight months but we have now concluding (buying) our farms.” The new business will be
Australia’s largest dairy farming company, five times bigger than the large Van Diemen’s Land
Company (VDL) in northwest Tasmania, which the state-owned Chinese Investment Corporation
came close to buying last year for more than $200m.

It was also confirmed this week that VDL is once again in play. The Australian understands Mike
Guerin, a former Elders boss and the former chief executive of VDL until he suddenly resigned early
this year, is putting together a group of investors with a Chinese company contributing 51 per cent, to
buy VDL’s 19,000ha, 25 farms and 18,000 milking dairy cows owned by NZ’s Plymouth District
Council.

Mr Guerin would not comment yesterday. Also in Tasmania, Landmark Harcourts has assembled 12
dairy farms around the Smithton area collectively for sale for $120m.

Page94of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Landmark property director John Hewitt, who returned last week from China where he was marketing
the “North West Dairy Aggregation” cluster to potential Chinese bidders, said he had realised last year
that no Chinese corporate bidders wanted to talk about property purchases of a scale smaller than
$100m.
His cluster of farms, all located close together, runs 12,000 cows producing 60 million litres of milk
annually. “The main barrier is not that they are tyre kickers or not interested, but that they only want to
spend more than $100m and typically prefer a 51 per cent joint venture deal,” Mr Hewitt said.

Linear Capitals’ Mr Harper said yesterday all his western Victorian farm purchases were locked in, the
investment money committed and processing plants already on the drawing board.
He also confirmed the company is also in discussions with the state government to lease the 120-bed
former Glenormiston agricultural college at Mortlake as part of the deal, to use as a dairy training and
educational facility.
But Farmer Power, the western Victorian rebel dairy group, fears the plan is to fly in Chinese dairy
workers on low wages and 457 visas, use Glenormiston as their training and accommodation base
before being dispatched to work on the outlying southwest Victorian farms.
Mr Harper promised that local farmers would be the beneficiaries of the Chinese conglomerate deal,
as the new company seeks to improve productivity on its farms and builds two new processing
facilities.
But for rival dairy processors with factories in the area such as Saputo-owned Warrnambool Cheese &
Butter factory at Allendale, Murray Goulburn’s dairy processing plant at Koroit and Fonterra’s Cobden
plant, the locking up of the 50 farms with their 500 million litres of annual milk production by the
Chinese corporation would lead to a drastic shortage of milk supply.“I wouldn’t call it a disruption, but
a redistribution of milk supply; western Victoria was the only place we could aggregate this number of
farms together for the amount of milk needed,” Mr Harper said.

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i0 : Agriculture | i41 :
Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming | i413 : Dairy Products | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | reqrfb : Suggested Reading Food/Beverages/Tobacco | redit :
Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | china : China | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141015eaag0003k

Page95of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.