HK Bourse: Announcement From Zijin Mining Group Co. Ltd.

22:23

HD HK Bourse: Announcement From Zijin Mining Group Co. Ltd.
WC 711 words
PD 17 April 2014
ET
SN Dow Jones Institutional News
SC DJDN
LA
English
CY Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
TD

Following is the related link:

http://www.hkexnews.hk/listedco/listconews/sehk/2014/0417/LTN201404171041.pdf
will make a cash offer of 7 cents (AUD$0.07) per share to acquire all the
issued shares in Bullabulling Gold Limited (Bullabulling) (the Offer). The
Offer provides Bullabullings shareholders with a premium of 30% to todays
closing share price for Bullabullings ordinary shares (Bullabulling Shares) on
the ASX and a premium of 32% to the 3 month volume weighted average price for
Bullabulling Shares on the ASX to 17 April 2014. The Offer price equates to
approximately A$25.2 million for the 100% acquisition of all the issued shares
of Bullabulling (based on the number of issued shares of Bullabulling as at
the date of the announcement). Norton has lodged with the ASX a Bidders
Statement which provides Bullabullings shareholders with the terms of the
Offer. It is expected that copies of the Bidders Statement will be mailed to
Bullabullings shareholders on or about 2 May 2014. The Offer is conditional
only upon (by way of summary): 1. the grant of approval by the Australian
Foreign Investment Review Board (FIRB) to the acquisition of Bullabulling
Shares under the Offer; 2. there being no event or change which may have a
material adverse effect on Bullabulling between today and the end of the Offer
period; and 3. Bullabulling not undertaking certain actions relating to its
assets, including committing to any material acquisition, disposal or new
commitment, between today and the end of the Offer period. This Offer is not
subject to a minimum acceptance condition.
1 2. The transaction target Bullabulling Gold Limited is headquartered in Perth, Western Australia and is
dual-listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX stock code: BAB) and London AIM market (AIM
stock code: BGL). It has a current market capitalisation of approximately A$19.6 million. Bullabullings
primary asset is the wholly owned Bullabulling Gold Project, located near Coolgardie in Western Australia.
The wholly owned subsidiaries of Bullabulling forming part of the Bullabulling Group are:
Bullabulling Gold UK Ltd (formerly GGG Resources PLC);
Bullabulling Operations Pty Ltd (formerly Auzex Resources Limited). In 2013 Bullabulling commenced a
definitive feasibility study into the development of a large scale, long life mine at the Bullabulling Gold
Project. Following successful completion of the Offer, Nortons intention is for its highly experienced
operations team to design and implement a strategy to review the development plan for the Bullabulling
Gold Project. 3. Benefits of the Offer 1. The price premium of the Offer is attractive. Other than a 17
trading day period in

August/September 2013, Bullabulling has not traded on the ASX above the Offer Price

since February 2013. 2. Nortons Offer provides Bullabullings shareholders with the opportunity to realise
the

value of their shares with the certainty of cash consideration. 3. Bullabulling has one development project,
the Bullabulling Gold Project, which has a

Page254of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.capital expenditure requirement of more than A$300 million to bring it to production. By

accepting Nortons Offer, Bullabullings shareholders will no longer be exposed to the

risk of dilution through short term financing, that financing for the development of the

project will not be available, or the risk that the terms of any available development
finance are significantly dilutive to them. 4. Impacts of the transaction to the Company The Company
considers that the Offer continues Nortons strategy to consolidate the development of gold projects in
Western Australia, increases Nortons gold resources reserve, complies with the Companys development
strategy and be in the best interests of shareholders of the Company. Please refer to the announcement
and Bidders Statement as published on the ASX website (http://www.asx.com.au) by Norton for further
details.

2
17 Apr 2014 08:23 ET HK Bourse: Announcement From Zijin Mining Group Co. Ltd. -2-

This announcement is made by the
Company on a voluntary basis. Investors and shareholders are advised by the
board of directors to exercise caution when dealing in the shares of the
Company. Fujian, the PRC, 17 April 2014 *The Companys English name is for
identification purpose only
3

Source:
Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

April 17, 2014 08:23 ET (12:23 GMT)

CO cnchgd : Bullabulling Gold Limited | fuzmin : Zijin Mining Group Co Ltd
IN

i22472 : Precious Metals | i22 : Primary Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncmac : Commodities Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class
News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters
austr : Australia | hkong : Hong Kong | china : China | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

NS

RE

PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN Document DJDN000020140417ea4h001ph

Page255of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.