WA:Nalder's judgment error 'serious': Barnett

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

WA:Nalder's judgment error 'serious': Barnett

379 words
3 December 2014
Australian Associated Press General News
AAP
English
(c) 2014 Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

NALDER PERTH, Dec 3 AAP - It was a serious error of judgment for a West Australian minister to
suggest his business associate be invited to a meeting with the Chinese consul-general, the premier
says.

In parliament on Tuesday, it was confirmed the office of Finance and Transport Minister Dean Nalder
had been asked for names of potential guests to attend the August meeting, which included high-level
state bureaucrats.

On that list was Darryll Ashworth, the chief executive of property company Metier Asia, in which Mr
Nalder has invested $400,000.

Mr Nalder has conceded the meeting wasn't private as he initially claimed, saying that portrayal was
inappropriate.

And at a press conference on Wednesday, Liberal leader Colin Barnett described the conduct as "a
serious error of judgment".

"It was a mistake," he said.

"It mixed up his ministerial role with his private business interests."

Mr Barnett said he had no problem with the issues that were discussed at the meeting, claimed to be
Australia-China trade relations.
"The error was to invite people who had a commercial relationship with the minister," Mr Barnett said.

The premier said Mr Nalder had apologised and he had accepted.

Mr Barnett also said the divestment of his once rising star's stake in Fleet Network, which leases cars
to public servants through salary packaging arrangements, should have happened earlier.
Mr Nalder has not sold the stake in the 60-day time period stipulated under the ministerial code of
conduct, but says he informed the director general of the Department of Premier and Cabinet he was
having difficulty doing so.

Mr Barnett refused to say if he would fire Mr Nalder, in whom he said he still had confidence.

The premier said he expected to receive the results of a review of Mr Nalder's disclosure of financial
assets either late on Wednesday or on Thursday morning.
Mr Barnett was also asked about a claim Mr Nalder has invested in a Cottesloe property with Paul
Dion Thompson, a financial trader charged in April by a US federal grand jury with conspiracy to
commit wire fraud and bank fraud.

The premier said he only became aware of the claim on Wednesday morning.

AAP rlm/evt

RE

austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

Page217of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd
Document AAP0000020141203eac300691

Page218of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.