Aurizon makes $1.4b joint bid for Aquila

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Aurizon makes $1.4b joint bid for Aquila

ANTHONY MARX
374 words
10 May 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
85
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Venture with Chinese steel giant Baosteel AUSTRALIA’S biggest rail freight company could not have
made an audacious $1.42 billion play to expand in the west if it still remained in government hands.

Analysts say Aurizon’s controversial public float in 2010 unshackled it, paving the way for this week’s
announcement of a joint venture with Chinese steel giant Baosteel to acquire Aquila Resources.

The unsolicited offer is the Queensland company’s biggest deal since privatisation and, if successful,
would give it a 15 per cent stake in Aquila, which has a half-share of the $10 billion West Pilbara Iron
Ore Project.

Charlie Green, a principal of Hunter Green Institutional Broking, said there was “no way’’ the deal
would have happened if Aurizon was still owned by the State Government.
Morgans senior analyst Nathan Lead said the union influence alone during its days as a state-owned
asset would have made reforms to the business much more difficult, including this week’s
announcement of a further 480 job cuts. More than 2000 Aurizon workers have been made redundant
in the past four years.
Mr Lead said the bid for Aquila means investors hoping for special dividends from 2016 may be
disappointed as they wait to see if the higher-risk plan pans out.
“I quite like the potential of the project,’’ Mr Lead said.

“It could be an engine for growth and diversification of Aurizon’s earnings.’’ But the deal remains in its
infancy, with speculation Aquila may knock back the $3.40 per share offer and demand a more
generous sum.

Some analysts also have misgivings about the plan, which would diversify Aurizon’s main focus on
coal haulage in Queensland.
A Morningstar report this week warned that the potential acquisition would “raise the risk profile’’ of
Aurizon.

“Proposed investment in Pilbara port and rail infrastructure adds counterparty and construction risk not
evident in the company’s Queensland operations,’’ the client note said. “Given weakness in iron ore
prices and the high marginal cost of production for second-tier miners in the Pilbara, we do not believe
the risks associated with this project are offset by potential return upside.’’

CO
IN

baois : Shanghai Baosteel Group Corp
i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | isteel : Steel
Production

Page150of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020140511ea5a0003c

Page151of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.