Take to skies to make most of Asia, Fox tells farmers

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Local
Take to skies to make most of Asia, Fox tells farmers

LAUREN WILSON
372 words
20 March 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
5
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

TRUCKING entrepreneur Lindsay Fox has urged Australian food producers to embrace airfreight
and capitalise on the advantages of our timezone to reach Asian markets.
Speaking at a Tourism and Transport Forum conference in Canberra yesterday, the LinFox Group
founder said Australia had to harness its three-hour time advantage to get fresh Australian produce
on shelves in Asia at the same time fruit and vegetables are hitting supermarket shelves in Australia.

``The fruit and vegetable market normally opens at nine at night, you could move that down to 6pm,
you could buy from 6pm to 9pm, load all your goods, and have it all ready to go in an aeroplane,
and ship it off at nine at night into either Singapore or Malaysia, Thailand or even Hong Kong.''

Mr Fox said eastern Australia's advantage of being three hours ahead of Asia and relatively short
flight times meant customers across Asia could have fresh fruit, vegetables and dairy foods at
almost the same time as Australians.

``You can get there by six the following morning, transfer that into a cross-stocking operation, and
have what you buy in your supermarket today, equally as fresh as the produce we are moving out of
Australia to those locations.''
Mr Fox said with milk selling for $8 a bottle in China farmers would have access to new markets,
with more than 99 per cent of the potential customers in the region living outside Australia.

``In doing all of these things all we do is create a market for our farmers,'' he said.
``Within 12 hours by air we cover 3.4 billion people and we need to exploit every aspect of that all
the time.''

The chief executive of the vegetable growers' body Ausveg, Richard Mulcahy, said Australian fruit
and vegetable producers were already working in markets that operate effectively 24 hours a day,
and often dealt directly with vegetable importers and buyers in Asia.

However he said: ``There may be greater scope for initiatives like those outlined by Mr Fox, and
Australian vegetable growers must embrace airfreight networks to deliver our world-class produce to
Asia with speed and efficiency.''

IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

i0100216 : Vegetable Growing | i0 : Agriculture | i01002 : Horticulture
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | auscap : Australian Capital Territory | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140319ea3k0003l

Page132of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Page133of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.