Yancoal reveals pain of $61.5m 'take or pay' coal freight deals

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Yancoal reveals pain of $61.5m 'take or pay' coal freight deals

Peter Ker
575 words
15 April 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
21
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Another Australian coalminer has revealed it is suffering under its "take or pay" rail and port
contracts, with Yancoal Australia the latest to concede that it took on far more rail capacity in the
boom times than it needs today.

Yancoal's admission comes after recent revelations by Fairfax Media that numerous Australian
coalmines are operating at a loss because fixed-rail and port contracts would impose much greater
losses on the owners if the mines were closed.

The industry-wide trend is exacerbating the malaise in the coal sector, which is struggling under high
costs and depressed prices for both thermal coal and coking coal.
According to ASX-listed Yancoal's freshly published annual report, the Chinese-controlled coalminer
had a $61.5 million liability for its take-or-pay contracts at December 31, 2013.

The loss-making miner was formed between 2009 and 2012 through the consolidation of Felix
Resources, Gloucester Coal and Donaldson Coal, and indicated that it was tied to take-or-pay
contracts at both port and rail levels in both NSW and Queensland.

"Yancoal and its predecessor businesses made significant contractual commitments to ensure
long-term strategic access to the coal chain," the company said. "Yancoal has substantial port and
rail capacity contracted from 2014 to 2018, well in excess of the planned production profile."
Anglo American has also publicly bemoaned the impact of take-or-pay deals on the coal industry in
recent times, and warned it could be more than a year before some of those contracts expired. Most
Australian coalminers are believed to have at least some take-or-pay commitments on their books,
and Yancoal hinted that the problem was common in the industry.

"There is both a short-term and a long-term focus in reducing Yancoal's port and rail excess.
However, with most coal suppliers holding contracts in excess to requirements, potential for
avoidance of take-or-pay is very limited," the company said.Expansion to use up capacity
BHP Billitoncoal president Dean Dalla Valle said recently that his company was comfortable with its
take-or-pay exposure. "We have a whole range of contracts across our business, but we are very
comfortable where we are at the moment and we are managing all our contracts to our capacities
quite well," he said.

Yancoal spokesman Greg Foulis said the planned expansion of a thermal coalmine in NSW within
the next one or two years would help offset the problem. "Part of our long-term strategy at Yancoal is
to grow production at the Moolarben mine, which will, in turn, take up some of that unused
take-or-pay capacity," he said.

The Moolarben expansion could be granted final approval as early as 2015 if all approvals are
obtained.

Page193of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.A sizeable proportion of Yancoal's take-or-pay liability dates back to the 2012 acquisition of
ASX-listed Gloucester Coal, which was completed when thermal coal prices were about 25 per cent
higher and coking coal prices were close to double today's price.
Yancoal made an $832 million loss in the year to December 31, and Yancoal shares were steady at
40¢ on Monday.
Yancoal's major shareholder, Yanzhou Coal of China, recently sought to take the company private
in a bid to stem its losses, but was thwarted by fellow shareholder Noble Group.

CO

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

cenim : Gloucester Coal Ltd | mkthra : Felix Resources Ltd | yaptyl : Yancoal Australia Limited |
yankua : Yankuang (Group) Corp | ynzmn : Yanzhou Coal Mining Co Ltd
i1 : Energy | i111 : Coal Mining | i112 : Coal Mining Support Activities | i211 : Metal Ore Mining |
ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140414ea4f0001m

Page194of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.