Rio Tinto warns of more economic upheaval at annual general meeting in London

HD
BY
WC 731 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Rio Tinto warns of more economic upheaval at annual general meeting in London

By resources reporter Sue Lannin

16 April 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) News
ABCNEW
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

TD

Rio Tinto's chairman expects financial market volatility to continue this year, warning the global economy
is likely to face more challenges in 2014.
Addressing shareholders at the company's annual general meeting in London, Jan du Plessis outlined
international issues likely to impact on the company's operations and results.

"Tensions remain in Europe and the pace of reform and structural readjustments is slow," he said.

"The combination of low interest rates, low growth and low inflation leaves that continent with
considerable challenges ... and in the United States, the unwinding of quantitative easing represents
unchartered territory."
Mr du Plessis says he also expects short term ups and downs in China, Rio Tinto's major customer.
"While the fundamental drivers of the Chinese economy remain intact, we can expect some variability ...
as authorities endeavour to steer the economy along a more sustainable and steady path of growth," he
said.
China is due to release its latest official growth figures at 12:00pm (AEST).

Chief executive Sam Walsh says he is taking Rio Tinto "back to the future" after a year of cost cutting,
increased production and selling off mines.
Mr Walsh took the helm of Rio Tinto from Tom Albanese early last year after billions of dollars in
writedowns.
The mining company's annual report shows Mr Walsh is eligible for a payout of just over $10 million for
2013, up from 2012.
The company took huge writedowns on its aluminium businesses after its ill-timed purchase of Canada's
Alcan just before the global financial crisis. 

Mr Walsh says Rio Tinto's aluminium business will continue to operate in a difficult environment.

"Aluminium will improve over time, but at the moment we are stuck with low LME (London Metal
Exchange) prices and we've just got to survive through this period," he said.
No help for Energy Resources of Australia
Rio Tinto has also refused a guarantee to help its subsidiary Energy Resources of Australia (ERA)
rehabilitate the Ranger uranium mine, which is surrounded by Kakadu National Park in the Northern
Territory.
ERA has completed open cut mining and wants to build an underground mine, but it needs to from a
leach tank in December.
Mr Walsh says rehabilitation of the mine site is ERA's responsibility.

Page86of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."This is a public Australian company and clearly that is an issue for them," he said.
"We are clearly shareholders but it's a matter for all shareholders and a matter for the ERA board."

The miner says it is continuing discussions with the .

Mr Walsh says he is "relatively confident" of reaching agreement despite shareholder issues.
"All parties have requested an extension of the deadline for the project finance, and I'm hopeful we will
receive the approval for that," he said.

Activists and supporters have their say

Environmental groups, pension funds and non-government organisations also attended the AGM to
comment on the company's social and environmental record.
Mr du Plessis defended Rio Tinto's investment in the giant Grasberg copper mine in West Papua in
Indonesia despite the deaths of more than 30 workers last year in a training tunnel collapse, and what he
called "significant challenges" in mine waste disposal.
An activist from Madagascar criticised the company's involvement in a mining project in her country and
accused the company of not being transparent about the environmental degradation caused by mining.

Native Alaskan communities praised Rio Tinto for its decision to sell out of the Pebble mine project in
south-west Alaska and gift its shareholding to two Alaskan charities.
Kimberly Williams from the Native Alaskan group Caretakers of Our Land told the meeting she was very
thankful the company had divested its stake in the copper and gold project.
The Arizona Mining Reform Coalition's Roger Featherstone called on the company to emulate that
decision and abandon plans for a $6 billion copper mine in Arizona.

Mr Walsh responded saying there was broad support for the planned underground mine and the
company was committed to "vigorous consultation" on the project.

The Resolution project is part owned by Rio and also by BHP Billiton.
Mr du Plessis says the company has no plans for a share buyback at the moment and it plans to
continue paying off debt in 2014.

CO
IN
NS

RE

craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd | rtz : Rio Tinto PLC | rtzcra : Rio Tinto Group
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c1511 : Annual Meetings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | genv : Environmental News | c15 :
Performance | c151 : Earnings | gcat : Political/General News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | london : London (UK) | mongla : Mongolia | uk : United Kingdom | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | casiaz : Central Asia | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | eecz :
European Union Countries | eland : England | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe

IPD mining
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCNEW0020140416ea4g0000h

Page87of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.