It’s all go for the mango Darwin rural

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Lifestyle
It’s all go for the mango Darwin rural

By FRANK PEACOCKE
592 words
11 September 2014
Northern Territory News
NORTHT
NTNewsBR
5
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

ON the back of a disappointing season last year, the mango industry appears to be ready for an increase
in productivity this year as a generally good early flowering of plants has sparked increased optimism.

Also underpinning increasing optimism in this industry is the medium-term prospect of the mango industry
obtaining increased access to Asian markets to our north as Darwin’s shipping capabilities potentially
increase through port expansion opportunities.

The market for mango farms in the NT is very thinly traded, and apart from the $13.18m sale of the
“Acacia Hills Mango Farm” (mixed calypso mango and other variety/carambola farm) near Darwin to
foreign investors in October 2013, there has not been a notable “arms length” sale of a commercial
scale mango farm for several years.

However, there are presently two notable new listings including “Despotis Mango Farm” located south of
Darwin in the Lambells Lagoon area and “Jabiru Tropical Orchards” located in the Berry Springs area. It
appears that inquiry levels are still a little subdued at the moment and marketing agents anticipate that
this may change as the real direction for this year’s harvest becomes clearer.
We can now report that the “much larger freehold block that was contracted for sale” in last months
edition was “Edith Springs”. This 9620ha had gone under contract in February this year but has recently
settled early in September for around $4m (assessed bare). “Edith Springs” is a well developed, mixed
grazing and hay growing block (with further irrigation potential) north of Katherine.
Under the previous owner, the well located property with close access to the Stuart Highway, was
utilised as a live cattle depot block able to access premium live export cattle prices over the wet season.
At this stage we understand that the purchaser, foreign based Benart Livestock Co, will utilise it for the
same purpose, however they will not become established on the block until early 2015.
The sale of “Edith Springs” supports the firm perception within the industry that cattle holding blocks
along the highway south of Darwin should be well utilised once the AACo abattoir opens up in the near
future. AACo have made it clear that they will need to “stockpile” many cattle on blocks with good wet
season access to keep up supply to the abattoir when many of the big cattle stations become
inaccessible over the wet.

In other news AACO has reported that it will begin slaughtering in its abattoir at Livingstone south of
Darwin next month. AACo have reported in the press that while they have a sizeable portion of the first
few months slaughter already accounted for, they will be outlining supply opportunities to the pastoral
industry as they move forward with production. It will be interesting to see whether some of those
northern cattle stations that have good year round access might be drawn on to the market to sell and try
and bring out a premium for this potential new demand for accessible cattle blocks, or whether they
instead look to capitalise on being able to make some better money out of this new market offered by the
abattoir.Meanwhile, we are aware of ongoing good inquiry for several large northern pastoral leases. The

Page196of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.background for this still appears to be – large companies looking to position themselves for the long term
as mega cattle producers aiming for the perceived increase in beef demand from Asian countries (with a
big emphasis on China).

NS

mlvstk : Livestock/Meat Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m141 : Agricultural Commodity Markets |
mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E
Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document NORTHT0020150209ea9b00016

Page197of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.