Australian economy builds on China demand for property

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY

LP

TD

Australian economy builds on China demand for property

By Jamie Smyth in Sydney
811 words
5 March 2014
19:37
Financial Times (FT.Com)
FTCOM
English
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles
and redistribute by email or post to the web.

A crane is hoisting girders into place at one of dozens of partially built apartment blocks that are
sprouting up along Sydney's skyline, the construction of which is giving a welcome lift to Australia's
fragile economy.
"Sydney is where the boom is," says Harry Triguboff, an 81-year-old property developer and building
tycoon who is Australia's sixth-richest person. according to Forbes.

"I'm probably building between 2,000 to 2,500 apartments at the moment and I'm trying to increase this
because prices are good and demand is strong."

Mr Triguboff, who is known locally as "High-rise Harry", is part of a nascent housing construction boom
that is being driven by surging Chinese demand for Australian property. Canberra and the Reserve
Bank of Australia hope it can play a key role in rebalancing the economy as a decade-long mining
investment spree comes to an end.

On Wednesday, there were signs the diversification strategy may be working, with gross domestic
product rising 0.8 per cent in the three months to the end of December - slightly faster than most
economists expected.

Exports were the star performer, adding 0.6 percentage points to expenditure on GDP, due mainly to a
weaker dollar. Investment in housing rose 1 per cent in the fourth quarter, compared with the previous
three months, but is forecast to grow faster over the following year.

Australia has enjoyed 22 years of consecutive growth - one of the best records of any developed
countries. Surging demand for its minerals from China has helped the "lucky country" navigate the
global financial crisis by driving business investment and exports.

But as the mining investment boom tails off, unemployment is rising and confidence remains fragile.

In spite of Wednesday's better than expected GDP growth - 2.8 per cent year on year, according to the
Australian Bureau of Statistics - the economy is still operating below its 3 per cent long-term average
growth rate.

"The key challenge is managing the mining boom transition from a resource-intensive investment phase
to an export phase," says Alan Oster, chief economist at National Australia Bank.

"It is not about GDP growing in a quarter. It is about restructuring the Australian economy so it can
offset the 20 per cent year-on-year fall in mining investment, which is coming," he says.

Business indicators present a mixed picture of the economy's health. Business investment fell 5.2 per
cent to A$38bn in the three months to December 31, compared with the previous quarter, due mainly to
a drop in spending on capital equipment and machinery.

Page157of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Unemployment crept up to 6 per cent in January, a 10-year high, and is forecast to climb higher with
tens of thousands of manufacturing job losses at carmakers, mining investment companies and Qantas,
the national airline.
Richard Gibbs, chief economist at Macquarie Group, highlighted increasing exports of commodities and
services, particularly in the education and healthcare sectors, and growth in tourism as key to Australia's
diversification strategy.

There are signs consumer spending is picking up with Coles, the supermarket chain, on Wednesday
announcing the creation of 16,000 jobs with a A$1.1bn investment in 70 new stores. Residential
construction is another important sector, says Mr Gibbs.

Record low interest rates of 2.5 per cent are beginning to drive a pick-up in construction. Figures show
planning approvals for new dwellings in Australia rose more than a third year on year to 17,514 in
January. The rate of approvals for apartments is up 46 per cent in the same period.
"Low interest rates and Chinese buyers are driving the Sydney market," says Mr Triguboff, who has
built almost 60,000 apartments through his company, privately held Meriton Group. "In some areas I
sell up to 70 per cent of apartments to Chinese buyers," he says.
A report published by Credit Suisse this week estimates Chinese buyers are spending $5bn a year on
Australian residential property, which accounts for one in eight new dwellings nationwide. In Sydney
Chinese buyers, split evenly between non-residents and settlers, account for 18 per cent of purchases
of new dwellings.

"We estimate the number will rise by 30 per cent by 2020," says Credit Suisse. "This should support a
further $44bn of Australian residential property purchases over the next seven years."

If this forecast is accurate, it is good news for Australian economic growth - and for Mr Triguboff, who
recently broke his longstanding tradition of not using debt financing to expand his business.

"I probably went from having A$600m in the bank to owing A$350m," he says. "I'm still optimistic about
the future . . . Housing, if it can be built quickly, is good for the economy," he says.

IN
RE

PUB
AN

i501 : Building Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction
austr : Australia | china : China | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales
The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)
Document FTCOM00020140305ea35001gu

Page158of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.