Baosteel trying its luck on Aquila

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Baosteel trying its luck on Aquila

Sarah-Jane Tasker, acquisitions
474 words
7 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
18
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

CHINA’S $1.4 billion move on Aquila Resources is a “low-ball” offer that is unlikely to succeed in its
current form, analysts have argued.
State-owned Baosteel teamed up with Australian freight company Aurizon to bid $3.40 a share for the
80 per cent of Aquila it does not already own.

Aquila has told its shareholders to take no action while it reviews the offer, but its founder and
executive chairman Tony Poli is key to the deal succeeding given he has a 28 per cent stake in the
company.
Analysts have outlined that the bid has been made at a low-point in the iron ore seasonal market and
when coking coal prices are at their lowest point in four years.
China has said the key assets it is chasing in Aquila’s portfolio are the $7.4bn West Pilbara iron ore
project in Western Australia and the Eagle Downs coking coal project in Queensland.

Shares in Aquila, which jumped on Monday following news of the bid, tracked slightly higher yesterday
to close at $3.37, 3c shy of the offer price.
Morgans analyst James Wilson said that based on previous deal activity in the iron ore sector, he
believed that the hostile offer was “low-ball”.
“It is a cheap deal on iron ore metrics alone,” he said.

Mr Wilson said the offer price would have to increase to be palatable to the majority shareholders who
control 40 per cent of the stock, which includes co-founder Charles Bass.

Morningstar analyst Gareth James said the main risk to the takeover proceeding would be if Mr Poli
rejected the bid.

“When compared with historical transactions, the offer could be considered low,” he said. “However,
the iron ore and coal sectors have significantly weakened in recent years and Aquila has few, if any,
alternatives.

“If the bid does not proceed, Aquila will remain in a difficult position, challenged by a lack of capital
and stuck in an industry in downturn. The company has no operating business or economic moat and
it is unlikely the projects will be developed at a sufficiently low cost to justify investment.” Mr James
said the ending of the resources boom and an associated slump in commodity prices had only made
the development less likely.
The market was also mixed on Aurizon’s role in the bid, which will see it get a 15 per cent stake in
Aquila — an interest it will eventually divest — to earn exclusive rights to negotiate to develop a
multi-user rail and port.Morgan Stanley analyst Scott Kelly said that while this could be a smart

Page120of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.strategic move to open up the Western Pilbara, he questioned the validity of the decision to contribute
shareholder capital to move the proposal forward.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

aqures : Aquila Resources Ltd. | baois : Shanghai Baosteel Group Corp
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 :
Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | isteel : Steel
Production
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140506ea570005s

Page121of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.