Improving net export picture central to Australia's Q4 performance and near-term growth outlook

Improving net export picture central to Australia's Q4 performance and near-term growth outlook

Bree Neff
1,805 words
6 March 2014
IHS Global Insight Daily Analysis

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC WDAN
LA
English
CY
Copyright 2014, IHS Global Insight Limited. All Rights Reserved.
LP

The Australian economy expanded at the fastest pace in a year during the December quarter as the
economy appeared to be taking its first tentative steps towards rebalancing away from the investment
stage of the mining boom.

IHS Global Insight perspective

TD

 

Significance

Real GDP growth reached 2.8% year on year in the fourth quarter of 2013, the strongest result since the
third quarter of 2012, supported by a strong net export position and improved household consumption
activity.

Implications
Although the investment portion of the mining boom is unwinding quickly, the boom is far from dead as
net exports made the largest contribution to growth during the December quarter thanks to strong mineral
exports. Although household spending picked up during the quarter, the remaining sectors of the
economy are lagging behind on the transition away from the mining boom.

Outlook

The fourth-quarter GDP figure was stronger than expected, but it is still expected that the Australian
economy will return a sub-trend performance for 2014. IHS' February forecast had called for growth of
2.4% for 2014, but because of positive momentum from the fourth quarter and a healthy net export
position outlook, a mild upgrade to growth is possible. That said the room for upward revisions will be
limited by the weakening labour market, fiscal consolidation measures by the government, and weak
non-mining sector investment.

Australian economy beats expectations with Q4 growth figures

According to the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) the economy expanded 0.8% in real, seasonally
adjusted terms during the fourth quarter (Q4), an improvement from the previous quarter's 0.6% quarter
on quarter (q/q) figure. In year-on-year (y/y) terms, the economy expanded 2.8%, up from the
third-quarter reading of 2.4% y/y and the strongest reading since the third quarter of 2012. The result put
annual GDP growth at 2.4% for 2013, down from 2012's growth of 3.6%.

Source:
Australian Bureau of Statistics(ABS)

Slumping imports and strong exports result in positive contribution to growth from net exports

Although the fourth-quarter contribution to growth from net exports was smaller than the
0.7-percentage-point contribution in the third quarter, the net export position provided the largest boost to
growth in the fourth quarter. Exports of goods and services in real (inflation-adjusted or volume) terms

Page82of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.recorded significantly stronger growth in the fourth quarter, led by 2.7% q/q growth in goods export
volumes. Although a lot of talk in the past several months has focused on rising iron ore production from
the mining investment boom, the growth in goods exports was led by coal products in the fourth quarter
as they rose 12.5% q/q, supported by lower prices for the commodity. Iron ore exports were still
supportive of growth but they rose a more modest 1.6% q/q. Export growth was also driven by the
persistently volatile exports of non-monetary gold as they rose 14.3% q/q, largely unwinding the previous
quarter's fall. Services exports meanwhile recorded more modest growth of 0.5% q/q in real terms, with
the growth being led by a 1% q/q increase in travel services exports thanks in part to a weaker Australian
dollar.

Imports of goods and services meanwhile recorded their second consecutive quarterly decline in
response to the unwinding mining investment. Imports of goods fell 0.4% q/q despite growth in imports of
consumption and intermediate goods of 0.4% and 0.6% q/q, respectively. The 1.9% q/q fall in capital
goods imports was the main story, with falls across a number of major capital goods categories linked to
the mining industry, including machinery and industrial equipment (-4.7%), industrial equipment not
elsewhere specified (n.e.s; -9.3%), and capital goods n.e.s (-9.1%). In fact, the result might have been
worse if not for the 27% q/q growth in imports in the civil aircraft and confidentialised items import
category. Services imports were similarly weak as they fell 1.3% q/q, led by a 4.9% q/q fall in transport
services imports in response to weaker merchandise import activity.

Household spending perked up as hoped

Improved household or private consumption spending was another favourable factor in the fourth-quarter
data, and is something the government and Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) would like to see continue,
albeit at a measured pace. Household final consumption expenditure growth in real terms during the
fourth quarter continued to be dominated by increased spending on services, although retailers also saw
healthy sales during the quarter.

Growth was led by spending on finance and insurance services, which rose 1.8% q/q, and healthy growth
was also recorded for recreation and culture services, and rent and dwelling services. As for non-services
spending, clothing and footwear purchases performed surprisingly well for a second consecutive quarter,
rising 3.0% q/q. In response to consumption growth and slowing growth in household disposable
incomes, the ABS estimates that the household savings rate fell below 10% for the first time since 2010,
easing to 9.7% in the fourth quarter from 10.6% in the previous quarter. The result hints at two
contradictory trends, falling employment levels as well as improved consumption activity, and should be
watched closely going forward to see if it is being driven by rising wealth or debt accumulation.

Government consumption spending meanwhile was supported by increased spending at the national
level for defence purposes (up 0.9% q/q) and by increased state and local government consumption
activity (up 0.7% q/q). However, fiscal consolidation measures to rein in non-defence spending at the
central government level helped contain overall growth for the quarter.

Weakness in business investment more apparent in Q4's data

December-quarter fixed-investment data was relatively easy to interpret as the distortions caused by the
sale of public-sector assets to the private sector in previous quarters appear to have largely worked their
way through the data. Overall private business gross fixed-capital formation fell 3.6% in real terms during
the fourth quarter. The weakness was led by an 8.8% q/q plunge in machinery and equipment
expenditures, and was supported by a 1.9% q/q fall in non-dwelling construction activity. Highlighting the
unwinding mining investment activity was the 10.7% q/q fall in mineral and petroleum exploration activity
as it built on the third quarter's fall of 8.0% q/q. Dwelling construction activity was positive, rising 1.0%
q/q, more than unwinding the previous quarter's 0.4% fall. Public-sector investment activity was also
surprisingly strong, rising 4.3% q/q thanks in part to a 3.8% q/q increase in public corporations spending
and a 4.6% q/q increase in general government investment activity.
Because inventories fell by just AUD461 million (USD412 million) over the fourth quarter they made a
surprise positive contribution to growth during the quarter. Inventories fell for some of the economy's
major sectors including mining, wholesale trade, and retail trade, but rose sharply in the manufacturing
and farm sectors after both of those sectors recorded sizeable inventory rundowns in the third quarter.
The depletion of mining sector inventories is unsurprising after seeing the strength of the fourth-quarter
export figures and the retail/wholesale inventory weakness could stem from better-than-expected
consumption activity from the household sector.
Growth dynamics shifted significantly in 2013 as mining investment peaked

Source: ABS

Page83of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Growth slowed significantly in 2013, as mentioned above, it came in at just 2.4% for the year. One thing
to note is that 2012 benefited significantly from favourable base effects as the economy rebounded from
the devastating floods of 2011. By comparison, 2013 looks very weak, but during 2013,
quarter-on-quarter growth was significantly stronger than what was seen during the second–fourth
quarters of 2013.

The most dramatic story of 2013 has to be the turnaround in the country's net export position as net
exports made a 2.4-percentage-point contribution to growth, the largest contribution to annual growth
since 1990. The strong position stems from the progression of the mining boom from the
investment/construction phases of projects to the output phases. This transition saw imports to support
construction and project build-up activity fall sharply while mineral export receipts beat expectations. The
shift in the mining investment story is also clear in the headline gross fixed-capital investment result as it
indicates a contraction for the first time since 2009. When looking at the consumption picture, the annual
figures point to only modest growth, but the picture is not as weak as it seems with household
consumption activity improving solidly each quarter.

Outlook and implications

The strengths seen in net exports and household consumption in the fourth quarter are welcomed as
tentative steps towards the economy adjusting to the unwinding of the mining investment boom, which
was in full evidence in the fourth quarter's data. In the year ahead, the rebalancing or adjustment of the
economy will be under intense scrutiny from government policymakers and investors. One area for
scrutiny in the economy's near-term outlook remains non-mining business investment, where business
sentiment surveys point to mildly positive investment intentions but actual investment activity remains
sluggish. It is expected that improvements here will be led by the housing sector thanks to rising home
prices.
Meanwhile other non-mining investment will receive some support from still-low interest rates and minor
improvements to the external outlook from a weaker Australian dollar and gradually improving global
growth. Overall the improvements in non-mining investment are expected to just barely offset falling
mining investment. For this reason, fixed investment remains one area where IHS could potentially
downgrade our forecasts for the near and medium term. Thankfully the weakness in fixed investment is
largely offset by weaker imports of investment goods which will support a positive net export position.
This should help keep the economy growing albeit at a below-trend pace.

One key downside risk to our outlook could arise from a sudden retrenchment in consumer spending
from rising unemployment and the potential for higher interest rates, both of which would undermine
disposable income growth. Another significant risk is a sudden relapse in demand for Australia's major
commodities exports of iron ore or coal, either from top export market China or other Asian economies.
Overall, IHS expects growth in the mid-2% range for 2014 as the economy is not expected to quickly
adjust to its new circumstances and as downside risks abound.

NS

c312 : External Markets | e1101 : Economic Growth | gtrade : Tariffs/Trade Barriers | e512 : Physical
Trade | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e51 :
Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gdip : International
Relations | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin :
FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
IPD Main Story
PUB Global Insight Limited
AN

Document WDAN000020140306ea360001x

Page84of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.