Disconnect lingers beneath laughs

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

M - arts
Disconnect lingers beneath laughs

Review by DANIEL HERBORN
618 words
21 September 2014
Sunday Age
SAGE
First
17
English
(c) 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

BOOKS

ANALOGUE MEN

Nick Earls, Random House,

$32.99

One of Australia's most beloved authors, Nick Earls made his name with summery comic tales of
tongue-tied romantics, showing particular ease at depicting men infatuated with, and slightly intimidated
by, women who are better at life than them. Among his fine work for young adults, classics such as
After January and Monica Bloom have a disarming straightforwardness.

His books are still promoted with the old "buy a Nick Earls novel and never be sad again" quote, but he
has long since settled into darker territory, casting a wry eye over a world of middle-aged frailty,
misplaced lust and frustration.

For someone who has been named a national treasure, he is still often taken for granted. Perhaps it's
his approachable prose and his knack for the comedy of embarrassment, but both belie his willingness
to dig deep into contemporary malaise.

Analogue Men centres on bumbling Everyman schlub Andrew, who has downsized from a highly paid,
high-pressure role at a private equity firm to a "company that actually does something", a radio
station. The new job allows him to spend more time with his increasingly distant family but it's an
uneasy transition. His wife views him through the prism of his various embarrassing health ailments,
while his teenaged children Abi and Jack are a mystery to him, communicating monosyllabically and
rejecting his Facebook friend requests.

His father lives in a granny flat at their house and battles through his own health issues and faded
relevance. Formerly a big star in radio, he now DJs at RSLs, introducing records with trivia and
anecdotes about better days, hanging onto a time before the world stopped caring about him. Like
Andrew, he used to be with it, but then they changed what "it" was.

Andrew's job mainly involves corralling a skeleton crew of staff and babysitting the station's "talent",
Brian Brightman, a buffoon whose desperate skits about paedophile priests and children with cerebral
palsy are measured by the station in terms of the social-media buzz they generate. While his
headline-hogging antics ensure he remains a star, there is a sense he is the last of his kind, a dinosaur
in an industry under siege from streaming services.

It's not just new technology that's an endless source of angst though, it's sexuality, and the often
uneasy link between the two. When Andrew isn't inadvertently loading a video of a girl stripping on his
phone, he's being asked to explain why he Googled "late-emptying penis" at work.

Page163of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.As with Earls' bittersweet The True Story of Butterfish, there's a dark well of illicit desire bubbling
beneath the "two kids and a house in the suburbs" surface here as Brian lusts after young women while
his own body declines in farcical and repulsive style. Meanwhile, some of the sharpest comedy comes
from Andrew's attempts to impart his outdated knowledge about sex to his mortified children.

As is Earls' wont, this doesn't move at a cracking pace, preferring to linger on the little moments of
awkwardness, the unfortunate misunderstandings and small but soul-destroying slights.
The action ramps up somewhat when it relocates to a chintzy Gold Coast holiday park, where Andrew
scrambles to control the scandal-prone Brian as he prepares for a comedy debate in typically
lunk-headed fashion. A farcical turn of events straight out of the American Pie playbook ensues, but
even at its most scatological and slapstick there's something sombre beneath the laughs, a lingering
sense of disconnection and decay.

NS

RE
PUB
AN

gbook : Books | gent : Arts/Entertainment | nrvw : Reviews | gcat : Political/General News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SAGE000020140921ea9l0003r

Page164of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.