RWE (CM) Empire Industries Reports $17 Million in Contract Awards

HD
WC 275 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

RWE (CM) Empire Industries Reports $17 Million in Contract Awards

3 December 2014
Resources News (RWE)
RESNEW
English
Copyright 2014 RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved.

RWE (CM) Empire Industries Reports $17 Million in Contract Awards

Sydney - Tuesday - December 02 (RWE) - Empire Industries Ltd [TSX VENTURE:EIL] today reported two
separate contract awards for its proprietary flying theater in the USA and in China.

The contracts, valued in total at over US$17 million, have been awarded by a US real estate developer
and a Chinese theme park operator.
These two contracts continue to show that the company's subsidiary, Dynamic Attractions, is developing
media based attractions that are appealing to a wide range of customers around the world.

The two contracts will largely be executed within the next eighteen months.
"The sale of our unique flying theater continues to gather momentum as we have now sold eight around
the world," said Guy Nelson, Empire's Chief Executive Officer.
"Our first flying theater will be open to the public later this month in China, and I look forward to the
reviews of the guest satisfaction from this experience.

About Empire Industries LtdEmpire Industries Ltd manufactures specialized engineered products and
sells these products domestically and in select international export markets.
The company has developed, designed and engineered products for the rapidly growing, global, media
based attractions market.
The company also provides steel fabrication & installation services, primarily to the industrial,
commercial and infrastructure market in Western Canada.
The company also has two key strategic equity partnerships; a 49% ownership of ACE Industrial
Services that operates in the oil sands industrial maintenance services market, and a 45% ownership of a
Chinese joint venture company in the steel fabrication market in Asia.

ENDS

ryjncp : Empire Industries Ltd
i32 : Machinery | i3204 : Industrial Plant/Steelwork | iindstrls : Industrial Goods
c33 : Contracts/Orders | c333 : Non-governmental Contracts | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

TD

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd
AN

Document RESNEW0020141202eac30002d

Page17of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.