New twin towers planned for Box Hill

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

RealEstate
New twin towers planned for Box Hill

Allison Harding PROPERTY REPORTER
376 words
27 October 2014
Manningham Leader
DONTEN
ManninghamWhitehorseRE
4
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved

BOX HILL’s skyline is set to change in a big way.
A major property developer plans to build a 27-storey hotel and apartment complex on the former
Skilled site at 850 Whitehorse Rd.

Architects Peddle Thorp will design the $260m development for Asian Pacific Group (APG).

APG chief executive Will Deague said the twin-tower project was likely to be 27 storeys high and would
include 500 apartments, 90 hotel rooms and a retail complex. The complex is still in town planning
stage but Mr Deague said his company was working closely with Whitehorse City Council and its
architect.

The development will be the next in APG’s Art Series hotels, which include The Olsen in South Yarra,
The Cullen in Prahran and The Blackman in St Kilda Rd. The hotels each celebrate an individual artist.
The Box Hill hotel will be named in honour of Chinese-Australian artist Zhong Chen.

Mr Deague said APG had chosen to branch out from its city and inner-urban developments into Box Hill
because of the area’s extraordinary growth.

“We are very confident of the success of such a complex in Box Hill,” he said. “A true five-star boutique
hotel is needed in the area given its increasing activity and large number of visitors. Box Hill, is of
course, a key growth hub of Melbourne.” The property group bought the 3000sq m Whitehorse Rd
site earlier this year. Mr Deague said the demolition of the current building on the site was due to start
next month and the development was likely to be completed in 2016.

He said the new complex would generate hundreds of local jobs in both construction and hospitality.

Whitehorse Council general manager of city development Jeff Green said the application for the
development was still in its early stages. He said the plans were being assessed and would soon be
advertised for public comment.

The October 18 auction of a double block in Station St, Box Hill, also demonstrated the heat of the local
market.
Noel Jones Blackburn sold the combined allotment of 1004sq m for $2.69 million to a property
group.allison.harding@news.com.au

IN

NS
RE

ihotel : Hotel Construction | i501 : Building Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real
Estate/Construction
greest : Real Estate/Property | gcat : Political/General News
victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia

Page223of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

News Ltd.
Document DONTEN0020141026eaar0000b

Page224of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.