Record Southport sale

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Record Southport sale

QUENTIN TOD
406 words
12 December 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
60
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

A CHINESE appetite for Southport property has seen records smashed with the sale of a major
redevelopment site for $15.5 million.
The sum has been paid by a Chinese buyer for a commercial property at 83 Scarborough St, which
is recognised as a key redevelopment site.

The 3810sq m property is unconstrained by height restrictions and is home to buildings whose
tenants include the ANZ and HSBC bank branches, government offices and LeisureCom travel group.
It has been sold by Gold Coast developer John Potter who, with Phillip George, held it through
Leadingedge (Pacific) No 3 which bought it for $6.5 million 11 years ago.
The property, which backs on to Australia Fair shopping centre, was placed on the market in July.

It has changed hands at a yield of 6.19 per cent.
Lachlan Harris, of CBRE, handled the sale with colleague Mason Kidman and yesterday said the sale
price represented a rate of $4068/sq m and was the highest ever paid for a development site in
Southport.
Huixin Real Estate Group, the Chinese party that, through Australian arm Garuda GC, has bought the
far larger Star of the Sea site on Marine Pde, paid $1977 a sq m.
Mr Harris said several Chinese buyers offering unconditional contracts had competed for the property.

“They were very aggressive.
“The Chinese seem to be much more pro-Southport than Australian developers.” The buildings on the
site, which is opposite the entrance to Chinatown, return rents of $960,000 a year and the major
leases have four years to run.

Mr Harris said the price showed that what was occurring in Southport — such as the light rail system
and Chinatown — was very positive.
“The buyer in this case is happy to hold the property.
“The purchase is regarded as a future development site.” John Muchall, Queensland director of
valuations for Jones Lang LaSalle, yesterday said the $15.5 million deal was the latest in a growing list
of purchases by Chinese investors and developers in the Southport CBD.
“The high price would seem to be based on the location of the property, the nature of the holding
income and the development potential in the medium to long term.“The confidence the Chinese buyer

Page94of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.of the Star of the Sea site has shown in Southport’s future quite probably has contributed to other
Chinese investors looking seriously at the area.”

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020141211eacc0008c

Page95of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.