The local developer: Anne Bi, B1 Group

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Perspective
The local developer: Anne Bi, B1 Group

Samantha Hutchinson
389 words
25 January 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
19
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Almost 25 years after arriving in Brisbane as a student, where she slept in the corridor of a crowded
house, Anne Bi (pictured right) has built the tallest residential tower in Parramatta, NSW, and is
midway through construction of a $200 million project with 210 apartments in Sydney's Burwood.

A Beijing-born Australian citizen, Bi turned her first dollar in the early '90s buying and running a
Chinese restaurant in Brisbane. She sold the restaurant two years later, taking the profits back to
China to start a micro-brewery, before returning in 1995 as a permanent resident.

"It's great weather and a great environment, and I thought it was a good place for my kids," she says.
Bi's business portfolio includes property and manufacturing interests in China, and fast-food chain
Thai Noodlist in Sydney's CBD. While her foray into residential development came comparatively
late in life, she says development was always her goal.

"When I first came here, I slept on a timber floor. I wanted to live in a big house and to build buildings
so that people could have their own. Everyone wants their own home – it's part of Chinese culture."
Bi bought a site in Parramatta's Church Street on the eve of the global financial crisis in 2007 and
began building in 2010. Early funding for the $70 million project came from the Arab Bank of
Australia, which came on board when local banks knocked her back.
She now gets funding from a combination of the big four local banks. A number of Chinese "friends",
whom she declines to name, have also helped, but she is adamant the money is not from Chinese
banks.
She likes Australia for the regulatory certainty and transparency that she says don't exist in China.
"The government is supportive here . . . whatever the law says, you have to follow it. It's not the same
in China."

Offshore buyers make up less than 10 per cent of sales in B1's buildings in Parramatta and
Burwood. "If you're building a good product, local buyers don't care if the developer is Asian,
Singaporean, Malaysian or whatever. They think you're all on the same level, and they're just as
supportive," Bi says.

NS

RE

PUB

nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E
Executive News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | brisbn : Brisbane | nswals : New South Wales | queensl :
Queensland | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited

Page220of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document AFNR000020140124ea1p0001m

Page221of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.