Investors Jump Into Asian Office Space

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Investors Jump Into Asian Office Space

By Wayne Arnold
908 words
7 August 2014
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
21
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

HONG KONG -- Global investors pumping funds into Asia in search of higher returns have added
office space to their shopping lists, new data from Cushman & Wakefield indicate.

Encouraged by low global interest rates and rising evidence of world-wide economic recovery, foreign
investors bought office space for a record $6.16 billion in the region in the second quarter, according to
the U.S.-based commercial-real-estate agency, more than double what they bought in the same three
months of 2013.

"There's a lot of capital just floating around," said Sigrid Zialcita, Cushman & Wakefield's managing
director for Asian research in Singapore. "It's a vote of confidence for the region. They look at
Asia-Pacific as a future growth market."

South Korea and Australia are at the forefront of demand, Ms. Zialcita said. She said office rentals
yield between 5% and 7% a year in those markets. Foreign purchases in South Korea more than
doubled in the second quarter to $1.3 billion, led by the $497.7 million purchase in June of the
22-story K Twin Towers in Seoul's central business district by KKR & Co. and Hong Kong-based
private-equity firm LIM Advisers from Korean property fund manager Vestas Investment
Management.
Blackstone's $403 million purchase of a 50% stake in Sydney's 33-storey Westpac Place from local
property developer Mirvac Group topped the $3 billion in foreign buying in Australia.
Foreign investors also more than doubled their purchases in China, to $931 million, defying a 35%
decline in overall buying of office space, according to Cushman & Wakefield.
Hong Kong-based private-equity firm Gaw Capital paid $928 million in April to buy Pacific Century
Place, an office and residential building in Beijing's Sanlitun shopping district.
The surge in foreign demand for Asia's commercial real estate is part of booming demand for assets
around the region -- and in emerging economies world-wide -- as record-low interest rates in the U.S.,
Europe and Japan drive investors into higher-risk assets abroad to offset low returns at home.

Emerging markets saw $44 billion in portfolio inflows in July, according to the Institute of International
Finance in Washington, the highest monthly amount in two years, bringing total investment in
emerging markets to $195 billion this year, nearly equaling the $208.9 billion for all of 2013.

The pouring of money into riskier assets earned warnings last month from the U.S. Federal Reserve
and the International Monetary Fund that investors may be excessively optimistic. Central bankers in
emerging markets worry not only that rapid inflows of speculative money will create inflation and create
asset-price bubbles, but that a rapid reversal could send their currencies plunging, potentially causing
financial crises.

Concerns about such risks are rising as improving U.S. economic growth gives rise to predictions that
the Fed will eventually start raising rates. Not only might that attract global funds back to the relative
safety of the U.S., but higher rates could force heavily indebted investors to sell riskier assets, sparking
a correction in prices.

Page267of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Steeling themselves for such risks, Asian central banks have amassed almost $7.5 trillion in
foreign-currency reserves. Authorities in Hong Kong and Singapore have gone further, reining in
property speculation by imposing restrictions on investment and real-estate-related lending.
China and South Korea recently lifted restrictions on housing investment in a bid to arrest falling prices
and slowing growth. "The slowdown is mostly on the residential side," said Christie Ju, an analyst at
Jefferies in Hong Kong, "so the stimulus is unlikely to come to commercial property."

Nevertheless, hopes for improved economic growth and higher yields drew foreign investors into
commercial office space in both countries.

Foreign investors now dominate buying in South Korea, according to Cushman & Wakefield,
accounting for almost 70% of all purchases in the second quarter. Ms. Zialcita said foreigners were
enticed not only by relatively high yields, but also by hopes that an improving global economy would
buoy demand for Korean exports, leading to more need for office space as companies expand.

A similar logic is driving foreign demand for other Korean assets. Foreigners have bought at least $4.4
billion in Korean stocks this year, according to Jefferies. And as of June, U.S. investors had bought
half of the Korean bonds sold globally in 2014, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Based on
Dealogic data, that would represent $10.7 billion in investments.
The $3 billion of Australian office space foreigners bought was also more than double their purchases
last year. Ms. Zialcita said that despite the fading out of Australia's mining boom, rental yields of
roughly 6% in Sydney and Melbourne and 7% in Perth kept foreign demand strong.

"Even if interest rates go up," she said, "the spread is still very attractive."

Canada is the largest source of buying into markets around Asia, according to Cushman & Wakefield,
accounting for $1.9 billion in purchases in the second quarter. Much of that was attributable to the
conclusion of a deal for the assets in Australia's Commonwealth Office Property Fund, in which the
Canada Pension Plan Investment Board was one of two buyers. Canada was followed by the $1.8
billion in purchases by investors from the U.S.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

IN

NS

RE

IPC
PUB
AN

i8500021 : Office Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icireal : Commercial/Industrial Real
Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest : Real Estate
ereal : Real Estate Markets | ecat : Economic News | nnam : News Agency Materials | e11 : Economic
Performance/Indicators | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter |
niwe : IWE Filter
usa : United States | skorea : South Korea | austr : Australia | cana : Canada | china : China | hkong :
Hong Kong | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries |
chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies |
easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America
FCL
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document WSJE000020140807ea870000c

Page268of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.