Investors anticipating energy downgrades

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

MarketWatch
Investors anticipating energy downgrades

DAVID ROGERS, EXCHANGE
575 words
29 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
39
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Expectations that the Australian sharemarket would see sustained strength on the back of an
improving outlook for the global economy proved a bit too optimistic this week.

The market barely stayed positive as commodity prices suffered from oversupply worries and the
Australian dollar resumed its slide amid a growing probability that deteriorating commodity prices will
lead to interest rate cuts.

Expectations of an interest-rate cut next August rose to 60 per cent yesterday, based on overnight
indexed swaps. And the three-year bond yield fell to 2.39 per cent versus the 2.5 per cent cash rate.
While offshore markets surged as China cut interest rates and Europe vowed to fight deflation by
printing money to buy financial assets, Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 only managed a slight gain as spot
iron ore hit a 5½-year low, and crude oil dived as much as 12 per cent.
Economic stimulus measures in China, Europe and Japan, together with lower oil prices and a
weaker exchange rate and lower interest rates may eventually improve the earnings outlook for many
Australian companies, but the market may be at risk of another down leg.
One thing is clear — consensus oil price forecasts are too high. The consensus forecast for Brent
crude is at least $US92 a barrel next year, according to Bloomberg data, yet the commodity dove to
$US72.58 after OPEC refused to cut production this week.
That means earnings estimates for Australian oil and gas producers are also too high.
The market was busy anticipating downgrades yesterday, with the energy sector falling 7.6 per cent
versus a 1.6 per cent fall in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index. The viability of the massive
Gladstone liquefied natural gas projects was increasingly coming into question, with Origin Energy
down 7 per cent and Santos plunging 13 per cent yesterday.
Santos indicated this week it’s considering a 50 per cent equity-credit European hybrid capital raising
to shore up its balance sheet before the projected start of output from its $21.8 billion LNG plant in
the second half of 2015. Rival Origin Energy raised $1.2bn in a similar issue in September.
At the rate the energy sector is falling, it may be ready for a bounce by the time the analysts slash
their oil price forecasts and subsequently lower their energy company earnings estimates.
Of course, crude oil could stay under pressure until the higher cost producers are squeezed out of the
market, or OPEC cuts production, but it doesn’t meet again until June.

Brent crude has potentially major Fibonacci retracement support near Thursday’s low at $US71.12.

It could spike down to $US68.15 and still regain the retracement support on a closing basis. But a
sustained break would leave no strong chart support until the global financial crisis low of $US36.20. If
crude oil continues to decline, it will increase pressure on other commodity prices.

Page266of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It’s true the strongest correlations occur when global demand expectations change, and the prevailing
view is that the US is taking up the slack from slowing growth in Europe, Japan and Asia, and that
stimulus in those areas will offset reduced stimulus in the US.But commodities and commodity
currencies usually follow the same path, and iron ore and oil could well lead other commodities and
the dollar lower.

NS

RE
PUB
AN

m143 : Energy Markets | c21 : Output/Production | gglobe : Global/World Issues | m11 : Equity
Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | m14 : Commodity Markets
| mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E
Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141128eabt0009b

Page267of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.