Australia Invites the World to Dinner; A Six-Hour Feast in Tasmania for Global Food Elites

SE
HD

BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Life and Style
Australia Invites the World to Dinner; A Six-Hour Feast in Tasmania for Global Food
Elites
By Adam Liaw
1,082 words
21 November 2014
16:48
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

It was a feast for the ages.

The world’s food elite gathered in Tasmania last week for one of the most lavish meals in
Australia’s history, designed to convince international visitors that the country is one of the
world’s best eating destinations.
The “Invite the World to Dinner” event, part of a 40-million-Australian-dollar (US$35 million)
campaign by the government agency Tourism Australia, brought in guests from more than 16
countries to experience a meal prepared by three of Australia’s best chefs: Peter Gilmore
and Neil Perry from, respectively, Quay and Rockpool in Sydney, and Ben Shewry from
Melbourne’s Attica.

Two hundred and fifty diners including heavy-hitters of the Australian food scene and 86
international “cultural influencers,” including top chefs and restaurateurs Alice Waters (Chez
Panisse, Berkeley, Calif.), Heston Blumenthal (the Fat Duck, U.K.) Davide Scabin
(Combal.Zero, Italy) and Andre Chiang (Restaurant Andre, Singapore); food writers A.A. Gill
(U.K.) and Andrea Petrini (France); and celebrities such as Indian chef Sanjeev Kapoor,
actor Takuro Tatsumi of Japan and Chinese actress Chen Shu.

Instead of being seated under a canopy of stars next to Uluru in Australia’s red-desert center
or floating above the Great Barrier Reef surrounded by sea and sun, the guests found
themselves dressing for dinner in Hobart, one of the country’s least-visited capitals. They
could hardly have missed the message. This is the Australia few foreigners ever see.

Page4of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The question of what defines Australian food has been asked before, including at a dinner
last year in Sydney that brought together a group of chefs from both home and abroad and
tasked each of them with creating a single dish of Australian cuisine.

But the bash in Tasmania took more than a hundred kitchen staff, sommeliers and servers
two days to create 16 distinct dishes, comprising four “chapters” with more than two dozen
matching Australian wines, delivered over the course of a six-hour meal.

Each chapter was served in a different location, beginning at Hobart’s Franklin Wharf, the
city’s main dock for fishing vessels. Guests then were transported by speedboat to the
Glenorchy Art and Sculpture Park (known as GASP!) and again by ferry to the Museum of
Old and New Art, or MONA, a sprawling museum owned by Australian art collector and
gambler David Walsh.

But for all the impressive logistics behind the dinner, the event’s greatest challenge was the
food itself. Australian cuisine draws from a variety of cultures and its breadth has long defied
definition.

Australian chefs head internationally acclaimed restaurants all over the world, from Brett
Graham at the Ledbury in London to David Thomson of Nahm in Bangkok, but few serve
food that could be categorized as Australian.

The challenge before Messrs. Gilmore, Perry and Shewry was more than just to put on a
memorable meal—it was also to help define Australian cuisine to a global audience. Their
menu displayed clear themes.

Strong on seafood from cold southern Australian waters and unique native ingredients, the
menu also showed a dominant Asian influence, despite none of the chefs being of Asian
heritage.

The first chapter of the meal began in cocktail-party fashion, with a variety of native oysters
from around the country, and the second was a hat-tip to the Australian barbecue.
Dishes like Tasmanian lobster roasted with kombu butter, roasted wallaby-tail broth, and
South Australian King George whiting grilled in paperbark were all cooked over open coals
and served outdoors. It was an exciting starting point, and the large open fire pits provided
welcome warmth in Tasmania’s cold and wild weather.

The third and fourth chapters took place at MONA, where the three chefs first delivered more
substantial courses to the guests, all seated at a single giant, winding dining table in the
shape of a snake.

Mr. Shewry’s salted red kangaroo tartare with bunya nut (a native Australian pine cone the
size of a basketball) was nuanced and exotic, even for the Australians present. Mr. Gilmore’s
confit pork jowl with Tasmanian blacklip abalone, koji, shiitake, malted grains and seaweed
was elegant and textured, and Mr. Perry’s impeccable Blackmore wagyu sirloin was
accented with a vibrant red curry of oxtail and tea-smoked oyster.

The fourth chapter followed the seated courses, and guests were invited to wander into the
lower reaches of the museum to discover stations serving world-beating Tasmanian
whiskeys and Australian cheeses, to forage dessert eggs from nests placed in indoor trees,

Page5of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.and to sample other desserts of lychee with vanilla and rose, and mango with pandan and
coconut.

The influence of Asian flavors has been a feature of Australian cuisine for the past few
decades, but never has it been on display so clearly and so completely to such an influential
audience.

In 2013, Australia’s main tourism body conducted surveys in 15 key foreign markets and
found that only 26% of people who had not visited Australia considered it to have good food
and wine. After visiting, that number grew to 60%, second only to France.
Food tourism was a A$4.1 billion (US$3.6 billion) industry for Australia in 2013, a figure that
Tourism Australia hopes to raise by nearly a billion dollars for the 12 months ending June
2015.

While the success of Tourism Australia’s campaign is likely to be measured by the overseas
revenue it attracts, its true and longer-lasting effect may be much more subtle: a stake in the
ground on the road to defining one of the world’s most multicultural cuisines, and a shift in
the conversation around what Australian food and wine has to offer.

Adam Liaw is a food writer and television presenter based in Sydney. He has written three
cookbooks on Asian cuisine, and his food and travel television series, “Destination Flavour,”
is in its fourth season.

| Tourism Australia | The Museum of Old and New Art in Tasmania was one of the sites for
the ‘Invite the World to Dinner’ event on Nov. 14.| Tourism Australia | From left, chefs Neil
Perry, Peter Gilmore and Ben Shewry.| Tourism Australia | Chefs Neil Perry, left, and Peter
Gilmore, center, prepare the feast.| Tourism Australia | Chef Peter Gilmore’s smoked and
confit pig jowl, blacklip abalone, koji, fermented grains, shiitake and seaweed.
i6611 : Full-service Restaurants | i66 : Hotels/Restaurants | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality |
i661 : Restaurants/Cafes/Fast Food Places
gfod : Food/Drink | gtour : Travel | nimage : Images | reqlea : Suggested Reading
Leisure/Arts | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | ncat : Content Types |
redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | tasman : Tasmania | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales
Peter Gilmore
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document WSJO000020141124eabl001md

ART

IN

NS

RE

IPD
PUB
AN

Page6of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.