Markets All eyes on budget details

HD Markets All eyes on budget details
BY
Sally Rose
WC 545 words
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

12 May 2014
Canberra Times
CANBTZ
B007
English
(c) 2014 The Canberra Times

Markets All eyes on budget details

On track: Up to $80billion in new roads spending could be unveiled. Photo: Glenn Hunt

TD

Unease tipped to hit shares

Sally Rose

Australian shares are expected to start the week lower ahead of what is expected to be a tough budget
announcement on Tuesday. Fund managers expect consumer and corporate confidence will take a hit in
the short term from the widely tipped combination of tax rises and spending cuts. Despite a mostly
positive lead from offshore on Friday night, the SPI futures index is signalling the S&P/ASX 200 Index will
edge down 0.07 per cent when the market starts trading on Monday. Equity markets in the US rose on
Friday, with the Dow Jones Industrial Index closing at a record high thanks to buoyant earnings from IBM,
which provided an antidote to the cloud of anxiety that has been hanging over the technology sector in
recent months. Local shares wavered on Friday as investors grew cautious ahead of the budget. The
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index eked out a gain of 0.06 per cent to 5460.8 points over the week just
gone, while the broader All Ordinaries Index edged up 0.07 per cent to 5422.1. "There is no doubt that if
the government delivers on some of its rhetoric about tax hikes and spending cuts that Tuesday night's
budget will prompt an overdue sell- off in the local equity market over the next couple of weeks,"
Perpetual Investments head of investment market research Matthew Sherwood said. Most speculation
has centred on a tax rise for high-income earners, along with an increase in the fuel excise, although the
government is

expected to soften the political blow of this move by promising to boost spending on road upgrades. Along
with prospective spending by state governments and private sector investors, a total commitment of up to
$80 billion of new roads spending over the next several years could be unveiled, with Canberra
committing to provide half the headline figure. Additional measures such as pushing more households
into private health insurance may continue to buoy support for the likes of listed health insurer NIB. "Once
the budget is out of the road, all the speculation will stop and we can focus on the measures and how
they are going to affect the economy," CommSec chief economist Craig James said. Mining stocks are
expected to come under pressure after the
global spot price for iron ore fell to a 20-month low. The spot price for iron ore, landed in China, lost 1
per cent on Friday night, to $US102.70, sparking fears the commodity price is set to tumble below the
psychological threshold of $US100 per tonne. But many investors have noted the largest local producers
BHP Billiton, Rio Tinto and Fortescue Metals Group, which have all been contributing to the price
pressure by boosting output, are likely to remain resilient if faced with a lower iron ore price. Speculation
about constrictions in China's commodity financing markets, which are quite opaque, are also contributing
to the falling iron ore price, Patersons Securities head of strategy Tony Farnham said. with AAP

RF
IN

56616451
iprivhea : Private Health Insurance | i82 : Insurance | i82003 : Non-life Insurance | i8200301 :
Health/Medical Insurance | ifinal : Financial Services

Page125of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE

e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | m11 : Equity Markets | e21 : Government Finance | ecat :
Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters
| nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter
canbrr : Canberra | apacz : Asia Pacific | auscap : Australian Capital Territory | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
austr : Australia

PUB Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty Ltd
AN

Document CANBTZ0020140511ea5c0001w

Page126of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.