Investors own the inner city

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Investors own the inner city

Rebecca Thistleton
658 words
23 October 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
6
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Investors have bought up almost all the residential property around inner city suburbs – and more
than 90 per cent in parts of Sydney.

The concentration backs suggestions that any macroprudential measures, mooted to stem
investor-driven capital gains, could be effective if introduced based on location rather than according
to buyer profile or through a blanket approach.

Concentrated rental accommodation is common around international city centres with bulging
populations and the trend has spread to Sydney and Melbourne, RP Data figures show.

Official housing finance data shows investor mortgages represent 47 per cent of new mortgage
commitments. Investment loan values rise almost 30 per cent year-on-year to August 2014.

Historically high investment levels has prompted the Reserve Bank and the prudential regulator to flag
unspecified macroprudential measures.

This could be done through higher risk weightings for investment loans or limits on the extent of
investment lending by the banking sector.

Reserve Bank deputy governor Philip Lowe said on Tuesday that keeping official rates too low for too
long would generate new dangers and warned investors against taking risks.

RP Data head of research Tim Lawless said suburbs with high investor concentrations tend to be
close to major employment and education nodes, capturing office workers and university students.

While rental demand remains strong, increased supply and a rise in values has led to yield
compression for some owners.

Asking rents have fallen in the inner cities, particularly Melbourne and Perth.
Investors tend to buy apartments because they tend to be built near transport and employment
precincts and are at a lower price point than houses.

Record low interest rates, self-managed super fund buying and offshore investment have all been
cited as forces pushing up investment levels.

Mr Lawless said investors may be "buying blindly" if their decision-making came down to low interest
rates and broad property sentiment rather than due diligence.

Housing finance to June this year was up 34 per cent in NSW, 30 per cent in Victoria, 21 per cent in
Queensland.

Page189of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Foreign Investment Review Board approvals are also at an all-time high. The vale of residential real
estate approvals as a percentage of sales was about 13 per cent nationally- 24 per cent in Victoria
and just under 15 per cent in NSW.

Westpac chief economist Bill Evans said he was most concerned about Melbourne where foreign
investor levels were highest. Mr Evans said there was likely to be a surge in offshore investment as
more mainland Chinese moved their money out of China. Mr Evans said the difference between
mortgage rates and rental yields was "almost indiscernible". He expects interest rates to rise in the
second half of 2015, depending on the world economy.
Property analyst and director of SQM Resesarch, Louis Christopher, said the impact of self-managed
super fund purchases represented a mere portion of investment properties. "But I agree with the
notion that there is a risk of self managed funds over-gearing towards property," he said.

"It's not a good way to diversify your portfolio, particularly if you own your primary residence."
Real Estate Institute of NSW president Malcom Gunning has criticised suggestions that further
jawboning and macroprudential efforts are necessary to take some heat out of the property market.

"While we admit that low loan-to-value ratios of 5 per cent are dangerous, and that this practice should
be curbed by the banks being asked to be more responsible with their lending, it is not the RBA's
place to use interest rates to restrict the property market," he said.

"Using a broad tool such as interest rates to affect one sector of the market is unjust on all areas of
the market and is inappropriate."

With SU-LIN TAN

Key points Data shows investor mortgages represent 47 per cent of new mortgage commitments. RP
Data head warns buyers may be 'blindly' purchasing residential properties.

IN
RE

PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141022eaan0005e

Page190of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.