Wrap these: 20 best cookbooks

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Wrap these: 20 best cookbooks

By The Canberra Times
1,841 words
3 December 2014
Canberra Times
CANBTZ
C020
English
(c) 2014 The Canberra Times

Wrap these: 20 best cookbooks

There are so many cookbooks around it's hard to know the best choice for a gift. But you just can't go
wrong with one of these. The recipient will be rapt, writes Larissa Dubecki.

T hink Christmas. Think cookbooks. Not Christmas-themed cookbooks - perish the thought. There is a
special place in hell reserved for the next food writer who decides to reinvent the mince pie. No, think of
the cookbook as the perfect present. There's one for everyone. Because everyone eats. And everyone
ought to cook. The brilliant thing about cookbooks is that they're a surefire gift, whether the recipient is a
novice or an experienced chef. The right cookbook can spark a life-long love of cooking (hello, Jamie's
Italy) or provide an exciting new road for the dinner party show- off. So without further ado, here is Good
Food's choice of the 20 best cookbooks for Christmas. A warning: you could benchpress some of
Christmas 2014's offerings. Peter Gilmore's Organum, for example, must weight a couple of kilos. Santa
best lift with caution.

CHEF BOOKS Organum Peter Gilmore, Murdoch, $100 From the thick velour-finish cover to the moody
portraits of producers who supply the Sydney glam-diner, the follow- up to Quay: Food Inspired by Nature
is ambitious, exacting and an utterly engaging vehicle to explore chef Peter Gilmore's growing obsession
with native ingredients, rare botanicals and the vexed idea of modern Australian cooking. Organum is

worthy of best coffee-table display, but it's also surprisingly accessible should anyone want to - gasp -
actually cook from it.

SP: A Cook's Story Scott Pickett & Rita Erlich, EBK, $50 Scott Pickett has opened two of the most
exciting restaurants in Melbourne - The Estelle and Saint Crispin - and completes the trifecta with his first
book, which is more an autobiography with recipes than a traditional cookbook. Pickett's a natural
storyteller and his co-author, respected food writer Rita Erlich, whips his material into a warts-and-all tale.

Sepia: The Cuisine of Martin Benn Martin Benn, Murdoch, $75 File under the rubric of books too beautiful
to risk splattering with sauces. Sepia simply drips with the Sydney restaurant's

three-hat status. The lush pictures of Martin Benn's ridiculously exact food might be a turn-off for anyone
actually contemplating using his recipes, but it proves easy enough to plunder delicious building blocks
such as butter dashi, celeriac cream and beetroot sauce. The narrative of the little restaurant that could,
which snatched success from the jaws of defeat, gives Sepia a beguiling layer of warmth.

Cooking All Over the World Shannon Bennett, Penguin, $45 So Vue de Monde's Shannon Bennett is a
Miele "ambassador", and the company sponsored this jaunt through 19 cities in 70 days to promote its
new ridgy-didge oven. It's a bit like a Race Around the World for Vue tragics, but plenty will thrill to
Bennett's challenge of creating 19 nationally themed dinner party

menus, plus visitors' tips for each destination.

Cookbooks with conscience Urban Harvest, Oz Harvest, $60 The second cookbook from surplus food
saviours OzHarvest enlists 50 chefs including Neil Perry, Guillaume Brahimi and Matt Moran, for a total

Page35of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.of 100 simple recipes. It's the gift that keeps on giving: each copy sold allows OzHarvest to deliver 100
meals to those in need.

Suzy Spoon's Vegetarian Kitchen Suzy Spoon, Plum, $40 Suzy Spoon runs Australia's only vegetarian
butcher in Sydney - true story - where she sells products such as vegan sausages and faux bacon. Mock
meat is something of a controversial subject in the vego community but Ms Spoon is a staunch supporter
of its flavour

and texture. It's a good introduction for the vegetarian newbie, and easily adapted to the needs of the
vegan.

The Whole Pantry Belle Gibson, Lantern, $35 Belle Gibson's The Whole Pantry is not just about eating
for health, it's about eating yourself healthy. Gibson is a young cancer sufferer who rejects gluten, dairy,
meat, preservatives and sugar. Sound grim? Not when the recipes are so vibrant (and guilt-free). The
desserts section is worth the price of entry alone. For the health nut in your life.

FAMILY FOOD Made in Italy Silvia Colloca, Lantern, $50 OK, so she's annoyingly telegenic, an actress,
married to Richard Roxburgh - but I'm prepared not to hold that against Silvia Colloca, because her
second book of her native Italian food (what, another one?) is disarmingly good. She sticks to the rustic,
simple, ingredient- driven brief of real Italian food with a regional flavour. Even a committed Italo-phile
might find something new with recipes such as crepes in broth (scrippelle 'mbusse).

Food Babies Love Emily Dupuche, Plum, $30 Society's most mercurial eaters are the target of Melbourne
mother-turned- blogger Emily Dupuche. Along with recipes catering for the

baby starting solids and the seasoned over-12 months set (quesadillas and lamb tagine, no less), her
book contains meal planners, a guide on introducing foods and a winning conversational style. I'll quibble
with some of the advice but even if junior keeps throwing her bolognese on the floor, you'll know you're
not alone.

Home Karen Martini, Plum, $40 Karen Martini's cookbooks are the equivalent of a favourite TV series or
a beloved novel: something to turn to again and again. This alone makes them stonking good value if
you're the kind of person who judges cookbooks on a cost-per-use basis. Her latest missive, Home,
sticks to the Martini brief of simple, uncomplicated but delicious Italian-leaning food for everyday, with a
few extras (including her wonderful- looking Christmas chicken) worthy of the special occasion. File
under: comfort.

Kitchen by Mike Mike McEnearney, Penguin, $50 Kitchen by Mike has set a new pace in Sydney with its
easygoing canteen approach and its convincing seasonal, market- based mantra.The first book from the
former Rockpool head chef captures the ethos. There's nothing too overly complicated or exotic, yet the
veg-centric recipes - the "summer" chapter bursts with beauties such as

chilled asparagus and basil soup - put a sparkle into the everyday.
BLOCKBUSTERS The Real Food of China Leanne Kitchen & Antony Suvalko, Hardie Grant, $69.95
Lemon chicken? No. Not here. These two respected food writers have parlayed a 20-year attachment to
China into an encyclopaedic whirl around the provinces, with their antennae set to home cooking. The
recipes lionise gutsy flavours over the more familiar niceties of Cantonese cooking: think northern lamb
shanks, southern- style roasted quail in honey, and Hakka salt-baked chicken.

The Cookbook Book Annahita Kamali and Florian Bohm, Phaidon, $75 The cookbook goes meta with
this gorgeous publication: 125 cookbooks, each chosen for their design, impact or concept and given a
double-page spread to strut their stuff. A mix of the classic and contemporary, the seminal and the
obscure, The Cookbook Book tracks the years and fashions, from the handwritten screeds of the early
1900s to the rockstar-like arrival of Marco Pierre White. At its essence it's a book about the beauty, the
warmth and the humanity of cookbooks.

Plenty More Yotam Ottolenghi, Ebury Publishing, $50 Is there anything more to say about our unofficial
Man of the

Year, the wonderful (and recently here) Yotam Ottolenghi? Plenty more, as it turns out. Tish-boom. The
eagerly anticipated follow-up to his 2010 blockbuster Plenty, Plenty More is as vivid, fresh, and
invigorating as its predecessor, with the Israeli chef conjuring beauty out of the vibrant flavours of the
Middle East. And they're mostly vegetable-based, too. Check out page 258 for his cauliflower cake, my
new eating obsession. Can this man do no wrong? Apparently so.

King of the Grill Ross Dobson, Murdoch, $40 Ross Dobson's "bumper book of no-nonsense barbecuing"
is indeed that - a no-bloody- nonsense guide to the pure, elemental pleasure of cooking food, mostly

Page36of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.meat, on hot iron. This is a very Australian approach to barbecue - all you need is a Weber, and Dobson
leaves all that messing around with different fuels to the professionals. And there are enough Asian
influences to remind us we're not in Mississippi any more, Toto.

MoVida Solera by Frank Camorra and Richard Cornish, Lantern, $60 The fifth MoVida book skips to
Andalusia - the Moorish south of Spain, where MoVida's Frank Camorra and food writer Richard Cornish
practiced immersion journalism for this collection of more than 100 robust recipes. Solera takes their

signature historiological approach, so it's no mere collection of recipes, rather a captivating book that
sings with the traditions of the people who shared their culinary lives. And its indispensable dining-out
guide to the region means you can throw the travel guidebook away.

NICHE Never Trust a Skinny Italian Chef Massimo Bottura, Phaidon, $90 The cooking world's answer to
Marcel Duchamp, Bottura brings a splendidly offbeat mind to the heavily tilled ground of Italian cookery.
The chef-patron of Modena's Osteria Francescana impishly reimagines the canon, with some of his
greatest moments including "memories of a mortadella sandwich" and "tortellini walking on broth"
examined in the space between cooking and philosophy. A collection of recipes is corralled in small type
at the back; better to approach this book as a sweeping intellectual treatise on Italian food traditions.

Donuts Tracey Meharg, Murdoch, $30 OK, so it's not the most ambitious book on the market, but with a
sub-title of "50 sticky-hot donut recipes to make at home", this self-limiting publication is sure to find an
audience. There are sweet doughnuts; savoury doughnuts; sweet-and-savoury doughnuts;

cronuts. Even paleo-nuts and - eek - raw superfood doughnuts. A hard-back with cute doughnut cut-outs
in the front cover, Donuts shows a little design can go a long way.

Food Truck Feasts Erika Budiman, Hardie Grant, $34.95 Melbourne graphic designer and photographer
Erika Budiman convinced more than 50 Australian food trucks to provide their signature recipe for her
arresting fluoro-wrapped anthology. Trucks are grouped together thematically: there's American Roadtrip,
Cheeky Aussie Bites, Tuk Tuk Tuckshop (that'd be Asian), European Passport and Flavour Fiesta (South
American), and biographical notes about each truck. The perfect gift for the dude or she-dude in your life.

Chop, Sizzle, Wow, The Silver Spoon Comic Cookbook Phaidon, $22.95 Here's a first: a graphic
cookbook. This funky Phaidon offering takes 50 seminal Italian recipes (minestrone, caponata, bolognese
- you know the drill) culled from the pages of Italian food bible The Silver Spoon and jazzes them up with
the full comic-strip treatment. Holy Toledo, ribbolita! It's a hip and happening alternative for anyone weary
of text-dense recipes; astoundingly easy to follow without missing any of the vital bits needed to make
your ragout a raging success.

RF
NS

RE

62666868
gfod : Food/Drink | gbook : Books | gnutr : Nutrition | gcat : Political/General News | gent :
Arts/Entertainment | ghea : Health | glife : Living/Lifestyle
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales

PUB Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty Ltd
AN

Document CANBTZ0020141202eac30002z

Page37of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.