Rio Tinto returns to form

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Rio Tinto returns to form

Matthew Stevens
1,375 words
14 February 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
28
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Sam Walsh has lost some old friends at Rio Tinto but made a whole lot more for the miner in the year
since he drew a line in the financial sands and set out to recover standing as the investment of choice
in the mining sector.

Through the first of what was planned as a three-year push to recover the love of his anguished
owners, Walsh has out-performed all expectations than perhaps his own.

Called up from the executive interchange bench to replace the ousted American Tom Albanese, Walsh
arrived with an agenda built around the sustainable extraction of $US5 billion of costs over two years
and to generate a recovery of free cash flows through more disciplined capital management and
allocation.

Walsh then promptly made a chief financial officer of the equally wizened Chris Lynch (ex Transurban
chief executive officer and ex-BHP Billiton CFO) and the pair set about quietly over-reaching those
ambitions.

This idea, of itself, represents something of change of approach at the modern Rio.
Somewhere along the way from spending $US38 billion on Alcan to avoiding post-global financial
crisis oblivion by the skin of a past management team's teeth, Rio had got into the habit of talking too
big about what it was going to achieve only to find itself constantly falling short of the expectations it
had seeded.

In this, and so much else, Walsh has recovered tradition.

The victims of the Walsh-Lynch assault on costs have stretched from Pilbara contractors, who are
doing the same work now for 14 per cent less, to Chinese suppliers and to executives who haven't hit
targets.
Walsh wanted to remove $US2 billion from operating cash costs through his first year. He has
over-achieved. The company's cost profile is $US2.3 billion lighter.

Last February, Walsh set three other indicators of early success in his hunt for market credibility. And
Rio has stepped comfortably beyond each. Walsh wanted to rebuild cash flows, reduce debt and to
continue to increase dividends.
Cash flow has surged by 22 per cent to $US20 billion, debt has been cut by $US4 billion
to $US18 billion and the Walsh-Lynch team has fabricated a consensus topping underlying profit
growth of 10 per cent. And all of that has been delivered on flat revenues that have been sustained as
increased production mitigated softer pricing.

And the result of all that is confidence and capital enough to increase dividends by 15 per cent.

Page254of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The 1300 Forge Group workers retrenched on Wednesday and the contractor's 6000 or so
shareholders must be wondering what on earth has happened to a company that in October rewarded
management with substantially over-the-odds bonuses on the basis of a claimed out-performance
in 2013.

Just two weeks ago that same management insisted things were tough but business life would sustain
through a cash flow crunch. Like so often in recent times, they got that wrong. On Tuesday, Forge
called in Ferriers as administrators after the ANZ put a cork in funding. On Wednesday KordaMentha
were anointed receivers and managers. And by Thursday, it was confirmed Forge's assets will need to
be sold to cover the entitlements of workers.

KordaMentha reports that there is no money to pay employees and no work to perform after a wealth of
Forge's now former clients in Western Australia and Queensland recovered direction of their projects.

The receiver nominated the Commonwealth and its basic entitlements scheme as being the other
source of succour to workers that are owed a yet uncertain amount of wages and other payments.

The problem there, mind you, is that the scheme only kicks in when an employers goes into liquidation.
And that can only happen after a second creditors meeting.

The first of those meetings is due to be held in Perth on February 21.

The contracts lost to Forge include a pair of power stations being built in the Pilbara for Rio Tinto,
another power project under way for BHP Billiton and $830m worth of work for Gina Reinhart's Roy
Hilliron ore project. And the list goes on.

As things stand, Forge owns two contracts, one of which is the loss making Dimantina power project
outside Mt Isa, the other a WA power job that was booked at $87 million and is now slated to cost
$91 million.
And the Dimantina power project, well, it was supposed to cost $417 million, and its current budget is
$443 million. The balance of that has come out of Forge's kitty. The project was supposed to generate
a margin of 8.9 per cent. It is currently negative 14.6 per cent.

When shareholders meet in October to confirm a bonus that was 160 per cent of maximum bonus for
boss David Simpson, Forge shares were changing hands at $4.72 giving it a market capitalisation of
$406 million. All of that has been dusted in the interim.

Let's reflect on that bonus for a moment. With boardroom discretion, new CEO David Simpson was
granted a $800,000 bonus. His employment contract put a cap of $500,000 on any cash bonus. He was
also granted 653,396 performance rights. And that on top of a $1 million a year package and
a $800,000 sign-on bonus.

What made that all a bit unusual was that Forge was nothing like an out-rider in performance in the
2013 financial year. Profit was 27 per cent down, operating cash flow off even more and its share price
had slipped from the $6 highs it reached before major shareholder Clough cashed in its 35 per cent
stake in March.

The are many now regretting their failure to identify Clough's departure as their "ah-ha" moment.
As things stand right now, Forge boasts liabilities of $500 million and its Australian assets are limited
pretty much to office furniture and two contracts of work, both of which appear to be out of the money.

Forge's two overseas subsidiaries, the Webb and Taggart groups, remain cash flow positive and are on
the market. That process could take months. What's more, the prices that might be achieved are likely
to get no where near the offers that Forge apparently rejected as part of a refinancing process that has
been going on for the past three months or so. To give you some idea of the value there, Taggart was
acquired last year for $43 million and the deal carries $25 million of further milestone payments
in 2016 if earning targets are met. That deal was fully funded by the ANZ and, given the circumstances,
it is frankly hard to see the bank recovering all of that.Glencore

One business quietly getting on with managing industrial relations the Tony Abbott way is, surprise,
surprise, Ivan Glasenberg's Glencore.

Last September, Glencore (nee Glencore Xstrata, nee Xstrata) shut the Collinsville mine after failing to
secure a new enterprise agreement in the wake of a decision to internalise the coal mine of legend's
management. That decision left 245 union members without the jobs.

Page255of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.They had been employed by contractor Thiess. Glencore's decision not to make the expected direct
transfer of those workers onto its book followed seven months of negotiations with the coal mining
union over changes to rostering and work practices at Collinsville.

The issue there was that, after 17 years under Thiess management, Collinsville was producing about
3.4 million tonnes of coal from a project that has a nameplate capacity of 6 million tonnes per annum.

Now, five months on, workers have returned to Collinsville and begun a long slow ramp up that will see
the mine get much closer to optimum production. Glencore has employed 20 staff on the individual
arrangements available under the Fair Work Act and a further 30 or so contractors. The plan is to build
the workforce to something near 250 that will include labour hire workers and other contractors. So far
Glencore has received 2300 applications for those positions. The plan is that those directly hired by
Glencore will be employed on individual terms.

CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

rtz : Rio Tinto PLC | rtzcra : Rio Tinto Group | craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140213ea2e00005

Page256of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.