Loading up on credit

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Loading up on credit

Benjamin Purvis
401 words
12 December 2014
Herald-Sun
HERSUN
HeraldSun
67
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

DEBT

THE Federal Government is poised to boost borrowing to an all-time high as Australia’s economy
suffers, partly due to deteriorating growth in China, analysts say.

The Government’s Mid-Year Economic and Fiscal Outlook, to be unveiled next week by Treasurer
Joe Hockey, will probably show a Budget deficit $5 billion wider than previously thought,
Commonwealth Bank analysts say.

The news comes as the jobless rate climbed to its highest level in a decade, threatening to drive up
government spending, at the same time as plunging prices for iron ore and coal crimp revenue
from exporters.

That complicates Mr Hockey’s plans to end six years of deficits, analysts said. Goldman Sachs’
chief economist for Australia Tim Toohey estimated the Budget deficit was about $30 billion worse
over a four-year period than the Government predicted in May.

In a note for investors, CBA fixed-income strategists Adam Donaldson and Alex Stanley said a
deterioration of $40 billion to $50 billion over the four-year period was possible.

Business and consumer confidence dropped this week to the lowest level since before Prime
Minister Tony Abbott won last year’s election.
The nation is struggling to find alternative drivers of expansion as mining investment wanes and
falling commodity prices hurt exports.
Iron ore prices have plunged by almost half this year, while thermal coal has declined 26 per cent.

Concern the economy was cooling has boosted bets on interest-rate cuts, with swaps traders now
pricing in a more than 80 per cent chance the Reserve Bank will cut the cash rate in the first half of
2015.
The Government sold $75.2 billion of bonds this year as of yesterday, exceeding last year’s $68.8
billion. That tally was already a record, according to Australian Office of Financial Management
figures.
Australia’s gross debt outstanding has risen to $348.2 billion — also a record. Although Australia’s
debt has grown, the country is one of just nine to hold top credit scores from all three major rating
companies — Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch.

The nation’s net debt has amounted to about 16 per cent of its economic this year.

Page118of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.That compares with 106 per cent for the US, 244 per cent for Japan and 75 per cent for Germany.
according to the International Monetary Fund.BLOOMBERG

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document HERSUN0020141211eacc0001a

Page119of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.