Tiger seeks new stripes

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

WestReg
Tiger seeks new stripes

Jarrod Lucas
515 words
28 August 2014
Kalgoorlie Miner
KALGOO
First
9
English
(c) 2014 West Australian Newspapers Limited

Privately owned Blue Tiger Mining is shopping around for a joint venture partner for its historic
Burbanks gold project near Coolgardie.
Managing director Noel Wemyss confirmed Blue Tiger, the only gold miner in the Coolgardie
region in the wake of last year’s closure of Focus Minerals’ operations, had been in talks with
mid-tier companies about a tie-up.

The prize is the high-grade Birthday Gift underground mine at Burbanks, 9km south of Coolgardie
in what was the highest producing mining centre in WA in 1900.

Mr Wemyss described the untapped potential as “enormous” given development at Birthday Gift is
still shallow, reaching 140m below surface and the deepest exploration drill hole sunk is 380m.

The third-generation miner hopes to secure a joint venture deal before November.
“This is the last mine operating in Coolgardie, which was the heart of Australia’s gold mining
industry a century ago,” he said.
“It’s still the same rich dirt — this could be a way to return some life to Coolgardie mining because
everyone’s left.

“We are keen to open it up for new parties — serious miners who want to do it long-term and
make some money.”

Mr Wemyss declined to name companies, citing confidentiality agreements, but likely players in
the market would be La Mancha Resources, Norton Gold Fields and Metals X.

The mine is less than 1km from Ramelius Resources’ Burbanks mill, but it is no secret Ramelius’
focus is bringing the Vivien underground mine into production near Leinster.
Chinese-controlled Norton shapes as the logical choice after its recent move into the Coolgardie
region with its $28 million takeover of Bullabulling Gold.
La Mancha — privately owned by Egyptian billionaire Naguib Sawiris — could be interested if it is
looking for future ore sources besides its Frog’s Leg and White Foil mines.

Metals X could be a suitor after doing toll treatment deals with Blue Tiger at its Jubilee mill and
Northern Star Resources cannot be discounted after buying up nearly $200 million worth of
assets across WA this year.
Blue Tiger acquired Birthday Gift in a $2 million deal with the Peter Bartlett-backed Barra
Resources in August 2013.

Page17of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Barra spent millions developing an underground decline, which sent the company to the wall and
forced its sale.

The historical Birthday Gift shaft produced 180,000 ounces at 27.4g/t. The narrow vein structure is
mined in a similar style to Silver Lake Resources’ Daisy Milano complex, which is suited to air-leg
techniques.
Blue Tiger has mined 8272oz at 4.5g/t under a tribute mining arrangement from 2008 to 2009 and
since taking ownership last November.
Mr Wemyss, who managed the Bullant gold mine for Barrick Gold, said Birthday Gift was “very
similar to Bullant”.

“It has got to the point where it needs someone bigger to get involved if it is going to reach its full
potential,” he said.

“There is a need for high-grade dirt to feed the mills out there right now so there is a market.”

i2112 : Silver Ore Mining | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document KALGOO0020140827ea8s0000a

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

Page18of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.