Australia mulls tighter foreign property investment rules

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Australia mulls tighter foreign property investment rules

355 words
27 November 2014
14:11
Agence France Presse
AFPR
English
Copyright Agence France-Presse, 2014 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.

An Australian parliamentary committee Thursday recommended strengthening rules on foreign
investment in the country's booming housing market, calling enforcement of the current framework
"severely lacking".

The committee's review was commissioned this year amid concerns that local buyers were being
squeezed out of the residential property market by foreign investors, particularly cashed-up Chinese.

"We have found that the framework itself is appropriate and strikes the right balance in terms of
encouraging beneficial foreign investment in the housing market, however its application is severely
lacking," committee chair Kelly O'Dwyer said in a statement.
"I regard the current internal processes at the Treasury and FIRB (Foreign Investment Review Board) as
a systems failure."
Chinese investment is a sensitive issue in Australia where rural politicians have argued against selling
valuable farm and mineral land to foreigners, and there are signs of an influx in Chinese housing
investors.
Investment bank Credit Suisse this year estimated that Chinese investors could pour Aus$40 billion
(US$36 billion) into Australian residential property over the next seven years, pushing up prices in what
is already one of the world's most expensive housing markets.

The review found there were serious gaps in the enforcement of foreign investment rules, including
"virtually non-existent" sanctions, no prosecutions, and inadequate data on purchases.

"Australians must have confidence that the rules, including those that apply to existing homes, are being
enforced. Our inquiry revealed, that as it stands today, they could not have that confidence," O'Dwyer
said.

The committee tabled 12 recommendations to shore up the current framework, including removing
barriers for adequate auditing and new penalties for breaching the rules.
While foreign buyers are mostly limited to purchasing new housing, temporary residents can buy one
existing property but they are supposed to sell it when they leave the country.

The report recommended migration laws be amended so the immigration department informs the FIRB
when temporary residents depart, and that a national register recording the citizenship and residency
status of all housing buyers be set up.

grk/mp/kb/mtp

NS
RE

IPD

ereal : Real Estate Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | china : China | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Australia

Page98of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB Agence France-Presse
AN

Document AFPR000020141127eabr001up

Page99of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.