Capital Gain

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business - Commercial Property
Capital Gain

Marc Pallisco
1,025 words
19 July 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
12
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Aunt Maggies makes a call on Crazy John's site
It is the end of an era in Brunswick, with the oversized shop where telecommunications group Crazy
John's established 23 years ago to be occupied for the first time since then by another business.

Organic supermarket and health food store Aunt Maggies is paying annual rent of about $110,000 for
the single-level store at 74-78 Sydney Road, on the north-east corner of Barkly Street, near the Carlton
North border.

The 380-square-metre building on a 404-square-metre block

was where late entrepreneur

John Ilhan established his successful mobile phone-based business, initially under the

name Mobileworld and later

Crazy John's.
That business sold to Vodafone in 2008, shortly after Mr Ilhan's sudden death. Vodafone recently
announced it would cease the Crazy John's brand on September 30.

It is understood interests associated with the Ilhan family owned the Sydney Road store until recently.
The local council has remembered the businessman, naming a Brunswick road between Tinning and
Albion streets,

Ilhan Lane.

Vinci Carbone's Joseph Carbone and Frank Vinci negotiated the Brunswick lease for private investors.
The grocer opened its doors in July after undertaking a major fitout earlier this year.

In 2011, the now ASX-listed

JB Hi-Fi quit the Centreway,

Keilor East, store where it was born in 1974.
Super site snared

Local developer Launch Corporation has snared a prominent corner in Bentleigh East, about 17
kilometres from the Melbourne CBD.

Page24of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The seven neighbouring properties, which include commercial premises on Centre Road and
residential dwellings on the intersecting East Boundary Road, created a 3415-square-metre super site
worth between $6.5 million and $7 million, according to sources, when listed together.

The assets, which return a rental income of about $230,000, were marketed by Hodges Caulfield's Alex
Flamm,

Oren Flamm, Golan Flamm and

Frank Ruffo.

Launch Corporation's portfolio includes boutique townhouses in Warleigh Grove, Brighton and other
projects in Cheltenham, Fitzroy and Mordialloc - which is near company headquarters.
The company focuses on high-end, medium-density projects near activity centres within 25 kilometres
of the CBD.

In June in Bentleigh, three neighbouring home owners listed their properties together to create a near
2000-square-metre site close to the train station. The block sold to a Chinese developer for $5.8
million, reportedly $1.3 million more than would have been achieved if the blocks were offered
individually. The houses are now expected to make way for flats.

Little movements

Little Projects has vacated the prime Hawthorn office it only bought a few of years ago - but managing
director Michael Fox says it is not so it can redevelop the site, which it outmuscled builders to buy.
Instead Little Projects quit 41 Burwood Road to allow property manager Run to occupy more of the
four-level, 1400-square-metre building, opposite the Hawthorn train station. Little Projects last month
relocated to 15 Claremont Street, South Yarra - the street, but not the building, it occupied before buying
the Hawthorn property for nearly $7 million in 2011.
The Burwood Road office was for years the headquarters of construction companyAbigroup.

Little has just completed the luxury 388-unit Ilk tower at 227 Toorak Road, South Yarra, which replaced
an imposing brick ANZ Bank Data Centre the company bought for $33 million in 2007. Another South
Yarra project at 2-4 Yarra Street, dubbed Central, will include 357 apartments and is due for completion
in late 2015.

'Fare' outcome

A Melbourne developer has paid a speculated $5.5 million for a 2024-square-metre slice of Sydney
Road, Brunswick - a site that was for years a taxi repair workshop.
On the north-east corner of Mitchell Street, the now-cleared block sold with a permit for a five-level
complex to be configured with 41 apartments, 39 townhouses, two shops and underground car parking.

In 2008, a former owner unsuccessfully tried to get a mixed used project out of the ground there. Until a
couple of years ago 808-818 Sydney Road accommodated a single-storey brick warehouse with a
shopfront leased to a handbag factory outlet.

Today, it is one of two major development sites in the strip of Sydney Road between Albion Street and
Moreland Road.
At 774-778 Sydney Road, the former Aurora Floor Coverings property is also making way for flats after
selling to a developer for more than $4 million last year. Spread over 1700 square metres, buildings on
the Aurora site were destroyed by fire a few years ago.

KBL's George Kiper marketed 808-818 Sydney Road but declined to comment on buyer or price.
$8.8m Smith sale
Boutique builder Pace Development Group is the buyer of the outgoing Smith Family headquarters in
Collingwood.
The prominent 1139-square-metre site, bound by Cambridge, Langridge and Wellington streets - and a
short walk to the CBD - sold this week for $8.8 million after a hotly contested sale campaign. The
property had an initial price expectation of $7 million when it was listed in May.

Page25of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Pace, which is behind some of Melbourne's more creative medium- and high-density projects, will
replace the site with a high-quality apartment complex, Nina, named after a character in Channel 10
comedy Offspring, which is filmed around Collingwood.

Pace directors Shane Wilkinson and Cameron Yates expect to start marketing the first apartments within
12 months.

CBRE's Josh Rutman, Jamus Campbell and Mark Wizel represented The Smith Family, which bought
the Collingwood building 16 years ago. The charity will relocate to smaller, leased premises and use
money from the sale of 73-77 Wellington Street for statewide education programs.
In mid-2011 Pace purchased a St Kilda property with a permit for a unique multi-coloured building that
appears as an uneven stack of apartments.
The St Kilda-based developer is also replacing the former Mentone Tenpin Bowl site in Melbourne's
south - one of several projects in the bayside area.

marcpallisco@gmail.com

Twitter: @marcpallisco

IN
RE

PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140718ea7j00060

Page26of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.