Greenland to bet big on local agribusiness

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Greenland to bet big on local agribusiness

PropertySamantha Hutchinson and Angus Grigg
531 words
19 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
12
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Chinese state-owned property developer Greenland sees "no ceiling" on the amount of funds it is
prepared to invest here, declaring it will expand into agriculture, a day after the free trade agreement
with China was signed.

Greenland chairman Zhang Yuliang told The Australian Financial Review the free trade agreement
brought better and larger investment opportunities for companies like Greenland.

"With the conclusion of the free trade agreement there will be more and more Chinese investment into
infrastructure, urban renovation and the construction of hotels and offices, and of course agriculture,
food and finance," he said.
"Our next step is to acquire some kind of Australian food and agriculture companies and import more
Australian products into China."

"I believe such kind of investment will be welcomed by the Australian government," Mr Zhang added.
The developer will channel its investment efforts into dairy, wine and agriculture industries, with a
particular focus on food production, processing and distribution. The group's first purchase will occur
within six months.
Plans to wind back import tariffs on Australian produce including dairy, beef, wine, horticulture and
wool has made agriculture one of the biggest winners of the new trade agreement.Products
competitive
"The agreement  . . . means Australian products will be very competitive in Chinese markets," Mr Zhang
said. "Our investment in such a kind of field will help bring more and more Australian products into
China."
Greenland generated more than $78 billion in revenue during the past 12 months. In Australia, the
group is best known for leading a charge of deep-pocketed Chinese developers buying up inner city
sites in Sydney and Melbourne at blistering prices. The group has poured more than $1.4 billion into
its property holdings and developments, includingthe 600-apartment Greenland Tower skyscraper in
Sydney and Melbourne's Flemington race course redevelopment, and has also partnered Crown in a
bid for Brisbane's Queens Wharf casino.
As a state-owned group, Greenland is not able to capitalise on a new rule which allows Chinese
groups to invest up to $1.078 billion without approval of the Foreign Investment Review Board.
But Mr Zhang is unconcerned.Property interests to grow

"Actually by now we haven't felt that the [foreign investment] approval procedures of the Australian
government have been very strict," he said.

Page35of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The group will also expand its Australian property interests to include commercial, retail and hotel
investment, in a bid to capitalise on the wave of funds Chinese companies move into Australian
following the conclusion of the trade agreement.
The planned investment comes as Australia loses its lustre for Chinese companies.
Figures release by China's Commerce Ministry on Tuesday show that in the first 10 months of the year
non-financial direct investment in Australia dropped by 16.7 per cent. This compares with a rise of
17.8 per cent in outbound investment from China. The drop in Australian investment is largely a result
of waning mining investment .
Key points Greenland is a Chinese state-owned property developer already active in Australia. It will
start to invest in food production to take advantage of lower tariffs.

IN
RE

PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
austr : Australia | china : China | greenl : Greenland | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141118eabj0001b

Page36of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.