Australia 'open' to more Chinese investment

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY

LP

TD

Australia 'open' to more Chinese investment

By Jamie Smyth in Sydney
703 words
20 June 2014
18:24
Financial Times (FT.Com)
FTCOM
English
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and
redistribute by email or post to the web.

Chinese state enterprises will be welcome bidders for electricity networks, ports and other Australian
state assets, said finance minister Joe Hockey ahead of a second high-level ministerial visit to Beijing in
three months.

The assets form part of the country's planned $100bn privatisation effort unveiled by the Abbott
government in February.

China has previously complained that Canberra forced all deals involving state owned companies to be
referred to Australia's Foreign Investment Review Board. But in a sign of deepening economic links,
Canberra will reassure Beijing that its companies are welcome.
"We are open for business and that includes state-owned enterprises out of China," Joe Hockey,
Australia's finance minister, told the Financial Times ahead of his visit to Beijing.
"The approvals I've given over the last nine months illustrate that," he said. "China State Grids' biggest
investment outside of China is in Australia."
In December Mr Hockey approved China's State Grid Corporationpurchases of a 20 per cent stake in
SP AusNet and 60 per cent of SPI Assets - two Australian energy companies.
Chinese investment in Australia has increased tenfold since 2005 and totals A$57.2bn, which makes the
country the second largest destination for Chinese investment behind the US. Up until recently the
mining sector has been the largest recipient of investment as Beijing prioritised the securing of natural
resources such as coal and iron ore to expand its economy.
But with Australia's mining investment boom tapering off, the value of Chinese investment into Australia
fell by 10 per cent to US$9.15bn last year even as overall overseas investment from China increased by
16 per cent to US$90.1bn.
"The reality is there is not a lot of Chinese investment in Australia outside the mining sector," says
Jeffrey Wilson, a fellow at the Asian Research Centre at Murdoch University.
"One of the sticking points for China has been the treatment of their state-owned enterprises, which
remain subject to regulatory approval."

Under Australian law any investment by a state-owned enterprise is the subject of a regulatory review by
Australia's Foreign Investment Review Board. Since 2005 the vast majority of investment proposals
made by Chinese companies have been approved by FIRB. But critics say the regulator's guidelines on
Chinese investments are ad hoc and may have played a role in the collapse of deals such as
Chinalco's bid to create an alliance with Rio Tinto in 2009.

Beijing is pressing for Australia to set a $1bn minimum threshold before investments by state-owned
enterprises and private companies are subject to approval - equivalent to the rules on US companies. At
present any private investment from China is subject to review when it is above A$248m.

Page168of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Hockey said these issues would be dealt with in talks on a free trade deal.
"The Chinese are very engaged in the process and after eight years of slow negotiations. We hope to
make some further progress," he said.
Chinese investors could play an important role in the A$100bn sale of state assets, which is the
cornerstone of Mr Abbott's policy of "recycling" public infrastructure to raise money for investment. Mr
Hockey is due to meet Xu Shaoshi, chairman of China's powerful National Development and Reform
Commission, which oversees foreign investment by Chinese companies, to brief him on the strategy.   

Attracting public support for relaxing the rules could prove difficult with a recent poll by the Lowy Institute
finding 56 per cent of people believe the government allows too much investment from China. A
parliamentary committee recently began a formal inquiry into foreign investment in residential real
estate, responding to public fears that a rise in Chinese investors is pricing Australians out of the
housing market.
Andrew Lumsden, a partner in law firm Corrs Chambers Westgarth, said streamlining the rules on
Chinese investment would be helpful to stimulate interest.
"Part of the challenge is to convince the Chinese that Australia is more than a quarry and has a lot of
expertise to offer in agriculture and biotech sectors," he said. "It is a competitive global market for
investment."

CO
IN

NS

RE

IPD
IPC
PUB
AN

stgcoc : State Grid Corporation Of China
i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16102 : Electric Bulk Power Transmission | ieutil : Electric Utilities | iutil :
Utilities
ereal : Real Estate Markets | c183 : Privatizations/Nationalization | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat :
Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | beijin : Beijing | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Company News
CN
The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)
Document FTCOM00020140620ea6k000rt

Page169of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.