Mitsubishi on the prowl for infrastructure projects

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Mitsubishi on the prowl for infrastructure projects

Rick Wallace
762 words
14 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
20
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

EXCLUSIVE JAPAN’S Mitsubishi Corp has revealed it is on the hunt to join and finance infrastructure
projects in Australia as it seeks to boost non-resource sector profits and diversify its investment
portfolio.
The company, which jointly owns giant Queensland coal producer BMA, is well known for its
investments in Australia’s iron ore, LNG and coking coal industries. But amid a price slump,
Mitsubishi chief executive Ken Kobayashi said the company wanted to help build and fund the
growing pipeline of infrastructure projects in Australia.

Mitsubishi is preparing to plunge some of its considerable finance resources into the infrastructure
market in a way that brings together Japanese construction and engineering expertise and Australian
capabilities to tackle rail, port and potentially airport projects.

“We are open to positively considering opportunities that allow us to utilise our expertise as an
investor and facilitator of infrastructure-related projects,” Mr Kobayashi told The Australian.
He said the company was already forming partnerships with major Australian companies in
preparation to bid on projects in the multi-billion-dollar pipeline of prospective infrastructure projects
in Australia.

Mitsubishi, which has operated in Australia for more than 60 years and has invested more than $10
billion in the country, is actively interested in public-private partnerships and greenfields infrastructure
projects as both a financier and a facilitator.

Mr Kobayashi, in Australia to attend and to launch an expansion of BMA’s Caval Ridge mine in
Queensland’s Bowen Basin yesterday, said Mitsubishi had begun to raise capital in Australia to
support its expansion.
“We also established a finance company, MC Finance Australia, in 2012 and accessed the Australian
capital markets with a $300 million bond transaction in December last year.

“We will continue to utilise various finance methods to support our diversified business portfolio in
Australia.” Mr Kobayashi said the company’s new global goal was to double non-resources earnings
by 2020, using 2012 as a baseline.

The Australian recently revealed Mitsubishi’s $100m move to set up the Petro Diamond Australia
diesel import terminal in South Australia as the start of a chain of such facilities. Mitsubishi has also
bought Australian grain handler Olam, now rebranded Agrex Australia, in a foray into the agricultural
sector.

Mr Kobayashi said Australia was a vital destination for Mitsubishi, and more investments were on the
horizon.

Page278of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“Mitsubishi Corp is also contemplating new areas of investment in both resource and non-resource
sectors in Australia.” Mr Kobayashi yesterday attended the launch of the expansion at BMA, which is
the world’s largest seaborne supplier of coking coal, with Tony Abbott.
He said Mitsubishi had not changed its outlook for demand for coal and iron ore.

“The market is currently in a correction phase due to the delay in India’s growth and slowdown in
China’s economy,’’ Mr Kobayashi said.

“Over the medium- to long-term, there is likely to be a gradual shake-out among high-cost producers,
and as demand picks up in China and India and other developing countries, the supply-demand
situation will improve and the market will gradually recover,” he said.
BMA recently announced plans to axe 700 jobs across its Bowen Basin coal operations, but
Mitsubishi remains upbeat on the overall venture, in which it is partnered with BHP Billiton.

“BMA is a tier-one asset in terms of available reserves, scale, mine life, potential for expansion,
infrastructure and cost competitiveness,’’ Mr Kobayashi said.

“We remain committed to continuing our efforts in cost reduction and productivity improvement, while
at the same time delivering ongoing projects and ensuring that we maximise the value of our assets.”
The company also has a stake in the Browse LNG development and believes Australia is strongly
placed to become the world’s largest supplier of gas and to exploit its proximity to growing Asian
markets.

“In relation to LNG, delayed economic recovery in Europe has kept demand low. “In the medium-term,
however, demand in developing countries, led by China, is expected to grow, while on the supply
side, some new projects will start operations later than scheduled,’’ Mr Kobayashi said.

“This combination of factors suggests that the supply-demand balance will remain tight.

“As those projects that have secured markets get started, and those that have not secured markets
either get postponed or completely shelved, demand and supply will converge.“I’d say that our
investments in the energy sector in Australia are fundamentally sound and will continue to contribute
to providing a stable energy supply to the region.”

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

mtsubc : Mitsubishi Corp
i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | reqrmm : Suggested Reading Metals/Mining | redit : Selection of
Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141013eaae0002c

Page279of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.