Atlas Iron says ore price discounts wider than usual

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Atlas Iron says ore price discounts wider than usual

Peter Ker
629 words
4 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
18
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The slump in the iron ore price is being exacerbated for producers of lower grade iron, with Atlas
Iron confirming it is encountering a wider discount to the benchmark price than usual.
Atlas typically sells ores containing 58 per cent iron, slightly below the benchmark, which is ore with
62 per cent iron.

The lower grade means Atlas is paid a discount to the benchmark price of the day for its iron ore,
but Atlas boss Ken Brinsden said that discount was widening at the moment, as increased exports
gave buyers a choice of product.
"Increasing supply is placing further downward pressure on 58 per cent [iron] products, with
significantly increased discounts to the 62 per cent index being experienced for that product while
the market adjusts to accommodate the increased presence of this type of product," he said during a
presentation in Sydney on Tuesday.
Sceptics have previously argued that lower grade iron producers will face a tougher future, as
Chinese steel mills seek to improve their environmental performance, and therefore favour
higher-grade iron ore.
The benchmark iron ore price rose slightly overnight from $US91.80 ($99.14) to $US92.10, but is
still more than 30 per cent lower than at the start of 2014, and many pundits expect it to fall further in
coming weeks.
But on the positive side, Atlas is the second iron ore miner over the past 24 hours to suggest that
the Indian market is opening up for Australian producers.
Atlas said on Tuesday that the reduced price levels were making Australian iron ore competitive in
India, with Atlas completing its first sale into the subcontinent last month.Interest from India
That comes after fellow iron ore miner Grange Resources said on Monday that Indian buyers had
shown a lot of interest in Australian iron ore in recent weeks on the back of bans imposed by New
Delhi on some Indian iron mines.

"We are seeing that market open up again, and we had a lot of interest in the last few weeks from
Indian buyers,'' said Grange chief executive Wayne Bould.

Atlas said it would further assess the opportunity to sell into other new markets, including Europe
and parts of Asia beyond China.
While pricing remains tough for Atlas, the company is doing well on the things it can control:
production rates.

Page244of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The company shipped its highest monthly total ever during May, when 1.25 million tonnes were
exported.
The company's guidance is to export between 10.2 million tonnes and 10.7 million tonnes this
financial year, and Atlas said it was targeting the higher end of that guidance.

Atlas shares fell by 2.16 per cent to 68¢ on Tuesday.

Grange shares lifted a shade over 3 per cent to 17¢. BHP shares fell 0.41 per cent to $36.44, while
Rio rose 0.86 per cent to $59.74.
Fortescue chairman Andrew Forrest speculated on Friday that iron ore prices could wander down to
$US80 a tonne in the near future, but also said a return to $US140 a tonne was possible.
At the same event the Australian boss of Chinese miner MMG said he was cynical about the
investment community's role in exacerbating commodity price volatility, and warned many weaker
miners could shut down as the price pressure rose.
Andrew Michelmore said China's drive to close poor-quality steel mills was spooking investors in the
developed world, who were dumping their exposure to iron ore.

UBS analyst Glyn Lawcock published a note on Sunday suggesting share prices for BHP, Rio and
Fortescue were factoring in significant further falls in the iron ore price and were duly over sold.

atlagd : Atlas Iron Ltd.
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining
india : India | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | indsubz
: Indian Subcontinent | sasiaz : Southern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140603ea640002b

CO
IN

RE

PUB
AN

Page245of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.