Global coal projects relying on Indian demand face financial risks, says IEEFA

SNL Extra

Rohan Somwanshi

SE
HD Global coal projects relying on Indian demand face financial risks, says IEEFA
BY
WC 507 words
PD
7 May 2014
SN
SNL Metals & Mining Daily: East Edition
SC
SNLMMDE
VOL Issue: 80407
LA
CY
LP

English
Copyright 2014. SNL Financial LC

TD

Global coal export projects that see India as the next big coal-importing country after China could face
financial risks as the dependence of Indian utilities on expensive imported coal is expected to further
stress their financial positions, according to a briefing note issued by the Institute for Energy Economics
and Financial Analysis.
According to the report, importing coal into India from Australia would be "prohibitively expensive" for the
domestic power sector.

Many of the huge power plants in India have been unable to source discounted domestic coal supplies,
forcing them to either operate below designed utilization rates or import expensive coal, the report said.
The authors said the massive proposed coal projects owned by Adani Group and GVK Group in the
Galilee Basin of Queensland, Australia, which are running three to four years behind schedule, are "likely
to prove uncommercial."
If India imports coal from the Australian coal projects, electricity rates will have to be doubled to meet the
expenses involved in constructing a new 4,000-MW coal plant in India, the research firm estimated. The
IEEFA expects the cost of imported coal-fired power generation to go up by 40% to 90% compared to
current Indian wholesale power prices.

"India's economic and financial situation creates further uncertainty for companies relying on its ability and
willingness to import coal, with negative implications for India's inflation, current account deficit and
economic instability," according to Tim Buckley, a director at the IEEFA. "A greater reliance on imported
coal undermines India's national energy security position and weakens its push for greater energy sector
diversity," Buckley added.
Indian coal buyers have been forced to import expensive coal mainly due to Coal India Ltd. failing to
meet its annual coal production targets. As a result, the share of Indian thermal coal imports in total coal
usage has increased to more than 20% from 10% in 2009/2010, the IEEFA said. Coal India is the
country's largest coal producer.
In an email to SNL Energy, Tom Sanzillo, director of finance at IEEFA, said Coal India has consistently
missed its annual production goals in the last few years. "We are skeptical that this year will be any
different," he said, which will only force Indian coal buyers to import more thermal coal. When asked
whether weak coal prices and a supply glut could work in favor of Indian coal importers, Sanzillo said,
"even with low prices for coal on the global market it is still too expensive for India's economy to absorb.
Our report shows there is a need for far-reaching reform of the Indian utility system."
Adani is reportedly planning to sell half of its stake in the Carmichael coal mine in Queensland, a 60
million-tonne-per-year coal project. GVK is required to meet certain conditions in order to secure a
mining lease approval for its 30 million-tonne-per-year Alpha coal project, also in Queensland.

CO adexns : Adani Enterprises Ltd
IN

imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies |
ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News

NS

Page80of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

india : India | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC
Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | indsubz : Indian
Subcontinent | sasiaz : Southern Asia

IPD Mining and Supply
PUB SNL Financial LC
AN

Document SNLMMDE020140512ea5700011

Page81of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.