Former Leighton's boss to chair Sundance board

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Former Leighton's boss to chair Sundance board

Peter Ker
267 words
16 September 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
21
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The controversial former boss of Leighton Holdings, Wal King, will replace George Jones as
chairman of iron ore aspirant Sundance Resources.

Mr King joined the Sundance board as a director in May and since that time he has seemed destined
to take one of the top jobs at the company.

Sundance has been trying to develop an iron ore deposit on the border of Cameroon and the
Republic of Congo for five years, but has been thwarted by tragedy and corporate disappointments.
The company lost its entire board in a plane crash in 2010, and then was jilted at the takeover alter
in 2013 by controversial Chinese group Sichuan Hanlong.

Hanlong, some of whose members have since been shrouded in a corruption probe, strung
Sundance along for 18 months before finally conceding it could not muster the $1.4 billion it needed
for the acquisition.

Now a mere 8¢ stock, Sundance looms as a major challenge for Mr King given the continuing
collapse in iron ore prices.
But the company still has some big names involved, including Ukrainian billionaireGennadiy
Bogolyubov who punted $40 million into Sundance via a convertible note and option deal earlier this
month. Mr Bogolyubov is no stranger to iron ore, having been an early investor in BC Iron before
selling out last year having increased his stake 16-fold.
Mr King's involvement with Sundance continues his shift into iron ore, having also worked as a
consultant on the Sino Iron magnetite project since his departure from Leighton Holdings.

CO

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

leiho : Leighton Holdings Ltd | hocht : Hochtief AG | ocisa : ACS Actividades de Construcciones y
Servicios SA
i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i22 : Primary Metals | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i502 :
Heavy Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140915ea9g0000l

Page179of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.