Newcastle coal exports port sold to China -backed group for $1.6 billion

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
VOL
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Newcastle coal exports port sold to China-backed group for $1.6 billion

Mike Cooper
547 words
30 April 2014
Platts Coal Trader International
CLTRDI
ISSN: 1746-8914, Volume 14, Issue 83
English
© 2014 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

A China-backed consortium has outbid four other groups to acquire a 98-year lease on the coal exports
port of Newcastle in the Australian state of New South Wales for A$1.75 billion ($1.62 billion), said
New South Wales premier Mike Baird in a ministerial statement Wednesday.
Port of Newcastle Investments, a 50:50 joint venture between Hastings Funds Management and China
Merchants Group, emerged as the successful bidder from a competitive tender that attracted
international and Australian bidders, said the NSW premier.

China Merchants Group is a Hong Kong-based conglomerate with interests in ports, property and
energy that was founded in China in 1872, and is presently a state-owned enterprise of the
government of China, said the company on its official website.
Australia-based Hastings is a specialist fund manager of infrastructure assets worth A$7.4 billion
including airports in Perth and Queensland and power and water utilities in Australia, according to the
company's website.
Competitor bidders for Newcastle port included China's Cheung Kong Infrastructure, Australia's ATEC
Rail Group, Global Infrastructure Partners and Deutsche Bank, and Macquarie and China Construction,
according to unconfirmed reports.

"A private sector lessee will bring a range of benefits to the port including greater access to capital to
support the development and growth of the port over time, and specialist infrastructure expertise," said
the New South Wales premier in his statement.
Newcastle port shipped 142.6 million mt of coal exports in the financial year ended June 30, 2013, an
increase of 17% on the previous 2011-12 financial year, according to Newcastle Port Corp. on its
website.

The 98-year lease is granted over 700 hectares of state-owned land at Newcastle port including plots at
Carrington and Kooragang precincts presently occupied by three coal terminals operated by Port
Waratah Coal Services and Newcastle Coal Infrastructure Group, together with roads, wharves and
infrastructure within the port's boundary, said Baird in his statement.

The port's land holding and assets will revert to the state government at the end of the 98-year lease
period.
The coal terminals and other privately owned businesses at Newcastle port are unaffected by the
transfer of the port's lease from the New South Wales government to Port of Newcastle Investments,
said the NSW premier's statement.
Around A$1.5 billion of the sale's proceeds are to be invested in new infrastructure including schools
and hospitals in New South Wales, including A$340 million to revitalize the town of Newcastle, said the
premier's statement.

Page16of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The government of New South Wales netted A$760 million last April from auctioning a 99-year lease
on Port Kembla port, also a conduit for coal exports, to NSW Ports Consortium. And the Queensland
government sold 99-year leases on Brisbane port in late 2010 and Abbot Point port in May 2011.

Q Port Holdings a consortium comprising Global Infrastructure Partners, Credit Suisse, General Electric
and two Australian pension funds paid A$2.1 billion for the lease to Brisbane port, and India-based
coal trader Adani acquired the lease on Abbot Point port for A$1.829 billion.

Mike Cooper

CO
IN

NS

RE

IPD
PUB
AN

hasfml : Hastings Funds Management Limited | wstpac : Westpac Banking Corporation Limited
i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | iutil : Utilities | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150211 : Unit
Trusts/Mutual Funds | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
mcoal : Coal Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | mcat :
Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E
Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | brisbn : Brisbane | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | queensl :
Queensland
Utilities
The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Document CLTRDI0020140528ea4u0000a

Page17of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.