Corporate News: Resale Hopes Attract iPhone Buyers

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Corporate News: Resale Hopes Attract iPhone Buyers

By Daniel Stacey and Ross Kelly
719 words
20 September 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
B4
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

The appeal of bigger screens -- and the potential profit of reselling the phones elsewhere -- attracted
crowds as Apple Inc. began selling its newest iPhones in stores Friday.

New phone models often draw Apple fans outside stores, but observers from Australia to San
Francisco thought Friday's lines were longer than in previous years, in part because of a growing gray
market.

Apple's new 4.7-inch iPhone 6 and 5.5-inch iPhone 6 Plus are bigger than the four-inch display of the
iPhone 5S. The phones also have better battery life, a faster processor and an improved camera,
leading Apple Chief Executive Tim Cook to call it the "mother of all upgrades." Mr. Cook opened the
doors of the Apple store in Palo Alto, Calif., not far from Apple's headquarters.
The new phones went on sale in 10 countries Friday, with another 20 expected to be added next
week.
Some shoppers waited to purchase the phones and send them elsewhere. A group of 20 to 30
Chechens gathered outside an Apple store in Paris to collect iPhones they paid others to purchase
for them; each person was allowed to buy two phones.

"I hope to get around 30 iPhones together by the end of the day," said one of the men, who declined
to provide his name. He said the phones would be shipped to Moscow, where they would be sold for
as much as double the price. Apple is expected to start selling the iPhones in Russia next week.
The gray market in Hong Kong appears poised to surge because the new phones aren't immediately
available in China. Last year, Apple introduced its new iPhones in China at the same time as it
launched globally, but the Chinese government hasn't approved the new phones for sale yet.
Phone retailers in the Mongkok district said the price premium for the gold iPhone 6 Plus with the
most storage had jumped to more than $1,000. "Asian customers love using large-screen phones to
watch video and play games," said Lo Lau, an owner of a smartphone store in Mongkok.
Jay Lam, a Hong Kong shop manager, left the Apple store in the Causeway Bay neighborhood with
a big smile and two gold iPhone 6 Pluses. Mr. Lam said he planned to sell each phone for 20,000
Hong Kong dollars (US$2,600), a handsome profit from the official retail price of HK$8,088.
In San Francisco, Kevin Chen, a 19-year-old student from China, played with the iPhone 6 Plus he
bought via preorder as he waited in line to buy two more iPhones to sell to friends in China. If he had
been at home in China, Mr. Chen said he would have had to travel to Hong Kong to get the new
phones.
Earlier this week, Apple said it received more than four million orders for its two new phones in the
first 24 hours after it started accepting preorders on Sept. 12 -- more than it had set aside for
preorders.

Page189of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Apple's main manufacturing supplier, Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., employed more than 200,000
people on about 100 production lines at a Chinese factory exclusively for the new iPhones, according
to people familiar with the matter.

With its larger phones, Apple is hoping to attract and retain high-end consumers who are favoring
larger displays. Research firm Canalys says that in recent months, nearly all smartphones selling for
more than $400 and running on Google Inc.'s Android operating system came with a display larger
than five inches.

The rise in demand comes despite a price increase for Apple's most expensive model.

The iPhone 6 Plus costs $749 without a contract, making it the most expensive iPhone ever. The
iPhone 6 starts at $649 without contract -- the same price that Apple charged for the iPhone 5S when
it was introduced a year ago. Online, there was still a wait for the new phones -- up to four weeks for
the iPhone 6 Plus, the company said.

---
Daisuke Wakabayashi in San Francisco, Lorraine Luk in Hong Kong and Ruth Bender in Paris
contributed to this article.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

CO
IN

NS

RE

IPC
PUB
AN

applc : Apple Inc.
ismart : Smart Phones | i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | i3441 : Telecommunications
Equipment | i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods |
icellph : Cellular/Mobile Phones | ielec : Consumer Electronics | ihandaps : Handheld Electronic
Devices | itech : Technology
c22 : New Products/Services | c31 : Marketing | c314 : Pricing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
neqac : Equities Asset Class News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E
Industry News Filter
china : China | hkong : Hong Kong | austr : Australia | sfra : San Francisco | usa : United States | usca
: California | usw : Western U.S. | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America
ABO
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document J000000020140920ea9k0002l

Page190of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.