10 MIN WRAP

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
10 MIN WRAP

569 words
15 February 2014
Daily Telegraph
DAITEL
Telegraph
40
English
Copyright 2014 News Ltd. All Rights Reserved

Zahra’s support base gathering THE remaining directors of David Jones have formed a united front to
express strong support for CEO Paul Zahra in the wake of this week’s shock boardroom spill.

Non-executive directors Jane Harvey, Philippa Stone and Melinda Conrad said they were working to
restore confidence in the company’s corporate governance and signalled they were happy with Mr
Zahra’s performance.

The statement comes as Mr Zahra weighs up whether to stay on at DJs following the resignations of
chairman Peter Mason and non-executive directors Steve Vamos and Leigh Clapham amid a share
trading scandal. Several major shareholders have called for him to stay on at the helm.
His prospects certainly haven’t been dimmed by the company’s latest fortunes — on Thursday Mr
Zahra unveiled the retailer’s best quarterly sales growth in more than three years.
“Our priority is to restore investor confidence in the company’s corporate governance practices and to
undertake a board renewal program,” the trio of remaining directors said.

Mr Zahra stunned investors in October by announcing he would resign as soon as a replacement was
found.

The 47-year-old said he was stepping aside because he was “burnt out”, although speculation has
since mounted the decision was prompted by disagreement with the ousted board members.

DJs shares shed 0.32 per cent to $3.10 yesterday.
Paladin looks to the long term Paladin Energy’s woes have worsened following a third straight year of
subdued prices for uranium. Paladin yesterday tabled a first-half loss of $US255 million ($283m), 32
per cent worse than its $US195.3 million half-year loss in 2012-13.

The producer with projects in Australian and Africa also said it did not expect any short-term
improvement after shutting one of its two producing mines last week and reducing production guidance
for the year.

However, it predicts the nuclear power industry will recover and the long-term future will be positive for
uranium producers, with the present range of mine closures and lack of investment in new supply to
spark price rises.
China National Nuclear Corp agreed last year to pay Paladin $US190 million for a 25 per cent stake
in Langer Heinrich mine in Namibia, with regulatory approval expected this year.
The company’s shares fell 0.63 per cent to 47.2c. Paladin’s loss was inflated by a $US226.5 million
impairment on its Queensland exploration assets. Stripping those out, Paladin’s gross result was a
$US29.3 million loss.

Page190of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.BUSINESS owners are increasingly optimistic about the economy, the NSW Business Chamber has
found in a survey.

“Businesses haven’t been this positive about the performance of the NSW economy since March 2010,
which is good to see as we start a new year,” CEO Stephen Cartwright said. “Cost reduction is the
major focus in most business plans, and governments need to start shredding the mountains of red
tape that currently stand in the way of efficiency improvements. “

SOUND BITES “It’s not the job of the federal government or the prime minister or the would-be prime
minister to rush down the street waving a blank cheque at businesses. (But) let’s have a level playing
field for Qantas.

Let’s not have Qantas competing with Virgin and others with one hand tied behind its back.

Tony Abbott, Prime Ministerof Australia

NS

RE
PUB
AN

c411 : Management Moves | cslmc : Senior Level Management | c41 : Management Issues | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive
News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document DAITEL0020140214ea2f00043

Page191of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.