INTERVIEW-Norway's Statoil disappointed with shale outside U.S.

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

INTERVIEW-Norway's Statoil disappointed with shale outside U.S.

581 words
9 April 2014
17:55
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2014 Reuters Limited

* Scouting for shale assets from Argentina to China

* European shale opportunities disappoint

* Push to expand in Asia to round out portfolio

By Sonali Paul
PERTH, April 9 (Reuters) - Norway's Statoil, looking to become a global energy company, has been
disappointed so far in its hunt for shale opportunities to match the quality of its U.S. assets, a senior
executive said.
In a push to find new shale basins globally as it expands outside its traditional base, the energy major
has invested in shale acreage in Russia with Rosneft, in Germany with Wintershall and in Australia
with PetroFrontier Corp .
The company, which has made huge conventional discoveries off Brazil and Tanzania and in Canada
in the past few years, is also scouring regions from Argentina to China for more shale opportunities as
U.S. acquisition prices have soared.

"I've been a bit disappointed. We hoped to find North American look-alike basins in many places, but it
seems like there is not the same quality everywhere," said Pal Halermo, Statoil vice president
exploration.
Statoil has been one of the industry's top spenders, ploughing much of the $18 billion it earned since
2010 from selling producing fields, pipelines and its retail chain to fund an aggressive global
expansion of exploration and production.

Statoil had hoped shale in Europe would beef up its position as a major gas supplier, but the basins
were not that attractive and fracking bans and political opposition posed too many hurdles, Halermo
said.
The joint venture with Rosneft in the Samara region was promising, as Russia, along with China,
Argentina and Colombia, probably has among the highest quality basins in Statoil's view.

But he said the United States still has a big advantage thanks to the quality of its acreage, a legal
system under which landowners own the mineral rights, and political and regulatory support for new
projects.

"I haven't seen any system that is as good as the U.S.," he said. "I think this is why things are slowing
in the rest of the world when it comes to the shales."
In northern Australia, Statoil plans five wells this year at a total cost of between $25 million and $50
million before deciding whether to do more extensive drilling after mid-2015.
If it decides on a development, Halermo said the company would look to sell down its 80 percent
stake in the Australian shale acreage to a "financially strong" partner.

Page54of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Statoil hasn't given up on entering China, estimated to hold the world's second largest shale gas
reserves, but has been shut out since Norway awarded a Nobel Peace Prize to Chinese dissident Liu
Xiabo in 2010.
In a push to expand in the Asia-Pacific region, Statoil is also exploring for conventional oil and gas in
Indonesia, deepwater offshore Australia and New Zealand, and recently won deepwater acreage off
Myanmar.
For now the company plans to focus on relatively inexpensive exploration in the Far East and
Australasia rather than acquiring stakes in existing projects, as it looks to invest in developing its big
discoveries in Brazil, Tanzania and Canada.

"But I foresee that we will deepen the portfolio here, because it's a huge market and there's a gap
between production and demand. We see that as a great opportunity," Halermo said. (Reporting by
Sonali Paul; Editing by Richard Pullin)

Released: 2014-4-9T08:55:39.000Z
pndcpc : PetroFrontier Corp | statl : Statoil ASA
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas
cnatrd : Natural Reserves/Resources Discovery | nitv : Interviews | c24 : Capacity/Facilities | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive
News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | cana : Canada | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | apacz : Asia
Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China |
dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America
Business
SERVICE:AUF
Thomson Reuters (Markets) LLC
Document LBA0000020140409ea4900cyp

RF
CO
IN
NS

RE

IPD
IPC
PUB
AN

Page55of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.