Prices rise as foreign developers beat out Aussie buyers

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Prices rise as foreign developers beat out Aussie buyers

Land sales Nick Lenaghan
564 words
1 July 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
41
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The price of urban development land in Sydney and Melbourne is surging as offshore developers
outbid local buyers for tightly held inner-city properties.
As competition intensifies for the dwindling pool of properties suitable for residential development,
CBD sites with existing properties are being thrown into market as well.

In the past year the national average of land acquisitions by offshore developers has passed
$20,000 a square metre.
That figure, compiled by property consultants Deep End, accumulates values from CBD deals, as
well as city fringe and suburban deals.
Private investors, sovereign funds and listed players from China, Singapore and Malaysia have
forged into the Australian market in the past two years especially, adding to demand.

"It's a sign that the market has become more competitive and the number of sites available has
started to reduce, so competition per site is increasing," Deep End principal Kevin Stanley said.

"There's fewer sites and more potential developers, so naturally the competition is rising."
Among those setting the pace are Chinese players such as state-owned enterprise Greenland,
Malaysian sovereign wealth player UEM Sunrise, and Singapore's largest private developer Far
East Organisation.Brothers buy up Melbourne

Also from Singapore, tycoon brothers Koh Wee Meng and Koh Wee Seng, who control listed
groups Aspial and Fragrance Group, have snapped up Melbourne sites in the past six months.
"Because purchasers are now buying sites that have buildings on them, then they are paying a lot
more for those.

"They are actually paying for the asset as well," Mr Stanley said.

"In behind these numbers there is a shift in what is being bought. That's important to understand. It
tells you that market is getting very tight and that buyers have to now buy assets to find a site to
put a residential tower on.

"Before, what they would have been buying was sites that were semi-industrial in use."
In June, the new partnership between Toga Hotels and Far East purchased 280 George Street in
Sydney at 16 per cent above its book value with a view to redeveloping it into a hotel or serviced
apartments.

Page233of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In Melbourne, Fragrance Group's acquisition of 555 Collins Street, flagging plans to redevelop a
site occupied already by a 24-storey tower, set a record land value of $35,000 a square metre in a
deal handled by CBRE's Mark Wizel and Josh Rutman.

Mr Stanley said higher land prices in the initial deals will flow through into higher prices for
apartments.

Two-bedroom apartments in Sydney's new Greenland Centre were selling for $1.85 million in April
this year.
In Melbourne, listed Malaysian PJ Development put up $145 million to acquire a two-hectare site at
93-119 Kavanagh Street in Southbank in record land deal in June.
The Malaysian group is eyeing a $1.5 billion mixed use project at the site.

Knight Frank's Paul Henley, who brokered the off-market deal, said offshore players have an
advantage with access to cheaper debt and are not constrained by limits from local banks on sales
to foreign buyers.

"They also have access to a ready-made supply of buyers back in their home markets," he said.

"There's less risk and it's cheaper to sell to their networks."

IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
gplan : Urban Planning/Development | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International
Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia
Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140630ea7100017

Page234of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.