Australia Funds Eye Liquid Investments

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Australia Funds Eye Liquid Investments

By Ross Kelly
1,020 words
12 March 2014
11:46
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

SYDNEY--Australian fund managers are eying an increasingly liquid market: water.

A state-run system giving farmers fixed allocations for river water flowing into the country's agricultural
heartland is tempting speculators to buy up those rights in anticipation of higher prices.

Specialist fund manager Blue Sky Alternative Investments Ltd. recently raised 20 million Australian
dollars (US$18 million) to pour into the fledgling market, following earlier moves by San Diego,
Calif.-based Summit Global and VicSuper, one of Australia's biggest pension funds.
According to Australian government estimates, the water rights are worth A$26 billion although only a
fraction are traded as farmers use most of their entitlements to irrigate land growing everything from
macadamia nuts to cotton.

Investors globally have long studied the potential of water as an alternative investment to traditional
commodities such as wheat or oil, as demographic shifts such as population growth and urbanization
strain supplies. According to the World Economic Forum, an organization that hosts business leaders
in the Swiss resort of Davos each year, demand for water globally for individual and industrial use will
exceed supply by 40% in 2030.

So far, however, technical limitations have constrained the more advanced use of derivatives and other
risk and pricing mechanisms for water. Small-scale trading of water occurs in some U.S. states like
Arizona, but no comprehensive platform for open dealing exists.

Adding to the challenge is the perception that water is abundantly available as rain can fall anywhere.
Moving water can be expensive, either to places suffering from drought, or between buyers and sellers
that aren't located close together. Also, putting a price on water is politically unacceptable in many
countries where access to lakes and rivers is considered a basic human right.

As a result, investors have largely chosen to bet on infrastructure and technology linked to water
production, transport and storage. Two years ago, China's sovereign-wealth fund acquired 8.7% of
Thames Water, a closely held utility responsible for the public water supply in London. Another U.K.
water provider, Severn Trent PLC, knocked back a GBP 5.3 billion (US$8.8 billion) takeover bid by a
consortium of British, Kuwaiti and Canadian infrastructure investors last year.

For many investors, Australia's water-trading system is the most advanced. Since 2007, people have no
longer needed to own land in the Murray Darling basin--a vast system of interconnected rivers and
tributaries in eastern Australia that feeds the country's major food bowl--to be eligible to buy and sell
water rights.

Water in the Murray-Darling basin is allocated to landholders like farmers who can either use it on their
property or offer it for sale. The federal government decides how much water can be removed, based
around rainfall levels. It is also an active trader to guard against too much river water being extracted
and causing environmental damage.

Page277of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Currently, there are nearly 16,300 gigaliters of water in the Murray-Darling basin--roughly equivalent to
33 times the water contained in Sydney Harbour. The price of an entitlement in the basin ranges from
A$900 to A$1,800 a megaliter, according to Australian government data.

"It is a lot easier and more transparent to invest in water in Australia" than in other countries, said Kim
Morison, managing director of Blue Sky. The Brisbane-based fund manager's recent raising comes after
it invested around A$80 million on behalf of Summit Global between 2008 and 2011.

Australia is the world's driest inhabited continent and prone to droughts, which Blue Sky is betting will
boost returns from water over other asset classes such as equities. Blue Sky believes it can generate a
net return after management fees of 10% a year over a five-to-seven year holding period. Returns are
based on a combination of any capital appreciation in the value of the water entitlement and the
additional yield that is generated from selling annual water allocations to buyers such as farmers.

By far the largest third-party investor in the Murray Darling is VicSuper, a Melbourne-based pension
fund that manages around A$10 billion in assets. Another player is Melbourne-based Tandou Ltd.,
which currently has around A$30 million in water entitlements.

"Agricultural investment is a growing area and water is a key part of that," said Oscar Fabian,
VicSuper's chief investment officer.

Still, VicSuper's returns on investment in water have been volatile so far, partly because of the lack of a
single national exchange in Australia. Periods of extreme weather have also magnified risks, particularly
heavy rainfall that drives down prices.

For many institutional investors, those risks remain too great. Tyndall Investment Management Ltd., the
local subsidiary of Tokyo-based Nikko Asset Management, attempted to raise A$100 million from
Australian and overseas investors for a water-focused fund last year. It abandoned those plans as big
investors shied away from an investment without a proven record of returns.
"I don't want to gild the lily and tell you there is billions of dollars of investment capital ready to flood
the Australian water market overnight," said Richard Lourey, who led that fundraising effort before
leaving Tyndall in September.

Still, intensifying activity in Australian agricultural assets, including a three-way takeover tussle for
Warrnambool Cheese and Butter Factory Co. and Archer Daniels Midland Co.'s failed A$3 billion bid
for GrainCorp Ltd. is helping to change attitudes to water as an investment, Mr. Lourey said.
Australia exports about 70% of its food output, making it a cornerstone meat and dairy supplier to
markets such as China. As incomes in North Asia rise, people will likely rely more on Australia's food
bowl and an efficient use of water, he said.
"I can certainly see A$2 billion of third-party capital coming into the market over the next five years" Mr.
Lourey said.

Write to Ross Kelly at ross.kelly@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

March 11, 2014 21:46 ET (01:46 GMT)

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

bsaltd : Blue SKY Alternative Investments Ltd | sevtrt : Severn Trent PLC
i01001 : Farming | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i17 : Water Utilities | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco |
i831 : Financial Investments | iinv : Investing/Securities | i0 : Agriculture | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifinal
: Financial Services | iutil : Utilities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class
News | npda : DJ Dominant Analysis - All | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters
austr : Australia | eurz : Europe | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz
: Australia/Oceania | eecz : European Union Countries | namz : North America | weurz : Western
Europe
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document DJDN000020140312ea3c0004m

Page278of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.