SINGAPORE oils trader Wilmar International and Hong Kong in

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Early General News
SINGAPORE oils trader Wilmar International and Hong Kong in

SUE MITCHELL
411 words
2 October 2014
Stock Journal
FSTOCJ
18
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

SINGAPORE oils trader Wilmar International and Hong Kong investment company First Pacific have
cleared the first regulatory hurdle in their $1.3 billion takeover of bread and spreads maker Goodman
Fielder.
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission will not oppose the acquisition, even though
it will increase Wilmar's share of the edible oils market to more than 50 per cent.

Goodman Fielder is Australia's largest supplier of branded, packaged edible oils, including salad
dressings, cooking oils and table spreads.
Its brands include well-known names such as MeadowLea, Crisco, Gold'N Canola and ETA.

Wilmar refines and packs edible oils overseas and supplies them to supermarkets, which sell the
products under private label brands.
Goodman Fielder is estimated to have about 52pc of branded edible oil sales while private label oils
account for between 55pc and 60pc of sales.
The ACCC was concerned that, as a result of the acquisition, Wilmar and Goodman would be in a
position to raise prices.

But after making market enquiries, the ACCC came to the conclusion that Wilmar and Goodman would
continue to be competitively constrained by existing and potential suppliers.
"Packaged vegetable oil can be readily imported from international suppliers," ACCC chairman Rod
Sims said.
"Wilmar supplies oil from its offshore facilities and there are other international companies capable of
supplying the Australian market.
"Industry feedback also suggested that packaged vegetable oil is considered a commodity product
with low levels of brand loyalty, making it easier for retailers to bypass their existing suppliers."
The ACCC also decided that the proposed acquisition was unlikely to raise competition concerns in
any other markets in which Goodman Fielder or Wilmar was involved.

Wilmar and First Pacific are now awaiting clearance from the Foreign Investment Review Board and
the Ministry of Commerce in China before proceeding with the offer.

Wilmar and First Pacific are offering Goodman shareholders 67.5 cents a share through a scheme of
arrangement.

Earlier this month, Goodman postponed a shareholder meeting to approve the scheme of arrangement
for three months until the first quarter of calendar 2015.

Page280of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The meeting was originally slated to be held in November.

Goodman shares have been trading at a discount to the offer price, about 62.5c, reflecting the time
value of money and uncertainty that the deal will proceed at the existing price.

fdgl : Goodman Fielder Ltd | auccc : Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
i411 : Vegetable Oils | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c34 : Anti-Competition
Issues | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | saustr : South Australia | singp : Singapore | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | seasiaz :
Southeast Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FSTOCJ0020141001eaa20001b

CO
IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page281of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.