Poultry, dairy boost agribusiness

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business - Commercial Property
Poultry, dairy boost agribusiness

Simon Johanson
484 words
30 July 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
35
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Agribusiness has bottomed out and a recovery in the sector, particularly the poultry and dairy
industries, will stimulate the property market, a report says.

Colliers International said Australia and New Zealand's agricultural commodities had a positive outlook
this year with many regions on the road to recovery.

The firm's Rural and Agribusiness Research and Forecast Report 2014 said the best-performing
agribusiness enterprises were Australia's poultry sector and New Zealand's dairy industry, which were
growing significantly and stimulating the property market. An upturn was influenced by the improved
global economy, increased food demand and the improving availability of finance, Colliers' rural and
agribusiness director Tim Altschwager said.

"The poultry sector is arguably the best financially performing agribusiness enterprise in Australia,
currently based on the projections which show that chicken meat is to remain Australia's most
consumed meat in the medium term," he said.

Rising investor demand was creating passive investment opportunities for assets on
sale-and-leaseback models with long terms of 10 to 20 years and double-digit yields, he said.

"Syndicates of private investors are developing and owning the new-age broiler farms producing
millions of chickens per annum."

Sophisticated investors had an opportunity to take a larger share of the market, which was 70 per cent
controlled by two processing companies, Ingham and Baiada.
New Zealand's dairy market was strong and Australia's improving with about 40 per cent of milk
production exported, mainly as powder or processed product, driven by Chinese demand, the report
said.
But while the offshore appetite for dairy assets was increasing, a lack of institutional-grade assets was
a "primary drag" on market growth.

Established cotton growers were looking to diversify into other regions, focusing particularly on the
Murrumbidgee Valley and encouraged by lower land values and water security, the report's author,
Mark Courtney, said.
Sentiment suggested asset values in Australia's wine industry were probably past the "bottom of the
cycle". Opportunities for counter-cyclical investors to take advantage of low entry costs were still
available in warm climate regions, and some highly regarded cool climate regions were lagging behind
the Barossa Valley's recovery, Mr Courtney said.

Land values for beef producers remain below pre-GFC levels with some sales in drier areas recording
significant price reductions.

Page44of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."Notably, as most receiver stock is moving, the level of transactional activity appears to be
accompanied by a slight rise in market confidence," the report said.
In New Zealand, continued domestic and offshore purchases, especially in the dairy sector, remain a
market-defining feature.

"Overseas buyers for both forestry and farming assets are seeking opportunities as major North
American, European and Asian funds looking to balance portfolios, and to take advantage of New
Zealand's safe investment status and proximity to a protein-hungry Asia," it said.

IN
RE
PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
austr : Australia | nz : New Zealand | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140729ea7u0004h

Page45of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.