Property v shares

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property v shares

Jeremy Chunn
3,682 words
18 July 2014
Financial Review Smart Investor
FRSINV
First
22
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

ASSET ALLOCATION

The accepted wisdom is that you're better off with shares, but our analysis shows it's all in the timing.

No one recommends flipping a coin when it comes to asset allocation but for those investors with a foot
firmly in one camp or another, that's exactly what they are doing. Even investment novices know the
importance of diversification and yet, despite this, you don't have to look too hard to find those who have
made money from property, and nothing else, and those who have made money from shares, and
nothing else.

The accepted wisdom is that Australian shares have a better return profile than residential property,
thanks to dividends and franking credits, which significantly enhance returns over time. But at the same
time, most property investments are heavily geared, which doesn't so much improve returns as
supercharge them.

In order to get to the bottom of this, we've needed to dig deep into more than 100 years of returns and
the answer, unsurprisingly, is complex. If forced to provide an answer that would fit on a Post-it note,
we'd have to go with "it's all in the timing".

The data feed

For the truly objective, the answer lies in the data. But how can investors make a proper comparison
when the frequency and transparency of data fail to match up?

On good terms

If the volatility levels viewed in the sharemarket are a result of supply and demand being reported in real
time, it may be fair to assume the property market is a more "rational" place.
But whereas about 2000 companies are traded on the ASX, each one divisible into perhaps billions of
identical shares, the property market comprises millions of indivisible lumps.

"Every house is different in time and space, every buyer is different in terms of capacity and every seller
is different in terms of motivation and agenda," Australian Property Monitors senior economist
Andrew Wilson says.
The results of each property sale feed into city, regional and national aggregates, which are hard to
relate back to a buyer's or seller's expectations. Buyers have enjoyed lower interest rates for the past 18
months and sellers have enjoyed the boost this supply of money has delivered to prices.

"We had a similar scenario in 2009-10 when affordability was improved," Dr Wilson says. "Then we had
the reverse, where we had interest rates rising."

Movements in prices reflect marginal sales and only about 6 per cent of property is traded a year. In the
sharemarket, 86 per cent of all shares were traded in 2012-13.

Page98of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."That's the essence of the difficulty in finding that underlying noise," Dr Wilson says, where "noise" is the
data that feeds price fluctuations. The chances of picking a short-term winner in a region or suburb are
made ever slimmer by the low number of observations, even over a quarterly period.

"The rate of growth and rate of decline reflect local economic factors, local supply and demand factors,
but overall the nature of the housing market mechanism in this country is that it follows the same
underlying pattern of activity over the long term."

The trend reflects the business cycle and movements in interest rates, he says, and useful forward
indicators are housing loans data from the Australian Bureau of Statistics and auction clearance rates.

Believers in property hold on to your seats: Dr Wilson is about to give us an idea of the money that can
be made by holding this favourite asset class.

"My rule of thumb is 3 to 4 per cent is [nominal] underlying house price growth in Australia," he says.
"That's maybe 1 to 1.5 per cent above inflation."

Well, that's a bit underwhelming. We're not sure what to say now.

Renovations in reverse

Pitcher Partners executive director of investment advisory Sue Dahn cuts to the chase when comparing
shares with property.

"Shares are liquid, residential property is not. Shares have a high yield, residential property does not.
Shares incur a one-off, very small [transaction] cost, residential property incurs ongoing costs. Shares
are massively divisible, you can buy a thousand and sell one, but I can't sell the bathroom of my house."

No surprise, then, that in Dahn's opinion shares are a "demonstrably superior" investment to residential
property. Comparing them on the measure of growth, however, she says they are "like for like", with the
caveat that ongoing costs are never factored for.
"People say, 'I bought that property for $250,000 and now it's worth a million, and aren't I a genius?' But
they've never factored in the years of rates, insurance, repairs and maintenance, let alone renovations
and improvements."

Neck and neck

Every home needs a homemaker, as advanced decrepitude is a massive turn-off for buyers and
incumbent vendors alike. Property is pleasant and has benefits well beyond capital gain and money
spent on renovations pays dividends in the standard of living. But this comparison isn't for home-owners:
it's for investors.

The costs of fixing and improving property may not be included when most Australians calculate their
return on a deal but AMP Capital head of investment strategy and chief economist Shane Oliver says it
is the missing piece which, when slotted into the national investment puzzle, shows returns from shares
and property are about the same over time.

Real house prices have increased about 3 per cent a year since 1926, according to data from the
Australian Bureau of Statistics. "That's roughly in line with national real income growth and real
GDP growth," Dr Oliver says.

If it sounds like the value of property is determined by wages and the economy (which makes sense
from the perspective that you can borrow only what you can afford to repay), Dr Oliver has also shown
that $100 invested in Australian shares or Australian residential property in 1926 would have returned
about the same amount, with a nominal return of 11.5 per cent from the All Ordinaries accumulation
index and 11.1 per cent from property including net rental yields, where he assumed maintenance and
tax costs of about 2 per cent a year.

"[Returns from shares and property] cycle around each other," he says. "You go through a phase where
sometimes you're better off in property and other times when you're better off in shares."

Great Australian bite

Risk is the standard deviation of returns from the average and shares are more volatile than property
without doubt: for the past 10 years, annual returns were within 13.9 percentage points either side of the
average in 68 per cent of cases; the same measure for property was 6.5 percentage points.

Page99of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.If that sounds dull and technical, a warmer view of risk can be gained by putting on some Australian
sunglasses.

"Risk in an equities portfolio is very misunderstood," says Perpetual head of investment markets
research Matthew Sherwood, who points out it is as appropriate to value risk as the probability of capital
loss as it is the variance of returns from an average. When viewed that way, equities stand out as "the
greatest compounding machine the world has ever known".

Since 1974, shares have outperformed other asset classes because earnings have been "effectively"
reinvested, Sherwood says. In his eyes, Aussie equities are "low risk" against cash and gold because
those assets do not produce equivalent net income. "The income growth in shares is the lowest risk of
any asset."

Property seems safer than shares because it is only valued on average once every seven years in
Australia, he says, "And that is when you buy it and when you sell it. If the sharemarket traded one day
in every seven years and each house was valued daily, I'm sure that people would sell those volatile
housing assets and purchase those safe shares."

An after-tax comparison of shares and property is fraught, as everyone's situation is different.

The sharemarket offers a tax advantage through franking credits, whereas property investors are given
a tax credit via negative gearing if they lose income.

"It's always better to be making income in investments as the basis of wealth creation," Sherwood says.
"The general population would believe that property has better tax advantages than shares but to me
that is not the case, and history has borne that out quite conclusively."

The general level of franking credits in distributions from Australian companies is about 70 per cent; an
investor would declare the remaining 30 per cent as income and receive a tax offset for corporate tax
paid on the rest. The individual would then pay the difference between his or her marginal tax rate and
the corporate tax rate. "No other yield of any other asset gets that tax advantage," he says.

Is growth guaranteed?

Looking ahead, Sherwood says there is evidence of growth in the economy which won't be picked up in
ABS data for at least 18 months. Yes, mining investment is down, but energy exports will rise as
projects come on line. Credit growth, housing finance, building approvals, trade and retail sales are
looking good. "There is a cyclical improvement already in the Australian economy," he says. Rate cuts
and a lower dollar are flowing through to the economy.

"You put all that together and that tells you the Australian economy is going to continue to be one of the
strongest of all the advanced economies," he says. "We're going to be one of the strongest, if not the
strongest, economies in the next decade."

If Sherwood's right, earnings will grow and share prices with them. It's a signal, then, to borrow and
invest in shares . . . right?

Slight pause.

"Well, whether people leverage into the sharemarket is a personal choice," he says.

Other people’s money

Borrowing to invest is a hard call and you'd better think long and hard about where to do it because you
can end up losing more than your initial outlay. Looking over the past 10 years, Russell Investments
found those who borrowed the equivalent of their own principal to invest in Australian shares made
returns about 2 percentage points higher than non-geared investors on average.

Investors in residential property did not enjoy the same happy returns.

Once all borrowing costs were taken into consideration, those in the lowest tax bracket made
1 percentage point a year less if they borrowed; those in the highest bracket made just 0.1 percentage
points more.

More bad news: the returns Russell reported don't take in the rapacious costs of renovations and
maintenance.

So if the result for geared investments into property doesn't add up, what hope has a retail investor got
of buying property for cash? Russell weighed data for the 20 years to 2013 and found residential

Page100of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.property investments geared to 50 per cent made slightly more than 1 percentage point higher than
non-geared.

Relax, it’s only tax

Tax generally tears at investment returns but credits from franked dividends can see after-tax returns for
Australian equities outstrip gross returns for lower income earners. For those in retirement, a $1 fully
franked dividend is worth $1.43 after tax.

For investments in residential property, Russell Investments reckons the Australian Taxation Office took
0.7 percentage points off returns from super funds and those in the lowest tax bracket and
1.9 percentage points from those in the highest.

The franking credits from shares since 1988 are virtually equivalent to the residential property market's
income since 1990, says Sherwood at Perpetual, "Which means you get all the dividend growth in the
Australian sharemarket virtually for free, relative to the residential property market."

Equities is the only investment alternative where you get a tax advantage when you're receiving
income, he says. "And income is the basis of wealth creation."

Sherwood takes a detached view of tax and at the same time shares an important reminder of what the
end game is. "We undertake investments solely to boost our wealth and no investor should undertake
an investment solely on the basis of tax," he says. "Nevertheless, shares have tax advantages when you
earn income, through franking credits, whereas property has a tax advantage when you lose income.

"Investors may be able to halve the income loss, but negative gearing will never change the net income
detraction if loan repayments are greater than rental income."

Where next for property?

AMP Capital's Shane Oliver concedes it's hard to measure unlisted assets and so there is a lot of
uncertainty around property as an asset class.

"You can't invest in an index that will track the property market," he says. Well, for the moment anyway.
Nevertheless, a cycle can be observed.

Referencing a chart which displays the drawn-out nature of the property cycle, he points to the early
1940s, where the line drops off the chart.

"It was 1942, I think, when midget submarines broke into Sydney Harbour and the people in the eastern
suburbs decided to sell up and go to Bowral."

In the mid-1990s, the market broke from a long range it had been trading in since the early 1970s as
Australia shifted from a high interest rate environment to a low interest rate environment, he says.

"That was also the time Australians started to ramp up their debt levels and that set off the biggest boom
in the Australian property market in recent times."

Things "petered out" around 2004 and the market is now well above trend, he says. "I think we're in for
an extended period of relatively range-bound property prices, reflecting the fact that at current levels the
property is relatively richly valued."

Although many measures of valuation suggest Australian property is expensive, supply is still restricted.
Regardless of expectations of (or hopes for) a crash, it just hasn't happened. Restrictions on land
release and development requirements have held back supply, whereas it was allowed to boom in
markets such as Ireland, Spain and the United States.

The story ended badly in those markets, and others, when rising interest rates hurt highly geared
borrowers. In some countries, supply of new housing exceeded demand. Vacancies and defaults
soared.

The same hasn't happened here and it probably won't.

"We're concentrated in a handful of cities on the coast, and coastal cities always cost more," Dr Oliver
says. "We've kept them relatively green, which is all very good for quality of life but it has led to relatively
expensive housing."

Page101of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In the absence of a huge supply response or economic shock in Australia, such as a crash in China or
jump in interest rates, it's hard to see the property market crashing, he says. More likely there will be
good years and not-so-good years.

Property is offering a relatively low yield, he says, between 3 and 5 per cent, which after costs becomes
1 to 3 per cent. The dividend yield on shares is about 4.5 per cent, or nearer 6 per cent for those who
can claim back all the franking credits.

"The starting point yield is a bit better for shares than it is for property at the moment," he says. "But
history tells us over the very long term they're probably going to have similar returns."

If the dictum of making profits from shares is to buy low, sell high, the rules are different for property
because of the cost of borrowing. When interest rates are low, money is considered to be "cheap".
That's when prospective buyers take out ever-larger loans and together they bid up prices for available
stock. To keep up with prices, investors will ask for longer loan terms so that lower payments of principal
and interest result, but there will be more of them.

A patient investor, who was ambiguous about shares or property and who was determined to make a
binary decision, would know that is exactly the wrong strategy. If you want to pay down the principal as
fast as you can, you ask for as short a term as you can afford.

"That's the name of the game for banks," says Dr Wilson, at Fairfax-owned Australian Property
Monitors.

"There's a motivation for people to take shorter-term fixed-rate mortgages and that's why banks typically
play that fixed versus variable game."

Owners hold property on average for seven years, he says. If you want to strike when prices are low, it
would make sense to wait until interest rates are high and borrow at a variable rate. That way, as rates
slowly return to a long-term average you will benefit from lower payments.

Can you handle the volatility?

Volatility in the sharemarket is a nauseating phenomenon that can create wealth or burn it to a cinder.

Yes, Australian equities have outshone other asset classes in the long term, but there have been
blowouts along the way. "Those returns do come in a rather volatile way," says Towers Watson head of
investment Australia Graeme Miller. "Most of that volatility is driven by investor sentiment."

Share prices are much more jumpy than can be explained by the fundamental data that is fed into the
market, such as profit results, payout ratios, debt levels and so forth. The efficient market hypothesis,
which says prices reflect all available information and nothing more, is not at all strong, Miller says.

"The efficient market hypothesis assumes that prices are set by mythical creatures that don't have any
emotions, such as fear or greed, whereas in reality that's simply not the case."

The most successful investors buy assets that are cheap. Yes, we know it sounds obvious but it isn't
easy to do. When fear is cast over the market, the natural human inclination is to be reluctant to
purchase. "But history tells us time and time again that is the very best time to purchase," Miller says.
"And the very worst time to purchase is when there is irrational exuberance dominating market pricing."

But when were shares cheap? That's easy. Just look at the On The Slide chart (left). OK, but when will
they be cheap again? That's a bit harder.

Here's a test: place a piece of paper over the chart at the left so that everything to the right of the first
line is covered.

Now move it right to the next line. Shares are 25 per cent cheaper. Would you buy? Move it to the right
again. Shares are 25 per cent cheaper again. Would you buy? The same phenomenon applies in
reverse to a bull market, Miller says, and to bubbles, which are always identified in retrospect.

"Everyone knew in the early 2000s tech bubble that pricing was completely unsustainable and yet
people who sold 12 months before the peak left an enormous amount on the table relative to those who
sold at the peak."

Keep pedalling

The market always moves in cycles but the length and amplitude of cycles is variable and difficult to
predict. Knowing at which point to jump in is another impossibility.

Page102of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."In the short term, market prices are dominated by 'noise'," Miller says, using a shorthand term for
jagged short-term fluctuations. "There is very little predictability about the way prices are going to move
over short-term periods."

Investors who try to understand noise and anticipate gains by trading frequently sustain substantial
costs, he says, and there are very few who can do it consistently well.

"That's because the noise dominates the signal over these short-term periods," he says. "A stock is
more likely to change in value due to random influences over a period of a day, a week, even a month or
a year, than it is as a consequence of a change in the underlying fundamental value of that stock."

One of the most reliable valuation metrics, he says, is the Shiller price-earnings ratio, which uses a
10-year average of inflation-adjusted earnings to avoid a valuation being distorted by fluctuations within
the business cycle.

"The period over which the payoff can be expected to be delivered needs to be similarly long," Miller
says. To expect short-term gains is "just fanciful". All the most successful investors have a long-term
focus.

Many times over

At Perpetual, Sherwood likes to use multiples when describing past returns. Since the end of 1974, the
return for gold has been 14 times invested principal, cash has been 28 times, residential property 56
times, listed property 109 times and the Australian sharemarket has been 217 times.

"Interestingly, the reason shares outperform is not what people think," he says. "The capital gains from
property and shares since 1974 are reasonably equal. The reason for shares' outperformance is the
after-expenses income generation and its reinvestment, relative to that of property, where half of the
income is lost to the expenses of running and maintaining the property asset."

And the winner is...

If you are an expert at picking property, then it's obvious there are ways to make gains in that asset
class. The experts describe two obstacles to pricing the property market: the data is imperfect (many
costs are not included) and infrequent (making it difficult to isolate the best opportunities).

A buyer who is honest about inputs will know the true returns received.

For shares, well, an investor who chooses that route to wealth will be faced with many, many choices.
Providing you can handle the capital volatility, the opportunities to exploit mispricing are almost endless.

But if you believe, like some experts, that over the long haul the returns from property are roughly equal,
the only question is which asset behaves in a way that you are most comfortable with and where are we
in the cycle.

CO
NS

RE
PUB
AN

aubos : Australian Bureau of Statistics
ereal : Real Estate Markets | gasset : Asset Allocation | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat :
Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpersf : Personal Finance
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FRSINV0020140717ea7i0000n

Page103of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.