Online middlemen face heavy price

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Mosaic
Online middlemen face heavy price

Li Aixin
490 words
26 February 2014
Global Times
GLOTNE
P11
English
Copyright 2014. Global Times. All rights reserved.

Hao Yuan, a student at The University of Queensland in Australia, spent most of her time between
semesters filling orders online. Over the past two years, Hao (pseudonym) went from helping friends
back home purchase foods and clothing overseas, to becoming a full-fledged buying agent.

With more than 13,000 fans on social networking website renren.com, Hao is one of the site's more
popular online buyers, where customers place orders and she earns a small handling fee for every
cosmetic or luxury handbag she ships.

The number of students overseas acting as purchasing agents has boomed in recent years. According to
those interviewed, most agents start by doing "favors" - or buying for friends looking to avoid paying 20
percent in import taxes on foreign goods.

After several transactions, friends begin offering to pay "tips." It is common practice for most buyers to
tack a 10-percent service fee on all purchases, making for an attractive source of income for any starving
student.

"Buyers usually trust students, because they know there won't be any fakes," said Sun Xueqi, a
postgraduate student in Hong Kong who has worked as a purchasing agent during the past six months.

Sun explained the 3,000 yuan ($489.8) a month she earns shipping makeup and pharmaceuticals back
to China comes in handy covering expenses in pricey Hong Kong.

Ge Li, who is currently studying in Japan, claimed he earns around 1,000 yuan a day filling orders for
cosmetics and luxury bags, reported the Xinhua News Agency.

But buying for others doesn't always bring easy money. Another student studying in the UK told the
Global Times her part-time job brings in little and leaves even less time to study.
"After asking a ton of questions, most of the customers do not buy anything," she told the Global Times.
"They are always worried whether the colors are accurate or if they'll fit different size systems. Some
people even cancel their orders after paying a deposit," she added.
Students studying abroad also provided a valuable outlet for milk powder during the recent scandals that
marred China's dairy industry.
Over the past year, Lee Yan has supplied large quantities of milk to Chinese families during his studies
in Germany. Despite earning up to 200 euros a month pushing the white powder, Lee explained the job
is more trouble than it's worth and comes with significant risk. It is illegal to operate a business while
holding a student visa, while those caught face charges from tax evasion to smuggling.
In May 2013, German authorities repatriated a Chinese student for fulfilling large orders of milk powder
from China, reported the BBC.

Page59of60©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."I'm not willing to continue," Lee told the Global Times, "Once an order went missing, and sometimes
packages aren't delivered on time. It makes me and my family very worried."

CO
IN
RE

renrzn : Renren Inc | tuoqa : The University of Queensland
iint : Internet/Online | imed : Media/Entertainment | isocial : Social Media | itech : Technology
china : China | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
austr : Australia | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries |
dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

PUB Global Times
AN

Document GLOTNE0020140226ea2q0000c

Search Summary

Text

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or entitys) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
01/01/2014 to 30/04/2014
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
2,564
29 August 2018 1:23

Page60of60©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.