Snack-Food Maker Gets Snapped Up

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Snack-Food Maker Gets Snapped Up

By Ross Kelly
696 words
22 July 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
16
English
Copyright © 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

SYDNEY -- The food-making unit of one of the Philippines' largest companies acquired New
Zealand's biggest snack-food producer, gaining access to ginger nuts and other cookie varieties
already popular in many Western countries.

Universal Robina Corp., part of Philippines conglomerate JG Summit Holdings, purchased Griffin's
Foods for 700 million New Zealand dollars (US$608 million). The deal gives the buyer a strong
cookie manufacturer to incorporate into its vast Asian distribution network.

Universal Robina has a presence in Thailand, Vietnam, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, China and
Hong Kong. The purchase of Griffin's Foods also provides a new way for the Philippines company to
serve Asian populations increasingly shifting to Western-style diets as the region becomes wealthier.
Griffin's Foods, created more than 150 years ago, produces close to a billion cookies a year. Its
biscuit, including Gingernuts, Cookie Bears and MallowPuffs, are well known at home and in
Australia, where most of the New Zealand company's exports go.
Universal Robina bought the company from Pacific Equity Partners, an Australian private-equity
firm that paid NZ$385 million eight years ago to buy the cookie manufacturer from Danone SA of
France.

"The expanding middle class in Asia is going to mean demand for a whole range of things, and food is
a part of that," said Paul Bloxham, chief economist at HSBC for Australia and New Zealand. "We also
know there's lots of savings in Asia looking for a home, and some food manufacturers in Australia and
new Zealand are potential candidates for foreign investment."

Griffin's Foods' ginger nuts -- also known as ginger snaps in some countries -- are made with ginger
powder and other spices such as cinnamon already widely used in Asian cuisine. The solid structure
of the biscuits make them suitable for dunking into hot beverages such as tea, a habit more
commonplace in certain Western countries.

Takeover interest in the food sector in Australia and New Zealand has increased recently as foreign
companies seek to capitalize on the reputation both countries have for producing high-quality
products.

Their geographic distance from mainland Asia also means Australia and New Zealand are less prone
to outbreaks of disease that intermittently compromise the quality of food exports.
Earlier this month, Australian bread maker Goodman Fielder Ltd. accepted a joint bid of 1.32 billion
Australian dollars (US$1.24 billion) from Singapore's Wilmar International Ltd. and Hong Kong's
First Pacific Co. In May, Saputo Inc. of Canada won a three-way bidding contest to
acquireWarrnambool Cheese & Butter Factory Co. of Australia for A$500 million.
Australia last year blocked a A$3 billion bid by U.S. agribusiness Archer Daniels Midland Co. to buy
grain handler GrainCorp Ltd., saying a takeover would go against the national interest.

Page125of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Universal Robina said it expected Griffin's Foods to generate about NZ$280 million in annual net
sales and NZ$78 million in earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in the
current financial year, compared with roughly NZ$40 million when PEP bought the business in 2006.

"We believe Griffin's is a natural strategic fit to our existing snack-foods portfolio given its strong
brand heritage in New Zealand -- a country trusted world-wide in having high credibility when it
comes to food quality, safety and authenticity," Universal Robina Chief Executive Lance Gokongwei
said.
It is the first significant acquisition by a Philippines company of a New Zealand business. The only
other such purchase of any note occurred several years ago, when tuna manufacturer Alliance Select
Foods International Inc. bought a small local canned-fish company.
Universal Robina posted net sales of 45.73 billion Philippine pesos (US$1.05 billion) for the first half
of the financial year to March, up 14% from a year earlier. Strong sales of branded consumer food
and rising overseas demand drove the company's growth in the period.
Griffin's Foods was advised by Credit Suisse Group AG and First NZ Capital.

---

Cris Larano and Trefor Moss in Manila contributed to this article.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

CO
IN

NS

RE

IPC
PUB
AN

jgsum : JG Summit Holdings Inc | unvrob : Universal Robina Corp
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ifood : Food Products | icnp : Consumer Goods | i8396 : Diversified
Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | i4224 : Cookies/Crackers/Pasta
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Shareholdings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | neqac : Equities Asset
Class News | cacqu : Acquisitions/Mergers | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions |
ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | phlns : Philippines | nz : New Zealand | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | nswals : New South Wales | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
ABO
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document AWSJ000020140721ea7m00016

Page126of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.