NBN GOES ON THE OFFENSIVE

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
NBN GOES ON THE OFFENSIVE

John Durie
1,223 words
16 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
33
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

A suit claims TPG’s marketing of fibre plan is misleading

NBN Co has launched a legal action against TPG’s PIPE Networks alleging misleading or deceptive
conduct over its claims to use apartment buildings’ power supply to roll out fibre into the building.

The court action lodged in the NSW Supreme Court last week is part of the government monopoly’s
attack on TPG, which is exploiting a loophole in the rules that allow fibre to be rolled out within set
conditions including being close to established networks.

The ACCC has said TPG’s plans fall within the law but yesterday the federal government formally
sought comment on plans to enforce licences on the proposed fibre-to-the-basement networks which
would include demands to sell the fibre on a wholesale basis at $27 a month.

This would put TPG under the same rules as the NBN but TPG’s David Teoh has made clear he will
battle on regardless of the licence conditions.

The NBN court action is targeted at the way the network is being marketed, not at its existence. The
fear is if TPG can get away with the plan then Telstra and Optus would do likewise and undercut the
NBN economics.
Telstra has the government on the hook for $98 billion over the next few decades in compensation
for the trashing of its copper network, and Optus is also on a promise to get compensation for its
HFC network so neither is planning any similar cherrypicking assault.

The wholesale licence conditions also change the economics.
The NBN is also trialling its own fibre-to-the-building networks ahead of a planned commercial
release next year.
Its battle against TPG then is three-pronged — commercial, legal and government — which tends to
show how much it is threatened by TPG’s plans.

Telstra’s promised cash pile underlines that negotiating power with the NBN does not reside with
either the government or NBN.

So when Telstra boss David Thodey confided after the annual meeting that the NBN negotiations
could drag into the New Year, he was engaging in that classic Telstra custom of gaming the
regulator.

It is in everyone’s interests to get the new multi-technology NBN deal completed as soon as
possible, except for Telstra, which is happy to play the “next year” games.

The reality is a definitive agreement subject to regulatory approval is still due to be signed by the
year end.

Page91of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The loose ends may need to be mopped up early in the new year, as Thodey was reported as
saying, but the bottom line is the new deal will be done this year. In fact NBN is already operating
under its new multi-technology platform.

Writs have been lodged against TPG alleging misleading advertising over its claims to be able to
wire some apartment buildings.

The trial plan with Telstra to roll out fibre to the nodes is already proceeding with pace, with the first
nodes laid on the NSW central coast and, in all, 1300 will be laid out covering 250,000 people using
Telstra’s copper connections.

Communications Minister Malcolm Turnbull already has the latest NBN corporate plan, and that will
map out the fibre-to-the-node neighbourhoods, making clear everyone who is getting Foxtel via an
HFC cable will be effectively hooked up to NBN by the same mechanism.

Telstra playing regulatory arbitrage is why we ended up with NBN in the first place.
CFOs in a funk A COMBINATION of Canberra’s inability to make decisions and the China slowdown
has sent chief financial officers back to their holes unwilling to make decisions.

The latest Deloitte survey says CFOs see uncertainty setting in to the environment for the next 12
months, with the result that risk appetites have fallen to June 2013 lows with only 30 per cent of
those asked saying now was a good time to take on more risk.

An extraordinary 74 per cent of CFOs surveyed said the government’s inability to deliver its budget
had dampened business confidence and a third wanted a mini-budget to repair the fiscal problems
as soon as possible.

Gloom buster FUTURE Fund boss David Neal yesterday played down RBA concerns on the risk of
any violent reaction to the end of the US Fed’s bond subsidies.

Neale’s overall outlook for investment markets is overwhelmingly cautious but well short of RBA
deputy Guy Debelle’s doomsday lecture.

“There tends to be a violent reaction when there is a change in investor views … and now there is no
likelihood of a major disruption,” he said.

The Fed has been pumping money into the US economy for some seven years and Neal rightly
noted “it is reasonable to expect that volatility will pick up when there is a major policy reversal”.

He cautioned that his own performance may well have peaked. “Times might be getting harder,” he
said.

His comments came after the fund reported for the first time since its inception that it has managed
to top targets of CPI plus 4.5 per cent over every time period.

Over the last year the fund has tended to direct more funds into emerging market equities and other
offshore equities away from Australia and cash levels doubled over the period to $10.2 billion.
This was due in part to the sale of one key investment in US shale gas infrastructure, Access
Midstream, to Williams Partners in a $US5.9bn transaction.

Chief investment officer Raph Arndt declined to say how much the fund made on the deal, which was
a co-investment with client Global Infrastructure Partners.

Arndt said the fund was increasingly finding good co-investment opportunities in infrastructure,
property, debt and private equity investments. The fund is required to outsource management to
external managers, which means it must pay out fees.

The fund has recently hired Joel Posters from Rabo Bank to replace Gordon Hagart who had taken
the top job at ACSI.

When asked about ANU’s recent decision to divest some fossil fuel stocks, Neal noted he had found
engagement rather than divestment was the best policy.

Neal is being cute because being a BHP shareholder is probably not the ideal stage to tell the
company to quit its coal investments. Neal, it should be noted, had invested in tobacco stocks until
parliamentary scrutiny forced him to sell the stocks.

Page92of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Prime Minister Tony Abbott yesterday attacked ANU’s decision to sell stocks like Santos, Oil Search
and Iluka as “stupid”.

The extraordinary attack on ANU shows just how strong and noisy the vested interests in the
resources sector can be when their self-interest is touched.

The university is entitled to invest its funds where it chooses so long as it is in accordance with the
overall mandate. If that mandate rules out certain resources companies on environmental, social and
governance grounds then it is up the trustees to make whatever decision they choose.

Free market advocates who attempt to dictate what stocks funds should invest in should question
their motives.The fund has a policy which bans investments in munitions and now tobacco stocks.
On Friday the fund’s legal battle with Australian Super over the Perth Airport investment inches
further with another directions hearing.

nbnaus : NBN Co Limited | tpgpar : TPG, Inc.
i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | i3303 : Networking | i7902 : Telecommunications | ibrdbi :
Broadband Infrastructure | icomp : Computing | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities |
itech : Technology
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141015eaag0003t

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

Page93of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.