CBD

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
CBD

Colin Kruger
675 words
4 June 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
24
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Rinehart waxes lyrical on project

The Roy Hill project is under way and Gina Rinehart's dynastic ambitions for the family to operate its
own iron ore mine are already drawing accolades.

The billionaire was feted by the UK-based Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport (CILT) with a
life-time achievement award on Monday at its international convention in Malaysia.

Rinehart was unable to attend but did have time to sit down for a video presentation with plenty of perve
factor for the logistics nuts.

Rinehart, a major investor in Fairfax Media, showed delegates exclusive pics of the 344-kilometre "heavy
haul railway" in the Pilbara and revealed the project was on time and nearly half complete.

This was followed by slides on the port development and its 800-metre-long, two-berth wharf, with four
loader conveyors and storage for 500 million tonnes of ore.

No, CBD does not understand much of it either but it is big and impressive as Rinehart underlined. "Our
rail and port systems will be the most modern of their kind in Australia," she enthused.

Murdoch on a roll

The good news for News Corp print zealots is new co-chairman Lachlan Murdoch knows how to make a
paper profit even in radio land.

The radio stations owned by Murdoch reported a slide in the ratings on Tuesday but the News Corp heir
apparent reported a big win where it counts.

Murdoch's Illyria Investments, home of his radio group Nova Entertainment, reported a net profit of
$58.15 million for the year ending December 31 on revenue of $110.2 million. This compares with a
$210,000 net profit the previous year. The key ingredient in the profit was Illyria's acquisition of the
other 50 per cent of the Nova radio group from Britain's Daily Mail and General Trust on April 1 last year.
It generated a $58.5 million net gain on revaluation of the 50 per cent of the Nova radio group Murdoch
already owned. Murdoch would still have done well without the paper profit. According to the accounts,
the group reported an operating profit before tax of $10.7 million, excluding the valuation gains and
foreign exchange adjustments. The most interesting item was how the $86.2 million acquisition of the
50 per cent share of Nova was financed. The accounts report "this acquisition did not involve cash
flows as it was funded through intercompany loans with related parties" for the $86.2 million. No detail
on who the "related parties" are.

Illyria fading

Page32of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.A curious thing has happened to Illyria since Lachlan Murdoch returned like the prodigal son to the News
Corp fold. Like the kingdom of Greek antiquity it appears to have been named after, Illyria Pty Ltd is
disappearing into the mists of time. A quick check of its website reveals nothing more than the company
name. Its Wikipedia page was deleted in August last year. Nor can contact details be found in the white
pages.

Sino on leash
One of the many hot prospects for worst float of the year, Sino Australia Oil & Gas, is not having any
luck shaking off the corporate watchdog and accessing its cash.

ASIC obtained orders in the Federal Court in Melbourne this week extending an injunction that restrains
Sino from transferring funds raised in its IPO offshore. ASIC was concerned Sino was about to transfer
$7.5 million to China for purposes not disclosed, or not properly disclosed, in its IPO prospectus. That
injunction has now been extended to August 25 this year. The watchdog also reported on Tuesday its
investigation has "expanded into other concerns, including a concern that [Sino's] recorded net profit for
the period to 31 December 2013 was approximately 40 per cent less than that forecast in its prospectus
documentation".

Speaking of the Federal Court, Tuesday's item on David Jones should have referred to Justice Kathleen
Farrell, not Lucy.

Got a tip? ckruger@fairfaxmedia.com.au

RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140603ea640006t

Page33of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.