DP World in $68m loss, new fight for ports

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
DP World in $68m loss, new fight for ports

Matt O'Sullivan
667 words
22 April 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
15
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Australia's largest ports operator, DP World, posted a larger bottom-line loss last year as rival
Hutchison Ports prepares to bulk up its presence at key ports on the east coast.

The pressure will build on DP World and the other incumbent stevedore, Asciano's Patrick, as early
as next month when a successful bidder for the third container terminal at the Port of Melbourne is
expected to be announced.

Hutchison is the leading contender among four bidders – including the Chris Corrigan-chaired Qube
Holdings and a Macquarie-backed consortium – for the right to operate a new $1.2 billion container
terminal.
A win for Hong Kong billionaire Li Ka-shing's Hutchison will give it a presence at the country's three
biggest ports, including Port Botany in Sydney and Fisherman Islands in Brisbane.
Accounts lodged with the corporate regulator show DP World Australia reported a $68 million
after-tax loss for the year to December, compared with $22 million in the red in 2012.

Revenue from the Australian stevedoring business, which includes container terminals in Melbourne,
Sydney, Brisbane and Fremantle, slid 4 per cent to $567 million. The group's results in 2012 were
buttressed by a $47 million gain on the sale of a majority stake in Adelaide's container port
operation to Flinders Ports.

DP World Australia chief financial officer Jason Varsamidis said the latest annual results were in line
with expectations, emphasising that there had been little change in pre-tax earnings.

''They are in line with the returns that DP World is expecting from the asset,'' he said, adding that DP
World had a larger market share than the ASX-listed Asciano for the last two years.

Mr Varsamidis said Hutchison's entry into the container-terminals market in Sydney and Brisbane last
year did not impact on DP World's results. ''Putting it politely, it is a soft start,'' he said of Hutchison.

Asciano and DP World have been racing to raise their competitiveness before the deep-pocketed
Hutchison gains a larger presence on the east coast. They face a new competitor which has already
been willing to undercut them by as much as 15 per cent, according to UBS estimates, in order to
gain market share.

''There is a new entrant coming into the market and we are expecting an increased level of
competitiveness. For us, it is all about preparing our business,'' Mr Varsamidis said. ''It is reflected in
the changes to the management team and the investment in the business.''

DP World has overhauled its senior management team over the last eight months, installing former
Aurizon executive Paul Scurrah as chief executive and replacing a number of senior managers. The

Page127of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.company has invested $250 million in its terminal in Brisbane, which includes new container movers
known as straddle carriers. The semi-automated terminal will be fully operational by next month.

Citi Infrastructure and a Canadian pension fund bought 75 per cent of DP World's Australian ports
business in late 2010 for $1.5 billion. The sale helped reduce the large debt of DP World's parent,
Dubai World, following the collapse of the Middle Eastern city's property market in 2007.

UBS analysts said DP World was likely to experience weak volume growth, or even declines, this
year due to the recent loss of a shipping contract to Hutchison in Sydney and another to Patrick in
Freemantle. They warned that DP World might have to offer discounts to retain customers.

''Recent positive management changes and Brisbane automation savings are unlikely to be enough in
2014 to make up for contract losses and concessions offered on recent contract renewals,'' the
analysts said.
Key points DP World reports a $68 million after-tax loss for the year to December. Hutchison Ports
looking to increase its activity at key east coast ports and is lead contender in Melbourne's new
container terminal bid.

hutpor : Hutchison Port Holdings Limited | prasha : DP World Limited | dwcntr : Dubai World | hutwam
: Hutchison Whampoa Limited
i5020017 : Harbor Construction | i502 : Heavy Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | i763 : Port/Harbor Operations | iship : Water Transport/Shipping | itsp :
Transportation/Shipping
c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c15 : Performance | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | melb : Melbourne | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) |
apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales | queensl : Queensland
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140421ea4m0000j

CO

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page128of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.