Companies In The News

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies In The News

719 words
30 January 2014
Trans Tasman Political Alert
TMRTPL
English
(c) 2014 The Main Report Publications Ltd

Energy Mad’s Sales Success In US Sparks Rally In Shares. Christchurch-based lightbulb maker Energy
Mad has begun selling its energy-efficient products online in the US through internet retain giant
Amazon. The news sparked a rally in the company’s shares which rose as high as 69c last Thursday
from 34c, before finishing last week on 55c and then retreating to 40c. Energy Mad which has continually
failed to deliver on profit forecasts published in its 2011 IPO prospectus says four of its products are
being sold on Amazon under Energy Mad’s US Ecospiral brand. The Kiwi firm whose light bulbs are
manufactured in China says it intends to increase its product range on Amazon “with time.” MD Chris
Mardon says the company is talking to US electricity providers to try to secure funding to allow the
company to lower the price of its products sold on Amazon, which would help to drive sales growth.

It already has received more than $US1.5m in funding from 28 US electricity suppliers, which has allowed
the firm to sell its bulbs through American pharmacy chain Walgreens at a highly discounted rate.
Energy Mad reported a $2.5m loss for its last financial year, compared with the $4m profit it forecast.
Cloud Firm Flying High. GeoOp Limited which provides a cloud based solution for trades and services to
replace inefficient, paper-based systems with a simple way to accurately create, assign, cost, quote and
invoice jobs while in the field, has reported 18% growth in the third quarter, and says paying users
totalled 5,300 by December 31. It says it is well on track to meet its operational goal of 6,000 to 7,000
paying users by June 30 , as set out in the disclosure document released to the market on October 31
when GeoOp listed on the NZAX. GeoOp’s CEO Leanne Graham says “this has been an exciting time for
GeoOp. Following the completion of the $10m capital raising and listing in October 2013, GeoOp is now
rolling out new product features that ensure we continue to have a market leading job management and
costing offering for the services and trades sectors.” Significant new product features are planned for the
web console and the native iPhone, iPad and Android applications. GeoOp has recently started a search
for a global head of Product, to drive innovation and customer experience.

Investors Underwrite SeaDragon’s Big Ambitions. Australasia’s largest refiner and blender of high-quality
fish oils, SeaDragon says with a strong investor response to its Share Purchase Plan, it has raised
$4.1m, well in excess of its $2.5 million target. It has executed a heads of agreement with Orange
Building Group Ltd the prospective landlord of its new Nelson-based fish oil refinery, and a contract with
Desmet Ballestra for the supply of fish oil refining equipment. The company says the new capital and the
agreements ensure the company remains on track for the completion of the refinery in the 4th quarter of
this year. Chairman Dr Doug Wilson says “the strong investor support for the SPP represents a significant
endorsement of the strategy to expand our Omega-3 fish oil refining activities.” SeaDragon will outfit the
new refinery for a total projected cost of around $4m.When completed, the new plant will have the
capacity to produce more than 5000 tonnes of refined fish oil and could generate annual sales worth as
much as $50m.

Despite calls by some economists for an immediate rise in the OCR, Reserve Bank Governor Graeme
Wheeler has left it unchanged at 2.5%. He says while headline inflation has been moderate, inflationary
pressures are expected to increase over the next two years. In this environment, there is a need to return
interest rates to more-normal levels. The Bank expects to start this adjustment soon. The Bank remains
committed to increasing the OCR as needed to keep future average inflation near the 2% target
mid-point. The scale and speed of the rise in the OCR will depend on future economic indicators.

What To Watch: CH Services Activity, (3 Feb 2014). RBA Rate Announcement, (4 Feb 2014). NZ
Employment, (5 Feb 2014). AU Retail Sales, (6 Feb 2014). US Employment, (7 Feb 2014).

Page16of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.- - -

IN
NS

i14001 : Petroleum Refining | i1 : Energy | i14 : Petroleum/Coal Products | iindstrls : Industrial Goods
c151 : Earnings | cbrand : Branding | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial
News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | nz : New Zealand | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB The Main Report Limited
AN

Document TMRTPL0020140130ea1u0000b

Page17of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.