Mirvac close to its next Green Square release

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Mirvac close to its next Green Square release

GREG BROWN
329 words
21 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
26
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

MIRVAC Group is likely to bring forward its second apartment stage in the $8 billion Green Square
precinct in Sydney, aiming for a release before Christmas.

The developer yesterday reaffirmed 2015 earnings and distribution guidance at its annual general
meeting in Sydney.

Mirvac chief executive Susan Lloyd-Hurwitz said the free trade agreement signed with China this
week would reduce red tape for the offshore apartment investors. While it may stoke increased
overseas demand for apartments, Ms Lloyd-Hurwitz doubted it would have a substantial impact on
Mirvac’s earnings.

“We deliberately build and develop for the domestic market rather than the offshore market and there
is a limit on how much we sell offshore,” Ms Lloyd-Hurwitz said. “The domestic market is so strong
that we have been pulling back in how much we sell to our offshore channels.” Ms Lloyd-Hurwitz
reiterated that Mirvac was stepping up its building program, flagged in The Australian in October, to
capitalise on the buoyant apartment market.

“We are accelerating our releases to get our market as much as we can,” she said.
“We increased our first (Green Square) release from 79 to 174 and they all sold in the first weekend.
We are considering another release before Christmas.” Mirvac plans to release 2700 residential lots
in the 2015 financial year compared with 2320 in the previous year.
Ms Lloyd-Hurwitz expects the Sydney apartment boom to last for up to five years longer. But she said
there was an oversupply in parts of Melbourne, including the inner city and Southbank precincts.

Mirvac told the meeting it aimed to sell up to $400m of assets in the year to June.
It also confirmed that accounting firm PwC had pre-committed to its proposed office development in
Melbourne’s Southbank. PwC will lease 17,200sq m.Two directors were re-elected and the
remuneration report passed with few votes against it.

CO
IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

mirva : Mirvac Group
i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest : Real Estate
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141120eabl0003i

Page56of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.