Linen House Pty Ltd in Home and Garden (Australia)

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Linen House Pty Ltd in Home and Garden (Australia)

753 words
27 October 2014
Euromonitor Local Company Profiles
EULOCOP
English
Copyright 2014 Euromonitor International Ltd

STRATEGIC DIRECTION

Linen House will look to grow revenue over the forecast period through continued product innovation
and by ensuring the company offers consumers contemporary and stylish designs. The company will
also look to consolidate its position in overseas markets. Although it has partner operations in the UK,
South Africa and New Zealand, it is in the Asia-Pacific region, Australia, and the US where the
company hopes to succeed over the forecast period. These three geographical areas offer positive
economic growth, increasing urbanisation, and new housing growth, which will each fuel demand for
Linen House’s products.

TD

KEY FACTS

Linen House Pty Ltd

Summary 1 Linen House Pty Ltd: Key Facts
Full name of
company:
Address:
Australia
Tel:
Fax:
www:
Activities:

60 Corporate Drive, Moorabbin, Victoria, 3189,
+61 (3) 9552 6000
+61 (3) 9552 6001
www.linenhouse.com.au
Designer and importer of home textiles

Source: Euromonitor International from company reports, company research, trade press, trade
sources
COMPANY BACKGROUND

Linen House is an Australian-owned family business founded in Melbourne, Australia in 1993. It
specialises in designing, sourcing and bringing to market a wide diversity of textile homewares
products.

In addition, Linen House creates exclusive ranges for local and international retailers and manufactures
international brands under licence. Linen House partner companies are located in New Zealand, South
Africa, Hong Kong, the UK and its distributors in North America, Europe, and Asia bring Linen House
designed products to the global marketplace.

PRODUCTION
Linen House imports its products from China, India, and Pakistan. Lower commercial property rental
costs, lower wages, and efficiencies of scale offered by contract manufacturers in China, India, and
Pakistan, made outsourcing production to these locations a logical business decision for Linen House.

Linen House’s products have a presence in New Zealand, the UK and South Africa through partner
companies. Linen House products are also sold in Asia Pacific and the US.
The company supplies large amounts of product to retailers for private label offerings.

COMPETITIVE POSITIONING

Page171of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The company’s value share stagnated over the review period, although in actual retail sales price
terms its sales declined marginally in Australia during this time. The retail economic situation and
consequent weak consumer confidence were significant contributing factors behind the company’s flat
performance. This subdued trading period is in line with the wider home textiles category. The
company’s premium image will benefit it well when consumer confidence strengthens once again.
Linen House is a leader in innovation and design in home textiles. The company sets the benchmark in
terms of quality. At a time when consumers are reluctant to spend on big-ticket items and are looking to
save money and economise, the company promotes its offerings as being of high value due to their
high quality. In pursuing this strategy it hopes consumers are motivated by image, comfort and
durability, rather than simply functionality and price.
The company achieves scale in its operations through servicing private label contracts. Within the
company’s owned brand portfolio the focus is on the premium end of the marketplace. Linen House is
more focused on remaining a leading player amongst premium household textiles and operating this
area of the business profitably, rather than using its brands to lead sales in the rest of the home textiles
category. The company’s private label products, which it sells to retailers, provide adequate exposure
to the mainstream, price-driven, area of the market.

In the context of home and garden, it derives revenues from a narrow range of activities, namely, home
textiles. Linen House offers an extensive range within household textiles, selling bath textiles, bed
textiles and living room textiles. The company offers its eponymous flagship brand, as well as a
child-focused brand, Hiccups.

Although weak consumer confidence negatively impacted Linen House’s sales in recent years, the
company is well positioned to benefit from an upturn in economic activity and consumer confidence.
The Linen House brand is well respected in Australia, and the company’s fashionable and
well-designed offerings will be even more popular once consumers become willing to spend more freely
again. Its children-focused brand Hiccups is expected to perform well over the forecast period thanks to
the recent baby boom experienced in Australia from 2010 onwards.

Summary 2 Linen House Pty Ltd: Competitive Position 2013
Product type
Home textiles

Value share
12.4%

Rank
2

Source: Euromonitor International from company reports, company research, trade press, trade
sources, trade interviews

NS
RE
PUB
AN

c01 : Profiles of Companies | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Euromonitor International Ltd
Document EULOCOP020150309eaar002a1

Page172of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.