Coates' new hire eyes infrastructure

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Coates' new hire eyes infrastructure

Tim Binsted
468 words
8 August 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
16
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Incoming Coates Hire boss Michael Byrne is eyeing the revenue opportunities from a bulging
infrastructure pipeline as he gets set to take charge of Australia's biggest equipment hire company
in October.

The former Linfox chief executive said he's been brought in to drive revenue growth and shift the
business to new product lines and services, but said he has no visibility on whether his transition
strategy is groundwork for a float or sale of Coates.

"What the shareholders do with the business is up to them. They've told me to build a world-class
business," he said.

"They are committed to the business. They have put a lot of capital into it."
Private equity giant Carlyle and Kerry Stokes's Seven Group Holdings took Coates private for
$2.9 billion in 2008. Each hold a 46 per cent stake in the company.
Last year the duo hired Goldman Sachs, Nomura and China's CICC to conduct a strategic review
of Coates and find a buyer after shelving plans to float the company.

Like KKR-owned BIS Industries, Coates is exposed to the resources sector and the downturn in
resources investment and construction has been a headwind. At Seven Group's half-year result in
May Coates reported a 10 per cent drop in revenue to $586 million.

Mr Byrne said he wants to broaden his revenue streams.
"They've been very focused on construction projects in mining, oil and gas. A lot of those projects
have come to an end and that's providing some challenges," he said. "I'm thinking about how
Coates can be linked to production rather than just construction."

One option on the table is expansion into "wet hire" – which involves leasing operators as well as
equipment – rather than equipment only, or "dry hire".
Mr Byrne is also assessing ways to win business from the billions of dollars of infrastructure
projects earmarked by the federal and state governments on the east coast. "It's an enormous
opportunity," he said.

"The strategy is deeper customer penetration, attracting a greater share of wallet and driving
growth."

The 49-year-old points to his experience at Linfox. By deepening ties with customers and offering
more services, Linfox trebled revenue in 10 years with just 90 customers.

Page172of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Coates owns more than one million different assets – from lighting towers, ladders and scaffolds,
to fencing and earthmoving equipment – and operates 230 branches across Australia.

Mr Byrne said he thinks his experience running a large, decentralised and asset-heavy business
will stand him in good stead to revive Coates.

After 15 years at Linfox and 10 years as its chief executive, Mr Byrne said he is ready for a new
challenge and a few more nights at home.

caohi : Coates Hire Ltd | tvaus : Seven Group Holdings Ltd.
i84 : Rental/Leasing Services | i97411 : Broadcasting | i9741102 : Television Broadcasting | ibcs :
Business/Consumer Services | imed : Media/Entertainment
c411 : Management Moves | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c41 : Management | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140807ea8800010

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page173of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.