Herald Sun

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

OpEd
Herald Sun

779 words
7 March 2014
Herald-Sun
HERSUN
HeraldSun
38
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

The future underground THE changing face of Melbourne is a reality we must address as the city
continues to expand.
Ideas outlined by federal Environment Minister Greg Hunt to open up more park and residential land
by burying major power lines and the suburban rail network are worth pursuing.

Huge power transmission lines cut a swathe through Melbourne’s outer suburbs and the buffer zones
that accompany them add to hundreds of hectares of under-utilised space.

Added to that land, the rail network winding its way throughout greater metropolitan Melbourne often
runs at a sub-surface level.

Proposals to cover the rail lines and build above have been raised before but not acted upon.

Due to space pressures — and to a lesser extent aesthetics — underground power has been
progressively rolled out in parts of Europe, particularly The Netherlands, UK, Germany, Denmark and
France.

Cost has previously been a hurdle — as well as serviceability — but advances in cable and
transmission technology have tackled what was once prohibitive.

Given the recommendations of the royal commission into the 2009 Black Saturday fires, fire-prone
Victoria also has a huge safety benefit in sending wires underground.

Minister Hunt’s push for space reclamation fits in with the foresight shown by his late father, Alan, a
previous minister who was instrumental in establishing Melbourne’s highly regarded green wedge
protocols, which protect parkland amenity throughout many of our suburbs.

As revealed in today’s Herald Sun, while the underground initiative is not formal policy for the Federal
Government, it builds on the need to engage in big-picture thinking to shape future growth in the
state, with Melbourne’s population expected to double to eight million in 50 years.

Proposals to build over the Jolimont railway lines adjacent to Federation Square are currently being
considered by the Napthine Government.
Covering the vast area would add precious space for commercial and residential development,
possibly mixed with parkland to complement Birrarung Marr.

Other projects have mooted covering over lines at Camberwell and Epping, which could open up
space for homes, commerce and apartments.

“Our overhead electricity transmission corridors and our rail lines can be dead spaces which divide
communities,’’ Mr Hunt says.

Page49of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Sydney is currently considering a similar project to cover rail lines in its CBD, from Central to
Eveleigh, for high-density neighbourhoods.

New York, San Francisco and London have in recent years adopted modern bridge building
technologies to cover over rail stations and lines to add valuable space for city office, residential and
retail development.

For Melbourne, such proposals carry significant cost.

But as major capitals around the world have shown, the “dead” space consumed by power and rail
can be effectively reclaimed.

Mr Hunt believes undergrounding of power could begin in the short term and rail — along with
elimination of 170 level crossings — within coming decades.

Super funds, awash with cash, would jump at opportunities to invest in such projects. And, given the
cost of land — remembering Melbourne is among the top 10 most expensive property markets in the
world — they may now potentially pay for themselves.

Foreign home buyers IN the past week statistical proof has emerged to support what we have long
suspected — that overseas investors, mainly from China, are buying an unprecedented amount of
property in Melbourne and helping drive up prices.
Cashed-up Chinese investors have swamped the market and taken 14 per cent of Melbourne’s new
housing supply, according to a Credit Suisse report.
And Foreign Investment Review Board data found Chinese investment in Australian property for
2012-13 eclipsed $5.9 billion — with Victoria the biggest target.
Australia has to be open for business, and foreign investment in both business and residential
development helps invigorate the economy.

That said, it is crucial the buying spree is not open slather. Melbourne’s house prices have been
ranked anything from the third-most expensive in the world to the tenth. Whatever the mark, it is
indisputable that runaway prices have risked putting property — specifically within a 15km radius of
the CBD — almost out of reach for a generation of Australians.
Under current laws, foreign investors can buy an unrestricted number of new properties — to
encourage building.
Temporary residents are restricted to one established property but face no restrictions on the
number of vacant, new or established dwellings where they are being redeveloped.
And not everyone complies, with analysts believing some purchases are made through third parties.
The rules that govern foreign buying must be better enforced and strictly policed to protect Australian
buyers.

TOUCHED BY THE ROAD TOLL THIS YEAR 48 LAST YEAR 39Victorian deaths in 2014, compared
with the same day last year

NS
RE

PUB
AN

ereal : Real Estate Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document HERSUN0020140306ea3700030

Page50of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.