Winners And Losers In Australian Gaming

HD Winners And Losers In Australian Gaming
WC 1,032 words
PD
6 March 2014
SN
FN Arena
SC
FNAREN
LA
English
CY
Copyright 2014. FN Arena Ltd.
LP

-Can Oz casinos recapture share? -Key to VIPs is in revamped properties -Wagering competition
intensifying -Tabcorp better placed than Tatts

 

TD

By Eva Brocklehurst

Australia's gaming market has been soft of late but Deutsche Bank observes expenditure is now starting
to improve across gaming machines, casinos, wagering and lotteries. The better gaming environment is
attributed to improving consumer confidence and retail sales, with the evidence being seen in the
company trading updates and gaming machine expenditure on the east coast, in particular. One area of
recent weakness is the VIP sector, where both Crown Resorts ((CWN)) and Echo Entertainment ((EGP))
have lost market share to Macau and other international casinos. Chinese New Year for the casino
operators was strong, with Deutsche Bank noting gross gaming revenue in Macau strengthened in
February after a weak January.

Deutsche Bank observes Crown is using the decline in Australian turnover to argue for more competitive
tax and regulatory regime. Echo's activity levels also declined in both Sydney and Queensland. Echo's
management remarked at the results briefing that the underlying VIP rebate market potential in
Queensland is unlikely to be fully realised until the necessary capital investment is made. Upgrades to
property are the key to a turnaround in domestic fortunes, in Macquarie's view. Casino operators in
Australia have significant capex intentions which, despite the current soft environment in Australia,
Macquarie believes will provide opportunity for operators to increase their share of the VIP market and
premium mass segments from Asia.

Macquarie notes many players are being priced out of visiting Macau and this factor, along with a limited
supply of integrated resorts, means Australian operators Echo Entertainment and Crown are well placed.
Macquarie highlights surveys which show Asian travellers continue to view Australia as a preferred
destination. Visitor arrivals from China rose by 14% in 2013. Sydney and the Gold Coast rank as the top
destinations, boding well for Echo as it already has resorts in both cities. The key to monetising this
demand will be effective marketing of the company's properties throughout Asia, in Macquarie's view.
The broker has upgraded medium term earnings forecasts for Echo by 3-4% and retains an Outperform
rating on both casino operators.

The proof of the pudding will be in the eating, so to speak. JP Morgan has expressed growing concern
about the Australian casinos' ability to maintain share of the Asian VIP market and will be on the look out
to see if the increased competition from Asia maintains that slowing trend. For now, this broker retains an
Overweight rating on Crown but an Underweight rating on Echo. Echo just has too much uncertainty for
JP Morgan. The Brisbane exclusivity issue and questions over the returns from the property expansion
plans cloud the stock. Deutsche Bank retains Buy ratings for Aristocrat Leisure ((ALL)), Crown and Echo.
The former is considered well positioned in the gaming machine market, with a sound balance sheet.
Crown is benefitting from strong business in Macau, offsetting any Australian weakness, while Echo
appears to have seen a nadir in its earnings and domestic gaming revenue is improving.

The Australian wagering market is a different kettle of fish. The game is being played hard and
competition is intensifying. English player William Hill has announced an upgraded offering will be
launched in Australia before the end of the month which, in CIMB's view, will put the heat on Tabcorp
Holdings ((TAH)) and Tatts ((TTS)). CIMB observes William Hill has reported solid numbers for its

Page104of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Australian businesses in the FY13 results. These businesses are Sportingbet, Centrebet and Tom
Waterhouse. The company stated that all three brands will be maintained but Sportingbet will be the
priority. Tom Waterhouse has to be maintained until 2015 as per the earn-out agreement. It will be
integrated into Sportingbet and a new Sportingbet website will be launched. The improvements that are
key to the site's success, in CIMB's view, are easier player registration and placing of bets, with better
display and navigation.

This spells out why the broker has a cautious stance on Tabcorp and Tatts. CIMB thinks William Hill will
have a significant impact and the theme emanating from the local operators' results season is that online
wagering is cannibalising the retail business. This signals to CIMB that William Hill can continue to
operate on considerably lower margins than Tabcorp or Tatts and, along with more product and an
improved platform, suggests the latter two are losing market share. CIMB's ratings stance: Reduce.

While accepting there is litigation hanging over Tatts and Tabcorp in Victoria, as well as the racefield
product fees deductibility issue in Queensland for Tatts, Deutsche Bank is not so negative. The broker
thinks Tabcorp is executing well in the competitive environment and upside could come with the potential
licence fee refund in Victoria. This stock carries a Buy rating for the broker. Deutsche Bank has a Hold on
Tatts as, while the performance is robust, the broker is concerned about the lagging wagering business
and the Queensland racefield product fees. Macquarie's ratings reveal a similar pattern, with an
Outperform rating for Tabcorp and Neutral for Tatts. Tatts is suffering from the uncertainty over the
Queensland wagering exclusivity which diminishes its strong performance in lotteries. Macquarie's more
positive on Tabcorp for similar reasons to Deutsche Bank and also thinks there's scope for a review of
that stock's dividend policy over the next 12 months.  

Find out why FNArena subscribers like the service so much: "Your Feedback (Thank You)" - Warning this
story contains unashamedly positive feedback on the service provided.

FN Arena is building the future of financial news reporting at www.fnarena.com . Our daily news reports
can be trialed at no cost and with no obligations. Simply sign up and get a feel for what we are trying to
achieve.

Subscribers and trialists should read our terms and conditions, available on the website.

All material published by FN Arena is the copyright of the publisher, unless otherwise stated.
Reproduction in whole or in part is not permitted without written permission of the publisher.

D0EBF9BB-F876-9636-E563D92FE26E58D2

RF
CO deut : Deutsche Bank AG
IN

RE

i97912 : Gambling Industries | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial
Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
austr : Australia | china : China | macao : Macau | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries
| dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

PUB FN Arena Ltd.
AN

Document FNAREN0020140306ea360002t

Page105of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.