Corporate News: Down Under, More Cuts --- BP and Philip Morris Plan to Shed Total of 535 Jobs in Australia

HD

BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Corporate News: Down Under, More Cuts --- BP and Philip Morris Plan to Shed Total of 535
Jobs in Australia
By Ross Kelly and Rhiannon Hoyle
645 words
3 April 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
18
English
Copyright © 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

SYDNEY -- Just two months after Toyota Motor Corp. -- the last major car maker in Australia --
announced plans to pack up, oil companyBP PLC and cigarette maker Philip Morris International Inc.
said they also intend to scale back their Australian operations.
For BP, its decision will mean closing one of the company's two oil refineries in the country. Philip
Morris said it plans to shut down its sole Australian factory while keeping some administrative and
other office roles in its Melbourne location. The closures are expected to eliminate a combined 535
jobs.

The coming layoffs add unease to the world's 12th-largest economy, where the cooling of a
decadelong mining-investment boom has driven the unemployment rate to a 10-year high of 6%,
compared with a peak of 5.9% during the throes of the global financial crisis. Manufacturers' flight
from Australia, often for cheaper operations, only exacerbates the unemployment woes.

BP's closure of its Australian refinery follows other international energy companies' moves to cut back
on their smaller facilities, which have difficulty competing with the cheaper sales and production of
bigger operations in places such as India and Singapore.
The British company's decision to stop refining at the Bulwer Island facility, in the city of Brisbane, by
mid-2015 will cost as many as 355 jobs. BP said it is considering converting the site into a fuel-import
terminal. The refinery currently supplies gasoline to pumps and businesses on Australia's East Coast.

Andy Holmes, BP's Australian head, said Wednesday that buying from other companies' refineries
would be the best way for BP to strengthen its business in that part of the country.
Royal Dutch Shell PLC has also sold and idled refining assets to invest in more lucrative oil and
natural-gas projects, as competition squeezes margins. Shell and Caltex Australia Ltd. have sold or
closed Australian refineries recently.

Philip Morris said it would stop making cigarettes in Australia by year-end, halting nearly 60 years of
manufacturing in Melbourne. The closure could result in the loss of as many as 180 jobs as the
company shifts production to South Korea.
The U.S. company blamed tighter regulation of cigarette exports by the Australian government for
dwindling shipments and factory production. It said its factory in Australia is "significantly
underutilized, operating at less than half of its currently installed capacity." Philip Morris's Australian
business was its first outside the U.S.

Australia is in the midst of its 23rd consecutive year of growth, but the country faces a
mining-investment slowdown that is weighing on the economy.

As a result, most of the layoffs over the past two years have been in the resources sector, where
companies such as BHP Billiton have reduced investment in mine-building and transport
infrastructure to focus on selling their newly dug-up commodities to China, Australia's biggest trading
partner.

Page144of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.But manufacturing has suffered too, mostly because of a stubbornly high Australian dollar that has
made imports less expensive and exports less competitive for several years. Additionally, labor and
production costs, which tend to be a lot higher than in developing Asia, where competition is fierce,
have stung local manufacturers.

The expansion in developing countries of production capacity for mass-market goods is also putting
pressure on Australian manufacturers to make more advanced products that are harder to replicate.

"Manufacturing in Australia is challenged and it'll continue to be the reality," said John Phillimore,
executive director of the Perth-based John Curtin Institute for Public Policy, a university research
body. "If there is a future for manufacturing in Australia it is probably at the high end."

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

bp : BP PLC | pmintl : Philip Morris International Inc. | toyta : Toyota Motor Corp.
i14001 : Petroleum Refining | i4291 : Cigarettes | i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i35101 :
Passenger Cars | i429 : Tobacco Products | i14 : Petroleum/Coal Products | i351 : Motor Vehicles |
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | iaut : Automotive | icnp : Consumer Goods | iindstrls : Industrial
Goods | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
c173 : Financing Agreements | c42 : Labor/Personnel Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ceffic
: Corporate Process Redesign | cprdcl : Facility Closures | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | c11 :
Plans/Strategy | c17 : Funding/Capital | c24 : Capacity/Facilities | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | eurz : Europe | sydney : Sydney | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | use :
Northeast U.S. | usny : New York State | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | eecz :
European Union Countries | namz : North America | nswals : New South Wales | weurz : Western
Europe
AEQI
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document AWSJ000020140402ea4300010

CO
IN

NS

RE

IPC
PUB
AN

Page145of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.