G’day dear reader,

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Environment
G’day dear reader,

N Dixon
720 words
23 July 2014
The McIvor Times
MPIVOR
M004
English
Copyright 2014. McPherson Media Group.

G’day dear reader,

Australia once was without human inhabitation. We’re told the first flight of Aborigines came down
through India and Ceylon (Sri Lanka) making it as far as Tasmania. They walked across the land
bridges that have since become covered in water. But not before the second flight arrived and
effectively eliminated the smaller statured first arrivals.

All that was 40,000 to 60,000 years ago. Since then, the next major invasion was the unwanted
convicts of Britain.

They’d pipped the French who were only a little more interested than Dirk Hartog who left his pewter
plate in the west. Magellan missed the place, but the Portuguese and folks in canoes from what is now
Indonesia and other islands to our north, didn’t.
But in the 1300s, the Chinese made it to our northern shores. At that time, the Ming Dynasty were
masters of the world’s largest fleet of ocean-going craft. These massive junks were commanded by
Admiral Zheng. He, bringing them to Australia as he searched for spices. Many of his crew stayed in
our north and intermarried (if that’s the right word) with the locals.

If today one visits the hinterland of our Far North one will find Aborigines with Asian features. (And
some Asian names too.) This leads me to conclude that Aboriginal art found today may have been
influenced by those Chinese.

You see, the Australian Aborigine hasn’t really had much, if any, cultural contact with outside societies
other than those Chinese. All the others scampered after finding the landscape inhospitable. (Except
the Poms. But they left the hard work to the Irish.)

But, as regards to art, the British were moribund. Anyway, they were invaders with their guns, infection
and arrogance, therefore they never really integrated with the locals. Their warm beer never took hold,
nor did Gainsborough or Turner.

Mind you, though Albert Namatjira took on the European style of painting none of the other Aboriginal
artists did so.
Apart from poor old Albert, (whom our bureaucrats wouldn’t let buy a house plot because he was
black) the Aborigines ignored our art and, in fact anyone else’s except that of those ancient Chinese
(or so I say).
Part of my reasoning is that the Chinese worship dragons. The Australian Aborigine glorifies snakes.
They both decorate the dragon and the snake with symbols and designs. Both are brightly coloured
and are depicted as fierce or gentle. They interact well with humans and both are attributed with
magical powers. Also, the Aboriginal rock paintings, which plainly show square-sailed ships are, in my
opinion, those junks of Zheng. His fleet — not Captain Cook’s Endeavour as the early Anglophile who
discovered the rock paintings believed them to be.

Page116of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Dear reader, every cultures’ art is influenced by others’ art as the artisans are exposed to it.
If that’s so, then one can maybe understand my rationale regarding the Chinese intrusion into
Aboriginal culture and art. (And remember, the dot painting business is only a recent addition to their
portfolio and is reminiscent of many other primitive art.)

OK. But what has all the above to do with our region?
Well, in my long-winded way, I’m underlining that all groups of people take on in part, other groups’
standards or customs.

Japan is renowned for its Tempura batter which, in fact, was brought to Japan by the Portuguese. The
Greeks statuary influenced Michelangelo. Picasso influenced world art. And so it goes on. And as art is
communication, I reason the art of communicating the wonders of our area should take a leaf out of the
marketing of the New Zealanders.
Look how they changed the Chinese gooseberry into Kiwi fruit. And without a murmur of protest from
the Chinese.

There are many other examples which I don’t have space to list. Suffice to say the Kiwis have the wit to
market whatever they feel is important to bring to the attention of the commercial world.

So should we. Our region is equal, in many areas, to any other which produces dramatic panoramic
vistas as well as ripper red wine.

Sure the Coonawarra, the Clare and Barossa are revered but we can elbow them aside, eh.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gart : Art | gcat : Political/General News | gent : Arts/Entertainment
austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
McPherson Media Group
Document MPIVOR0020140722ea7n0000i

Page117of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.