Higher debt risk on Roy Hill

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Higher debt risk on Roy Hill

Peter Ker
593 words
22 March 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
37
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Gina Rinehart's dream of building a $US10 billion ($11 billion) iron ore project is set to become a
reality in a way that will see its international collection of lenders assume an unusually high level of
risk.

Major international banks, including Australia's big four, confirmed on Friday they were willing not only
to provide the Roy Hill joint venture with $US7.2 billion worth of debt financing, but to do so without
the joint venture offering a full completion guarantee.

Finalisation of the debt package – which included export credit agencies from Japan, Korea and the
US – ended years of speculation about whether the giant mine, rail and port project would proceed,
and provided a timely boost to Australia's dwindling major project pipeline.
The Roy Hill partners labelled the funding package the biggest ever for a "land-based mining
project", and Mrs Rinehart said she was "immensely proud" of what the project would deliver. "Roy
Hill is a crucible of opportunity during a period of global uncertainty – it has already shown it will
create new jobs and benefit the greater mining and construction-related industries." Unusual
structure

Those close to the 10½-year debt deal said it was unusually structured in the sense that Mrs Rinehart
and her joint venture partners – Korea's POSCO, Japan's Marubeni and Taiwan's China Steel
Corporation – would not be fully liable to repay the debt if the project failed to reach completion.

Such a "completion guarantee" is usually offered by project owners, and Allen and Overy partner
Adam Stapledon – who advised the five export credit agencies on the deal – said the Roy Hill
partners would only accept a portion of liability for the loans if the project was not completed.

"For a deal of this size that is extremely unusual," he said.

"As far as we know it's the first time the export credit agency lenders involved in this have done a
mining project without a completion guarantee. It is a testament to the quality of the project."

Mr Stapledon said the upshot was a project that required lenders to undertake significantly more due
diligence, particularly on the construction phase.

''What it did translate into was a higher level of due diligence on the technical side of the project and
the legal arrangements that go into the construction phase."

Roy Hill spokesman Darryl Hockey said the interest rates on the deal were "acceptable", and others
close to the deal said they were not far from typical market rates.
The project had an usual beginning, with billions of dollars being spent on construction and other
contracts six months before the debt funding was confirmed on Friday. It is already 30 per cent

Page120of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.complete, ahead of first exports in September 2015. Mr Hockey said the consortium knew the
package was likely to succeed last year.

"The key terms for the financing were agreed in principle in mid-2013. We could see the export credit
agencies were showing signs of commitment and the early build of the commercial bank package
was in train," he said.
"Importantly we had the full commitment of our equity partners."
At its peak, Roy Hill will produce 55 million tonnes per year, but Deutsche analyst Paul Young said it
was likely to be 2018 before the mine was operating at maximum capacity.

WA Premier Colin Barnett said the deal was a "substantial vote of confidence" in the state's resources
sector.

Roy Hill was advised by NAB and BNP Paribas.

RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140321ea3m00033

Page121of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.