Capital Gain

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business - Commercial Property
Capital Gain

Marc Pallisco
1,160 words
12 July 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
12
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

School founder reaps $8m for mixed-use site

Entrepreneur Shesh Ghale has offloaded a mixed-use asset with redevelopment potential in
Melbourne's ritzy Armadale.

The property developer and founder of private school, the Melbourne Institute of Technology, is
understood to have sold 1155-1161 High Street for about $8 million, a $1.5 million discount on the
price paid at the height of the 2007 property boom.

At the time the asset was offered with long leases including to the Bank of Queensland and exclusive
pewter retailer Royal Selangor, which both recently vacated.

Developed in 2005, the complex includes 19 basement car parks, six ground-floor shops and
upper-level offices. The 1078-square-metre building sits on a 653-square-metre block on the north-east
corner of Mercer Road - considered one of Armadale's best streets.

The new owners, a local syndicate, will refurbish and retain the office as an investment. When the
asset hit the market last year it was speculated the height of the commercial-1 zoned building could be
doubled.
On a fully leased basis the asset could return $535,000 in annual rent, which translates the sale price
to a low market yield of 6 per cent. The current annual rental return is $470,000.
MP Burke Commercial's Pat Burke and Michael Pound represented Mr Ghale. The purchasers were
represented by Bayley Stuart's Andrew MacGillivray.
Mr Ghale had previously told Fairfax Media proceeds from the sale of the Armadale asset would go
towards the restoration of the historic Argus building in the CBD, which is to become a new MIT
campus. It will also help pay for the construction of a hotel in Nepal.
In May, Mr Ghale sold the historic Tomassetti House in Flinders Lane for $16.2 million - a capital gain
of $4 million on the price he paid also in 2007. That distinctive office will be refitted as an upmarket
backpacker hostel after Savillssold it to Sydney operators.

Crazy beautiful
When Chinese holidaymakers walk into a local display suite and buy eight apartments at a time, it's no
wonder skyscraper villages have risen around Melbourne's inner city so quickly.

So, a year after announcing plans for the 52-level Platinum tower, developer Mario Salvo has started
marketing the second building he was permitted to build on the site of the former Crazy John's
headquarters in Southbank at 245-263 City Road.

Page176of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The new tower, branded Bella Apartments, will rise 46 levels immediately south of Platinum, which
sold out earlier this year and is now under construction.

Bella - the Italian word for beautiful and also the name of a Salvo daughter - will replace what is left of
low-rise offices for years occupied by Crazy John's.
The building will spend its last days as an apartment display suite.

All up the two City Road towers will add about 800 apartments to the block that Salvo bought from the
Crazy John's business for $10.5 million in 2007.

At the Platinum launch last year it was revealed that the late founder of Crazy John's, John Ilhan, only
brainstormed an ambitious development plan to replace the City Road office with a 34-level "mobile
phone"-shaped tower, in order to get publicity for his fast-growing business.

Crazy John's was founded in Brunswick 23 years ago.
Mr Salvo donated $465,000 to the Ilhan Foundation this year - $1000 for each of the flats sold within
Platinum.

It was reported the tower was popular with foreign investors with one buyer on one visit spending $3.4
million on eight flats.

Brown's grab

Former Australian rules footballer Fraser Brown is one of the first to jump on the bandwagon to the
Clyde precinct, in Melbourne's outer south-east, which is set to become a major commercial hub.
The former Carlton identity and property developer has recently launched a housing estate in Clyde
North, 48 kilometres from town - between Cranbourne and Tooradin.
The land is near a 47-hectare site at 1350 Pound Road, which hit the market last month with price
expectations of about $15 million.

The Pound Road farmland was only recently permitted for development following a structure plan
announced by the Napthine government (which will be gazetted later this year) that will see the suburb
make way for, as a start, 120 hectares of commercial and industrial-zoned workplaces.

About 20,000 homes as well as schools and other infrastructure - including a hospital - are also
planned for the area, according to the Pound Road marketing agent, Frank Nagle from Biggin Scott
Commercial & Land.

The state government last October flagged a third major Melbourne airport could be developed
between Koo Wee Rup and Lang Lang in Victoria's Gippsland corridor nearby. The government is also
keen to expand the Port of Hastings, near Melbourne's southern outskirts.
School sold

Melbourne's Liuzzi family has paid $4.6 million for a former primary school in Pascoe Vale for years
owned by the Catholic Archdiocese.
The elevated site is expected to make way for a residential project and diversify the Liuzzi family's
portfolio, which includes commercial and retail assets as well as businesses.

The land was also marketed for its potential to be replaced with an aged-care facility or childcare
complex.

Near the eastern wall of the Tullamarine Freeway, just north of Moreland Road, the land is addressed
19 Langtree Avenue but is also bound by Woodlands Avenue and Coonans Road.

Jones Lang Lasalle's Steve Messina and Peter Sprekos marketed the 5080-square-metre
residential-1 zoned property.

Food plans

PFD Food Services plans to build one of the eastern suburbs' largest industrial facilities near its
national headquarters after snapping up a five-hectare slice of the Kingston Business Park.

The Henderson Road parcels in Knoxfield were chosen because they formed a regular shape, were
level, and are serviced - for utilities and by roads. It's expected the company will develop a

Page177of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.30,000-square-metre-plus complex on the greenfield land, covering about 60 per cent of the site area -
the general rule of thumb for site coverage of industrial land.
On completion, Henderson Road will be the 62nd national purpose-built warehouse/distribution site for
the group, which has its headquarters in Rushdale Street, also in Knoxfield. Established in 1853, and
purchased by Rick Smith in 1988, PFD is the largest family-owned distribution company in the country
with about 600 PFD trucks delivering 25,000 product lines nationally.
Gorman Kelly Commercial Real Estate's Grant Butler said the purchase confirmed buyer activity is
buoyant in the eastern suburbs market. He said that since the Monash Freeway and EastLink
interchange, developers had actively sought to fill tracts of once-vacant land. The number of greenfield
sites was diminishing, he added.

marcpallisco@gmail.com

Twitter: @marcpallisco

IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140711ea7c00062

Page178of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.