Goodman riding high on apartment wave

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PrimeSpace
Goodman riding high on apartment wave

BEN WILMOT, INDUSTRIAL
432 words
8 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
25
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

INDUSTRIAL property titan Greg Goodman has revealed his Goodman Group is sitting on a land
bank able to house 35,000 apartments, a holding that could radically boost the value of the group’s
inner-city industrial land holdings across Australia in coming years.
Goodman has emerged as one of the main beneficiaries of the apartment boom sweeping the nation
as its long-held sites are being hotly pursued by international and local developers. “It’s the evolution
of some of the industrial precincts that we’ve owned, and even some of the commercial parks that
we’ve owned for upwards of 20 years,” Mr Goodman said.

The group used yesterday’s quarterly update to lay out plans for its 34,926 unit sites, with major
parcels in NSW and Victoria already undergoing planning approval and consultation.

Mr Goodman emphasised that it would look to win rezonings and then sell sites rather than
undertaking its own developments. The group has already sold Sydney sites to China’s Country
Garden and local giant Meriton and has flagged more deals.

About 15,000 unit sites have been identified to be rezoned during the next two to three years, with Mr
Goodman noting the strength of the group’s relationships with Australia’s largest residential
developers and expectations that the apartment boom would continue. “It’s a 10-year program,” he
said.

Despite this focus, Mr Goodman emphasised the global nature of the Goodman empire, and
highlighted the opportunities in the $1.4 billion logistics development pipeline in the US.
China was another focus, with Mr Goodman saying the group was well positioned in several global
markets, though this did not mean he was tempted to restructure or list offshore.

Analysts picked up on the potential of Australian sites to be converted to apartments. “The urban
renewal story is also starting to unfold and will likely be a feature for years to come,” Morgan Stanley
traders said.

In NSW, Goodman and its funds own near-term development opportunities in Epping, Homebush,
Alexandria, Macquarie Park and Erskineville. In Victoria, the focus is on inner-city Port Melbourne.
Further down the track, the group identified projects with potential in NSW’s Rosebery and Macquarie
Park and Victoria’s Clayton. Other sites also may be viable as apartment developments in the longer
term, taking the overall book of unit sites to almost 35,0000.Deep End Services principal Kevin
Stanley said the quantum “would make them probably the biggest holder of residential apartment
sites in Australia”.

CO

magmgp : Goodman Group

Page50of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150206 : Investment Trusts/Funds | i815020602 : Real
Estate Investment Trusts | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv :
Investing/Securities | ireest : Real Estate
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140507ea580004i

Page51of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.