H&S Vision's last assets for sale

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
H&S Vision's last assets for sale

Matthew Cranston
508 words
22 January 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
32
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Receivers for H&S Vision, the last of the big north Queensland developers to collapse in the wake of
the financial crisis, are selling off the group's remaining assets, including a golf course, country club
and management rights to 640 apartments north of Cairns.

H&S Vision, which had joint venture arrangements with failed pub baron Tom Hedley, fell into
receivership last year owing more than $50 million to ANZ Banking Group .

Heavily indebted and with buyers unable to settle on apartment purchases, the group had receivers
McGrathNicol appointed to the assets, which are now all up for sale.
"The receivers of the H&S Vision Group have commenced the sale process for the Paradise Palms
golf course, hotel management rights and surrounding development sites," receiver and manager
Jamie Harris of McGrathNicol said.

Together the development sites total more than 25 hectares north of Cairns International Airport.
Some sites already have approval for a combined 173 new apartments and villas.

Colliers International's Stacey Quaid, who has been appointed to sell the assets, reported significant
inquiry.

"There has been a very strong focus on the Cairns market in the last quarter of 2013, with record
numbers of development inquiries from both domestic and international interest," Mr Quaid said.
Cairns has seen a number of high profile moves by developers in the last few months. They include
Hong Kong billionaire Tony Fung, who is moving forward with plans for a $4.2 billion international
casino and resort just outside the city.Major development opportunity
Then there's Hong Kong-based multimillionaire Benny Wu, who snapped up a 47 hectare site, with
one kilometre of beachfront at Kewarra, from OzEmail founder Sean Howard.

"Paradise Palms will be one of the major development opportunities on the market this year; we're
certain it will attract a lot of interest," Mr Quaid said.

Records show that in 2007 HS Vision – whose directors include Peter Hopkins and Ross Straguszi,
sold $40 million worth of 800 new golf estate homes that were planned as part of the $350 million
redevelopment of the Paradise Palms golf course.
Likely to attract just as much interest are H&S Vision's apartment management rights.

McGrathNicol confirmed these assets were also now officially on the market, but steered away from
providing any price guidance.

The management rights cover resorts such as The Lakes, Cairns One, The Greens and The Keys – all
on the north coast of Queensland.

Page63of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.North Queensland tourism is showing early signs of recovery, as has interest in accommodation
property.
Listed Singapore hotel operator Hotel Grand Central has snapped up the Novotel Palm Cove, north
of Cairns.

Grant Thornton Australia partners Shaun McKinnon and Michael McCann were appointed voluntary
administrators of H&S Vision's childcare businesses, which are also likely to come to market soon.

Key points North Qld developer fell into receivership, owing more than $50 million to ANZ . The
group's apartment management rights also officially on the market.

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

i662 : Bars/Public Houses | ireest : Real Estate | i66 : Hotels/Restaurants | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality
ceffic : Corporate Restructuring | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c11 : Plans/Strategy
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140121ea1m0001w

Page64of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.