FED:AAP Finance Briefs, Thursday October 30

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

FED:AAP Finance Briefs, Thursday October 30

418 words
30 October 2014
Australian Associated Press Financial News Wire
AAPFIN
English
(c) 2014 Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

FINANCE AMP BUYS INTO CHINESE PENSION COMPANY
SYDNEY - Wealth manager AMP has paid $240 million for a major stake in China's largest pension
company.

China Life Pension Company provides annuities to state-owned and private businesses in China, a
practice that constitutes the second pillar of the country's pension system, which is provided voluntarily
by the employer.
The enterprise annuities market in China has grown at about 26 per cent each year for the past five
years, and is expected to benefit from an ageing population, AMP said.
It has taken a 19.99 per cent stake in the company, which AMP expects will break even in the next two
years.

AAP dmc
NINE IN TALKS TO BUY OUTDOOR AD FIRM
SYDNEY - Nine Entertainment is in talks to buy outdoor advertising firm oOh!Media.
"Those discussions are ongoing and there is no certainty that they will lead to a transaction," Nine said
in a statement on Thursday.

Nine said it would release more information if any agreement is reached.

Earlier, the Australian Financial Review reported that Nine was examining the books of the outdoor
media group, which is 80 per cent owned by private equity outfit CHAMP.

AAP bt/cdh

HOUSING BOOM TO BOOST NICK SCALI PROFITS

SYDNEY - The booming housing market is expected to help deliver a 20 per cent boost in half year
profit for furniture retailer Nick Scali.

It has notched up double-digit growth in sales orders for the first quarter of the financial year, even
though it says business has been volatile.
Based on recent customer demand, half year profit could be about 20 per cent above the $7.87 million
made in the same period last year, managing director Anthony Scali said.

"We are hopeful that the continuation of historically low interest rates and increased dwelling
construction will generate an improved level of consumer confidence and demand as the year unfolds,
but we do expect short-term volatility to continue," he told the company's annual meeting.

AAP bt/cdh

AOFM SELLS $500M OF TREASURY NOTES

Page8of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.SYDNEY - The Australian government has sold $500 million of Treasury notes, that mature on
February 27, 2015.

The Australian Office of Financial Management (AOFM), which conducts bond auctions on behalf of the
government, said the notes were sold for a weighted average yield of 2.4894 per cent.
The sale attracted bids that totalled $2.065 billion, giving a coverage ratio of 4.13.

AAP jcc/gfr

CO
IN
RE

PUB
AN

austmp : AMP Ltd
i82 : Insurance | i82002 : Life Insurance | ifinal : Financial Services
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd
Document AAPFIN0020141030eaau000xf

Page9of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.