BG Expects $4B Sale of Australian Gas Pipelines by Christmas

SE
HD
WC 403 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Briefs
BG Expects $4B Sale of Australian Gas Pipelines by Christmas

30 October 2014
LNG Intelligence
LNGI
English
©2014 Energy Intelligence Group. All rights reserved

TD

British gas giant BG Group expects to finalize a roughly $4 billion sale of gas pipelines in Australia's
Queensland state by Christmas, a source close to the deal said.

Bidders have been given a deadline of the end of November to lodge final offers for the 335 miles of
pipeline, the source told Reuters on Wednesday, declining to be identified because of the sensitivity of the
sale process.

Those expected to bid include Hong Kong's Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings, which in 2014 bought
gas pipeline companyEnvestra for A$2.37 billion ($2.1 billion), and Envestra rival Australian Pipeline in
a consortium with Japan's Marubeni, the source said.

Queensland government fund Queensland Investment (QIC) and pension fund IMF are expected to lodge
a joint bid, as is Australian fund manager AMP, the source added.
Australia's last big energy asset sale of the year comes as vendors try to complete deals before the
governments of Queensland and New South Wales states embark on energy infrastructure sales worth
some $50 billion between them, including the A$20 billion sale of a half stake in NSW's electricity
network.

"There's a wave of assets coming down the tollway to the market over the next two years. Anyone that
wants to get something done would probably be keen to get it done before those," said a utility analyst.
It also comes as Australian energy companies anticipate a major shake-up when BG's Queensland Curtis
Island LNG project starts exporting Australian LNG in early 2015, diverting supply and pushing up gas
prices on the domestic market (LNGI Sep.5'14).
Goldman Sachs is running the BG pipeline sale, as well as the sale of two NSW government power
stations, one gas-fired and one coal-fired, known as Delta Coastal, in a sale expected to fetch up to A$1
billion and also expected to be finalized by Christmas, the source said.
Local media has reported that hydro-electric energy company Snowy Hydro, which is owned by the
Australian federal government and the NSW and Victoria state governments, is expected to bid for the
Delta Coastal asset.

A spokesman for CKI, a spokesman for Australian Pipeline and a spokeswoman for Snowy Hydro did not
immediately return calls requesting comment. A QIC spokeswoman and an AMP spokeswoman declined
to comment. 

Reuters

CO

IN

NS
RE

brgas : BG Group PLC | chkinf : Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings Ltd | envest : Australian Gas
Networks Ltd | hutwam : Hutchison Whampoa Limited
i1300006 : Pipeline Transportation | i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300014 : Natural Gas
Extraction | i502 : Heavy Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction | iextra :
Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

Page315of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB Energy Intelligence Group Inc.
AN

Document LNGI000020141106eaau0000c

Page316of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.