Switched on in city’s west

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CommercialProperty
Switched on in city’s west

PHIL BARTSCH
355 words
20 June 2014
The Courier-Mail
COUMAI
CourierMail
60
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

A HONG Kong-based manufacturer and distributor of flatscreen televisions and other consumer
electronic products has tuned in to Brisbane’s western corridor.
The Quatius Group has snapped up a large industrial property at Richlands for $10.2 million in a
move to support its growing Soniq brand.

It is understood the company will use the 7856sq m facility as its Queensland logistics and
warehousing base. The property at 60 Fulcrum St comprises 6678sq m of warehouse and 1178sq m
of office space on a 2.21ha site.

Much of the office space (859sq m) is occupied by the Wilmar Gavilon joint venture, which has recently
signed a five-year lease that generates a rental return of about $150,000 a year. The remaining office
and warehouse space will be utilised by Quatius.
CBRE’s Ben Lyons and Peter Turnbull negotiated the sale of the Richlands property on behalf of
Evermac Investments, a subsidiary of McPhee Distribution Services (MDS).
MDS relocated to a purpose-built site at Larapinta to enable company growth. Mr Lyons said Quatius
had been looking at properties suitable for its Soniq operations in Brisbane’s west for some time.
“The features and location of this property suited Soniq’s needs exactly, with it able to support the
brand’s growing Australian operations,” he said.

The building has high clearances of up to 10m, access via seven roller doors, three docks and a
substantial hardstand area suitable for multi-vehicle maneuvering.

Mr Lyons said well-positioned assets in Brisbane’s western corridor were in strong demand.

“In the past six months specifically, we have seen significant inquiry from logistics and distribution
users to secure property within the precinct,” he said.Mr Turnbull said the Fulcrum St facility also
appealed to Quatius because it was already fully racked and offered exposure to the Centenary
Motorway. “Owner-occupiers are investing in the area and that’s a good sign,” he said. “This was one
of three or four properties Quatius looked at and because it suited them so perfectly they negotiated
quickly to secure it.”

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document COUMAI0020140619ea6k00077

Page243of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.