AirAsia & AirAsia X commemorate Skytrax wins with special sale

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

AirAsia & AirAsia X commemorate Skytrax wins with special sale

771 words
31 August 2014
InPR
BUINPR
English
(c) 2014. InPR provided by U2C Communications Ltd. All rights reserved.

AirAsia was once again named the 'World’s Best Low Cost Airline' & 'Asia's Best Low Cost Airline' at
the 2014 World Airline Awards held in London in July, making it the sixth consecutive win for AirAsia.
The airline is commemorating this success with a special promotion of over 850,000 seats throughout
its entire network with all-in-fares from as low as RM46 one way for domestic flights, and from RM60
one way for international flights.

The booking period for this promotion will be from tomorrow, 4th August – 10th August 2014, and
guests are able to travel immediately from 5th August until 14th December 2014. The seats are all
available for booking online at www.airasia.com as well as viaAirAsia’s mobile apps on iPhone,
Android devices and the Blackberry 10, and alsoAirAsia’s mobile site at mobile.airasia.com. 

All-in-fares for domestic flights from Kuala Lumpur are from as low as RM46 one way, inclusive of
taxes and fees. Destinations include Kuala Lumpur to Penang, Langkawi, Kota Bharu, Terengganu,
Johor Bahru and Alor Setar. Intra-East Malaysia flights connecting both Sabah and Sarawak also
begin from RM46 one way. 

Meanwhile, all inclusive fares from Kuala Lumpur to international destinations such as Singapore
begin from RM60 one way. Fly and discover the beauty of island and beach destinations such
as Krabi and Phuket in Thailand from only RM76 one way, or have an adventure in Ho Chi Minh City
or Da Nang, Vietnam from only RM86 one way. Other scenic and relaxing cities such as Kochi, India
and Chiang Mai, Thailand are also up for grabs from only RM126 one way. 

Apart from the domestic and international routes from Kuala Lumpur, guests are also able to travel
from other hubs such as Kota Kinabalu, Penang, Johor Bahru and Kuching while enjoying promotional
fares from this same campaign. 

Fly from Kota Kinabalu to Jakarta, or Taipei from only RM166 one way, inclusive of fares, taxes and
fees; or travel from Penang to Medan from RM79 one way, and from Penang to Bangkok from only
RM166 one way. Those flying from Johor Bahru can enjoy all-in-fares from RM136 one way to
destinations such as Lombok, and Yogyakarta in Indonesia. 
Siegtraund Teh, Group Chief Commercial Officer of AirAsia commented, "The Skytrax World Airline
Awards is the global benchmark of airline excellence and one of the most prestigious accolades for
the airline industry, with a total of 18.9 million customer surveys measuring standards across 41 key
performance indicators of an airline‟s front line product and services. We are so proud to have won
four coveted awards at the Skytrax World Airline Awards." 

"This amazing feat would not have been possible without the support of our wonderful guests as
without them, we wouldn‟t achieve what we have today. This special promotion is a way to say thank
you to our guests for their support throughout the years. Rest assured that we always listen to our
guests' needs for low fares and ensure we offer the best products and services," she added. 

AirAsia X the long haul, low fare airline, an affiliate of AirAsia was also awarded the World's Best Low
Cost Airline Premium Seat and the Best Low-Cost Airline Premium Class Cabin titles for two
consecutive years. In conjunction with this win, AirAsia X is also offering fantastic deals to its
destinations. 

Page34of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Guests on AirAsia X flights may book online and enjoy deals from as low as MYR 296* on
Economy and MYR 966* on Business Class seat for flights from Kuala Lumpur to Sri Lanka
(Colombo), Australia (Perth, Gold Coast, Adelaide, Sydney, Melbourne), China (Chengdu, Hangzhou,
Beijing, Shanghai, Xi’An), Japan (Haneda, Osaka, Nagoya, Narita), South Korea (Seoul, Busan),
Taiwan (Taipei) and Nepal (Kathmandu). 

Fly-Thru promotional deals are also available from as low as MYR379* from Penang to Nagoya,
Penang to Perth, Kota Kinabalu to Seoul, Kuching to Sydney, Johor Bahru to Xi’an and many more.
The Fly-thru service allows passengers to seamlessly purchase two flight sectors and connect via
Kuala Lumpur to our vast Australia and North Asia destinations leveraging on AirAsia's low cost carrier
network.

*****

AII Data Processing does not endorse in any way, the views, opinions or recommendations expressed
above. The use of the Information is subject to the terms and conditions as published by the original
source, which you have to read and accept in full prior to the execution of any actions taken in reliance
on Information contained herein.

 

 

Source: (GP/GP/GP)

IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

iairtr : Air Transport | i75 : Airlines | itsp : Transportation/Shipping
c3141 : Sales Promotions | c31 : Marketing | gapps : Apps | npress : Press Releases | c314 : Pricing |
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gptech :
Personal Technology | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | malay : Malaysia | thail : Thailand | taiwan : Taiwan | kuala : Kuala Lumpur | apacz :
Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
AII Data Processing Limited
Document BUINPR0020140831ea8v002bd

Page35of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.