BPM's 'quantum leap'

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
BPM's 'quantum leap'

Duncan Hughes
359 words
13 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
38
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

BPM Construction and Development Group is aiming for five times as high and three times the
value of its previous biggest project, according to founder and director Jonathan Hallinan.
A $23.5 million purchase of a prominent site between 308 and 320 City Road, South Bank, was
finalised on Friday night for the $250 million, 45-storey development for 380 apartments.

Architect Elenberg Fraser will design the one-, two- and possibly three-bedroom apartments.

Mr Hallinan, who currently has about $750 million in either planning or under construction, said it
would be located on the edge of the central business district and walking distance to the casino but
also close to South Melbourne Market with views of Port Phillip Bay and the city.

"It's unique timing in this precinct," said Mr Hallinan, who describes it as a low-risk project that will
dodge the city's apartment glut.
He added the group had looked at a range of sites in the area but chose City Road because it is on
a corner and combines a mix of inner city and suburban amenities. "I like that connection," he
added.

Research about the area had revealed that perceptions about oversupply and product in the
pipeline appeared to be overstated, and that demand for inner-city commercial and development
sites on the eastern seaboard "has never been stronger", according to the company.
Mr Hallinan said the size and complexity of the deal was a "quantum leap" for the group that has
made its name with boutique developments around Melbourne.

"It has been my childhood dream to build significant buildings in the city I was born and raised in,"
he said.
"I have also built relationships through financing and working with the Chinese that means there is
a low level of risk," he said about the project, which would be marketed to potential overseas
buyers.
BPM actively markets in China and has a Mortgage Choice mortgage franchise in South Yarra, run
by a Mandarin-speaking broker.

Mr Hallinan ranked 18th on the 2013 BRW Young Rich list this year, with a $75 million personal
fortune.

IN
RE

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

Page44of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140512ea5d0002o

Page45of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.