Healthscope owners favour $4b-plus IPO exit route

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Market Wrap - Street Talk
Healthscope owners favour $4b-plus IPO exit route

Edited by Sarah Thompson, Anthony Macdonald and Gretchen Friemann
468 words
26 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
14
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The $4 billion-plus auction of Australia's second largest hospital operator, Healthscope, is gaining
serious momentum.
Healthscope's private equity owners, TPG and The Carlyle Group, have invited potential
shareholders to visit hospitals in Melbourne and Sydney over the next fortnight before a share sale,
as revealed by Channel Nine's Financial Review Sunday program.

It is believed the owners are considering selling a cornerstone stake to one or more big global fund
managers and sovereign wealth funds and before the official initial public offering.

Investors are expected to attend the visits led by Healthscope chief executive officer Rob Cooke.
The hospital tours come as a potential trade sale of the company has paused, in part
because suitors such as Malaysia's IHH Healthcare, US-based HCA and China's Fosun want to buy
control of Healthscope, but not the company in its entirety.
The Healthscope IPO process is being closely watched. It would be the biggest share sale since the
$4.6 billion float of rail group QR National – now known as Aurizon Holdings – in 2010 and an
indicator of what the Abbott government can expect when it kicks off the sale of Medibank next
year.

Healthscope dominates the private hospital industry in Australia behind Ramsay Health Care, with
4500 beds across 44 private hospitals such as Geelong Private, Newcastle Private and Hobart
Private.
TPG and Carlyle bought the business for $2.6 billion in 2010. A float has been pencilled in for the
end of July with global advisers Macquarie Capital and UBS assuming joint-lead manager roles
alongside Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Credit Suisse and Goldman Sachs.

A key talking point is whether Healthscope can attain multiples similar to those of Ramsay, its listed
arch-rival which has a market capitalisation of $9.4 billion and trades on a lofty price-earnings ratio
of 28 times.

Healthscope's mooted return to the ASX boards comes amid a busy period for the
US-headquartered TPG, which announced on Friday a final close at $3.3 billion for its sixth
Asia-focused fund.

It is worth noting that about 45 per cent of all capital invested by TPG in Asia has been in Australia
over the past five years, with deals including Inghams, Alinta, Healthscope and most recently Pet
Barn helping notch up internal rates of return close to 100 per cent.
Street Talk can also reveal negotiations resumed between TPG and UGL Limited about the sale of
its DTZ property services arm late last week.

Page8of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.TPG was the sole contender to submit a comprehensive offer for the business last Monday,
prompting the Richard Leupen-led UGL to consider putting the sale on ice.

crlylg : The Carlyle Group | hesco : Healthscope Ltd | ihhbhd : Integrated Healthcare Holdings Sdn
Bhd | khzinv : Khazanah Nasional Berhad
i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150203 : Private Equity | i951 : Health Care/Life
Sciences | i95107 : Hospital Care | ialtinv : Alternative Investments | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv :
Investing/Securities | iphhp : Healthcare Provision
c1711 : Initial Public Offerings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c02 : Corporate Changes | c14 :
Stock Listings | c17 : Funding/Capital | c171 : Share Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140525ea5q0000v

CO

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page9of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.