Tassie buy -up: China on investment spree

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

TheNation
Tassie buy-up: China on investment spree

EXCLUSIVE: SUE NEALES, MATTHEW DENHOLM
876 words
15 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
1
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Tassie buy-up: China on an investment spree AUSTRALIA’S smallest state is set to reap the benefits
of a multi-billion-dollar landslide of Chinese investment in its agricultural sector, under deals to be
sealed when Chinese President Xi Jinping flies to Hobart next week.

It is understood that at least four major investment agreements will be signed and announced while Mr
Xi is in Tasmania for a five-hour visit on Tuesday, including a special deal between the state
government and a major Chinese investment bank to inject much-needed funds into the state’s
expanding dairy, fruit and aquaculture industries.

Deputy Premier and Agriculture Minister Jeremy Rockliff said last night that deals were imminent and
Chinese investors wanted to buy “investor-ready” land and water farm packages.
He said the Chinese investment funds from state-owned companies and banks would be used to
convert and develop lower-value sheep and cattle farms into more intensive dairy farms, with irrigation
infrastructure and by building new dairies.
“Negotiations are still being worked through but we have water and land for sale, we encourage
Chinese investment and we need to increase our milk production from 800 million litres to two billion
litres in just a few years,” Mr Rockliff said.

The Tasmanian fruit industry will also be the beneficiary of Mr Xi’s visit to the Apple Isle, with the
expected signing of a landmark memorandum of understanding for a China-Tasmania fruit industry
partnership program.

Tasmania will more than double its horticultural production over the next five years. The remarkable
growth — to meet the burgeoning out-of-season demand from China, Taiwan and other Asian
countries — has been driven by individuals such as fourth-generation Tasmanian orchardist Howard
Hansen, who has pioneered access to Chinese markets for cherries and apples over the past two
years.

“Hansen orchards planted more trees this last winter — 25,000 apple trees or about 8 ha of land —
than at any time in the past,” Mr Hansen said.
His rapid expansion has allowed him to supply 50 per cent of all Tasmanian cherry exports to China
from his Huon Valley orchard at Gove.
Exporters such as Mr Hansen use air freight to get their produce to Chinese tables within days,
providing an edge over their main competitor, Chile.

However, currently, all exported fresh foods such as fruit and seafood have to be flown via Melbourne
or Brisbane airports because Hobart’s runway is too short for international access.

Page100of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“It’s expensive but it allows us to get our cherries to market less than 48 hours after they are picked
from the trees, compared to the Chilean product, which is closer to 48 days sent by sea,” Mr Hansen
said. “Are the Chinese going to pay a premium for that fresh product?
“That’s the million-dollar question, but the past 18 months (of exports) have been encouraging.”
Tasmania is well regarded in China and Taiwan, gaining access to markets denied to mainland
growers because of its disease-free status and prized branding.
The Weekend Australian understands that other deals to be announced may include the part sale of
Tasmania’s biggest dairy farming business, the Van Diemen’s Land company, to state-owned
Chinese interests, along with a package of 20-30 other northwestern dairy farms.
The new Chinese investor in NZ-owned VDL, which owns 28 dairy farms and milks 30,000 cows, is
also apparently keen to build wind turbines on VDL’s massive Woolnorth property on Tasmania’s
northwest tip to meet China’s increased clean energy commitments.
There are already two wind farms on Woolnorth on land compulsorily acquired by the Tasmanian
government from VDL in 2000, near Cape Grim and facing the Roaring 40s .
The 37 wind turbines at Bluff Point and 25 towers at Studland Bay are now 75 per cent-owned by
China’s Shenhua Clean Energy Holding Pty Ltd, itself majority owned by the government’s Guohua
Energy Investment company, after Hydro Tasmaniasold its ownership down in 2012 for $88.6 million.

VDL managing director Trevor Westacott denied there would be any announcement on Tuesday
concerning the imminent sale of all or part of VDL, linked to the Chinese President’s visit.
The use of an extended Hobart airport runway and Hobart Port as a new base for Chinese ships
serving China’s Antarctic base is also expected to be announced.
Direct international flights between China and Tasmania bringing Chinese tourists into Hobart and
flying fresh produce out are also in the wind, once the federal government-funded upgrade of the
runway is completed.
Mr Rockliff said it was also possible a new trade in fresh milk from Tasmania to China, flown out of
Hobart airport, would begin, to take advantage of the astounding $10-a-litre prices for fresh Australian
milk being paid by wealthy Chinese in Beijing and Shanghai.About 17 per cent of Tasmania’s
agricultural and seafood exports — which include meat, abalone, oysters, crayfish, dairy, fruit, berries,
nuts and vegetables — were sold last year to China, with it fast overtaking Japan as the largest buyer
of Tasmania’s “clean, green” agricultural produce.

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 :
Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy Products | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
gpol : Domestic Politics | greg : Regional Politics | npag : Page-One Stories | gcat : Political/General
News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types
china : China | austr : Australia | tasman : Tasmania | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141114eabf0004o

Page101of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.