IAG Forms New Commercial Insurance Team as It Completes Wesfarmers Takeover

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

IAG Forms New Commercial Insurance Team as It Completes Wesfarmers Takeover

Ernesto Calucag
619 words
27 August 2014
Best's Insurance News
AMBEST
English
Copyright 2014 (c) A.M. Best Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

SYDNEY (BestWire) - Insurance Australia Group Ltd. has named a new team to lead its commercial
insurance business following the completion of Wesfarmersacquisition.

The group's commercial insurance unit will be headed by Chief Executive Peter Harmer, and other
executives already working within IAG including Ben Bessell, chief commercial officer; Donna Walker,
executive general manager, broker business; Phuong Ly, EGM, agencies; Stuart Chapman, EGM, niche
& direct business; Andrew Ziolkowski, EGM, underwriting; Jen Mitchell, EGM, claims; Andrew Jordan,
EGM, strategy, brand & risk; Malcolm Freeman, EGM, integration; and Fiona Phillips, EGM,
transformation.

Harmer said the newly formed team has been set up as IAG starts incorporating the acquired
underwriting business of Wesfarmers Ltd. in Australia, which includes Lumley Insurance and WFI. The
businesses will be largely integrated with IAG's CGU Insurance to be managed by the commercial
insurance team.

Wesfarmers executives, including Australia CEO David Brown and Lumley CEO John Nagle, will not be
absorbed under the new team.

In the financial year ending June 30, Wesfarmers insurance underwriting business generated gross
written premium of almost A$1.8 billion (US$1.67 billion). This compares with GWP for the rest of IAG
of A$9.8 billion.

"Today, we have reached a key milestone in establishing the new IAG Commercial Insurance operating
business. Our new leadership team brings together people with extensive insurance experience, a deep
knowledge of customer and partner needs, and the right qualities to take our business forward to the next
level," Harmer said in a statement.

In an emailed statement to Best's News Service, Paul Marriage, IAG's spokesman, said the group has
not yet decided whether to retain the Lumley and WFI brands or use the group's CGU brand. "We are
currently reviewing opportunities for the Lumley and WFI brands, and we'll make firmer decisions in the
coming months," he said.
In June 2014, IAG completed the required regulatory approvals for the A$1.84 billion acquisition of the
Australian and New Zealand underwriting businesses of Wesfarmers Ltd. IAG agreed to
purchaseWesfarmers in December 2013, with the deal comprising companies trading under the WFI and
Lumley Insurance brands, as well as a 10-year distribution agreement with Coles.

In preparation for the integration, the group announced a new operating model which breaks IAG under
three major operating divisions, including personal insurance, commercial insurance and enterprise
operations. This, IAG said, is to allow the company to better leverage its scale and insurance expertise.
For the financial year ending June 30, IAG posted a 58.9% rise in net profit to A$1.23 billion, supported
by improved claim costs and increased investment returns (Best's News Service, Aug.19, 2014).

"Profitability has benefited from favorable natural peril, reserve release and investment market outcomes,
which have driven an insurance margin well above the guidance held at the outset of the year," said the

Page78of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Australian nonlife insurer in a statement. IAG's underlying margin increased to 14.2% in the 2014
financial year from 12.5% a year ago.
Benign weather conditions in Australia contributed to a claim expense of A$553 million against an
allowance of A$640 million. Favorable experience in long-tail classes, in a low inflation environment, led
to prior-period reserve release of A$248 million in the 2014 financial year, compared with A$212 million
in 2013.

Going forward, the group's strategic priorities include maintaining its leading market position in personal
and commercial insurance in Australia and New Zealand, growing businesses in Asia and exploring
long-term growth opportunities.
(By Ernesto Calucag, Hong Kong news editor: Ernesto.Calucag@ambest.com)

CO
IN

NS
RE

nigltd : Insurance Australia Group Ltd | wsfrm : Wesfarmers Ltd
i82 : Insurance | ifinal : Financial Services | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs :
Business/Consumer Services
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South
Wales

PUB A.M. Best Company, Inc.
AN

Document AMBEST0020140827ea8r0008d

Page79of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.