Concern over China plans

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Concern over China plans

SIMONE SMITH and PETER HEMPHILL
380 words
29 October 2014
Weekly Times
HERWEK
WeeklyTimes
7
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

RECENT claims about foreign investment in southwest dairy farms could create “false hope”,
investors have warned.
And others fear unfulfilled promises or unsuccessful investments could damage the Australian dairy
industry’s chances for future funding.

Up to 50 dairy farms are expected to be targeted by Chinese-backed Linear Capital, with plans to
build two processing plants in the region and lease Glenormiston College.
Linear Capital remained tight-lipped about the deal, but The Weekly Times understands dairy
farmers continue to meet with the investors.

The Weekly Times has spoken to many investors and consultants who all shared concern about the
deal, its timing and how false hopes could affect dairy farmers themselves.
One investment adviser, who did not wish to be named, said “it’s hard enough to buy one farm let
alone 50”.
Another questioned the funding of the deal, while another worried that dairy farmers were banking on
selling to this organisation and feared the deal would not come off.
When asked about Linear Capital, newly listed investor Australian Dairy Farms Group chairman
Michael Hackett said he wasn’t “in any position to comment on anyone else’s strategies … I’m only
going by the media articles”.

He said there were other “fairly substantial players behind the scenes” and that there was room for
big and small investment interests in dairying.
The group, which has two dairy farms in southwest Victoria, said it have been doing due diligence
on a number of farms for 12 months and the process to expand was a long-term strategy.

“One of the things we have learnt very early in the piece was not to promise what you can’t deliver in
the early stages, not make wild promises,” Mr Hackett said.

Linear Capital managing director Troy Harper said he had nothing else to add to the conversation.
“I have a personal reaction ... but as I said, we are running a business not a commentary shop,” he
said.

The Weekly Times understands some farms are further along in talks than others and different ways
to control dairy farms, such as lease or equity deals, have been considered.The proposed southwest
Victorian foreign investment swoop has been backed by industry lobby groups.

Page92of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

RE

PUB
AN

i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming |
ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document HERWEK0020141028eaat0003s

Page93of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.