Asset marqued for sale

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Asset marqued for sale

TONY RAGGATT
405 words
30 April 2014
Townsville Bulletin
TOWNBU
Townsville
19
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

A 4000sqm holding in Townsville’s CBD has come on the market as part-owner East Coast developer
Morris Property Group looks to concentrate on metropolitan and Gold Coast projects.
The holding comprises two multi-level retail and commercial buildings at 393 and 401 Flinders St
including the Cat and Fiddle Arcade.

Morris Property, in a joint venture with the Morgan family which owns the adjoining Chifley Plaza Hotel,
had secured council approval for a $120 million redevelopment of the site last year.
Morris Property Group development manager Brodie Lister said yesterday they wanted to focus on
resurgent demand for property developments in Melbourne, Sydney and the Gold Coast.

“Our focus is elsewhere,” Mr Lister said.

“We are very fond of Townsville. We think it’s a great market ... but this is a fringe asset.” The venturers
secured development approval for a retail and residential project, called Marque Townsville, involving
two levels of retail connecting Flinders and Sturt streets, three levels of car parking (397 car spaces), a
sixth level residential amenities podium and two towers up to 20 levels comprising 225 apartments.

Knight Frank Townsville will market the properties nationally and in Asia. Knight Frank director Paul
Dury said historic retail uses could be re-established in the properties in the short to medium term.

He said the development approval provided the best mixed use form available within the CBD, with
street to street retail and units with a very appealing outlook.

“This campaign extends through to Asia given the increasing interest in Townsville that we are noting
from international investors and developers,” Mr Dury said.
“Knight Frank have specific desks in Asia, particularly in China, that we will be using.

“We are not losing sight of the fact, though, that most of the recent $150 million-plus investment in the
Townsville CBD has been undertaken by local and Queensland-based companies.” The 393 Flinders St
building once operated as the Townsville location for GJ Coles.

It has 7388sqm of gross floor area in two levels fronting Flinders St and three levels fronting Sturt St.
The .401 Flinders St site comprises an arcade of about 2328sqm.

The properties were acquired in 2007 as part of a larger holding for an Austexx-led retail complex which
did not proceed and later resold in receivership.They have been vacant since 2007. The offers to
purchase close on May 29.

NS

gcat : Political/General News

Page40of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document TOWNBU0020140430ea4u00015

Page41of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.