Analysis: China -Australia FTA signing imminent

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Analysis: China-Australia FTA signing imminent

765 words
11 November 2014
Trade Finance
TRAFIN
English
Copyright 2014 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC

The drawn-out FTA is seen as a boon for agri-trade investment.
A free trade agreement (FTA) between China and Australia is expected to be signed at the upcoming
G20 meeting in Brisbane later this month. The pair have been negotiating a FTA since 2005 and are in
their 18th round of negotiations, according to HSBC chief economist Paul Bloxham.

China currently serves as Australia’s largest trading partner. Bilateral trade between the two was AU$150
billion ($130 billion) in 2013, according to Bloxham. Australia’s exports to China are heavily dominated
by minerals such as iron ore and coal. Given China’s drop in demand for Australia’s mined resources,
the FTA may place particularly strong emphasis on exporting agricultural products and services.

“This is about encouraging the other parts of trade [outside of minerals exports],” Bloxham told Trade
Finance. “Middle class incomes have increased in China as have dairy and meat imports. This is another
range of products helping Australia diversify its trade with China.”

Another focus of the pending FTA is greater support for cross-border investment flows between Australia
and China. These linkages are still small. Last year only 3.4% of all foreign investment in Australia was
from China (including Hong Kong) and only 3.7% of Australia’s investment went in the direction of
China, Bloxham said. The FTA may create potential to increase these figures by reducing Chinese
government restrictions on investment.

While the finer points of the FTA are yet to be confirmed, Bloxham said the foreign investment into
Australia can be through the purchase of assets such as infrastructure, bond issuances and stocks or
buying corporates. China’s central government is trying to integrate the Chinese financial system into the
global economy, he said. Therefore its key focus is securing the supply chain in Australia. This could
mean having increased access to raw materials and agri-related commodities, while energy supply into
China remains a key focus. China is also focused on securing food supplies into China particularly for its
growing middle class. This could lead to Chinese companies purchasing stakes in Australian agri
producing corporates, Bloxham said. It could also create opportunities for China’s financial houses to
create a footprint in Australia.
“Rather than portfolio investment, the Chinese authorities have a strong agenda for overseas direct
investment,” Bloxham said.

Cross-border renminbi (RMB) trading is another area set to benefit from the FTA. Right now there has not
been a high take up of RMB trading by Australian corporates doing business with China. Bloxham said
this is due to the energy and mining-related trade traditionally being conducted in US dollars and
approximately 80% of Australia-to-China exports stem from said sector, which is reluctant to shy away
from best practices (such as US dollar trading) in commodity finance. Because the FTA will boost trade
outside of energy and metal-related commodities, there should be a greater use to drive cross-border
RMB trade.
China’s government is making a concerted effort to internationalise its currency and there are clear
benefits to trading RMB bilaterally. Chinese counterparts may offer discounts due to their increased
demand for the RMB and companies will save costs on converting third party currencies such as the US
dollar. Other benefits include lending, deposits and the facilitation of cross-border trade and capital flows
denominated in RMB. It also presents an opportunity to provide services for other financial institutions on
the ground in China and Australia.

Page124of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Even without the FTA, trade between the two nations has remained strong, particularly due to metals and
mining-related exports to China. Exports to China were AU$11 billion in 2003 and increased to AU$101
billion in 2013, according to HSBC research. Mined minerals and fuels accounted for three-quarters of
Australia’s exports to China. Iron ore alone comprised almost 70% of total exports. Exports outside of
minerals and fuels have averaged growth of 10% year-on-year from 2003 to 2013, the report added, with
agricultural goods such as food and wool dominating this space.

From Australia’s perspective, the priority in this FTA is the reduction of agricultural tariffs and other
barriers preventing increased exports to China. In addition, greater access for Australian financial
institutions into China is on the agenda. China on the other hand, is looking to solidify its grip on supply
chains and continue to internationalise its economy and currency.

Australia has already signed trade agreements with Japan and South Korea this year.

Aaron.Weinman@euromoneyplc.com

NS
RE

e512 : Physical Trade | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News
china : China | austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Trade & Supply Chain

IPD
PUB Euromoney Trading Limited - Delivery
AN

Document TRAFIN0020141201eabb0000x

Page125of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.