Elders glows in China gaze

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Agribusiness
Elders glows in China gaze

MIRANDA KENNY
860 words
17 April 2014
Stock Journal
FSTOCJ
15
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

IN the past seven years, Elders Fine Foods has grown to five times its size, distributing about 50
tonnes of Australian red meat a month predominately beef throughout China.

South Australian products such as Thomas Foods International's Clare Valley Certified Australian
Angus and Murraylands Lamb brands; and Bultarra Saltbush Lamb, Port Augusta, have helped drive
that growth.

EFF general manager Craig Aldous, who spoke to woolgrowers recently as part of the 2014 Elders
China Wool Tour, said that from a turnover of $2 million, the company had boosted profits to $12m,
and were forecasting year-on-year growth of 20 per cent to 25pc in the next three years.
"I think we can double business in the next three to four years," Mr Aldous said.
"We're a $20m turnover business in food service and back home in Australia that is quite a significant
business

"It's a significant business here too in the niche section that we operate in at the top end of the
market."

Mr Aldous said that despite the ban on chilled meat imports last year which made up most of what they
offered they had continued to grow by exporting frozen shipments.

"We try and stick to brands where we can get exclusivity as we're focused on high-end channels," he
said.

"We need exclusivity around brands because we can't have a local wholesaler coming in with the
same product 2-a-kilogram cheaper.

"We have a portfolio of exclusive brands TFI; Greenham, Tas, with their Cape Grim Beef and Robbins
Island Wagyu; Strandbroke's, Grantham, Qld, Diamantina Wagyu and Diamantina Platinum Grainfed
and Northern Rivers Veal, Casino, NSW."

Meat used to produce burgers come from Swift, Teys or TFI, depending on price.

"Processing sausages and patties, cutting into portion sizes or leaving as whole-piece primals and
distributing to hotels, restaurants and supermarkets all around China is 90pc of our business," Mr
Aldous said.
He said Australia's clean and green image had been a positive for business.
"Most Chinese people want to know where product comes from, where it is packed and how it is
labelled," he said.

"Children are revered here because they generally only have one (this recently increased to two) and
the fallout from the melamine milk powder scandal was massive.

Page235of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."The Chinese want to know what they and their children are eating is safe."
While in the past EFF had also sold olive oil, dairy, seafood, beer and wine including several SA
labels such as K1 by Geoff Hardy and Pertaringa these sections would soon be closed so the
business could focus on its core strength, red meat.
Mr Aldous said while a free trade agreement between China and Australia could provide benefits, his
biggest concern was the large quantities of beef being smuggled in across the borders into China.

These products had a 29pc price advantage compared to EFF goods, which had to pay a 12pc tariff
and 17pc value-added tax on any product imported to China.

"We need to set up the right protocols to benefit from an FTA," Mr Aldous said.

"There's an opportunity there for the live export trade as well.
"The size of the Chinese herd is decreasing even though demand is increasing.
"China is a net importer of beef, which reflects that demand is outstripping supply."
EFF's head office is in Shanghai, and the company has offices and warehouses in Beijing and
Guangzhou.
Sales are split with 60pc of the product sold to eastern China, 20pc to the north, 15pc south and 5pc
west.

"The split is about 45pc to hotels, 35pc restaurants, 15pc retail-supermarkets and 5pc wholesale," Mr
Aldous said.
"We deliberately don't try to sell to wholesalers in China our business model is very much a direct
model.
"We buy direct from Australian abattoirs and sell directly to hotels and restaurants here because we
want to maintain our brand integrity.
"Chefs in the market here know that when they buy from Elders it's real product at a real price, which
means we're not always going to be the cheapest price, but quality, consistent and there are no
shortcuts."
EFF has invested in the logistics sector in China and will soon outsource its warehousing.

"These facilities are six-storeys high, machine-operated, with everything barcoded and computerised,"
Mr Aldous said.

"We can be sitting in our office, jump on the computer and get 100pc accurate inventory figures."

Imported lamb consisted of lamb racks.

"We do lamb but about 90pc of our imports are beef in our meat category," Mr Aldous said.

"Here lamb is considered more popular in the manufacturing sector, with lamb breast and flap used in
the hot pot market (a popular Chinese dish), rather than the premium sector."

"A 100-day grainfed beef product would be the core of our program," Mr Aldous said.
Details: Miranda Kenny travelled to China courtesy of Elders, as part of the 2014 Elders China Wool
Tour. Visit stockjournal.com.au for more stories from her trip.

CO
IN

NS

RE

tarppl : Thomas Foods International Pty Ltd | futris : Elders Limited
ifood : Food Products | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods | i412 : Animal
Slaughtering/Processing | i4122 : Meat Processing | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs :
Business/Consumer Services
c312 : External Markets | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types |
nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

Page236of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FSTOCJ0020140416ea4h0001g

Page237of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.