Faltering economy hits China coal

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Faltering economy hits China coal

Philip Wen
512 words
15 October 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
27
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

It deals a further blow to struggling Australian coal exporters and delivers 11th-hour complications to
the bilateral free trade deal, but China's abrupt reinstatement of import duties on coal - taking effect
from Wednesday - is primarily geared at propping up its flagging domestic coal sector.
China's faltering coal industry threatens entire provincial economies, from state-owned behemoths to
the smaller private mines and the intertwining networks of shadow bank financing in between.

The sector has suffered from slumping prices, heavy debts and an onslaught of new domestic capacity
- all while the Chinese economy is slowing. More than 70 per cent of China's coalminers are losing
money, with half delaying or cutting wage payments, the China Coal Industry Association said in July.
Tariffs of 3 per cent on coking coal, 5 per cent on briquettes and 6 per cent on other coals - the
maximum allowable under China's World Trade Organisation commitments - reintroduce duties that
were scrapped in 2007, when China's demand for energy was soaring.
It came less than a month after China announced it would ban the sale and transporting of low-grade
"dirty coal", another move with ramifications for Australian exports.
Like its steel industry, China is suffering the effects of overcapacity among coal producers who rushed
to capitalise when the booming Chinese economy demanded coal and iron ore at any price.
Unlike with iron ore, China has no shortage of coal and imports only about 10 per cent of its supply,
mainly in southern China where it works out cheaper to ship it on a barge from Australia than to
transport it from the coal-rich hubs of Inner Mongolia, Shanxi and Shaanxi. But the sheer size of China
means that as well as being the world's largest consumer of coal, it is the world's largest importer, with
Australian coal the largest source.
But the fact that imports make up a relatively small amount of China's coal supply raises the question
just how much of a difference the tariffs will make in propping up domestic producers. While lending
some price support, it won't solve the fundamental issue of growth in supply outpacing demand, with
huge new coalmines stepping up production in northern and far-western China.
But much like the pressure the mining lobby in Australia can create on governments, the half-a-trillion
dollar Chinese coal industry and the estimated 5 million workers it employs has provided social and
political impetus for the Chinese government to intervene.

The reintroduction of a blunt measure like tariffs is an indication of how urgent the situation is, and no
amount of posturing from the Abbott government is likely to make any difference.
And irrespective of its original intention, the tariffs will supply China's seasoned trade negotiators with
an extra bargaining chip late in the piece, with an agreement needing to be struck within weeks if one is
to be unveiled in time for President Xi Jinping's visit to Australia.

Page200of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE

PUB
AN

gtrade : Tariffs/Trade Barriers | e512 : Physical Trade | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat :
Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gdip : International Relations | gpir :
Politics/International Relations
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020141014eaaf0002t

Page201of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.