Big strokes key in Australand block

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Big strokes key in Australand block

Joyce Moullakis and Robert Harley with Gretchen Friemann
1,142 words
22 March 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
39
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Australand

CapitaLand

876.6

Offer size ($m)

Inside the deal
Out of the blocks
Block trades exceeding $500m since 2011
Investment bank
Company
Vendor
UBS Transurban CPP Investment Board 903.3
Morgan StanleyFortescue MetalsTemasek
Citi
848.8
UBS Aurizon
UBS Transpacific Winburg Pincus
UBS Westfield Retail Trust
663.7
Deutsche/Craigs Sky Network Television News Corp
UBSTransurban CP2
631.3
UBS Carsales.com Nine Entertainment Co 565.6
UBSOil Search
562
UBS
Morgan Stanley APA
539.8
Petronas Australia
CIMB
UBSQR National
SOURCE: IRESS

Queensland government 806
672.4
Lowy Family

Fortescue MetalsTeck Resources

503
Queensland government 500

661.3

It was 3am on Wednesday when Stockland chief executive Mark Steinert got the crucial phone call.
Earlier on Tuesday evening, Steinert and his team had learnt that Singapore property giant CapitaLand
would sell its entire stake in Australand Property Group overnight – a 39 per cent parcel worth, back
then, about $850 million.
CapitaLand's chief financial officer Arthur Lang, also a member of the company's executive
management council, was heavily involved from Singapore. But there was a potential obstacle. After an
initial and smaller CapitaLand sell-down in November, conducted by Citigroup, a bilateral contract
governed a future block trade.
The company, which had been closely tracking Australand's stock, needed the investment bank to sign
off so the deal could be executed two months before the expiry of a lock-up period.
The deal team was led by Citigroup's local head of equity syndicate Rob Jahrling. The three times
Olympic rower, who joined Citigroup four years ago from Deutsche Bank in Hong Kong, likely drew on
his elite sporting skills and stamina as the deal team worked through the night.

Air strokes, to use a rowing term, were a risk but not an option.

Page117of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Potential investors – those that had been involved in the November block – were crossed well after the
market closed on Tuesday. Jahrling and his crew were attempting to gauge potential support and
interest in the trade, to decide whether to sign off on bringing the allowable sell-down date forward.

News of the block spread, and The Australian Financial Review's Street Talk column published a story
shedding some light on the transaction at about 9:30pm on Tuesday. Other investment banks are
thought to have made several desperate phone calls to CapitaLand in the evening, but Citigroup had this
one stitched up.

Stockland was interested and expressed this to Citigroup as the night wore on. With a lot of moving
pieces, sleep was overrated. Australand is a diversified property operation with strengths in sectors in
which Stockland has aspirations, such as apartment development and industrial real estate.

Stockland had done its homework. It had been into the Australand data room set up in the wake of GPT
Group's bid for Australand's non-residential assets in late 2012. And it had quietly amassed a 4.2 per
cent stake through a complex cash-settled return swap in December last year, again via Citigroup.

As word of the sell-down spread through the investment community, Citigroup had some tough calls to
make. The decision was made to opt for an accelerated – or overnight – book-build to ensure speedy
execution and avoid news of the sell-down affecting the transaction. (This move would later annoy
some investors who missed out on participating in the block trade.)

Stockland was betting that making the first strategic move on Australand would be an advantage.

A former UBS stalwart, Steinert took over from Stockland's veteran chief executive Matthew Quinn some
15 months ago and has quietly renewed its culture and focus. Steinert did not have a banker advising on
this deal but he has brought several leading property investment bankers in-house.

Simon Shakesheff, the head of strategy and stakeholder relations, is a former banker with both UBS and
Bank of America-Merrill Lynch. And so is Darren Rehn, who is now Stockland's chief investment officer.
(Steinert had also had general discussions with his board about a move on Australand.)

So the gun was primed, but as Tuesday night ticked over into Wednesday morning, it still had not gone
off for Stockland. Details, such as how much stock, and at what price, were still to be finalised. The 3am
call brought the details. Steinert finalised the size and the price, at a fraction above what the other
institutions in the trade were paying, and then at 4am cleared the deal with his chairman, Graham
Bradley.

Bradley, the chairman of Stockland since 2005, answered the phone on the first ring.
CapitaLand, advised by law firm Clayton Utz, was made aware that a strategic player would receive a
large tranche of stock. But in the early hours of Wednesday, the identity of the buyer was not revealed to
the seller.

This time, Australand was kept in the dark. In the November block trade, CapitaLand needed the target's
co-operation to issue a cleansing statement to enable the on-sale of the sale securities because the
Singaporean company had a controlling interest.

This time the target was out of the loop. Australand was officially communicated with after it was done. A
trading halt was ordered as Australand rallied its defence advisers, Fort Street and Macquarie Capital,
as temperatures were again rising. Law firm King & Wood Mallesons was also on deck.
Stockland had now obtained a 19.9 per cent strategic stake at an average price of $3.78 for a total of
$435 million. That was split between a 15.7 per cent direct interest and the 4.2 per cent indirect holding,
amassed earlier to evade market attention. Institutions had picked up shares at a slightly bigger discount
at $3.75 apiece.
Australand's chairman and CapitaLand's representative on the board, Olivier Lim, swiftly resigned as
chairman, and Paul Isherwood was tapped to take over in the role.

Given the hype, the information was digested quickly by the market and few believed it was game over
as Australand had been in play for a year.

The chunky block trade got a mixed response from analysts in the sector, as they crunched the numbers
on synergies and the broader implications of Steinert's strategic move. And some fund managers were
still throwing their oars overboard in frustration that they didn't get an opportunity to participate. The
shares rallied.

Page118of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AMP was quick out of the blocks with an increased substantial shareholder notice on Thursday, and on
Friday Stockland outlined its stake in more detail. Further substantial shareholder notices are expected
on Monday.
And with strategic property players and bankers already plotting their next move, there wasn't a lot of
time to celebrate this week.

ahlaus : Australand Property Group | ambol : Fortescue Metals Group Ltd | dbsl : CapitaLand Limited |
mergnz : Sky Network Television Ltd | ptrnas : Petroliam Nasional Berhad | qrntnl : Aurizon Holdings
Limited | teck : Teck Resources Ltd. | weztre : Westfield Retail Trust | ccred : Citigroup Inc. | traurb :
Transurban Group
i831 : Financial Investments | iinv : Investing/Securities | ifinal : Financial Services | i1 : Energy | i14 :
Petroleum/Coal Products | i14001 : Petroleum Refining | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i71 : Railroads | i814 :
Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150206 :
Investment Trusts/Funds | i815020602 : Real Estate Investment Trusts | i85 : Real Estate Transactions |
i8500031 : Residential Property Dealing/Owning | i97411 : Broadcasting | i9741102 : Television
Broadcasting | i974110204 : Pay-per-view Television | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | ibcs :
Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | icargo : Freight/Cargo Transport | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | iindstrls : Industrial Goods | imed : Media/Entertainment | imet : Mining/Quarrying |
irailtr : Road/Rail Transport | irdops : Highway Operation | ireest : Real Estate | irfrght : Railroad Freight |
irreal : Residential Real Estate | itsp : Transportation/Shipping
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | reqris : Suggested Reading Investing/Securities | redit : Selection of
Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140321ea3m0004i

CO

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page119of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.