COLLIERS WANTS SLICE OF FARM SALES

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

COLLIERS WANTS SLICE OF FARM SALES

Tim Cronshaw
503 words
20 September 2014
Manawatu Standard
TEVEST
10
English
© 2014 Fairfax New Zealand Limited. All Rights Reserved.

One of the largest real estate companies in the world has extended its reach to Canterbury's rural
market.

Colliers International has formed a new rural and agribusiness division led by national director Shane
O'Brien, the former Canterbury- Westland Real Estate Institute president, and director Ruth Hodges.

Both agents have handled more than $200 million worth of rural property deals in the past.
The company was attracted to farming's increasing corporate nature and has previously focussed
on commercial sales, with restricted rural selling to forestry and vineyards.
O'Brien said the rural market has become more sophisticated with a need for commercial thinking in
farm transactions to meet the expectations of buyers and sellers.

He said there was an ongoing appetite for technology, farm production and maximising pasture and
genetic performance criteria, but buyers wanted to know more about investment returns and
environmental restrictions on properties.
As farming operations grew with board of directors and governance structures, rural agents had to
change their approach, he said.
"When people go to buy and sell land their expectations of the rural agents is far more than 10 years
ago and they will be asking performance and environmental questions."

Buyers wanted more information about council and regional council rules, nutrient management,
water quality and reliability and the length of water consents when evaluating farmland.

O'Brien said family farming continued to be important, but structures were changing with at least 10
farmers owning or part- owning 10 farms, some of them in Canterbury, and corporates such as
MyFarm and overseas investors and pension schemes interested in investing in farmland.

He said overseas investors were likely to continue buying, despite slower expected sales from the
lower dairy payout following a high payout in the 2013-14 season and nearly three-fold increase in
sales.
Sales activity could increase later this season if the Chinese restock dairy inventories as predicted
and overseas interests would remain attracted by New Zealand's processing infrastructure, Fonterra
influence and free trade agreement with China.
O'Brien said Australian envy of the Fonterra model was obvious at a dairy farm investment forum
hosted by Dairy Australia in Melbourne on Monday and they wanted more overseas investment.

"All throughout the day they made references to New Zealand and the Fonterra model . . . New
Zealand land is keenly sought after by overseas investors. Some of them have been buying, but a lot
are looking and they are not all Chinese."

Page187of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The attraction was despite Canterbury's more expensive dairy farmland of $55,000 a hectare over
Australian values of AU$15,000/ha.

O'Brien said Saturday's election result could change the Overseas Investment Commission process
which could impact land values.

Colliers New Zealand chief executive Mark Synnott said the new partnership recognised the
increasingly corporate nature of the rural real estate market and the need to offer clients expert local
service backed by a global company.

Colliers expects to have rural listings next week.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | nz : New Zealand | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax New Zealand Limited
Document TEVEST0020140920ea9k0000r

Page188of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.