Herbert Smith Freehills advises Japara Healthcare Ltd on its Initial Public Offering 17 April 2014

HD Herbert Smith Freehills advises Japara Healthcare Ltd on its Initial Public Offering 17 April 2014
WC 864 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

18 April 2014
News Bites - Private Companies
NBPRCO
English
Copyright 2014. News Bites Pty Ltd.

NEWS BITES - PRIVATE COMPANIES
[Company Release]

TD

Herbert Smith Freehills has advised Japara Healthcare Limited on its A$525m initial public offering on the
Australian Securities Exchange. Macquarie Capital acted as lead manager and underwriter and CBA
Equities Limited and Morgans Corporate Limited were each co-lead managers.
This offering included a corporate restructure to amalgamate the operating entities and the property
investment trust of the Japara group under the new listed company.
Japara is one of the largest residential aged care operators of healthcare services in Australia servicing
over 3,000 residents nationally across 35 facilities located in Victoria, New South Wales, South Australia
and Tasmania.

Andrew Sudholz, CEO of Japara, said, "We are pleased with the outcome of our IPO and thank all our
advisers for making this complex transaction a smooth process."
The transaction was led by Herbert Smith Freehills' co-head of equity capital markets Michael Ziegelaar,
senior associate Cecilia Mehl and solicitor Andrew Earle. Herbert Smith Freehills banking experts Dan
Brealey and Christine Joo, head office advisory experts Priscilla Bryans and Stefanie Wilkinson, employee
relations expert Natalie Perrin, healthcare expert Natalie Bryce and property expert Sebastian Renato
were also part of the team.

Michael Ziegelaar said, "It has been really rewarding to contribute to Japara's success, having worked
closely with Japara since 2007. We wish Japara every success as a listed company and look forward to
continuing to work together with them."

Click here for the full original announcement
COMPANY BACKGROUND

ACTIVITIES
Herbert Smith Paris LLP offers legal advisory services. The firm is based in Paris, France. Herbert Smith
Paris LLP operates as a subsidiary of Herbert Smith LLP.

BUSINESS NEWS ROUND UP
17 April 2014: Herbert Smith Freehills advises on US$1 billion bond offering by Oil India Limited
[Company Release] Herbert Smith Freehills is pleased to announce that it has advised on a US$1 billion
dual-tranche note offering by state-run Oil India Limited. The deal is the largest ever bond issue from an
Indian public sector enterprise and also the largest ever Reg S-only issuance by an Indian company. The
firm's team on the transaction, led by Singapore partner Philip Lee, acted for Citi, Deutsche Bank, HSBC,
the Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) and Standard Chartered Bank as joint lead managers. Listed on the
Singapore Exchange, the offering comprised two tranches-a US$500 million 3.875% 5-year tranche and
a US$500 million 5.375% 10-year tranche.

Click here for the full original announcement

16 April 2014: Herbert Smith Freehills advises Japara Healthcare Ltd on its Initial Public Offering

Page183of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.[Company Release] Herbert Smith Freehills has advised Japara Healthcare Limited on its A$525m initial
public offering on the Australian Securities Exchange. Macquarie Capital acted as lead manager and
underwriter and CBA Equities Limited and Morgans Corporate Limited were each co-lead managers. This
offering included a corporate restructure to amalgamate the operating entities and the property
investment trust of the Japara group under the new listed company. Japara is one of the largest
residential aged care operators of healthcare services in Australia servicing over 3,000 residents
nationally across 35 facilities located in Victoria, New South Wales, South Australia and Tasmania.
Andrew Sudholz, CEO of Japara, said, "We are pleased with the outcome of our IPO and thank all our
advisers for making this complex transaction a smooth process." The transaction was led by Herbert
Smith Freehills' co-head of equity capital markets Michael Ziegelaar, senior associate Cecilia Mehl and
solicitor Andrew Earle.

Click here for the full original announcement

15 April 2014: Herbert Smith Freehills announces new appointments to Global Corporate Practice
[Company Release] Herbert Smith Freehills announced today new management arrangements for its
Corporate practice. With effect from 1 May 2014, Mike Ferraro will become Global Head of the Corporate
practice. Mike has been Joint Global Head of Corporate with overall responsibility for the London and
Australian Corporate teams since the merger of Herbert Smith and Freehills, and in that time has made a
major contribution to the performance of those regions.

Click here for the full original announcement
15 April 2014: Herbert Smith Freehills advises Shunfeng Photovoltaic on RMB3 Billion acquisition of
Wuxi Suntech Power
[Company Release] Herbert Smith Freehills has advised Shunfeng Photovoltaic International Limited on
the acquisition of 100% interests in Wuxi Suntech Power Co. Ltd. from its administrator for RMB3 billion
(US$482 million). The Herbert Smith Freehills team was led by Hong Kong partner Jason Sung, who
was supported by associates Ruth Lau, Eugene Lau and Jessica Leung in Hong Kong.

Click here for the full original announcement
14 April 2014: Herbert Smith Freehills advises Safran on its EUR200 million Eurobond Issue
[Company Release] Herbert Smith Freehills Paris LLP has advised Safran, a leading international
high-tech group with three core businesses: aerospace (engines and equipment), defence and security,
on a EUR200 million bond issue. The bonds are due to mature in 2024. The issue consisted of a private
placement listed on NYSE Euronext arranged by Morgan Stanley & Co.

Click here for the full original announcement

CO mcqbnk : Macquarie Group Limited | freeho : Freehills
IN

NS

RE

i814 : Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | i835 : Legal Services | ibcs :
Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
c1711 : Initial Public Offerings | c1521 : Analyst Comments/Recommendations | c1522 : Share Price
Movement/Disruptions | npress : Press Releases | c02 : Corporate Changes | c14 : Stock Listings | c15 :
Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | c17 : Funding/Capital | c171 : Share Capital | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce :
FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | india : India | fra : France | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
bric : BRIC Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | eecz :
European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | indsubz : Indian Subcontinent | medz : Mediterranean | sasiaz
: Southern Asia | weurz : Western Europe

IPD ACTIVITIES; BUSINESS NEWS ROUND UP
PUB News Bites Pty Ltd (Europe)
AN Document NBPRCO0020140418ea4i005bq

Page184of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.