Pitch to foreigners locks out locals before ‘for sale ’ sign goes up

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

TheNation
Pitch to foreigners locks out locals before ‘for sale’ sign goes up

Rick Wallace, Scott Murdoch
821 words
12 June 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
1
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

AUSTRALIAN real estate is being marketed and sold exclusively to foreign investors — including
Chinese millionaires — with local buyers not even aware the properties in question are up for sale.
More than 100 real estate firms have sprung up in mainland China, exclusively selling Australian real
estate — both fixed and off-the-plan — directly to wealthy Chinese investors, bypassing Australian
buyers.

At the upper end of the fixed-home market, prestige Sydney property agency Simeon Manners —
which says it has sold more than $100 million of Sydney property to “China’s most astute buyers and
investors” — operates a sales site that cannot be accessed from within Australia.
Director Mark Manners said many of the listings on the site — sydneyluxuryproperty.com — could only
be accessed from a foreign IP address and were private or off-market listings placed on behalf of
owners who wanted a discreet sale to a foreign purchaser.

Simeon Manners is just one of a swag of firms offering Australian fixed housing to foreign buyers.
Under Foreign Investment Review Board restrictions, the agents are not breaking the law but the
buyers potentially are.
Adelaide firm DG Real Estate’s Simon Hou said his firm sold many properties — including a $4.2m
mansion in the upmarket suburb of Unley — to wealthy mainland Chinese investors and had not had
the FIRB reject an approval in recent years.
It is estimated that Chinese buyers spent $5.9 billion on Australian real estate last year, in a market
worth $270bn.
The head of China-based online property portal juwai.com, Andrew Taylor, told The Australian there
were Australian developers “who have been marketing properties exclusively in China and Asia for
years”.

“There are vendors who don’t really want to put their home on the market but have a magic number
that they would be willing to sell at (who) often put their homes online without listing them in Australia,”
he said.
“That way they have exposure to the Chinese buyer without having to put up a sign board and do
open-for-inspections.” Juwai is a marketing site only, Continued on Page 6 Continued from Page 1 and
is not directly involved in the sale of properties.

The latest revelation of regulatory failure in Australia’s foreign-investment regime comes as federal
Labor MP Kelvin Thomson has labelled the FIRB “naive” and unwilling to prevent illegal foreign
investment in established homes, even though it is pricing young Australians out of housing.

Page191of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Thomson’s comments came after The Australian revealed that the FIRB had not prosecuted a
single foreign investor since 2010, despite a surge in offshore investment into Australian established
property, which is unlawful in all but a narrow range of circumstances.

Australia allows foreign investment in off-the-plan housing to boost supply but, aside from temporary
residents, foreigners cannot buy established houses. Temporary residents are obliged to sell houses
when they leave, but there is no evidence that this is occurring or being enforced.

The latest loophole on foreign-only sales was exposed in a recent parliamentary committee hearing in
which FIRB officials admitted there were no requirements for developments of less than 100 units to be
offered to local buyers, effectively allowing offshore-only sales channels to develop.
Juwai has calculated that Chinese investors accounted for $1 out of every $46 spent on real estate in
Australia last year.
Mr Taylor said the China-only sales route was “especially common with vendors who may have
overcapitalised with renovations or want more than the current market value”.

Mr Thomson said unlawful foreign investment in fixed housing was driving up prices at all levels, not
just the top end. It was pricing young Australians out of home ownership and tougher penalties and
enforcement were needed.

“I believe the FIRB is naive, under-resourced and doesn’t actually regard it as its mission to maintain
Australian ownership of Australian real estate,’’ he said. “Young Australians who can’t afford to buy
houses are the silent victims of its neglect and indifference.” Family First’s Victorian director Ashley
Fenn also expressed concerns about the revelations, saying foreign investors “ignore the laws in place
as they have become aware there is no real monitoring of foreign investment and there is no significant
consequence for breaching the laws”.

The chairwoman of the economics committee conducting the inquiry, Liberal MP Kelly O’Dwyer,
probed FIRB officials on the enforcement failings during the recent committee hearing, telling The
Australian yesterday, “ if you can’t enforce (the rules) you have to wonder whether people are going to
follow them”.

She said the committee would consider “if people are intending to do the wrong thing, and people do
the wrong thing, are the penalties strict enough?”.The FIRB was last night yet to respond to questions
put to it by The Australian.

IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
c182 : Asset Transactions | ereal : Real Estate Markets | npag : Page-One Stories | c18 : Ownership
Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic
Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin :
FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140611ea6c0001b

Page192of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.