Japan’s most powerful due to visit

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Japan’s most powerful due to visit

Exclusive: RICK WALLACE, TRADE
547 words
2 July 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
22
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

WHEN Japan’s Shinzo Abe comes to Australia this month he will bring with him a business delegation
whose companies’ market capitalisation is almost equal to the gross domestic product of Denmark.

The Japanese Prime Minister, who will address parliament and a business lunch in Canberra on July 8,
will be flanked by the heads of Japanese industrial giants Mitsubishi, Mitsui, Nippon Steel, NEC and
others.

Sir Rod Eddington, chairman of the Australia-Japan Business Co-operation Committee, said the
delegation affirmed the importance of Australia to Japan’s leading corporations.

“It shows the keen interest the Japanese have in seeking out opportunities in Australia across a whole
range of areas — not just the traditional areas of resources but agriculture and, increasingly, services
as well,’’ he told The Australian.

Sir Rod, the former chairman of Infrastructure Australia, said he expected Japanese companies to take
advantage of the opportunities emerging from the strong pipeline of state infrastructure projects coming
on stream.

Mr Abe will be joined by Nippon Steel honorary chairman and AJBCC co-chairman Akio Mimura and
other chairmen, presidents and chiefs of Japan’s industrial and financial giants.
Mitsubishi Corp, which has tens of billions of dollars invested in Australia and recently purchased a
controlling stake in Australian grain handler Olam, will be represented by its chairman Yorihiko Kojima.
Fellow trading house Mitsui, which has invested more than $13 billion here in the past 10 years, will
have its president and chief executive Masami Ijima on the trip.

The chief executive of banking giant Mizuho, Yasuhiro Sato, will accompany Mr Abe, along with
bosses of Itochu, JX Holdings, Kawasaki Heavy Industries, Inpex and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking
Corporation.

The chairmen of Japan Airlines and NEC will also join the trip. PwC Japan-based partner Jason Hayes
said most of the biggest names in Japanese industry were accompanying Mr Abe, but the attendees
were skewed towards resources, energy and agricultural investment.

“That’s understandable, as that has been the basis of the Australia-Japan relationship in the past, but it
would be nice to see a broader spectrum of delegates spanning the financial and services sectors too,’’
he said.

“This would reflect the changing nature of the Australia-Japan relationship as we go forward following
the signing of the free-trade agreement.

“In any case, it’s hoped these big names leave Australia more convinced that it is a good place to
expand their operations and that could even help convince Australian companies to invest more in

Page78of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Japan.” According to PwC analysis, the combined market capitalisation of the companies represented
is $330bn, a figure that exceeds the annual output of Singapore, Hong Kong, Finland and Ireland.
That total would be enough for these companies’ combined value to rank 35th out of 188 countries
listed in the IMF’s nominal GDP rankings.
After Canberra, Mr Abe is expected to visit Rio Tinto’s Pilbara operations and then travel to Perth for a
dinner.
Rio Tinto boss Sam Walsh is expected to lead an inspection of the mining giant’s driverless trains,
which rely heavily on Japanese technology and innovation.After Australia, Mr Abe is expected to visit
Papua New Guinea, where Japanese companies have extensive gas operations.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
jap : Japan | austr : Australia | auscap : Australian Capital Territory | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140701ea720005p

Page79of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.