Chinese entrants take on big boys

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PrimeSpace
Chinese entrants take on big boys

GREG BROWN BEN WILMOT
428 words
30 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
27
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

SMALLER Chinese developers are taking on major players Greenland Holding Group and
Starryland in a bid to secure a foothold in the hot Melbourne apartment market.

The low-profile AZX Pty Ltd has emerged as the buyer of two development lots at the former Carlton
& United Breweriessite in the inner-Melbourne suburb of Carlton, which Daniel Grollo-owned
developer Grocon offloaded for almost $60 million.

The private development company from China now has the task of developing about one-third of
the 2ha $1.2 billion urban renewal precinct. CBRE Melbourne City sales agents Mark Wizel, Josh
Rutman and Tom Tuxworth brokered the sale.
Greenland Holding Group made a big splash in the Victorian capital with the purchase of a
Flemington site from the Victoria Racing Club last year. Starryland is moving to offload a site it owns
in the city with approval for a 295-unit tower, with smaller Chinese players likely contenders.
Greenland Australia managing director Sherwood Luo said Chinese developers were attracted to
Melbourne because it was Australia’s fastest growing city. “Migration, students, education — these
are the factors that entice the investors,” Mr Luo said.

Starryland director Hao Liu said that Melbourne provided an easy entry for many international groups
as sites were cheaper than in Sydney. “Here in Sydney it can be double the price,” Mr Liu said. He
said the group aimed for a major foothold in Melbourne next year.
But the major groups are not outpacing the smaller Chinese players. Lorenz Grollo last month sold a
Collins Street site, the Makers Mark building at 466 Collins Street for $25 million, to Jeff Xu’s The
Golden Age Group.

Mr Grollo secured permission for a slender “pencil tower” to rise 55 levels and the well-regarded Mr
Xu now hopes to launch works at Makers Mark next year, with a 280-apartment project badged as
Collins House.
Mr Wizel has argued that the Chinese push for development sites — a subject of hot debate in
Australian real estate circles — has not dissipated. He notes that many of the high-profile
development sites are being bought by new Chinese entrants to the market.
“Every time our team stops to think about whether the run can continue, another group arrives at our
office signalling their intention to buy a development site to house a high density project,” he said.On
the firm’s numbers, development sites worth $2.15bn have been sold to mainland Chinese interests
in and around the Melbourne CBD.

CO

cub : Carlton United Breweries Pty Ltd | sgregc : Greenland Holding Group Company Limited | eldixl :
Foster's Group Ltd | sabrew : SABMiller PLC

Page32of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i427 : Brewing | i501 : Building Construction | i5010021 : Land
Development/Subdivision | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | icnp :
Consumer Goods | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | china : China | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141029eaau0004t

Page33of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.