Aluminum to Shine for Rio Tinto

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Aluminum to Shine for Rio Tinto

By Rhiannon Hoyle
862 words
6 August 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
15
English
Copyright © 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

SYDNEY -- Rio Tinto's results have followed a predictable theme in recent years: strong earnings from
iron ore and weak numbers from aluminum.

This year, investors expect something different.

A run-up in aluminum prices amid cutbacks by Chinese smelters and stronger-than-expected demand
in the West is providing positive earnings momentum to Rio Tinto Alcan.
In 2007 Rio Tinto spent US$38 billion on the acquisition of Canadian aluminum maker Alcan Inc.,
one of the costliest deals in global mining history in a bet that China and other developing Asian
economies would need more of a metal used in everything from soda cans to jumbo jets. The deal --
struck as aluminum prices reached their highest level in decades -- quickly soured as demand
plummeted during the financial crisis and China increased production.

For resource companies contemplating big acquisitions, the Alcan deal is held up as a cautionary tale.
Rio Tinto's aluminum business has taken US$25 billion in write-downs over the past seven years and
contributed to the departure of Tom Albanese as chief executive last year. When Rio Tinto tried to sell
aluminum assets in 2011, there was no buyer.

But investors expect that Rio Tinto's first-half earnings report on Thursday will show that aluminum
isn't only enjoying improved prospects, but outperforming many other commodities that the company
produces, including coal for energy production.
Even iron ore, which accounts for the majority of Rio Tinto's earnings, is sputtering. The price of the
steel ingredient has fallen sharply this year amid fears of a supply glut. UBS expects Rio Tinto's
iron-ore profit to fall 11% from a year earlier.
Rio Tinto is expected to report underlying group earnings of US$4.69 billion for the half, up 11%,
based on the median forecast of seven analysts polled.

"Finally, aluminum may have its day," said Ric Ronge, a fund manager at Pengana Capital in
Melbourne, Australia, who owns shares in Rio Tinto.

UBS analyst Glyn Lawcock late last month increased his forecast for annual earnings at Rio Tinto's
aluminum unit by 4% to US$659 million -- compared with the unit's US$557 million profit last year.

The Sydney-based analyst said Rio Tinto's earnings from aluminum are likely to be driven by the same
factors aiding U.S.-based Alcoa Inc., an industry bellwether. While higher prices play a part, Alcoa and
other aluminum makers also have cut costs sharply. Alcoa recently said its primary metals business,
long a drag on earnings, returned to a profit in the second quarter after it cut spending and reduced
costs.

Analysts say that improved fundamentals in the aluminum market indicate that Rio Tinto's profit from
the metal will continue to rebound. UBS thinks aluminum could contribute as much as US$1.01 billion
to Rio Tinto's earnings in 2016, as China cuts output to reduce pollution from aging smelters and stem
domestic overcapacity.

Page169of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Some analysts believe demand will outpace supply this year for the first time since 2007. J.P. Morgan
forecasts an aluminum deficit of 439,000 metric tons this year, compared with a surplus of more than
two million tons during the financial crisis. The bank has raised its forecast for aluminum prices in
2015 by 12% to US$2,125 a ton, compared with around US$2,020 a ton today.

Australia & New Zealand Banking Group says the outlook for metal prices is uncertain, however,
explaining that Chinese production cuts may be shallower than expected amid pressure for provinces
to meet economic-growth targets.

Still, aluminum's fledgling recovery is good news for investors and analysts who worry that Rio Tinto is
too reliant on iron-ore production and vulnerable to hiccups in China's urbanization, which has driven
global demand for steel used in new skyscrapers, bridges and railways.

Rio Tinto's Alcan deal was driven by a desire to become more diversified, able to balance drops in
prices of some commodities with higher profit from others. Instead, commodity prices have tended to
fall across the board, and Rio Tinto has responded by cutting exposure to smaller units, such as coal
and copper, and seeking buyers for entire divisions, including diamonds.
Rio Tinto recently installed former oil-and-gas executive Alfredo Barrios to run the aluminum business.
Few investors think his appointment will lead to a shift in strategy, with cost controls continuing to drive
decisions.

Rio Tinto has closed or curtailed 600,000 tons of aluminum production since 2009. It also has scaled
back output of alumina, an ingredient in aluminum, notably through the closure of its Gove refinery in
Australia's Northern Territory. In December, Rio Tinto said it wouldn't make significant new
investments in alumina or aluminum for the foreseeable future.

Investors expect that strategy will pay off.

"The combination of cleaning the division up, shutting sites and selling bits and pieces at a time when
the aluminum price has exceeded expectations, could certainly lead to a positive surprise this week,"
said Pengana's Mr. Ronge.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

CO
IN

NS

RE

IPC
PUB
AN

alal : Rio Tinto Alcan | craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd | rtz : Rio Tinto PLC | rtzcra : Rio Tinto Group
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2245 : Aluminum | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i22 : Primary Metals | i224 :
Non-ferrous Metals | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | c15 :
Performance | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | eurz : Europe | sydney : Sydney | uk : United Kingdom | apacz : Asia
Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz
: European Union Countries | nswals : New South Wales | weurz : Western Europe
ABO
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document AWSJ000020140805ea8600010

Page170of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.