Neighboring countries a lucrative option in property investment

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Neighboring countries a lucrative option in property investment

909 words
13 June 2014
The Jakarta Post
JKPOST
18
English
(c) 2014 The Jakarta Post

Ruth Ninajanty,

Helios Residences: (Courtesy of Wing Tai Holdings)

Political and economic stability, favorable foreign ownership rules and strategic locations are fueling
demand for overseas properties among Indonesians.
Hartono, a father of three, originally rented an apartment in Singapore for his sons who were studying
in the country. Later, he decided to buy his own apartment. "I never meant it for investment. It's simply
for my children who were studying there, and for me and my wife when visiting them."
He thought of renting the apartment when his children left for their academic exploits in Australia.
"However, with my current job requiring me to commute between Singapore and Jakarta, and one of
my sons going to work in Singapore, I decided to make use of the apartment for my family's
accommodation needs. It's actually making life easier," he said.
Hartono is one of many Indonesians who own property abroad as an investment and for family stay
purposes. Relatively easy requirements govern foreign ownership of condominiums and apartments in
Singapore.

On top of that, foreigners are eligible for Singapore dollar mortgage loans. According to data published
by the Far East Organization, 27 percent of private residential property buyers in Singapore are
foreign buyers, the majority from Indonesia and China, followed by Malaysia, South Korea, the UK, the
US and Australia.
Owning property in Singapore is conducive for foreign buyers owing to the country's political stability,
strong economy, clear foreign ownership law, as well as competitive pricing on new homes as the
result of a cooling measures policy created by the Singapore government years ago.
While people like Hartono picked a property location based on the proximity to school and the
workplace, others may consider different factors. Singapore Real Estate Exchange (SRX), an
association of leading real estate agencies in Singapore, recommends investors take a second look at
property locations before deciding on a purchase.

In its press release, the association suggests "Geylang is situated in an excellent location, surrounded
by expressways with quick access to downtown, Marina Bay, East Coast Park and other points of
interest. What Geylang needs is some re-zoning and a facelift to enable the area to compete with the
more fashionable neighboring areas."

Other prime locations are Novena and Balestier.

Singapore Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) released a report that 1,964 uncompleted private
residential units were up for sale in the first quarter of 2014. One of the latest projects by MCL Land is
Lakeville, located in Jurong West Singapore, which sold 210 of 230 units back in April. The
condominium project is scheduled to be completed sometime in 2017.

Page51of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Australia is another sought-after property location among Indonesians. Many of them share the same
view as those investing in Singapore in that political stability and a strong economy in both countries
secures their long-term objectives of property investment.

Foreign investments have significantly contributed to Australia's income gain. In 2012 - 2013,
Australia's Foreign Investment Review Board (FIRB) gave permission for foreigners to purchase
residential properties, leading to the country gaining an additional A$17 billion (US$15.79 billion) in the
housing market.
A recent survey conducted by NAB Quarterly Australian Residential Property found that foreign
buyers now accounted for 13.9 percent of total new property and 9.5 percent of existing property
demand. The same survey also revealed that in Queensland, foreign buyers made up 24.4 percent of
the demand.

Burgeoning interest has increased the supply of new developments, as non-residents aren't allowed to
purchase previously owned property in Australia. Every property purchased is subject to approval
from FIRB. It is advised that foreign buyers obtain FIRB's approval before committing to purchasing any
new housing unit. However, if a developer has obtained preapproval to sell their properties to foreign
residents then that particular buyer does not need FIRB's approval.

In big cities across Australia, new high-rise towers are located in the city center. One of the popular
developments is Leighton Properties' Mosaic in Fortitude Valley, Brisbane. The mixed-use residence
offers "a unique lifestyle through the development's fabulous amenities, including a concierge service
offering room service and cleaning, a rooftop garden and an entertainment area along with cafes and
other retail outlets," explained Gavin Tonnet of Leighton Properties. The development features 212
apartments, a 48-room boutique hotel, more than 3,000 sq m of retail and commercial space and a
600 sq m residents-only rooftop garden.

"The integrated use of areas at Mosaic sets it apart from other developments. We're reinventing the
urban backyard concept by creating one of Brisbane's largest rooftop gardens complete with grassed
areas, private garden plots for green thumbs and modern entertaining and barbecue areas," Tonnet
added.

Discovery Point at Wolli Creek, Sydney is another example. The new development offers stunning
views from its apartment windows. Its developer, Australand, stated that 80 percent of the available
units were sold out when the property was launched in December last year. And the project's north
tower is slated to be on the market by 2015, with 75 percent of its units overlooking Cooks River.

Discovery Point is located within 10 kilometers from the central business district and right next to Wolli
Creek train station.
Australia is one of the strongest countries for property price growth, according to the Knight Frank
Global House Price Index.

RE

IPD
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | indon : Indonesia | brisbn : Brisbane | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | queensl :
Queensland | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
SUPPLEMENT
PT Bina Media Tenggara
Document JKPOST0020140613ea6d0001a

Page52of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.