Carpentaria Exploration Limited - Independent review endorses Hawsons transport plan

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Carpentaria Exploration Limited - Independent review endorses Hawsons transport plan

972 words
30 April 2014
ENP Newswire
ENPNEW
English
(c) 2014, Electronic News Publishing. All Rights Reserved.

Release date - 29042014

Carpentaria Exploration Limited (ASX: CAP) has had its claims of the cost advantages of the Hawsons
Iron Project supported with an independent review finding the Company’s preferred iron concentrate
transport plan offers the lowest capital and operating cost option.

A review of options by independent infrastructure advisory Balance Resources found Carpentaria’s
chosen solution ‘contains no fatal flaws that will prevent the project moving its product to port, based on
the information provided to date’. Balance also said it considered the Company’s solution ‘efficient and
viable’ and provides the lowest cost option.

Anticipated transport costs from rail loading at Broken Hill to ship loading offshore at Port Pirie, South
Australia have been estimated at approximately $21 per tonne, an amount Balance said was ‘reasonable’.

The findings were based on a transport solution comprising:

1. Construction of a dedicated slurry pipeline from the mine site to a location in Broken Hill;

2. De-watering of product, stockpiling at a location in Broken Hill;

3. Transfer of product onto rail, for transport via the existing Australian Rail Track Corporation (ARTC)
track to Port Pirie;

4. Unloading and stockpiling of product at the port;

5. Transfer of product onto barges, for transhipment offshore to Cape-size vessels.

Eastern Australia’s biggest magnetite project, Hawsons, is a joint venture (JV) between Carpentaria (60%
stake) and private resources investor Pure Metals Pty Ltd (40%) and is located 60 kilometres south-west
of Broken Hill.

Welcoming the report’s findings, Carpentaria’s Managing Director, Quentin Hill said: ‘This endorsement
by independent experts should give added confidence to shareholders and investors in the ultimate
development of this major magnetite project. Significantly, the identified transport solution uses existing
infrastructure that provides key competitive advantages, including lower capital costs and faster
development and permitting timeframes compared to other Australian and offshore iron projects.‘

He said the joint venture and port operator Flinders Ports were in discussions about additional
engineering studies to advance the project and it is the JV’s intention to provide the Port Pirie community
with a sustainable export solution using the best modern technology that is acceptable to all parties.

Balance’s review investigated a number of transport solutions for the project and concluded that
Carpentaria’s present case is the appropriate solution for a proposed start-up operation of 10 million
tonnes per annum (Mtpa). Carpentaria believes the deposit has the potential to support higher production
and this base case could provide time and cash flow to allow increased scale when appropriate.

Importantly, Balance said that it supports the claim that there would be capacity for 10 Mtpa of magnetite
concentrate on the existing ARTC rail track between Broken Hill and Port Pirie, with only minimal capital

Page63of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.investment and that barging and transhipping at Port Pirie offers the most viable short-term solution to
allow the export of product from the project.

The favourable review builds on the positive development base-case announced on 19 February 2014,
which showed that matching the project’s size to the existing 10 Mtpa capacity of existing rail, power and
port infrastructure had the potential to deliver robust returns on investment.

Mr. Hill said: ‘Now that the development base-case has been set, we look forward to progressing the
infrastructure components, including water, rail, power and port studies and the necessary regulatory
agreements over the next twelve months.

‘This phase of work will seek to increase the certainty of all elements of infrastructure and the joint
venture looks forward to achieving further infrastructure-related milestones that will be key to unlocking
shareholder value and delivering the bankable feasibility study’.
The recent expansion of the total contained iron concentrate in Inferred and Indicated Resources to an
estimated 263 million tonnes, while maintaining a premium grade of 69.7% Fe and just 2.9% SiO2, was
another milestone in the development of Hawsons. The joint venture is also progressing an
Environmental Impact Statement for the project, which is set for completion in early 2015.
About Hawsons Iron Project
The Hawsons Iron Project is located 60 km southwest of Broken Hill and includes total Inferred and
Indicated magnetite Resources of 1.77 billion tonnes at a Davis Tube Recovery (DTR) of 14.9% (12%
cut off) containing 263 million tonnes of high grade (69.7% Fe) concentrate.

The project is exceptionally well located, with existing power, water, rail and port infrastructure available
for a 10 Mtpa start-up operation and has a mining lease application has been lodged. A bankable
feasibility study is underway targeting second quartile cost curve, for costs to land product in China (CFR)
that will be a significant project buffer to iron-ore price fluctuations. The target capital cost of less than $2
billion is also very globally competitive for large-scale iron-ore mining projects.

Hawsons soft rock is a very different concept to traditional hard rock magnetite and requires
fundamentally different thinking to the typical magnetite mining and processing challenges, both technical
and cost related. The soft rock enables simple liberation of a premium magnetite product without complex
and expensive flow sheets. Carpentaria’s Braemar South project south west of Hawsons, in South
Australia has similar properties and also has potential as a magnetite producer and is awaiting follow up
work.

About Balance Resources
Balance Resources is a respected advisory company providing specialist support and advice to the
resources, infrastructure and construction sectors. The company provides tailored solutions and advice
in off-site infrastructure regarding rail, port, water and power for bulk commodities in Australia and
internationally. For more information, refer to http://balanceresources.com.au/

Contact:

Quentin Hill Managing Director Carpentaria Exploration Limited Tel: +61 7 3022 2022

[Editorial queries for this story should be sent to newswire@enpublishing.co.uk]

CO
IN

NS

caxplo : Carpentaria Exploration Limited
i5020017 : Harbor Construction | i502 : Heavy Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | i212 : Metal Mining Support Activities | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
c184 : Joint Ventures | gtrans : Transport | npress : Press Releases | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir :
Politics/International Relations | gplan : Urban Planning/Development | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Electronic News Publishing Ltd.
AN

Document ENPNEW0020140430ea4u000fj

Page64of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.