Singaporean Fund Manager Eyes Korea, China, Australia

Venilia Batista Amorim

Singaporean Fund Manager Eyes Korea, China , Australia

HD
BY
WC 318 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

29 April 2014
Global Money Management
GLOMM
English
© Copyright 2014. Euromoney Trading Limited

Lion Global Investors, a Singaporean fund manager, has picked Australia, China and South Korea to
grow assets as its Asia Pacific equity strategy has beat the broad market over the past half year. The
manager, which has SGD29.4 billion (GBP14.7 billion) in assets under management, is looking to
China’s urbanization as an economic growth engine. More than half the world’s largest population lives in
cities, a boon to consumer spending.

More details on that urbanization are expected in November after the Communist Party plenum, the
27-year-old fund manager said in its fourth quarter outlook on Oct. 18. It also hints of relief from China’s
economic slowdown since 2011. “We expect the improving data trend in China to continue over the next
few months, with Premier Li [Keqiang] likely to continue his pro-growth stance until there is confidence
that growth in the second half of 2013 will be around 7.5%,” the outlook stated.

TD

In South Korea, domestic consumption and “proven global brand names and exporters” give Lion cause to
“remain positive” on equities, the outlook continued. Those brands include Samsung Electronics and LG
Electronics, both of which market research firm Gartner ranks among the world’s top five smart-phone
sellers.

Australia looks better because with the Coalition government’s return “the key uncertainty of unpredictable
and business unfriendly policies has been removed,” the quarterly outlook reported. As a result, Lion
favours cyclical exposure to companies “with a strong domestic franchise.” The firm is also bullish on real
estate and construction in Japan as Tokyo builds up ahead of the 2020 Olympics. It takes a more cautious
approach to Southeast Asia.

Lion’s Asia Pacific equities strategy picks stocks that are underweight to markets and sectors, such as
finance and energy, and that may be exposed to China’s economy.

IN

NS
RE

i83107 : Portfolio/Fund/Asset Management | i831 : Financial Investments | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv :
Investing/Securities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
china : China | austr : Australia | singp : Singapore | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries
| dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | seasiaz : Southeast Asia

PUB Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC
AN

Document GLOMM00020140520ea4t000jx

Page108of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.