MMG moves on copper giant

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
MMG moves on copper giant

Peter Klinger
411 words
15 April 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
First
2
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

The final condition of Glencore’s $US29 billion takeover of Xstrata last year is set to be satisfied
within months after the merged group struck a deal to sell one of the world’s biggest copper projects
to China’s MMG.
The $US5.85 billion ($6.23 billion) sale of Las Bambas, bought by Xstrata in a Peruvian
government-run auction for $US121 million in 2004, was long expected but only announced
yesterday, and is due to settle next quarter.

It now focuses attention on what GlencoreXstrata expects to do with the proceeds. The deal also
confirms that China remains in the hunt for quality mining assets at a time when BHP Billiton and
Rio Tinto are streamlining their portfolios and Anglo American is seen as vulnerable to a takeover.
Las Bambas is the biggest deal done by MMG, the Melbourne-based but Chinese-controlled miner
run by former WMC Resources managing director Andrew Michelmore.

MMG inherited most of its assets by buying the bulk of OZ Minerals, including Golden Grove in the
Mid West, but will be transformed by Las Bambas and its 10.5 million tonne copper resource and
6.9mt reserve.
About 56 per cent built and $US2 billion left to be spent on its construction, Las Bambas should
produce 400,000t a year by 2017 to become one of the world’s biggest copper mines.

“Assets of this quality and scale are rarely available,” Mr Michelmore said.
Glencore Xstrata chief executive Ivan Glasenberg said the sale proceeds would “materially de-gear
(our) balance sheet”.

“Glencore will continue to look for opportunities to reinvest capital in line with our published returns
criteria,” he said.
Glencore and Xstrata had committed to selling Las Bambas to satisfy Chinese competition
regulators nervous about the merged miners’ influence over global copper supply.

Mr Michelmore said the deal had been an exhaustive eight-month process and MMG’s other merger
and acquisition ideas had been largely put on hold.

MMG is expected to continue its search for more assets once Las Bambas is bedded down.

The spotlight will also be on Glencore’s next move. It is likely to take a close look at the Nickel West
business put up for sale by BHP Billiton.

MMG is also likely to have a look at Nickel West, an asset Mr Michelmore knows well from his WMC
days before the company was taken over by BHP.

Page142of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

golpla : OZ Minerals Limited | bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | orieml : MMG Limited | bltplc : BHP Billiton
PLC | cminmc : China Minmetals Corporation | imreht : Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel Rare-Earth
(Group) Hi-Tech Co Ltd | lawspr : Minmetals Land Limited | march : Glencore Xstrata PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | i2245 : Aluminum |
ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140414ea4f00009

Page143of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.