Aussie listing scoped

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Aussie listing scoped

Dinesh Nair
412 words
11 October 2014
Herald-Sun
HERSUN
HeraldSun
62
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

DEALS GLENCORE, the Swiss commodities trader that approached Rio Tinto with a takeover
proposal, has explored plans to list in Australia.

The group has spoken with major investors to gauge their interest, sources say. The Swiss
company has not made a final decision and it is unclear if the group is still considering the plan.

Executives at Glencore, which is based in the city of Baar, are understood to have discussed the
proposal with key investors mid year.

The news comes after it emerged this week that Glencore had approached Rio in July about a
potential buyout.

Rio revealed on Tuesday it had unanimously rejected the plan and there had been “no further
contact between the companies on this matter”.
If the companies were to merge, it would spawn a $182 billion titan — the world’s biggest mining
company with commanding positions in iron ore, copper, nickel, zinc and coal.
Glencore is listed in London, Hong Kong and Johannesburg. If the group were to list in Australia, it
would be a secondary listing.
Australia would be an attractive addition as it offered the opportunity to broaden the company’s
shareholder base in a country where investors understood mining stocks, one of the sources said.

After being rebuffed by Rio’s board, Glencore reached out to Rio’s biggest investor — Aluminium
Corporation of China — to gauge its interest in a potential deal in the next year, people familiar
with the matter said earlier in the week.

Glencore has said it is no longer actively considering an offer for Rio, barring it in most
circumstances from making a renewed bid for six months under UK takeover rules.

Glencore’s interest in an Australian listing is believed to have predated the approach to Rio.

But trading shares in the country would make it easier for Rio’s Australian shareholders to
participate in an offer that included stock, a source said.
Rio is listed in Australia and the UK. The company is an investor mainstay in Australia and derives
more than 80 per cent of its profit from iron ore mines in Western Australia’s Pilbara region.
Glencore is one of the biggest mining companies operating in Australia. Glencore shares have
risen 8.4 per cent this year in London, compared with a 4 per cent decline in the benchmark FTSE
100 Index.

Page119of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Rio shares tumbled 3 per cent to $57.26 yesterday, outstripping falls in the broader
market.BLOOMBERG

craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd | march : Glencore PLC | rtz : Rio Tinto PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document HERSUN0020141010eaab0003v

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

Page120of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.