Cerberus makes £2.3bn real estate bet

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY

LP

TD

Cerberus makes £2.3bn real estate bet

Claer Barrett in London and Jennifer Hughes in Hong Kong
681 words
17 December 2014
05:55
Financial Times (FT.Com)
FTCOM
English
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles
and redistribute by email or post to the web.

Cerberus has acquired two portfolios of distressed property loans for £2.3bn as the US private equity
group bets on a strengthened recovery in regional values in the UK and Irish commercial property
markets.
Already one of the biggest buyers of distressed real estate from banks seeking to de-risk their loan
books, Cerberus agreed on Tuesday to acquire a £1.2bn portfolio of commercial property loans from
National Australia Bank, and a further £1.1bn portfolio of Irish commercial real estate loans from the
Royal Bank of Scotland.

At a time when overseas investors are driving down yields on trophy assets in central London, private
equity groups and hedge funds have become increasingly interested in the long-term recovery
prospects of debt secured on regional property assets, which they perceive as better value.
The RBS portfolio comprises loans on more than 5,000 commercial properties in Ireland, including
shops, offices, hotels and industrial units. Approximately three-quarters of the assets are in the Republic
of Ireland and a quarter in Northern Ireland - both markets where commercial property values plunged
steeply after the financial crisis.
RBS announced the asset sale an hour after it was revealed to have passed stress tests set by the
Bank of England. The Cerberus deal is expected to complete in the first quarter of next year.
RBS said that the carrying value of the property loans was about £1bn, but the value of the gross
assets was close to £4.8bn. The portfolio generated a loss of £800m in the year to December 2013
"primarily in impairment provisions".
The £1.2bn NAB deal builds on £625m parcel of largely non-performing loans that the bank sold to
Cerberus in July as the bank's new chief executive accelerates its British exit.
A Cerberus spokesman said the group is "is a patient and long-term investor with a twenty-year track
record of successfully restructuring distressed real estate loans while supporting improvements to the
underlying assets. We look forward to managing this important portfolio."

NAB, one of Australia's Big Four lenders, has long sought to extract itself from a pre-crisis era
expansion into the UK, where its biggest remaining holdings are the Clydesdale and Yorkshire banks -
for which it is examining options that include an initial public offering.

"This is an important step forward, effectively bringing closure to one of our legacy positions," said
Andrew Thorburn, NAB chief executive.
The portfolio consists of mainly defaulted, at-risk or high loan-to-value property loans, the bank said.
The sale leaves NAB with an £836m portfolio of performing loans for which the bank said it would
examine other options.
When completed, Tuesday's sale would release £127m of capital, NAB said, adding that it would no
longer report its UK loan portfolio as a separate line of business.

Page56of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Thorburn took over in April, well aware of investor impatience with the Australian lender's slow
withdrawal from the UK. Shareholders have urged the bank to focus more on its home markets, viewing
its venture halfway around the world as a costly mistake.
NAB first announced plans to close its UK property arm and dispose of a £5.6bn loan book in 2012,
under then chief executive Cameron Clyne.

Mr Thorburn said the Cerberus deal was "another important milestone in our strategy of reducing our
low returning legacy assets and sharpening our focus on our core Australian and New Zealand
franchises".

Shares in NAB were flat in afternoon trading in Sydney, beating a 0.8 per cent slide in the wider market.

The bank has, however, underperformed its Big Four rivals this year, down 10 per cent compared with a
4 per cent gain for Commonwealth Bank, the biggest of the country's banks.

As part of its retreat homeward, NAB in October pulled back from the US via the flotation of 28 per cent
of Great Western Bank, for which it received $288m. Further selldowns are planned over time.

ncbnk : National Australia Bank Ltd | cercap : Cerberus Capital Management LP
i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ireest : Real Estate | i8150203 : Private Equity |
i814 : Banking | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | ialtinv : Alternative Investments | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | uk : United Kingdom | ire : Ireland | namz : North America | usa : United States | apacz
: Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz :
Western Europe
Economic News
EN
The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)
Document FTCOM00020141216eacg002bd

CO
IN

NS

RE

IPD
IPC
PUB
AN

Page57of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.