Penfolds aims for top of the liquor cabinet

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Penfolds aims for top of the liquor cabinet

Simon Evans
857 words
28 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
37
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Luxury Treasury undergoing shake-up to realign brands.

Louis Vuitton, Christian Dior, Gucci, Prada, Cartier, Moet & Chandon, Penfolds. Is there an odd one
out?

The venerable Penfolds, which has a history stretching back to 1844, is preparing to make a concerted
push to elevate itself to join the ranks of the world's luxury goods brands. It is vying for the same
increased status as Australian boot maker R.M.Williams, which itself has grand plans to become a
global heavyweight now that a private equity firm backed by luxury goods giant LVMH Moet Hennessy
Louis Vuitton holds a 49.9 per cent stake.

One part of Penfolds is already in this rarefied air: the $785-per-bottle Penfolds Grange, which has
earned its spot as a luxury item around the world and is Australia's most famous wine. But those
wanting a cheap and cheerful bottle of red to go with their chops and steak on the barbecue only have
to pay around $12.80 for a Penfolds Koonunga Hill shiraz.

The gulf between the top and bottom of the Penfolds range is one of the great conundrums for the
brand, which makes up 75 per cent of the total profits generated by Treasury Wine Estates.
Treasury's new chief executive Mike Clarke is trying to overhaul the company to act more like the
custodian of fine wine brands and less like a grocery business stuffing its product onto shelves in a
rush towards the end of each financial year to make sure it meets its profit targets. Mike Clarke, CEO
Treasury Wines Photo: Arsineh Houspian

Clarke, a British food executive who joined Treasury on March 31, is implementing the biggest
shake-up at Penfolds in 20 years. He's shifting the release date of high-end Penfolds wines each year
to mid-October, away from the usual March and May. The obsession with Penfolds Grange among fine
wine buffs reaches fever pitch each year on May 1 when the latest drop is released, so it requires a
substantial shift in consumer behaviour.

A plus for Treasury is the 2010 Penfolds Grange, which will come out of the blocks in October, eight
months before its previously slated release date, is from a harvest that produced high-quality
wines.Top scores from those in the know

Peter Gago, who has been Penfolds chief winemaker for the past 12 years and has been with Penfolds
for 25 years, is absolutely convinced of the merits of the 2010. His 2008 Penfolds Grange received 100
points out of 100 from esteemed US wine publication the Wine Spectator, and a similar perfect score
from noted US wine critic Robert Parker.
Mr Gago already struts the international stage conducting wine tastings and master classes with the
elite, and only last week was in Monaco holding court at a gathering of hedge funds and investment
firms eager to taste the top-tier Penfolds wines. "Grange has cachet. It has crowd appeal. It's real
currency," he said.

Page21of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.He has a vested interest, but Mr Gago said the shift to later in the calendar year has been championed
by the winemaking staff for years but had been resisted by corporate executives until Mr Clarke came
along. "This has been something the winemakers at Penfolds have been pushing for since I've been
here," he said.

Luxury goods sales generally are growing at a quicker rate than other retail staples around the world. A
report last year by consulting firmBain & Co estimated that luxury goods would grow 50 per cent faster
than world GDP and break through the €250 billion ($361 billion) mark by 2015. This is being driven
by higher consumption by increasingly mobile tourists, the rise of the middle class in emerging
countries like China and India and growth in a strand of society that Bain & Co termed "HENRYs" –
High Earnings, Not Rich Yet – who like to splash their cash around.

So how will Penfolds fare as it pushes to move up the ranks? Mr Clarke is undertaking a structural
separation inside Treasury where the luxury brands such as Penfolds will be overseen by a separate
unit away from more commercial brands such as Rosemount and Lindemans.
Professor Mark Ritson, a retailing expert from the Melbourne Business School said the definition of
what is a luxury item keeps changing and there is no hard and fast rule. "In Australia 40 years ago
having a colour television was deemed to be a luxury good," he said.

He believes Mr Clarke is heading in the right direction with his plans, but there are question marks
about having the brand selling at relatively low prices for some labels, right up to the top-tier Grange.
"The question you should ask is whether the brand architecture can take it?" Professor Ritson said.
He compares that approach to the Volkswagen Group in the automotive group which has different
brands for different price points. It owns Audi at the upper end, Volkswagen at the mid-tier and Skoda
as a cheaper brand.

CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

vuimth : LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton
icnp : Consumer Goods | iluxgds : Luxury Goods
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140627ea6s00011

Page22of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.