Envestra backing for Cheung Hong takeover stymies APA

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business - Trading Room
Envestra backing for Cheung Hong takeover stymies APA

Angela Macdonald-Smith
464 words
31 May 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
38
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Energy

Pipeline owner APA Group is expected to concede defeat in the takeover battle for Envestra after the
gas distributor struck a $2.37-billion deal for a takeover by its second-biggest shareholder, Cheung
Kong Group.

The Hong Kong group's $1.32 a share cash bid, announced earlier in May, has won the
recommendation of Envestra's independent directors, who had previously backed the mostly scrip bid
from APA, the target's largest shareholder.

APA, led by managing director Mick McCormack, has a reputation for going aggressively after
takeovers. However Cheung Kong's all-cash offer is regarded as a full price and one difficult to beat by
the local company. Envestra shareholders will also be entitled to a final dividend of up to 3.5¢ per
security.

Mr McCormack wasn't available for comment on Friday, but analysts said he suggested on a field trip
earlier this week that the Cheung Kong offer was high.

They have already started calculating APA's capacity for a capital return to shareholders, as few
expect APA will remain a shareholder of Envestra under Cheung Kong's control, seeing it opting to sell
its stake into the offer.

"Selling into the bid would generate significant cash for APA, giving it more capacity to fund growth
and/or undertake capital management initiatives," said Morgans analyst Nathan Lead.
RBC Capital Markets calculates that should APA sell its stake to Cheung Kong, the $790 million of
proceeds would open the door to a potential buyback at $7 a share. It said that could lift its valuation of
APA by 4 per cent to $7.47 a share and lift free cash flow.

RBC said APA would need to raise its offer by 15 per cent to 20 per cent to be clearly superior to
Cheung Kong's bid, and already doubts whether its existing offer would add value.

APA shares added 10¢ or 1.5 per cent to $6.99 as investors, many of whom are unconvinced about
the merits of an Envestra takeover, appeared to welcome the possibility APA would walk away.

Envestra securities also climbed, up 1.5¢ to $1.36.
The acquisition of Envestra will add to Cheung Kong's existing regulated assets in Australia, including
51 per cent stakes in SA Power Networks in South Australia, CitiPower and Powercor in Victoria.
"Given that 80 per cent of Envestra's gas coverage is in South Australia and Victoria, the acquisition
would enable us to further share our expertise and to explore opportunities for synergy," Cheung Kong

Page214of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.managing director H.L. Kam said. Cheung Kong's offer is subject to only 50 per cent acceptances from
Envestra shareholders.

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

envest : Envestra Ltd.
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140530ea5v0004e

Page215of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.