Act now: Baosteel to Aquila investors

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Act now: Baosteel to Aquila investors

Sarah-Jane Tasker
520 words
24 June 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
20
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

BAOSTEEL and Aurizon are urging shareholders of Aquila Resources to accept their $1.4 billion offer
immediately and not wait, as advised by the target.

Aquila outlined in its target statement on Friday that shareholders should accept the $3.40-a-share bid
in the absence of a superior offer but encouraged investors to hold off as long as possible in case a
higher bid emerged.

The joint bidders yesterday reminded investors, in their response to Aquila’s target statement, that the
offer would close on July 11 and would not be extended.

The bidders also highlighted that while an independent expert’s report deemed that their offer was “not
fair”, it was also concluded that it was “reasonable”.
China-backed Baosteel’s hostile move on the iron ore and coal company last month surprised the
market. Its strategy has been more aggressive than previous Chinese moves into the Australian
resources space.
China expert Clinton Dines said it would have taken a lot for the management of the Chinese steel
giant to find the nerve to move on Aquila, a target in which it already had a 20 per cent stake.

Mr Dines, who ended a 21-year career with BHP as its Beijing-based country head in 2009, said the
deal was an “atypical” move on Baosteel’s part.

“They have been fairly cautious and conservative over the years, which means they have missed out on
some opportunities, but they have also avoided making some bad mistakes,” Mr Dines said.
“I think the Aquila move is driven by Bao’s internal requirements for secure iron ore supply for their new
plant in southern China and is based on a degree of opportunism brought on by the changing
valuations of assets in the market as prices have declined.” The long-term China-based executive and
company director said the move was also underpinned by the confidence that comes from having a
respectable and capable Australian partner like Aurizon, which is Australia’s largest rail freight operator.

“I fully expect that Bao will not depart from being a fairly careful player and their behaviour as the
transaction develops will be slow and possibly a bit hesitant,” Mr Dines added.
“While I’m sure they will get decent counsel from Aurizon, if any major impediments or surprises come
up, they are likely to be a bit twitchy. I’m sure it took a lot to get their management to find the nerve to
do it.” Baosteel and Aurizon were also keen to highlight to Aquila’s shareholders yesterday that the
independent expert’s report, by Grant Samuel, concluded that Aquila did not have a clear path forward
to fund and develop its key iron ore asset without the involvement of a major industry participant with
substantial funding capacity.The independent expert assessed that the value of Aquila on a 100 per
cent controlling interest basis ranged from $3.90 to $5.24 per Aquila share, significantly above the
$3.40-a-share the Chinese state-owned entity and its Australian partner offered.

Page4of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

aqures : Aquila Resources Ltd. | baois : Shanghai Baosteel Group Corp
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying | isteel : Steel Production
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140623ea6o0002v

Page5of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.