Lang's dream realised as final piece of Gina's funding puzzle falls into place

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Finance
Lang's dream realised as final piece of Gina's funding puzzle falls into place

ANDREW BURRELL
890 words
22 March 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
23
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

IT'S been 62 years since Lang Hancock first started dreaming about his own iron ore mine after
spotting some rusty red rocks while flying through the rain above the Pilbara's rugged Hamersley
Range.

On a balmy Singapore night on Thursday, Gina Rinehart at long-last fulfilled the Hancock vision when
the final lender's signature was added to a complex $US7.2 billion ($7.92bn) debt package that
confirms her Roy Hilliron ore project will be built not far from her father's original discovery. It's the
biggest project financing ever completed for a mining project worldwide and it has been sealed at the
denouement of the China-fuelled commodities boom, proving that high-quality, low-cost projects can
still go ahead, even in this jittery market.

Although she won't talk about it publicly, Rinehart's achievement elevates her to a new league in the
annals of Australian business.
The billionaire discovered the Roy Hill tenements in her own right in 1992 and will now become the
majority owner of one of biggest mining operations in Australia -- a $10bn venture that is scheduled
to begin shipping iron ore within 18 months.

Over the past two years, Rinehart and her management team at Roy Hill have convinced a consortium
of 19 commercial banks -- from Australia, China, Japan, Korea and the US -- of the merits of the
project, often in the face of naysayers who have claimed the iron ore market is headed for drastic
oversupply.

Along with its joint financial advisers BNP Paribas and NAB, Roy Hill also had to sell the dream to five
of the world's major export credit agencies -- two each from Japan and Korea, and one from the US.

This was a tricky exercise that meant self-imposed schedules were repeatedly missed -- rarely with an
explanation from the publicity-shy Rinehart or her team.

Government-backed ECAs are notoriously difficult to get over the line when it comes to project
financings on this scale.

The agencies stump up the funds in return for jobs and investment for their own companies, but they
often drive a hard bargain.

``They have to have a very strong national interest case to commit,'' says one insider on the deal.
``They're not driven by the same profit motivations as the commercial banks are.

``They are very thorough in their due diligence. Their business model is different so they are very
focused on not taking a loss on a loan.

``That's not a bad thing -- it's good for the project because it means third parties have given it a really
good going-over and made sure there are no problems.''

Page105of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Bankers on the Roy Hill deal say they had to approach the ECAs for funding because they were unable
to tap debt markets for such a large-scale greenfields project. ``It might have been possible to get $1bn
in the bond market but not $7bn,'' says one.

Two years ago, even traditional bank debt looked an unlikely source of funds for Roy Hill.

But that market gradually became more liquid and the project ended up being over-supported by
commercial banks.

Those close to the deal say the most important piece of the puzzle fell into place a year ago when
Samsung C&T was appointed as the lead construction contractor.

This fuelled confidence among

Continued on Page 24

Continued from Page 23

the financiers, allowing them to complete their due diligence.

Another adviser to the deal insists that the financing was never in doubt.

The reason for the behind-the-scenes certainty, he says, is simple: Roy Hill is a world-class project
with a talented management team and it will generate serious profits.
For example, if the price of iron ore remains at its current level of about $US110 a tonne, Roy Hill will
operate on a profit margin of more than 100 per cent before debt service.

And even if the price slips to $US80, as some analysts are predicting, the mine will still be very
profitable.
Even during the long slog to secure the debt, Rinehart and her equity partners -- Japan's Marubeni,
Korea's POSCO and Taiwan's China Steel Corp -- continued to pour their own money into the project.

That means it is already 30 per cent built, with about 2500 workers onsite in the Pilbara.

It also means that the delays in securing the debt package are less likely to postpone the first
shipment, which Roy Hill says will be by September next year.

Another unusual feature of the deal, say insiders, is that the sponsors are not providing the financiers
with a full completion guarantee. This speaks volumes about the confidence expressed by the lenders
in the project.

And since efforts began in earnest two years ago to sign up lenders, the Australian labour marker has
freed up to the point where Roy Hill is now being inundated with unsolicited applications for jobs.
Two years ago, the company was pleading with the federal government to be able to bring in
thousands of foreign workers to enable Roy Hill to go ahead.

It's another sign, if one were needed, that the times appear to suit Gina Rinehart.

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys |
ibnk : Banking/Credit | imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | ifinal : Financial
Services
reqrmm : Suggested Reading Metals/Mining | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr :
Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140321ea3m0007i

Page106of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.