Renewal at Beenleigh

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Renewal at Beenleigh

MARTIN RASINI
415 words
12 September 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
60
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

LISTED company Metcash is giving impetus to the transformation of the Beenleigh business district,
releasing for sale a trophy site that can accommodate three 30-storey towers.

The 1.816ha vacant holding has frontage to Main St, Market Place Drive, Alamein St and Intercity Cct
and can accommodate retail, commercial, residential and hotel facilities.

Release for sale of the property follows adoption by Logan City Council in March last year of a new
masterplan for the Beenleigh business district where, under Gold Coast City control, the height limit
was six storeys.

Logan Mayor Pam Parker has said the council is committed to the transformation of Beenleigh, and the
town centre masterplan identifies the site as the location for “a key catalyst project”.
She said the new planning scheme facilitates “unlimited residential density and commercial/retail floor
area” on the site whose development will complement the transformational government-funded $9.7
million Beenleigh Town Square Project.

Federal MP Stuart Robert has said visionary projects are essential for the development of Beenleigh.

Metcash — whose business interests include IGA, Cellarbrations, Mitre 10, and Campbells Cash and
Carry — holds the site through Foodland Properties.
It was acquired for $4.4 million in 2004 when the company formed part of then Perth-based Foodland
group, a business Metcash acquired in a takeover play the following year.
The property is being marketed by Peter Tyson and Robert Dunne, of Savills, in an expression of
interest campaign closing on October 15.
Mr Tyson said the property was attracting early inquiries from Australian and offshore interests and
was being marketed in a national and overseas campaign with a focus on China.
“It is early days yet but interest to date indicates that the property is likely to draw a strong response
from major development industry players,” he said.
“Interest rates are at historic lows, confidence is returning to the property market and investors and
developers are on the front foot.
“The property offers a transformative, high-density opportunity in a central business area where Logan
City Council is keen to see major renewal.” Mr Tyson said that, given the offering is in the heart of the
Beenleigh business district, “we envisage it will be developed for a mix of uses to take advantage of its
zoning and the 30-storey height limit”.“The site is of a size to accommodate three 30-storey towers, and
we see a staged development as the most likely scenario,” he said.

Page178of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

lgctyc : Logan City Council | dvhld : Metcash Ltd
i61 : Wholesalers | i64 : Retail/Wholesale
gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020140912ea9c0003b

Page179of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.