Australia's Rush to Sell Assets Raises Concern

CLM Analysis
HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Australia's Rush to Sell Assets Raises Concern

By DANIEL STACEY
894 words
10 June 2014
11:29
Dow Jones Top Global Market Stories
DJTGMS
English
Copyright © 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

TD

Australian states are moving in greater numbers toward a grand selloff of government-owned assets
ranging from ports to highways, as they scramble to raise as much as $300 billion to upgrade the
nation's infrastructure.

But the rush to do deals threatens to damp interest among potential buyers from as far away as the
U.S., China and the Middle East as it makes putting together bid consortia tricky. Assets such as state
power grids carry price tags of up to $30 billion, beyond the reach of many individual buyers. Also,
investors worry the states won't work together to stagger the sales, making it even harder to plan bids.

Queensland's government this week became the latest state to announce sales, with a plan to unload
nearly 12% of the state's assets, which are worth as much as 34 billion Australian dollars (US$32
billion). The biggest deal would involve investors buying into three energy distributors--Powerlink,
Energex and Ergon --together valued at A$28 billion.

However, investors pointed out that Queensland's plan would likely coincide with neighboring New
South Wales state seeking a buyer for part or all of its power grid worth A$30 billion. Both have
signaled the sales would begin after elections due next year.

"These governments are hot to trot on executing these asset sales," said Ross Israel, who helps
manage infrastructure selloffs for state-owned QIC Ltd. "They're looking to repair balance sheets within
the next three-five years."

In an effort to accelerate the asset sales, the federal government led by Prime Minister Tony Abbott is
offering states a financial carrot. It has pledged to give the states a bonus equal to 15% of the sale
proceeds from each asset.
Infrastructure Australia, which advises the federal government, said at least $300 billion needs to be
spent on new infrastructure if the country is to escape a crippling impact on productivity. In April, Mr.
Abbott approved the construction of a second major airport in Sydney amid fears the financial center
would miss out on a boom in Asian tourism.

However, Mr. Abbott has so far shied away from coordinating the asset sales directly from Canberra.
That has intensified investors' concerns that the push to sell assets may become chaotic, with states
competing against each other for a limited number of bidders.

"If too many assets come onto the market at the same time, governments won't get the value they want
and the tap of asset sales will be turned off," said Michael Hanna, head of Australian infrastructure
investments with IFM Investors, a group owned by 30 Australian pension funds.

Adding to the urgency to sell assets, states such as Queensland are seeing their finances deteriorate as
a long mining-investment boom fades. Queensland, the world's biggest exporter of steelmaking coal,
and iron ore-rich Western Australia have lost their AAA credit ratings in recent years.

Page4of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."The mining boom is coming off, growth is declining, the electorate in urban areas is screaming out for
new trains, hospitals and roads, it's the perfect alignment of the planets," Mr. Hanna said.
According to Dealogic, more than A$12.4 billion in infrastructure deals have already been completed
this year in Australia, up from A$8.4 billion in the first half of last year and A$5.9 billion in same period
in 2012.
These include the sale in April of a 99-year lease on Newcastle Port in New South Wales, the world's
biggest coal-export terminal, for A$1.75 billion to Chinese and local buyers. Queensland Motorways,
which also attracted strong international bidding, fetched A$7.1 billion the same month.

So far, strong demand from pension funds, sovereign-wealth funds and strategic buyers has made
Australian asset sales relatively easy. Among pension funds, most of the interest has come from
Australia and Canada, where money managers tend to allocate more to infrastructure assets than their
U.S. counterparts.

But IFM Investors' Mr. Hanna says that is changing, with U.S. investors in his own fund now
outnumbering Australian clients. "They've come late to the game, but there are many coming now," he
said.

According to Industry Super Australia, unlisted infrastructure had the highest long-term return of any
asset class in the country around 12% over the past 15 years, compared with about 10% for unlisted
property and 8% for the equity market. The peak body says Australian infrastructure assets were also
much less volatile than domestic or global equity markets over the same time frame.

A big challenge for state governments, however, is selling the benefits of privatization to voters.

In March, Queensland's government launched a public consultation to explore ways to reduce state debt
by up to A$30 billion. It received feedback from 70,000 people, 46% of whom said they would support
infrastructure-asset sales over tax increases and cuts to services.
Queensland has incorporated a six-year sale plan into its budget that includes finding buyers for port
leases and large stakes in power and water utilities. It has pledged to invest proceeds of A$8.6 billion in
building new infrastructure, including a 5-kilometer bus-and-train tunnel to the city center running
underneath the Brisbane River.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

cactio : Corporate Actions | c182 : Asset Transactions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat :
Political/General News | m11 : Equity Markets | nttwn : Today's Top Wire News | c18 : Ownership
Changes | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | ndj : Dow Jones Top
Stories | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | ntop :
Top Wire News | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis
austr : Australia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | pacisz : Pacific Islands | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document DJTGMS1120140610ea6a0000m

Page5of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.