Event Brief of Q3 2014 United Continental Holdings Inc Earnings Call - Final

HD Event Brief of Q3 2014 United Continental Holdings Inc Earnings Call - Final
WC 8,150 words
PD 23 October 2014
SN CQ FD Disclosure
SC FNDW
LA English
CY © 2014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.
LP

CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS

. Nene Foxhall - United Continental Holdings, Inc.,EVP of Communications & Government Affairs

TD

. Jonathan Ireland - United Continental Holdings, Inc.,Managing Director of IR

. Jeff Smisek - United Continental Holdings, Inc.,Chairman, President & CEO

. Jim Compton - United Continental Holdings, Inc.,Vice Chairman & Chief Revenue Officer

. Greg Hart - United Continental Holdings, Inc.,EVP & COO

. John Rainey - United Continental Holdings, Inc.,EVP & CFO

CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS
. Helane Becker - Cowen and Company,Analyst

. Jamie Baker - JPMorgan,Analyst

. Hunter Keay - Wolfe Research,Analyst

. Michael Linenberg - Deutsche Bank,Analyst

. John Godyn - Morgan Stanley,Analyst

. Julie Yates - Credit Suisse,Analyst

. Duane Pfennigwerth - Evercore Partners,Analyst

. David Fintzen - Barclays Capital,Analyst

. Jeffrey Dastin - Thomson Reuters,Media

. Edward Russell - Flightglobal Media,Media

OVERVIEW

UAL reported 3Q14 pretax earnings of $1.1b and diluted EPS of $2.75.

FINANCIAL DATA

1. 3Q14 pretax earnings = $1.1b.

2. 3Q14 diluted EPS = $2.75.

3. 3Q14 operating margin = 11.7%.

4. 3Q14 CapEx = $493m.

5. 3Q14 stock repurchase = $220m.

PRESENTATION SUMMARY -

Page108of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Annotation (J.I.)

1. Note:

1. Unless otherwise noted, special charges are excluded in numbers for qtr.

3Q14 Review (J.S.)

1. Highlights:

1. Pretax earnings $1.1b.

1. Highest quarterly profit Co.'s history.

2. Diluted EPS $2.75.

1. Nearly double 3Q13.

3. Good revenue and cost performance.

4. Revenue results demonstrate progress made in:

1. Revenue management.

2. Network.

3. Express operation.

5. Solid cost performance largely reflects early results of project quality, designed to deliver $2b of annual
cost savings by 2017.

6. Returned $220m in cash to shareholders under $1b share buyback program.
7. Responded to multi-week outage of Aurora en route FAA facility; significantly affected operations.

8. So far this year, made number of operational improvements.

1. Will continue to focus on:

1. Reliability.

2. Product.

2. Goal, delivering:

1. Flier-friendly service.

2. Competitive product.

3. Competitive margins.

9. Taking steps to improve customer experience for passengers, including:

1. Installing in-flight satellite-based WiFi and streaming video on mainline fleet.

2. Adding WiFi and streaming video on two-cabin regional fleet.

10. As of today, has WiFi in more than half of mainline aircraft.

1. Nearly 200 equipped with streaming video.

2. By year-end, two-thirds of mainline fleet will have WiFi.

1. Will have begun installation on two-cabin regional fleet.

11. Progress shows that plan is working.

3Q14 Revenue & Capacity (J.C.)

1. Highlights:

1. Consolidated PRASM grew 3.9% on 0.5% capacity growth YoverY.

Page109of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.2. Pacific network improvement paying off.

3. New routes to Chengdu and Taipei performed better than expectations.

4. Strong results from:

1. Transforming Narita flying.

2. Re-gauging Australian routes.
5. High demand for China service during peak summer travel season helped offset pressure from
continued industry capacity growth.

6. Transatlantic Flying:

1. Absorbed additional competitive capacity.

2. Better-than-expected performance, largely driven by strong premium cabin bookings, particularly in
London.

3. Entity experienced several recent pressures, including:

1. Middle East unrest.

2. Ukrainian conflict.

3. More recently, concern about Ebola.

4. Not seen any meaningful impact on bookings to-date.

7. Latin America:

1. Markets, particularly deep South America, exceeded expectations, recovering more quickly from World
Cup slowdown than initially anticipated.

8. Revenue from total corporate portfolio, including rapidly growing PerksPlus product, grew approx. 5%.

1. Ancillary revenue:

1. Increased approx. 11% per passenger.

2. On track to achieve $3b in 2014.

2. Economy Plus revenue up double-digits due to enhanced pricing optimization and lower refund rate.

1. Decreased refund rate by implementing improved solution for reseating customers during aircraft swaps.

2. Recently began selling Economy Plus through Amadeus and Sabre distribution systems, allowing travel
management partners and travel agencies to seamlessly book extra-legroom seats for customers, further
driving additional Economy Plus sales.

3. Improved revenue thus far.

1. Has many opportunities to optimize network value.

9. On last earnings call, introduced three-pronged approach to growing passenger revenue:

1. Enhancing revenue management practices.

2. Optimizing network and schedule.

3. Improving United Express operation.

10. Revenue Management:

1. Booking curve optimization initiative increased PRASM by one point.

2. Recently restructured premium cabin fares on many domestic and short-haul Latin flights:

1. Added 0.5 point of PRASM.

Page110of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.2. Increased premium paid load factor on these routes by 12 points YoverY to 40%.

11. Recent network and schedule changes improving bottom line.

1. In 2Q, significantly reduced flying from Cleveland and realized full effects of this change to network in
3Q.

1. Expects run-rate annual benefit of this change to be approx. $60m.

2. Progressing on other network and schedule initiatives, including redesign of flight bank structure at hubs
in:

1. Chicago.

2. Denver.

3. Houston.

3. Implemented newly re-banked schedule in Denver at Sept.-end.

1. Will follow with Houston late this year and Chicago in March 2015.

2. Phased re-banking will allow for optimal peaking across network during high-demand summer period
next year.

4. Increasing flying seasonality.

1. Views seasonal shaping as additional step in commitment to capacity discipline.

5. Expects improving yield over full year by:

1. Adding more flying to peak summer travel period.

2. Reducing flying during lower demand shoulder period.

6. Above-mentioned will be most notable in transatlantic markets.

1. In July 2015, will fly over 40% more transatlantic capacity vs. Feb. 2015.

2. Expects 2015 transatlantic capacity to continue to reflect appropriate capacity discipline.

3. Expects seasonal scoping of capacity to generate almost 0.5 point of PRASM improvement in
transatlantic entity for 2015.

7. Launched new initiative to consolidate departure frequencies throughout network.

1. Frequency consolidation will reduce costs, improve reliability, improve product offering, and provide
more premium seating.

2. In Jan., with Denver to Minneapolis route, reducing service from five flights per day comprised of mix of
Express and mainline aircraft to four flights per day, comprised exclusively of mainline flying on weekdays.

3. Increasing daily seats by 3%, while increasing seats per departure by approx. 30%.

4. Already implemented similar changes in other routes in Chicago and Newark.

8. Effect of these changes will be seen throughout network as Co. plans on increasing gauge by 5% in
2015, while reducing departures by 3%.

1. Effect will be most pronounced in Chicago; will see avg. daily departures drop approx. up to 8% and
seats per departure increase up to 10% in some months.

2. Drives efficiency-related margin improvement.

3. Helps better manage congested airspace around O'Hare.

12. Progressing well on improving United Express operation.

1. Announced that Co. will add 50 incremental two-cabin E175s to fleet and will remove 31 Q400 propeller
aircraft beginning in 2015.

Page111of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.2. Including regional fleet changes, expects having 85 E175s in fleet by next year-end.

3. Continued progression to more moderate, consistent, fuel-efficient and larger-gauge regional aircraft will
improve operational and revenue performance of Express operation, while substantially improving product
offering.

4. For each 50-seat aircraft an E175 is replacing, expects generating over $1m of annual improved
profitability.

13. Pleased with initial progress of three-pronged revenue initiative.

1. Recognizes it will take some time before realizing full benefits.

2. 4Q14 Outlook:

1. Received 1.5 point PRASM tailwind in 4Q13 due to certain interline ticket reconciliations.

1. One-time in nature.

2. Will be facing 1.5 point PRASM headwind in 4Q14.

3. Taking this into account, expects unit revenue to be essentially flat in 4Q14 vs. 4Q13.

2. Domestic Entity:

1. Displaying strong demand.

2. Continued capacity discipline supported consistent unit revenue growth in last several quarters.

3. Strength to continue.

3. Atlantic Region:

1. Demonstrating improved capacity discipline in winter period.

2. United JV with Lufthansa and Air Canada will reduce transatlantic capacity by approx. 0.5% this winter,
with United down 3%.

4. Pacific:

1. Strategy yielding solid results.

2. Seeing roughly 20% competitive capacity growth between US from Shanghai and Beijing; putting
pressure on unit revenue performance as peak summer demand tapers off.

3. Weakening yen applying renewed pressure on Narita flying.

4. Combination of these two factors and increasing stage length due to newly launched margin-accretive
Pacific routes to provide approx. 1.5% headwind to consolidated PRASM performance.

5. Despite challenges:

1. Remains solidly possible entity for United.

2. Being one of the fastest-growing regions in world.

6. United, best positioned US carrier to capitalize on this growth in future.

5. Latin:

1. In markets, will grow capacity along with many peers.

2. To grow seasonal capacity by double-digits in high-demand 4Q, driven primarily by capacity expansion
in beach markets.

3. 4Q seasonal growth allows Co. to more opportunistically and efficiently redeploy marginal capacity from
elsewhere in network on seasonal and day-of-week basis.

4. As is often the case with significant capacity additions, expects to face PRASM pressure.

5. Believes these additions will be profit maximizing for overall network.

Page112of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.6. Consolidated capacity to grow 0.5-1.5% YoverY.

1. 2015 1.5-2.5%, with 0.5-1.5% growth in domestic entity.

1. Growth will be efficient.

2. Approx. half of this growth will come from installation of slimline seats and up-gauging of aircraft.

3. Remaining growth will come largely from increasing fleet utilization as improving operation permits Co.
to reduce fares and completion of aircraft modification program allows returning aircraft to regular service.

2. At United, remains committed to growing capacity below GDP as Co. believes this strategy will generate
best margin expansion opportunity.

3. Summary:

1. Continued improvement in:

1. Revenue management.

2. Network planning.

3. Express operation.

3Q14 Operational Review (G.H.)

1. Highlights:

1. Presented many unexpected operational challenges like fire at FAA's facility in Aurora.

2. At United, reinvesting airlines from operational standpoint.

3. Over last year, transformed approach to business.

1. Doesn't take past practices as a given.
4. Talking about reinventing business from operations perspective, thinks of it in three broad categories:

1. Reducing variability.
2. Leveraging technology to improve handling of irregular operations.
3. Streamlining and simplifying operations.
5. Many initiatives underway to reduce variability in operations.

1. More effectively positioning spare parts into appropriate stations where needed.

1. Through this effort, reduced spare parts-related cancellations by more than 20% YoverY.

2. Reliability improvement allows reducing number of spare aircraft; in turn improves:

1. Fleet utilization.

2. Revenue.
6. Taking steps to improve reaction to and recovery from irregular operations; largely driven by weather
and air traffic control delays.
1. Goal is to more effectively run operations during irregular events and then rebuild airline as soon as
event passes.

2. To improve operation during such events, deploying technology solutions to more strategically cancel
flights and more opportunistically route passengers around impacted regions.

3. Developing new mobile tools for airport agents to more quickly assist passengers during irregular
operations.

4. These tools will allow roaming agents to allow scan boarding passes to quickly assist passengers in
determining optimal rerouting opportunities.

Page113of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.7. Has significant opportunities to streamline and simplify operations.

1. Numerous initiatives underway focused on driving efficiencies through simplification.

2. Reducing:

1. Number of Express carriers operating in each hub.

2. Express fleet combinations in several airports.

3. In Washington Dulles, going from eight Express aircraft types down to five.

4. These simplification efforts allow reducing number of Express maintenance spaces by nearly 25%
through base consolidation.

8. Making improvements in operation.

3Q14 Financials (J.R.)

1. Highlights:

1. Pretax income $1.1b.

2. Diluted EPS $2.75.

1. Nearly double 3Q13.

3. ROIC over trailing 12-month period reached 12.3%.

1. Highest result in last three years.

4. Margin:

1. Operating 11.7%.

2. Pretax 10.2%.

1. Both, more than 450 BP higher than last year.

5. Continued financial improvement.

1. Excited about opportunity to significantly grow earnings.

2. Working hard to increase revenue and improve efficiency to generate level of earnings Co. and
shareholders expect.

6. Consolidated CASM increased 1% YoverY, excluding:

1. Fuel.

2. Third-party business expense.

3. Profit sharing.

7. Progressing well in Project Quality initiative.

1. Expectation this year:

1. Fuel savings nearly $200m.

2. Non-fuel savings over $300m.

3. Estimate for both numbers increased with each qtr. this year as Co. continued to perform better than
original expectation.

8. Key component of non-fuel savings is productivity.

1. Making great progress in this area.

2. Improved productivity by 4%, marking fifth consecutive qtr. of increase.

Page114of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.1. On track to achieve 2014 goal of 3% improvement.

3. Expects 4Q non-fuel CASM to increase 1.25-2.25%.

1. Full year CASM estimate in line with regional guidance despite one-point reduction in capacity projection
provided at year-beginning.

9. Returned $220m to shareholders through combination of accelerated share repurchase program and
open-market transactions.

1. Made early progress in $1b share buyback program.

2. Will continue to opportunistically repurchase shares over coming quarters.

2. Balance Sheet:

1. Redeemed entire $800m of 6.75% secured notes.

1. Closed on a transaction under existing $1.9b credit facility, in which Co. increased size of undrawn
revolver by $350m to total of $1.35b and issued additional $500m tranche of term loan debt.

2. Progressed meaningfully in reducing convertible debt.

1. Earlier this month, retired all $248m of 6% convertible preferred securities due in 2030.

2. Issued redemption notice for remaining $56m of 6% convertible debt due in 2029.

3. In Jan. 2015, $202m outstanding of 4.5% convertible notes will mature.

1. Following maturity, will no longer have any outstanding convertible debt.

2. Represents $1.9b reduction in convertible debt since merger.

4. Transactions are representative of stated long-term goal to reduce gross debt to $15b while maintaining
appropriate liquidity level.

3. CapEx $493m.

1. 4Q14 expectation approx. $1b.

4. Plans taking delivery in qtr. of (apart from additional E175s):

1. Five 737-900ERs.

2. One 787-8.

3. One 787-9.

4. 11 E175s.

5. Earlier in qtr., announced an agreement with Boeing to convert seven 787-8s delivering between
2017-2018 into larger, more efficient 787-10s that will be delivered in 2022 and beyond.

1. Recently decided to retain 11 767-300ER aircraft originally planned to retire.

1. Will invest in these aircraft with new interiors, winglets and reliability modifications to extend useful life of
these aircraft into next decade.

6. Exploring used-aircraft market to find suitable aircraft that will allow Co. to reduce CapEx and right-size
fleet without substantially increasing fleet complexity.
1. Recently reached an agreement to purchase two used 737-700s to backfill flying as 50-seaters exit the
fleet.

2. Changes to fleet plan demonstrate Co.'s discipline in managing capital allocation.

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)
From Cowen and Company, we have Helane Becker on the phone. Please go ahead.

Page115of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.HELANE BECKER, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: GDP forecasts keep changing on an almost
daily basis. Can you just talk about the leverage you have to adjust capacity, either if GDP slows from
current forecasts for next year or accelerates?

JIM COMPTON, VICE CHAIRMAN & CHIEF REVENUE OFFICER, UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS,
INC.: Hey, Helane, this is Jim. We have a history of creating a flexible fleet plan and that is -- clearly, as we
head into 2015, we have the ability to adjust our capacity to economic changes. We gauge GDP forecast
based on consensus out there, so you're right, it does move around. But we do have the ability with
utilization of the aircraft, working really closely with our tech house team to more finely tune when we can
do work on our airplanes to also.

The history of the flexible fleet plans continues for us and we have great flexibility to adjust to the economic
environment. And we will -- it is about keeping demand and capacity in line and that's what we're really
focused on.

HELANE BECKER: Okay. And then just as a follow-up question to that capacity comment you made about
Chicago going to more seats per departure and fewer departures per day, are you worried that competitors
will come in and backfill what you're doing with additional capacity?

JIM COMPTON: Helane, it's obviously a very competitive business that we're in and so that schedule that
we'll be building in Chicago will be a very attractive schedule to the business passenger, as well as the
leisure passenger. We're confident with the seat growth that we apply by upgauging, that we'll be very
competitive in the market.

HELANE BECKER: Great. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: From JPMorgan, we have Jamie Baker on the line. Please go ahead.

JAMIE BAKER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hey, good morning, everybody. I want to commend you on
showing significant relative margin improvement in the third quarter. You basically halved the operating
margin deficit relative to Delta, but it looks like you're guiding for a bit of slippage in the fourth quarter. You
have explained why. That's fine. If we set aside the first quarter of next year, where we at least hope that
you're going to have ridiculously easy weather comps, in what quarter next year do you expect the
initiatives that you've been talking about here to be showing the most relative momentum to the industry?

And furthermore, do you have an internal target as to where you'd want your relative margins to be by the
end of next year? And I'm not trying to pry guidance out of you. I'm just curious as to whether you believe
you can achieve margin parity with other best-in-class operators. If you think you can, when?

JOHN RAINEY, EVP & CFO, UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS, INC.: Jamie, this is John. I'll tell you, I
can't predict necessarily what other carriers are going to do. I'm going to tell you that we're focused on
United Airlines and what we can do to create value for our shareholders. We recognize we have some
further improving to do. This was a record profit for us this quarter. Our guidance in the fourth quarter
would lead you to what is also a record profit for United in the fourth quarter.

We've talked about our desire to make money in the first quarter and we want to continue to expand
earnings. We are only about 25% of the way through our Project Quality initiative. We're in the very early
stages of our revenue initiative. And so we think that we've got a lot of improvement, a lot of opportunity in
front of us.

We would all like to close that margin gap as soon as possible. I promise you that the team here is
extremely focused on it. We don't like our relative place in the industry, that's a fact, and we think that
we've got a lot of opportunity to improve.
JAMIE BAKER: Excellent. And a follow-up for Jim Compton. Ultimately, Jim, what solves the China
problem? And I only ask because, again, bringing up Delta, they have a decent solution for Tokyo longer
term. It's called Seattle. But in your case it's tough for me to see what you can actually do about China,
until such time that your competitors there suddenly wake up and choose to focus on returns. Is there a
better Chinese strategy other than simply hope?
JIM COMPTON: Hey, Jamie, we're -- obviously, China is a big part of our network and a very profitable
part of our network. It's a very strong, growing part of the world from a demand perspective. We continue
to expect that. So our footprint there, we think, is the best position. I'll tell you our strategy is well beyond
hope.

If you think about the things that we're doing with the flexibility of our fleets, the 787, San Francisco to
Chengdu is a perfect example of that, that we're tapping into that growth in China in ways that, quite
frankly, our competitors can't, as we continue to match capacity and demand. So we call it our second

Page116of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.phase of our Pacific; that's combined with what we're doing in Tokyo with our JV partner to put the flying
out of Narita, work with them, much [color posed here] on the connections. But as it is to China, we're well
positioned and we feel we have lots of opportunity to do well as that market continues to grow.
JAMIE BAKER: Is there much regulatory appetite for potential JV immunization with Chinese carriers?

JEFF SMISEK, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT & CEO, UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS, INC.: Jamie, this
is Jeff. We're not going to be able to get JVs with, for example, our partner in China, until China goes
open skies. As that--

JAMIE BAKER: Right.

JEFF SMISEK: But whatever period of time it takes. Clearly, that's something we would be keenly
interested in, where we'd have the regulatory authority to do that, but we don't have that yet.
JIM COMPTON: And I would add to Jeff's comments, working with Air China, some of the success of
Chengdu being ahead of our expectations is the connections that they're building for us in Chengdu. So
we'll continue to work with that from an alliance perspective with our Star partners.

JAMIE BAKER: John, Jim and Jeff, I appreciate your answers. Take care.

OPERATOR: From Wolfe Research, we have Hunter Keay on the line. Please go ahead.

HUNTER KEAY, ANALYST, WOLFE RESEARCH: Hey, thanks very much. Hey, a question for John. I
don't mean for this to sound antagonistic at all, I don't, but I can't think of another way to ask it. If a
company doesn't qualify for hedge accounting, doesn't that mean that the company is just speculating
with commodity derivatives that don't correlate to the price of the commodities that they use?

JOHN RAINEY: Not necessarily, Jamie. The accounting rules are around getting hedge accounting
treatment. I'll give you one example. If you don't have an equal number of bought and sold, call and put
positions, that doesn't allow you to get hedge accounting. You have to -- so for example, if you did a collar,
a bought call and a sold put, you get hedge accounting, but if you were to then go out and mitigate the cost
of that by selling a call at the high end, say $140 of Brent, that precludes you being able to get hedge
accounting.

I'll tell you that our hedge philosophy here is one of risk management. This is our single largest expense
that represents $12 billion to $13 billion for us annually. We think that taking some risk off the table in the
near-term is a prudent thing to do. We've had this discussion before with you. I know that, philosophically,
we agree that, long-term, the industry needs to be able to adjust capacity and, therefore, its prices to
compensate for its price inputs. Given the nature of our business, that we sell tickets 330 days in
advanced, that we schedule employees for many months in advance sometimes, it's difficult to adjust
capacity in the very near-term, which is why our hedge position is more heavily weighted, close in.

HUNTER KEAY: Okay. Thank you, John. I appreciate that. And a little bit more on the previous question.
In terms of open skies with China, Jeff, do you believe that a pacing item for open skies to occur --
because if you look at prior open skies agreements with the Japanese and with the EU, it's some sort of
free market concept for slot-controlled airports. So is it fair to assume that we should pretty much never
assume China is ever going to grant open skies because they're not going to relinquish control over slots
at Beijing and Shanghai?

JEFF SMISEK: I don't know. It's a good question, Hunter, and I don't know the answer to it. That's going to
require work by US carriers pushing our own government to be flexible and to make sure that there are a
fair allocation of slots to US carriers and that's, as you allude to, our government's experience with Japan,
in particular, with Haneda, is a good example of that. That's a difficult process. What -- I wasn't predicting
necessarily a near-term open skies agreement with China. I was just saying that if there were one, it would
be necessary. That's a predicate to having a joint venture.

HUNTER KEAY: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: From Deutsche Bank, we have Michael Linenberg on the line. Please go ahead.

MICHAEL LINENBERG, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning, guys. Just a couple here. Jim,
appreciate that you gave us the quarterly PRASM guide and highlighted the headwind. Can you give us,
maybe, an early read on October? And I'm asking because I know last year we did have the government
shutdown, and as I recall, that was -- maybe it was 1 point, 1.5 point headwind. Any color on October, how
things are shaping up?

JIM COMPTON: Hey, Mike.

Page117of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.MICHAEL LINENBERG: Hey.

JIM COMPTON: We don't comment on a specific month, but you're right, just in terms of last year with the
government shutdown, the beginning of the month and then it's coming back about October 16 last year,
there was clearly, from a government traffic, as well as business traffic associated with government-type
fares, strength year-over-year in that area and we did see that so far in October. We're now back to
year-over-year where the government shutdown was over.

MICHAEL LINENBERG: Okay. Great. And just my second question, on the seasonal shaping, as we move
into the early part of 2015, conceptually, it does make a lot of sense, to really ramp up when demand is
strongest. But given the adjustments there on capacity, you highlighted the trans-Atlantic numbers, can
you talk about just some of the potential execution risks here? Is this -- could we see this go very wrong or
do you feel like you have the systems, the controls, the ability to move people around?

I know there have been some structural changes, like on how you staff up at airports, for example, and the
way some of the new contracts have been structured. Just highlight some of the things that we should be
looking for so that we know that -- to go from X to X plus 20% on capacity in particular markets, that you're
operating well?

JIM COMPTON: Mike, this is Jim again. What we're doing with the seasonal capacity change is a process
internally that we started a long time ago. By that I mean, the network planning group has worked
hand-in-hand with our operations folks. Because you're right, there is a lot of coordination in terms of
having utilization of the aircraft there, the crews, and so forth, and the ability for the stations to handle the
schedule.

So we're really confident where we're at in it because the process began a long time ago and we're right
on timeline for the execution to go very well. And we're excited about it because, obviously, that peak
summer demand will drive the full year. We talk about adding a 0.5 point of PRASM to our trans-Atlantic
entity into 2015 with this network change that we're doing.

MICHAEL LINENBERG: Okay. Very good. Thanks, Jim.

OPERATOR: From Morgan Stanley, we have John Godyn on the line. Please go ahead.

JOHN GODYN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks a lot for taking my question. Just one on costs
and one on capacity. First on costs, John, you had some good commentary about how you're tracking
versus the cost reduction plan that was announced toward the end of 2013. I'm curious if you could just
speak to whether opportunities are being pushed forward or outright upside to the plan is being created
and how we might revise the $1 billion fuel and $1 billion ex-fuel numbers, if in fact there is now upside
being found?

JOHN RAINEY: John, it's a good question. I would characterize our progress thus far as really more the
opportunity has been greater than what we expected on the initiatives that we've embarked on, rather than
sliding forward initiatives. There have been some exceptions, but those go both ways. When you get into
this, some things take longer than you expect and some things you can accelerate.

But generally, what we've seen is where there have been opportunities, we've exceeded our expectations
and I really credit the employees for this. This is, just across the board, you see every single work group,
where there's a real drive for efficiency. I'll give you an example. In the third quarter, overtime in our
maintenance group was about 2 points better year-over-year and that doesn't really mean much just in
terms of dollars in that statement, but 1 point overtime change for maintenance is about $10 million to $12
million annually.

This is just really running a better, more efficient operation and you see that in the bottom line. And that's
one example. We see it in our res group, we see it in our airport groups. We've got better staffing with our
flight attendants. They're really a huge drive across the Company and clearly everyone is on board.

JOHN GODYN: And if this is really a momentum and a cultural dynamic in the background, it sounds like it
could last even for the next few years. I wonder, is it possible that by the end of this plan, we find that we're
hundreds of millions of dollars above the $1 billion ex-fuel and $1 billion fuel that you outlined at the end
of 2013?

JEFF SMISEK: Hey, John, this is Jeff. One of the things -- the point you make is a very good point. One of
the things, this Project Quality is designed to deliver $2 billion of efficiencies to cost savings by 2017, but
it's not going end in 2017. What we're instilling here is a culture of efficiency and continuous improvement
something that this industry has woefully lacked, candidly.

Page118of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.This is the first step of what we're doing. We have a lot of confidence in achieving the goals that we set
forth in November of 2013, but it won't stop in 2017. This is a way of thinking. This is a way of questioning
how and why we do things and how we can do things more efficiently, better for our employees, better for
our customers, and clearly better for our bottom line.

JOHN GODYN: Got it. And if I could just ask a question on capacity. Jim, you offered a lot of tactical
commentary in the short-term about how you're managing different market dynamics, but when I think
about the 2015 guidance and the fact that you're still growing a bit faster in international than in domestic, I
just wonder is there appetite for maybe more structural change to how you think about international versus
domestic, because you're [overweight] position in international still comes up as one of the largest risk
factors, at least in my conversations with investors?

JIM COMPTON: Hey, John, this is Jim. The capacity guidance -- let me put a little context around the
international piece of 2015, because as we've talked a lot about, the seasonal shaping of trans-Atlantic,,
that really implies really low single-digit capacity growth for the Atlantic entity in 2015. As you think about
Latin America in terms of routes that make a lot of sense for us to complete our portfolio, we are beginning
this year adding Houston to Santiago. It's for a long time been a big ask from our corporate partners to
serve that market, so we're really excited about it.

So 2015, in that sense, becomes a run rate of that new market that we're very excited about. So it's very
strategic in terms of what we're trying to do from a business side. We also are starting in this year Denver
to Panama, and so the run rate of that market is also into growth. And then the rest is, what I mentioned in
my script, is we're seeing really strong demands in the beach markets.

For instance, we can take a Chicago-LaGuardia trip on a Saturday and fly from Chicago to Cancun on that
same Saturday and we'll -- it generates incremental capacity into Latin America, but from a margin
perspective, it's actually very accretive. So the way we think of this all is in the context of what we're trying
to do strategically: be capacity disciplined, build on our strengths, and do that with different levers. One of
the levers is some of the seasonality. When you think about the Latin, you get into mid-single-digit type of
growth in that area with what I described.

In the Pacific, just to close that out, we're really excited about starting LA to Melbourne this year and you're
going to have the run rate of that. And again, it's as much about ultimately getting out of our tag Sydney to
Melbourne that is very expensive for us to operate, but allows us to serve Melbourne. The 787-9 becomes
the great airplane [to solve] that will have that run rate capacity in there.

And then we have the run rate of San Francisco to Chengdu and San Fran to Taipei capacity, that I've
already noted is running ahead of expectations. That gets us in the mid-single digits in the Pacific. So the
international capacity we think fits very well with our capacity discipline, although because of the run rate
and some of the things we're doing in the beach markets, generates a capacity next year at the level that
maybe you're inferring.

JOHN GODYN: Okay. Thanks for the color.

OPERATOR: From Credit Suisse, we have Julie Yates on the line. Please go ahead.

JULIE YATES, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Good morning. Thanks for taking my question.

JIM COMPTON: Good morning, Julie.

JULIE YATES: I realize it's a little early to be giving 2015 cost guidance, and you guys are still in the
middle of your budgeting process, but from a high level, how should we be thinking about the non-fuel unit
cost growth in 2015, especially in light of the fact that Project Quality seems to be doing a little bit better
than you originally expected?

JOHN RAINEY: Julie, we've characterized our cost goal as being one where we expect to grow non-fuel
cost at something less than inflation. I appreciate that's a little bit vague as inflation can bounce around. It's
a long-term goal, and we may see that 00 we may see cost pressures from one year to the next, which will
cause that to vary. We are, as Jim alluded to, growing more next year than what we did this year.

It's obviously easier to keep that number lower as you're supported by some growth, so we're sticking to
that goal. We'll give more clarity over the coming quarter about what our 2015 [number] is, but we're
extremely encouraged by the early progress that we've seen this year. I talked about in my prepared
remarks the fact that, despite capacity coming down a full point versus our original expectations, we've
been able to hit our cost goals. So I expect that to bleed over into 2015 and the same performance that
we've seen this year will continue into the next year.

Page119of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.JULIE YATES: Okay. And then just a follow-up on labor. Is there any update on reaching a single contract
with either the flight attendant or the technician group?

GREG HART, EVP & COO, UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS, INC.: Hey, this is Greg. We remain in
negotiations with our flight attendants. I'm sure you all saw that we went on an early out program with our
flight attendants, which has been very, very well received and we hope that is a bridge for an agreement
with our flight attendants, which we expect to have happen some time next year. We are still working with
our technicians, and obviously, are very focused on getting a deal done with those folks as soon as we
can, as well.

JULIE YATES: Okay. And then how much of a tailwind on the labor productivity is it to reach the single
contract on the flight attendant side?
GREG HART: I'm not sure I understand your question, Julie.

JULIE YATES: Once you get to single contract with the flight attendants, I would imagine that you'll be able
to recognize greater labor productivity from staffing?

GREG HART: Right. The specifics of the contract are still -- we're still working on. Obviously, we -- there
are some inefficiencies just in our system today by having two separate collective bargaining agreements,
with the inefficiencies of staffing, transportation costs, hotels, things like that, so we do expect some
benefit from that, but we haven't necessarily quantified that.

JULIE YATES: Okay. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: From Evercore, we have Duane Pfennigwerth on the line. Please go ahead.

DUANE PFENNIGWERTH, ANALYST, EVERCORE PARTNERS: Good morning. Just a couple of fuel
questions, if I could. This move down we've had here $2.90 to $2.40, $2.50 [jet] before taxes and fees,
pretty sharp move. How has that changed your plans, if at all, for 2015, or maybe for the fourth quarter?
Does that relate at all to the stage length increase, which is probably implied by that fuel efficiency? And
then could you just give us a sense for where you are from a hedge book perspective and the degree to
which you're participating in this downward move into 2015?

JOHN RAINEY: Sure. Let me take the last part of your question first, if that's okay. For the fourth quarter,
we're 39% hedged, and over the next 12 months, we're about 35% hedged. In terms of our participation, in
the fourth quarter, we are participating about 70% to the upside and the downside in fuel movements, and
for the 2015, that's more like 80%. So hopefully that helps.

In terms of our hedge strategy, our hedge strategy is -- part of it has been to be responsive to the overall
fuel market. Over the last few years, you've seen that fuel has been relatively [range bound] and our hedge
portfolio has reflected that fact we fared better than any of our competitors over that period of time. We've
seen fuel break out of that range and we're very early on in this. We will look to see if it stabilizes and a
new trading band develops and then our hedge structure will respond to that.

DUANE PFENNIGWERTH: Okay. Thanks. And then maybe I missed it. Have you offered CapEx guidance
for next year yet?

JOHN RAINEY: We have not. We did talk about, at investor day last year, Duane, our long-term goal of
about $2.8 billion to $3 billion over the next few years. We have made some changes. I talked a little bit
about some of the changes we've made from a fleet perspective, so that -- we would expect that number to
move around a little bit, but we'll give you more guidance on that as we get closer to year-end.
DUANE PFENNIGWERTH: Okay. I assume -- it sounds like -- correct me if I'm wrong, it sounds like that
pushed some aircraft out, so maybe the bias on that is down. And then just lastly on the buyback, when
you initially announced it, $1 billion over three years and you've taken down over $200 million in the first
quarter, so it looks like you'll finish that in a year. Can you just give us a sense for when you would choose
to update us on the authorization and how we should be thinking about that timing?
JEFF SMISEK: Well, we're going to take this in steps, Duane. I'm pleased at the fact that we're almost
one-quarter of the way through this early on. We've seen a lot of volatility in the market and it has created
some buying opportunities for us. We still think this is a great way to return cash to shareholders, given
where our stock is trading right now, but I've emphasized before, this is a first step, and when we complete
this or get close to completion, we'll come back to the market with our next step, but I'm not prepared to
talk anymore about that, at this point in time.

DUANE PFENNIGWERTH: Okay. Thanks for taking the questions.

Page120of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.JEFF SMISEK: You bet.

OPERATOR: We have time for one last question. And from Barclays we have David Fintzen on the line.
Please go ahead.

DAVID FINTZEN, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Hey, thanks. Good morning, everyone. Maybe a
question for John. I appreciate getting a little ahead of 2015 here, but if I look at your absolute non-fuel
growth, the last few quarters, you've kept it right around 1% if not below in some quarters. As we get out to
2015, and obviously there's a lot to go on Project Quality, are there some other inflationary cost pressures
that pick up in 2015 versus 2014 that would materially start to change that absolute cost profile? I'm just
trying to think through some of the moving pieces into next year?

JOHN RAINEY: Good question, David. There are a couple of headwinds. I do not expect it to change that
profile. The best example I can give you right now relates to pension. The discount rate that we use today
to discount the liabilities in our pension is about 5.1%. The preliminary look for next year, it looks like it will
be closer to 4.3%, so that will create between $50 million and $100 million of headwind for us next year.

There's also an update to the mortality tables for pensions, which is not reflected in our current numbers.
But that said, even with those headwinds, we expect to receive the type of cost performance that we've
outlined, so I don't expect it to change the profile that you alluded to.
DAVID FINTZEN: Okay. That's very helpful. Then maybe a quick one for Jim. On the Chinese capacity
growth, it's obviously coming from a lot of arguably lesser-known brands from a US perspective. How
effective are some of these carriers at competing in the US point-of-sale?
JIM COMPTON: Well, clearly their point-of-sale is more Chinese point-of-sale and -- but I liken -- every
competitor is a good competitor and, our goal in competing is obviously operate at a really high reliability
rate with a great product and -- but our point-of-sale on the US side is stronger than the Chinese
point-of-sale and you have that dynamic for them also, on their side. Clearly, you're right, they're building a
brand presence as they grow their presence into the US and so United, since 1986, being in the market in
China, has a strong presence over there to date.

DAVID FINTZEN: Okay. That's very helpful. Thanks, everyone.

JEFF SMISEK: Thanks, Dave.

OPERATOR: Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This concludes the analyst and investor portion of our call
today. We will now take questions from the media.

(Operator Instructions)

From Thomson Reuters, we have Jeffrey Dastin on the line. Please go ahead.

JEFFREY DASTIN, MEDIA, THOMSON REUTERS: Hi. Thank you for taking my call. Could you elaborate
on the 787-10 conversion? Will there essentially be deferred 787 deliveries?

JEFF SMISEK: Our current plan is to defer the deliveries that we expected to take in 2017 and 2018 into
2022. We still do hold option positions. Jim alluded to the fact that fleet flexibility is something that's very
important for us to be able to respond to the economic environment, yet still do so in our
capacity-disciplined manner, but that was the move that we recently made, yes.

JEFFREY DASTIN: Thank you.

JEFF SMISEK: You're welcome.

OPERATOR: From Flightglobal Media, we have Edward Russell on the line. Please go ahead.

EDWARD RUSSELL, MEDIA, FLIGHTGLOBAL MEDIA: Could you elaborate a bit more on the -- looking
at use of aircraft, first of all, where the 737s you purchased are coming from? And then also, are you
looking for narrow bodies or wide bodies? Thank you.
JOHN RAINEY: Sure. The 737-700s that we obtained were from a leasing company. I don't want to
comment any further on the airline that they came from. But the other part of your question, at this point
we're really more focused on narrow body lift. Part of the issue that we're solving for is today we are too
reliant on the 50-seat RJ. It creates some operational complexities, but there's also a looming shortage
with respect to pilots being able to fly some of those, as we look at some of the changes in the training
requirements.

Page121of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.So what we want to do is backfill some of that capacity in a financially disciplined way. We don't
necessarily want to go out and place a brand new aircraft order that creates several billion dollars more of
CapEx. We've talked a lot about having a balanced allocation of cash flow. So this is a way, by looking at
the used aircraft market, that we can still backfill some of that capacity, more narrow-body focused, but do
it while still addressing the other cash flow needs that we have.

EDWARD RUSSELL: All right. And can we infer to say you're looking for aircraft that are currently in your
fleet or models at least?

JEFF SMISEK: That's accurate. Any time you look at adding a plane or new fleet type, there's some
complexity with that. There has been some discussion about the 190s. That's something that is on the
radar, candidly, as well, but certainly if you look at our narrow body fleet with the Airbus A319s, A320s, the
new gen 737s, those are all planes that fit the profile that we could easily accommodate into our fleet.

EDWARD RUSSELL: Great. Thank you.

NENE FOXHALL, EVP OF COMMUNICATIONS & GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS, UNITED CONTINENTAL
HOLDINGS, INC.: Okay, thanks, everybody. We'll conclude now. We appreciate you all joining us on the
call. Please call media relations if you have any further questions and we'll look forward to talk to you next
quarter.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference. Thank you for joining. You may
now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this
web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Briefs are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon
current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those
stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more
specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and
believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the
assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results
contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT BRIEFS REFLECTS THOMSON FINANCIAL'S
SUBJECTIVE CONDENSED PARAPHRASE OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL
AND THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF
THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE
APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER
DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY
EVENT BRIEF. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE
CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY
INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

i75 : Airlines | i7501 : Scheduled Passenger Airlines | iairtr : Air Transport | itsp : Transportation/Logistics

CO ual : United Continental Holdings, Inc.
IN
NS c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter |
nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter

RE usa : United States | chgdu : Chengdu | denver : Denver | houst : Houston | melb : Melbourne | usco :

Colorado | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr
: Australia | bric : BRICS Countries | china : China | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America | sichu :
Sichuan | uss : Southern U.S. | ustx : Texas | usw : Western U.S.

PUB CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
AN Document FNDW000020141025eaan008hl

Page122of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.