When pineapples and pigs put runs on boards

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

MarketWatch
When pineapples and pigs put runs on boards

CRITERION WITH TIM BOREHAM
834 words
17 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
31
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Anatara Lifesciences (ANR) 42c ANATARA may be tackling the “runs” but sadly investors yesterday
ran from the market — including the porcine diarrhoea outfit’s debut.
Despite the $7 million raising being oversubscribed, shares in the developer of a treatment for the
affliction, called scour, closed 16 per cent adrift of the 50c issue price.

Big-name investors in the Anatara trough include the Pratt family spin-off Thorney Investments and
the Packer family’s Ellerston Investments.

“It wasn’t the best day to list,’’ concedes chairman and biotech old hand Mel Bridges.

He attributes the softness to an institutional holder, who came on board through the IPO, hitting the
red button on a slew of stocks.

But at least Anatara has banked the moolah.

A therapy literally made from the end of pineapples, Detach is an alternative to antibiotics, the pig
industry’s only scour treatment.

Detach has an unusual history, in that it was approved and marketed here in the 1980s. The owner,
Ciba Geigy, was taken over by what eventually became Novartis, which had no interest in animal
health.

The inventor, now Anatara chief scientific officer Tracey Mynott, bought back the IP and co-founded
Anatara with Bridges.

Given Detach is a reformulated known product, Bridges says it will be much easier to seek regulatory
approval in Australia, the EU and the US.

Bridges expects local approval by the end of 2015 or early 2016, paving the way for first sales in the
first half of 2016. “Major pig producers have said they would take the product now if they could.’’
Veterinary drugs evoke the vision of James Herriott gently tending ailing beasts. In reality, they will
only succeed if they make animal production cheaper.

In this case, Detach has been proven as cheaper than antibiotics, especially when lower food costs
and fewer mortalities are taken into account.

Anatara also has an eye on the human diarrhoea market, arguing there are no true preventatives for
the affliction.

The stock looks a spec buy given the soft debut and punters should trot out and buy some.

Silver Chef (SIV) $6.10 THE catering equipment financier is relying on people’s love for the daily
cappuccino to return it to growth, which once accorded “market darling” accolade to the stock. “The
cafe and hospitality industry has consistently expanded in the past few years and it is our expectation

Page209of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.that the consumer’s love of a cup of coffee and dining out with friends will continue,’’ exec chair Allan
English told holders at yesterday’s AGM.

Indeed, the resilience of cafe society has held fellow Brisbane-based stock Michel’s Patisserie and
Donut King franchisor Retail Food Group (RFG, $4.67) in good stead.

Silver Chef enjoyed stellar growth after listing in 2005, but the story became muddied after the
company expanded into general equipment hire through its GoGetta arm. In a classic sign of trouble,
CEO Charles Gregory was replaced in February by founder English, who returned to a hands-on role.

After fixing up issues relating to GoGetta’s training and recruitment of staff, Silver Chef appears to
have regained the golden touch.

English has guided to full-year earnings of $13.75m-$14.25m, 10 per cent higher at the midpoint than
last year’s $12.7m.

On these numbers, the stock trades on an earnings multiple of less than nine times and a yield of
more than 5 per cent.

Put another way, one share would struggle to buy a double-shot inner urban latte. Buy.
Alumina (AWC) $1.59 THIS one’s been derided as a passive “post box” for dividends from its JV with
Alcoa, duly routed to Alumina holders.
With the aluminium sector in a prolonged funk, cheques have been rarer and Alumina holders have
not enjoyed a payout since 2011.
But this may change with the JV, AWAC, selling its 55 per cent stake in the high-cost Jamalco refinery
in Jamaica for $US140m. AWAC doesn’t need the cash, so presumably $US56m will flow to 40 per
cent stakeholder Alumina.
One option is a debt demolition, although Alumina’s gearing (currently a net $113m) is declining
anyway as the venture enjoys improved cashflows.
The sale comes at a time of improved alumina and aluminium pricing, reflected in Alcoa’s
third-quarter statement this week.

Alcoa cited average spot aluminium prices of $US2031 a tonne for August-September, compared with
$US1880 a tonne in the third quarter and $US1782 a tonne in the second quarter.
With the price for the feedstock (alumina) also rising, Morningstar analyst Mark Taylor says the
venture is benefiting from its move from contract to spot pricing.
Earlier, the decision resulted in lower input costs for Chinese aluminium producers, resulting in
overproduction.

Long-term buy.

The Australian accepts no responsibility for stock recommendations. Readers should contact a
licensed financial adviser. The author does not hold shares in the companies mentioned.

CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

ntaraz : Anatara Lifesciences Ltd.
i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141016eaah0001f

Page210of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.