New NBN deal as good as the first

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
New NBN deal as good as the first

Malcolm Maiden
785 words
15 August 2014
Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
21
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

The profit result that Telstra chief executive David Thodey handed down on Thursday was solid,
Telstra's dividend lift and $1 billion share buyback pleased investors, and the telco's guidance on
earnings from continuing operations was unchanged.

What was more interesting however was a sign that Telstra is close to inking a new deal to co-operate
with the Abbott government's revised broadband rollout - one that could underwrite more cash returns
to shareholders in years to come.

Telstra's share price has more than doubled from a low of $2.56 in November 2010 partly because
Thodey has done a good job running the company, but it has also gone up because Telstra is a
dividend-yield market darling.

The dividend yield has more than halved as Telstra's share price has risen. But it's still respectable at
5.3 per cent before franking credits, and Thursday's result contained some clues about Telstra's
chances of retaining its "Yield Star" status.
Chief among them was a statement that there was no new windfall coming from the sale of its copper
wire network to NBN Co as part of the Abbott government's reshaping of the national broadband
network rollout. In its original deal with the NBN and the Labor government, Telstra agreed to
progressively turn off its copper wire network as the NBN overran it. A new commercial framework for
the deal that had been agreed therefore "does not contemplate any incremental value to be received by
Telstra for the transfer of ownership", Telstra said.

That is a significant statement on two fronts. First, it shows that Telstra, NBN Co and the government
have negotiated the commercial shape of the new deal. Talks were overseen by Thodey,
Communications Minister Malcolm Turnbull and NBN Co chairman Ziggy Switkowski, with NBN Co's
chief strategy officer, JB Rousselot, playing a key role at ground level.

It also confirms what Switkowski has been saying since he stepped in as chairman of NBN Co late last
year. Telstra won't get a windfall payment for its copper network, because the copper is already a
stranded asset. But it will be "kept whole", which was Thodey's baseline from day one. That underpins
Telstra's dividend, and points to more cash return.The $1 billion buyback Telstra announced on
Thursday will be conducted by tender and will probably be priced at a discount to Telstra's market price
of between 6 per cent and 14 per cent. Shareholders who sell will get a capital return of $2.33 a share,
and get the balance in the form of a fully franked dividend. The tax breaks that flow depend on each
shareholder's circumstance, but should be attractive.

Pretty much everything that Telstra announced on Thursday was positive for the share price, which rose
by 2.2 per cent to $5.56.

Professional investors and index-hugging share funds will sell into the buyback, and replace their
shares on-market, pushing up the share price short-term.

Page28of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Telstra's decision to boost annual dividend from 28¢ a share to 29.5¢ a share with a 1¢ higher final
dividend of 15¢ also provides share price support, as does the 1.5 per cent tightening of its issued
capital that the buyback produces.

Telstra has linked the buyback and the use of franked dividends as part-payment to two one-off events.

A government-ordered shift by Australian corporations from quarterly tax payments to monthly tax
payments this year pulled an extra $258 million of franking credits into the June 2013 year.
Telstra also booked a cash windfall during the year. It received $2.4 billion from the sale of its CSL
mobiles business in Hong Kong and most of its Sensis directories, and has used only about $500
million of it on new acquisitions.

The new NBN deal will be a source of cash for Telstra for many years if, as seems likely, the terms
have changed but the value of the deal has not. Telstra put a net present value of $11 billion on the
deal that is going to be replaced, but was actually due to be paid about $90 billion over three decades.
It landed on the $11 billion net present value after using a very aggressive discount rate of 10 per cent
on cash flow in future years. A lower discount rate is logical because the NBN is 100 per cent
government owned: if applied, it would inflate the present-day value of the deal that Telstra is poised to
re-create.

The Maiden family owns Telstra shares.

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

tcoma : Telstra Corporation Ltd | nbnaus : NBN Co Limited
i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | i3303 : Networking | i7902 : Telecommunications | ibrdbi :
Broadband Infrastructure | icomp : Computing | itech : Technology
c1512 : Dividends | c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140814ea8f0002z

Page29of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.