Wilmar bid too low: Goodman

The Australian

HD Wilmar bid too low: Goodman
CR
WC 812 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

29 April 2014
00:00
theAustralian.com.au
NLAUSW
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

GOODMAN Fielder is the latest Australian food manufacturer to attract the attention of foreign buyers.
The Goodman board has described the 65c-per-share offer from Wilmar and $5.1bn Hong Kong
investment manager First Pacific as both undervalued and opportunistic, but signalled it was willing to
negotiate, stopping short of rejecting the bid and appointing Credit Suisse as financial adviser.

TD

The offer arrives at a particularly vulnerable time for Goodman, coming just weeks after the April 2
earnings downgrade — the company’s fourth since 2011 — and warnings that further asset writedowns
were likely this year following $700 million in write-offs over the past three years, sending Goodman’s
shares plummeting as much as 20 per cent to a 19-month low of 47.5c.

However, it underlines the strategic value of Australian food businesses to international investors,
following a string of foreign takeovers of Australian food and agricultural businesses aimed at capitalising
on the rapid growth of demand from nearby Asia, with Canadian dairy giant Saputo’s $500m-plus
takeover bid for Warrnambool Cheese & Butter merely the most high-profile example of a widespread
trend.
Other recent deals include China’s Bright Food in January adding West Australian cheese and yoghurt
producer Mundella to the Manassen Foodsbusiness it bought in 2011 and Hong Kong-based investor
William Hui paying $70m in February for Melbourne milk supplier United Dairy Power, while US-owned
Archer Daniels Midland offered $3.4bn for GrainCorp last year only to be knocked back by Joe Hockey.
Investors are expected to lobby the Goodman Fielderboard this week to engage with the Wilmar-First
Pacific consortium, which has appointed Merrill Lynch and UBS as advisers.

Paul Skamvougeras, deputy head of equities with 12 per cent shareholder Perpetual, said he agreed with
the board that the offer was opportunistic but urged them to negotiate for a higher price.
“We are encouraging the company to continue the dialogue with Wilmar to extract higher value for
shareholders,” he said.

The deal is subject to a scheme of arrangement and due diligence scrutiny of Goodman’s books, meaning
it cannot proceed without agreement from the board.

Mr Skamvougeras said Goodman’s recent profit downgrades had been largely driven by one-off factors,
while attempts to sell off or find a joint venture partner for its $500m-plus dairy business could release
some value for shareholders.
It is understood that Goodman Fielder was asking at least $500m for its dairy assets, based on recent
comparable deals, while the Wilmar-First Pacific offer was believed to be aimed at retaining the dairy
business.
Credit Suisse is understood to have previously offered the dairy business to Chinese companies Bright
Foods and MengniuDairy, while New Zealand dairy giant Fonterra has also been mooted as a potential
buyer.

Wilmar, which in 2011 paid $1.75bn for Australian sugar refiner Sucrogen — formerly known as CSR —
has had its eye on Goodman since February 2012, when it accumulated a 10.1 per cent holding at 60c a
share, establishing a blocking stake that effectively ruled out any rival bids.

Page197of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Singaporean company, valued at $19.3bn, subsequently made a overtures to the Goodman board
but was rebuffed — something that was only revealed by Wilmar chairman Kuok Khoon Hong in August
last year, when he also said he was now ready to sell Wilmar’s stake if he could achieve “a good price’’ —
a move he has apparently decided against.

The bid consortium is pitching the 65c per share offer as a 23.8 per cent premium to Goodman’s closing
share price on April 23 and a 27.2 per cent premium on its weighted average share price since the April 2
downgrade.

However, both comparison figures exclude trading on April 24, when Goodman shares jumped as much
as 10 per cent on what the bid team described as “abnormal volume” of 15 million shares — the last day
of market trading before the two companies met to discuss the bid. Using that day’s closing share price of
55c as a comparison, the offer price represents a premium of 18 per cent.
Even when the company’s $500m in debt is added to the offer price — as the buyers, Wilmar and First
Pacific would become liable for the debt — the offer represents a multiple of only 7.9 times consensus
forecasts for Goodman’s earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation this financial year, a
little over half the 14 times earnings Saputo paid for WCB.

However, market sources said Goodman had been unsuccessfully offered up for potential sale to private
equity investors over the past year, diminishing the company’s negotiating power and the likelihood of a
rival bidder emerging to prompt a higher bid.

Goodman shares closed at 63.5c, up 8.5c for the day.

NS

c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document NLAUSW0020140428ea4s000gu

Page198of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.