The news in 5 minutes

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Top of The News
The news in 5 minutes

834 words
1 July 2014
Straits Times
STIMES
English
(c) 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

TOP OF THE NEWS

3 main factors in riot: COI

THREE factors combined to cause the violence in the Little India riot to worsen, said the Committee
of Inquiry (COI) in a report that also blamed alcohol. It also gave eight recommendations, most of
which were on how to prevent future riots.

'Islamic caliphate' declared

SUNNI jihadists have declared an "Islamic caliphate" on territory they seized in Iraq and Syria in a
move that has alarmed regional and world powers. The Islamic State ordered Muslims to pledge
allegiance to its chief.

WORLD

HK set for protests

HUNDREDS to thousands of Hong Kongers are likely to "occupy Central" tonight, blocking the main
Chater Road in the central business district. Another group will also "occupy Tamar", the public
space outside the Chief Executive's office, in a bid to step up calls for "real democracy".

Maids put on display?

THE Philippines has voiced concerns over an Al Jazeera report which claims that some maid
agencies in Singapore have been "displaying" women as "commodities" in shopping malls. The
Philippine Embassy in Singapore may file a police report if the accounts are true, its foreign affairs
department spokesman said.

Retired general Xu Caihou was the former vice-chairman of the Central Military Commission. --
PHOTO: REUTERS

Ex-top general sacked
CHINA has sacked retired general Xu Caihou, an ally of retired president Jiang Zemin. He is the
highest-ranking official to have fallen from grace over graft charges since President Xi Jinping took
charge.

Next up - Down Under
AFTER its controversial reclamation works in the Strait of Johor, Chinese developer Country
Garden is pressing ahead with its Australian plans.
Besides aiming to buy a stake in Australian property giant Meriton, it has also launched its
800-apartment complex in Sydney.

OPINION

Page224of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.TPP doubters should consider big picture

Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong is concerned most about blockages in the US to a Pacific trade
deal. There are other hurdles, each of which could sink the effort. Time, surely, to see the big
picture of all-round benefit. All parties must agree that a deal will serve the common good.
Property market poser
THE property market is a pale shadow of itself from a year ago when the boom was in full swing.

Is it time to lift some cooling measures? Reporter Cheryl Ong ponders the burning question in the
weekly Eye on the Economy column.

SINGAPORE

New parking scheme

A PAY-PER-MINUTE parking scheme for motorcyclists could help them save hundreds of dollars a
year. More than 500 Housing Board and Urban Redevelopment Authority carparks are bringing in
the system, which will help those who need to use the spaces for only brief periods, such as
dispatch riders.

Managing disputes
SINGAPORE hopes the territorial disputes in the South China Sea between several countries can
be managed to avoid armed conflict, said Foreign Minister K. Shanmugam. It does not matter which
countries own which islands as long as the peace can be kept, he said.

MONEY

Surprise rebound

RESALE prices of private homes staged a surprise rebound in May over April, reversing a
nine-month decline. Overall resale prices climbed 0.8 per cent from April to May, according to
Singapore Residential Price Index flash estimates.

Frasers raising $368m
FRASERS Hospitality Trust (FHT) plans to raise $367.9 million through the sale of stapled
securities at 88 cents apiece. FHT is a global hotel and serviced residence trust comprising Frasers
Hospitality Real Estate Investment Trust and Frasers Hospitality Business Trust.

Justin Rose with his trophy after winning the Quicken Loans National in Bethesda, Maryland, on
Sunday. -- PHOTO: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE

SPORT

Booster for Rose

BRITISH golfer Justin Rose won his first title since the US Open just over a year ago, parring the
first extra hole on Sunday to beat Shawn Stefani for the US$1.1 million (S$1.4 million) top prize at
the Quicken Loans National in Maryland. It gives the 33-year-old world No. 8 a huge boost for the
British Open later this month.

Curators (from left) Anca Rujoiu, Jennifer Teo, Woon Tien Wei and Vera Mey are involved in the
collaboration project Post-PopUp. -- ST PHOTO: STEFFI KOH

LIFE!

Partners in arts

INDEPENDENT visual arts institutions here say collaborations among themselves allow them to
pool resources, expertise and influences to create the space for them to better pursue their
common goals.
Unlike state institutions and commercial galleries, independent players offer discursive practice
and scholarship that can be esoteric, a little off the wall and hard-hitting.

Tokyu Hands for S'pore

Page225of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.JAPANESE lifestyle store Tokyu Hands Inc, known in Japan as the go-to store for quirky homeware
products and do-it-yourself items, is headed to Singapore.

In September, a 7,500 sq ft store will open at Westgate in Jurong East. This is their second
overseas store, under the Tokyu Hands label, following the opening of its Shanghai outlet in 2012.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gdip : International Relations | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations
singp : Singapore | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Singapore Press Holdings Limited
Document STIMES0020140630ea710000g

Page226of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.