Does religion save the pain?

HD Does religion save the pain?
WC 10,295 words
PD 28 March 2014
SN Australian Broadcasting Corporation Transcripts
SC ABCTRS
LA English
CY (c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation
LP

Experiments in space reveal genetic master switches in pathogens and vaccines

X-ray lasers provide the pics while avoiding radiation damage

TD

San Diego Zoo breeds success

Last call for science writing entries

Hungry Science Beast for Radio pt2

Get religious to minimise the pain

 

[Music: Ave Maria, from Vespers by Rachmaninoff.]

Robyn Williams: If you feel pain, real pain inflicted by a curious psychologist, will it be worse if you are an
atheist? Could that pain be reduced for Catholics if they are peering at a picture of the Madonna? That's
what a fellow at Oxford has found. Choose Mary for pain relief. Atheists do better with David Attenborough.
They also took yoga instruction to prisons in a series of unlikely experiments.

The Science Show on RN, where we start in space. Okay, tell me this; how many people live up on the
Space Station and what do they do? Josh Zepps wanted to find out. He presents Huff Post Live. And he
called them up.
Josh Zepps: This is Huff Post Live, I'm Josh Zepps. And anyone who has seen Gravity has had a tiny little
taste of what life is like several hundred miles above the surface of the Earth. But while we were trying to
experience it vicariously via Sandra Bullock's 3-D eyes against the green screen, a tiny handful of people
truly know what it feels like to be in space. We are joined now incredibly by three astronauts who are
currently on board the International Space Station. They are Koichi Wakata, Mike Hopkins and Rick
Mastracchio. Thanks to all three of you for being with us.

Richard Mastracchio: Well, thank you very much, it's great to be with you.

Josh Zepps: Mike, can you just tell us, where are you guys actually located on the station? It looks like you
are just floating around in midair. Where are you and what are you doing?

Michael Hopkins: Yes, we are actually in the US laboratory, so this is where we do a lot of experiments, but
it's also where a lot of the systems are located that help keep us alive.

Josh Zepps: Rick, we've got a lot of questions coming in naturally from viewers as they watch this online.
One of them says, 'What health studies are you currently working on?'

Richard Mastracchio: We're doing quite a bit of studies related to how our bodies change in zero G. For
example, we do ultrasounds on our eyeballs, ultrasounds on our spines, on our heart. Of course we are
constantly doing blood draws and urine samples to see how our bodies change and are affected by the
zero G environment.

Page173of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Josh Zepps: Is this to study the impact on your health of potentially much longer trips in space, is that the
point?

Richard Mastracchio: Exactly. You know, right now most of our missions are about six months long. Pretty
soon we are going to have one-year missions. I believe next year we will start a one-year mission, and then
eventually we may even go longer and longer. And this is so we can see how the body is affected by the
weightlessness and the environment of space, and also how we can protect other crew members, how we
can keep them healthy for these long-duration missions that it's going to take to get to Mars and beyond.

Josh Zepps: How do you stay healthy in zero G  ?

Koichi Wakata: Yes, we have a pretty extensive exercise program using aerobic machines, bicycle
machines, a treadmill, as well a resistive exercise device. We exercise almost two hours every day to stay
healthy.

Josh Zepps: Did you ever imagine, Koichi, growing up in Japan that this would be something that you
would end up doing?

Koichi Wakata: Oh, flying in space has always been my dream ever since I saw the Apollo lunar landing
when I was five years old. I thought it was impossible as a Japanese boy to reach into orbit, but here
together with my American friends and the Russian friends here I am so happy to be part of this wonderful
team.

Josh Zepps: Mike, I've got a question coming in from one of our viewers, Jan Cummins says, 'I marvel at
the men and women who venture into space. Can they tell us what is the most awesome sight from space?'

Michael Hopkins: Oh, absolutely, there's not a day that doesn't go by when we have a chance to look out
the windows down at the Earth that we don't see something just truly incredible. In fact the other night Rick
and I just happened to be in the cupola and it was night and we were going down near Antarctica, and the
northern lights were just absolutely incredible. It was a scene that we've never seen before. The whole sky
was lit up green and you had the blues of the horizon where the Sun was just over the horizon, and then
we had Venus come up and the Moon come up. It was just truly amazing.

Josh Zepps: What does that do to your head?

Michael Hopkins: Well, it kind of blows you away. You are just in awe at how beautiful the Earth is, and
every day, again, you are just surprised at some of the sights that you see.

Robyn Williams: Mike Hopkins and friends on the International Space Station, talking to Josh Zepps on
Huff Post Live. Well done Josh.

So what experiments do they do up there, and why do they go to the bother of launching bugs and
apparatus up there into the sky? Who better to ask than Professor Cheryl Nickerson at the Arizona State
University Biodesign Institute. First though, the movie.

Have you seen the film Gravity?

Cheryl Nickerson: Oh yes. I thought that the filming imagery was spectacular. There were several liberties
taken with reality in terms of what actually happens. There are never two shuttles that are docked with the
station in order to leave, but I thought the film itself was magnificent. I think it may have served to help
recapture the American public's imagination in a positive way in terms of what can be done up there as
opposed to the actual ending of the movie.

Robyn Williams: And you saw the International Space Station. Did you feel any qualms when you saw the
space station being beaten up?

Cheryl Nickerson: I did, just as I felt qualms when in the Transformer movies they blew up the shuttle.
That's inherently wrong and should not be allowed! But I thought it was incredibly well done, just
spectacularly well done.

Robyn Williams: One thing that I always found when I go to the model of the International Space Station,
which I have done over the years and walked around, is why anyone would want to have experiments with
tissues up there with no gravity. What difference would it make? And you can tell me the answer to that,
can't you.

Cheryl Nickerson: Well, that's a great question because that is the response I think that most people have.
They say to me, 'Why would you think of doing experiments in microgravity? Why space flight? What
advantage does that confer?' And if you think about life as it evolved, it's always evolved under unit gravity.
What will it do when you take it away from that?

Page174of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.And by way of an example I like to say, look, it's an extreme environment, and when have we learned more
about how biological systems adapt and survive and respond than when we put them under extreme
environments of temperature, of pH. When we have watched and studied how organisms respond to that,
every single time we have not just generated fundamental new understanding of biological systems, cells
and tissues, but we've also been able to take that knowledge and translate that into next-generation
breakthroughs that we benefit from every day here on this planet for human health and quality of life. So in
that regard it's the next extreme environment whose utility is just beginning to be tapped.

Robyn Williams: But it would make sense for you experimentally if you are looking at ways in which to treat
people ultimately if it resembles what's going on in our bodies. It mustn't be that alien that it doesn't count.

Cheryl Nickerson: You're absolutely right. And cells being cultured in microgravity in a liquid container, they
experience a very low fluid shear force. That's the force of fluid that cells experience as it passes over their
surface. Well, cells in our body are vessels with fluid continually passing over our surfaces all the time, and
we know from humans that those forces are important for our tissues to function normally. But no one had
really paid much attention in terms of how those forces could affect the virulence or the disease causing
potential of bacteria, and yet bacteria experience those forces all the time in our body. So that was my
original interest in looking at that problem.

Robyn Williams: So what have you been sending up to the space station experimentally?

Cheryl Nickerson: We have flown three model human pathogens: the major foodborne pathogen,
Salmonella typhimurium, which is the leading cause of bacterial foodborne illness worldwide; the
opportunistic pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa which, unlike Salmonella, doesn't cause disease when
you're healthy, it causes disease when you are immunocompromised, it's the leading cause of death of
people with cystic fibrosis and burn wounds; and we flew a model human fungal pathogen, Candida
albicans.

We chose these pathogens for three reasons. We wanted them all to be sequenced because we wanted to
look at their global gene expression profiles, we wanted them all to be very genetically tractable and have
good animal models that we could study their disease in. We know that all of these organisms here on
Earth are major causes of human morbidity and mortality and we don't have effective treatments for them
or vaccines for them.

And we were also interested from NASA's perspective, these are all organisms that either have been
isolated from the crew or the space ship in flight and, for example, Salmonella is the leading reason why
food that is destined for the International Space Station gets disqualified. Pseudomonas aeruginosa has
caused a life-threatening infection in space before. And Candida albicans causes minor skin irritations and
respiratory infections there as well.

Robyn Williams: So if you're sending it up into space and you've been monitoring how they behave, are you
comparing what they do on Earth, for example?

Cheryl Nickerson: Absolutely. So good science has to have good controls, otherwise we wouldn't know
whether or not the microgravity culture environment altered the virulence and gene expression in
pathogenesis related characteristics of the organism. So we performed identical synchronous ground
controls for all of those organisms at the Kennedy Space Centre. They were loaded at the same time in the
same hardware as what flew, half of the hardware flew, half of it stayed in the ground in a special room at
the Kennedy Space Centre called the orbital simulator room. So it is linked in real time to the shuttle and
also now to the ISS. It maintains the same temperature, humidity et cetera that is on orbit, the only
difference is it's not flying, so there's no microgravity.

We are also linked in real time with the crew, so they would call down to us. When they started the
experiment we were linked in with them in the room. We started the experiment at the same time. When
they terminated it, we terminated it. Everything was kept identical, with the exception of things flying.

Robyn Williams: What did you find?

Cheryl Nickerson: It was very exciting what we found. We found that spaceflight increased the virulence of
Salmonella. I should say we did this in two independent shuttle flights, and what's a very exciting is that
usually you don't get a chance to independently validate, we have to do that at the bench because
spaceflight is such a unique opportunity to fly, but on two independent shuttle flights we showed that
culturing Salmonella in the space flight low fluid shear microgravity environment increased its virulence
significantly, which means it was a more robust pathogen.

It globally altered its gene expression. But what was very interesting is the genes that were being turned on
and off weren't being turned on and off in a manner that was consistent with the organism being more
virulent when we culture it down here on Earth. So we were able to identify a master global regulator or

Page175of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.master switch that was responsible for the vast majority of regulating the genes Salmonella was turning on
and off. We identified all the genes that were differentially regulated, and interestingly not one virulence
gene was increased, they were all either not changed in expression or decreased in expression, which
provides new insight in terms of how these pathogens actually causing disease in the body. We are finding
differences as to how these pathogens can cause disease that we don't see when we culture them
normally.

Robyn Williams: So the live creatures behave differently up there. You can find things are not visible on
Earth. And you can then change the pathogens to make them safe, and even, according to Professor
Nickerson, use those safe germs to carry vaccines. Here's how:

Cheryl Nickerson: Those differences are happening in our body down here, this is not unique to spaceflight.
But the force of gravity down here can mask some of those responses. So when we grow these cells, these
pathogenic cells, in microgravity and greatly remove that force of gravity, other forces can come into play
and genes are expressed differently then.

So we have been able to since show that this master response regulator that Salmonella uses to regulate
its genes in these low fluid shear environments, other very different pathogens use that same master
response regulator. It's evolutionarily conserved all the way up through into your cells.

We've been able to show that we can actually turn off that increased virulence up there and make the bug
not cause disease. We have also translated that to an approach for a vaccine initiative. So with the
understanding that space flight could uniquely alter the disease causing potential, the virulence, and the
gene expression of Salmonella, these are important properties for a live attenuated vaccine strain.

And so we wanted to then ask can space flight to do the third thing that would be important for developing
an effective vaccine? Can it alter the immunogenicity, the protective properties of a vaccine strain? So we
paired with Roy Curtiss who is the world's leader in turning what I like to say Salmonella from a foe into a
friend. So he has spent decades masterfully engineering Salmonella to not cause disease in the body but
serve as a vector, a vehicle into which we can put immunogenic genes from other pathogens into
Salmonella and then deliver that to the patient. And those immunogenetic genes confer protection against
other deadly diseases.

So he had constructed a strain that is actually in phase 1 clinical trials. It was a Salmonella strain that was
designed to protect against streptococcal pneumonia. It was doing okay in clinical trials, but its
immunogenicity needed to be better, it needed to be more protective. And we reasoned, can we fly that
vaccine strain, study it, see if it's more protective, and then if it is more protective identify all the genes
whose expression changed to make it more protective, go back in here on Earth, re-engineer that strain to
give it those same protective properties that we hope to have observed from flight, and then translate that
back into the clinical trials. So that's just one of the many lines of study we are pursuing.

Robyn Williams: It's quite amazing, isn't it. Were people surprised to find that what you do here in the lab
on Earth in a flat dish can be misleading?

Cheryl Nickerson: I think that most scientists know that everything is a model system that we use and there
is no model that's perfect, and we know that no one way to study things will give us 100% of all the
answers. I think what surprised them was that the actual microgravity environment would be useful for that,
and I think it's simply because since all cells, all life has evolved under unit gravity, no one really envisions
if you take that away from it what will happen. And when you take that away from it amazing things happen.

And I would like to stress, because I think it's very important, this isn't just for infectious disease research.
The leading causes of human morbidity and mortality—infectious disease, immunological disorders,
including cancer, bone and muscle wasting loss diseases, neurovestibular disorders, and muscle
degenerative diseases—all of these disciplines have been studied in the microgravity environment. And
each one of these studies has provided very intriguing insights, but there's no magic pillar box. I'm not
suggesting we have (and I don't like to use the word 'cure') the answer to these things.

But every single one of these disciplines has provided very intriguing and novel insight in terms of how
these diseases may actually be developing, how cells behave from going normally to transiting to disease
phenotypes that we don't see when we do that research down here. That also includes advances in tissue
engineering that my team has been working on to develop more human-like models of cell-based tissues
and organs that are in your body that we can study how they respond to pathogen infection and get a better
understanding of how the disease is occurring in the body.

So I think the potential for breakthrough using this innovative platform, and now it's a US national laboratory
up there as well. And so we need to use it like a US national laboratory. It's fully built, it is ready to roll. In
the past science has been conducted on the fringes of building the ISS up there but now it's open, and so I

Page176of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.just hope since they've extended it for four years, the lifespan, that we can make effective utilisation of that
globally for human   health and quality of life.

Robyn Williams: Do you know, the Astronomer Royal, Martin Rees, has said that he could not see any
scientific benefit of the International Space Station lab. I think you are in the process of proving him wrong?

Cheryl Nickerson: It's not me who is in the process of proving them wrong. People are going to believe
what people want to believe. Some of the smartest people that you know of can amazingly have on
blinders. And science done inside a box is not the kind of paradigm-changing vision we need if we wanted
to continue to advance the way we need to advance in biological sciences, biotechnology. You've got to
think outside the box. Sometimes your way isn't the only way. We all just need to be more open-minded
and make effective utilisation of these novel environmental platforms for research that we have.

For example, for infectious diseases we are not doing a good job of outpacing them here on Earth at all,
and so anything that gives us an advantage to do that, to reduce the time of 10 to 15 years to get a drug to
market, to reduce the cost of $1 billion to do it, and to fundamentally understand these novel insights into
cells as to whether they are behaving normally or transitioning to disease, it's absolutely worth it to use it.

Robyn Williams: When's the next flight?

Cheryl Nickerson: We are flying on SpaceX 5 which has currently just been pushed out, I found, to the end
of November, so it looks like Thanksgiving we'll be back at the Kennedy Space Centre with our friends, so
we'll have turkey there.

Robyn Williams: Thank you.

Cheryl Nickerson: Thank you.

Robyn Williams: The irrepressible Professor Cheryl Nickerson at the Biodesign Institute, Arizona State
University, waiting for the next space shot. One way to gain new insights, microgravity.

Another way being explored by Australian physicist John Spence is micro-time. Watch reactions in
femtosecond slices to find out what's really happening. And they've just scored $50 million to do the work.

John Spence: A couple of decades ago the X-ray laser was invented, and we were lucky enough to be
there around 2003 when the Department of Energy in the United States decided to build this thing for
about $600 million. Of course they were looking for things to use it for, and we suggested uses in biology.
There was a possibility of getting snapshots of molecular machines at work, and this would cover
everything from the molecular machines that do photosynthesis in the green plants that make the oxygen
that we breathe, to new drugs. You want to know how the atoms are moving and what they are doing.

Robyn Williams: Why not just use a synchrotron?

John Spence: A big problem is…if you imagine having a chest X-ray and you want to see finer and finer
detail, then you would turn up the intensity of the X-rays. But there comes a point where the illumination of
X-rays is so intense that it destroys the thing you are trying to look at, and particularly if you want to see
finer and finer detail.

In 1986 a scientist by the name of Solem wrote a theory paper where he suggested that if you did it with
the shutter speed, the pulse of X-rays were brief enough, you could get a picture before the sample, as it
were, knew what had happened to it, before it was blown up, because the radiation damage occurs later,
and the elastic scattering that you make the image with is instantaneous. So that was the whole idea of this
diffract-and-destroy mode, which is the main discovery this is based on.

But the experiment that showed that it actually worked was by Henry Chapman who comes, like me, from
Melbourne University, and Henry did his PhD there a few years after me.

Robyn Williams: So you can actually learn something by examining the reaction as it's happening,
something that you didn't know before.

John Spence: Yes, and the way we do it is like a stroboscope. Photosynthesis is a beautiful example
because it's driven by sunlight, and so you can have a system where we use flashes of simulated sunlight
from a laser to start the molecule, the molecular machine doing its thing. And then a little later we hit it with
the X-ray pulse and take a snapshot of that at a particular stage of the motion. And then we repeat that
thousands of times for every different stage in the cycle and then put them all together to make a 3-D
movie.

Robyn Williams: And that will tell you what's going on that you didn't know before?

Page177of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.John Spence: Well, it's chemistry really. There's a lot of effort now with alternative energy on artificial
photosynthesis. So if we can understand the mechanism in plants then we can make inorganic systems
that mimic that.

Robyn Williams: You mentioned a few names of people who have been involved in something similar, and
one name that occurred to me is Ahmed Zewail who actually got the Nobel Prize for taking snapshots of
chemical reactions in femtoseconds, which is a million millionth of a second or something. The timespan
you are operating in, how different are your plans from what he has done?

John Spence: Well, Ahmed at Caltech did spectroscopy, and we're doing imaging, making pictures and
then movies. The timescale is about the same, 50 femtoseconds is fast enough to outrun radiation
damage. We use these brief snapshots to avoid damage, but of course it also gives you wonderful time
resolution. Ahmed has more recently changed his field into fast electron diffraction which is actually my old
field. I came here to work with John Cowley, another very famous Australian who left Melbourne University
again in about 1970 to found the group here.

Robyn Williams: All these Australians we're losing, what are we doing wrong?

John Spence: Well, you might get them back because, you know, the success rate in grants here is about
10% at NIH/NSF. This is a very serious problem, a 90% rejection rate, you would really think twice about
sending your kid to do university research. So my friends tell me that it's just as bad in Australia, but there's
a chance you'll get it back. Actually Robyn, I have brought with me a piece of this X-ray laser, and I should
say it's built in a tunnel a couple of miles long near Stanford, it runs under the freeway, and it cost, as I
said, $600 million. It's like a laser pointer but it spits out X-rays and it's much bigger. And I'm sure that if I
just hold this a little bit closer to your microphone then your viewers will see it in much more detail, so here
it is up close.

Robyn Williams: Kaboom, yes, well. You say the grants are difficult, but you've scored with your colleagues
$50 million with which to do this. That was a tremendous triumph.

John Spence: Well, NSF does have this program of science and technology centers. So in our competition,
which we started a couple of years ago, there was multiple levels of refereeing, so they made three
awards, so a 1% chance of success. And one of them was MIT, one was at Harvard, and the other was us,
so we were incredibly lucky. They run usually for 10 years, and over the 10 years it would be $50 million,
yes.

And so there are six or seven campuses involved. ASU here is the biggest group in the scientific research,
we have six professors here, and there's a big outreach program run out of Buffalo where they have
education and technology transfer and patents and so forth. And just last week the NSF had us all here
together to teach us how to collaborate. That was a lot of fun, teaching professors, these prima donnas,
how to work together. They hired a professional company to do this, so we had a few days learning to do
the same thing which of course professors are trained not to do.

Robyn Williams: And you all did hugs in the afternoon and played soccer or something?

John Spence: Well, I kept saying, you know, breakthroughs are meant to surprise and surprise cannot be
planned. But institutions have to…if they are giving you money, they have to know what's going to happen
or think they do. So it will be a flexible plan.

Robyn Williams: You mentioned photosynthesis. What other examples, if things go well, do you think you
might produce knowledge about?

John Spence: Yes, well, another big field at the moment is called GPCRs, this is a class of proteins
involved in drug delivery. The problem with them is you can't grow big crystals of them. All our knowledge
of how proteins work is mainly based on knowing the structure of them, and to get the structure you have to
grow a big crystal. And that's the whole bottleneck in structural biology because it's so difficult and it's
largely a matter of chance as to whether the crystal grows or not. What we find with this method is we can
determine the atomic arrangement in proteins which only grow very tiny crystals, some micron in
dimensions. And that's opened up a whole new field of proteins which we can address.

Robyn Williams: Amazing apparatus, as you say, very, very long, and you are zapping big molecules and
you are finding out something which, to the general public seems quite astounding, but is it a game-change
that will make a huge difference?

John Spence: You have to understand how important radiation damage has been in the history of
microscopy. Since Van Leeuwenhoek in the 18th century people have been turning up the brightness so
they can see finer detail better…

Page178of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Robyn Williams: That was 1674.

John Spence: Right, absolutely. And as they turn up the intensity of the illumination they fry their samples
and they can't see anything. This has been a real roadblock until…so to have a breakthrough where you
suddenly understand that you can scatter as many photons as you like without damaging the sample if you
do it quickly enough is really important. Then is it a game-changer? Well, the fact that we can study
proteins which don't grow big crystals the biologists tell me is very important, yes.
Robyn Williams: And now they've got $50 million to prove it's important. The new science, really taking off.
John Spence is professor of physics at the Arizona State University, formerly of Melbourne.
This is The Science Show on ABC Radio National, and I'm at one of the great zoos of the world which does
research with its animals, which has huge crowds coming, as today, to look at some of the exhibits and
some of the ways in which they are being looked after, the animals. And with me is Ron Swaisgood who is
the head of ecology. And we are standing next to where the pandas are actually having lunch under the
bright sun in the middle of winter. And you can hear in the background lots of people queuing up to see
them. And you've got a baby there, have you? How old is the baby?

Ron Swaisgood: Our baby is a year and a half.

Robyn Williams: So it's a toddler.

Ron Swaisgood: Yes, so this one, she is about ready to be weaned from the mother.

Robyn Williams: What happens when it's weaned?

Ron Swaisgood: Well, pandas are solitary in nature, and so mother and offspring, they go their separate
ways as they would do naturally in the wild. And so they will be kept separately in the enclosures here as
well.

Robyn Williams: So you gradually separate them and they get used to being alone.
Ron Swaisgood: Yes, exactly. And eventually all the offspring born here will go back to China and enter the
breeding program there. We've actually had several go back, and we've got quite a few grandkids in China
now that have come from our pandas here at the zoo.

Robyn Williams: Talking about breeding, the pandas are famously not very good at it. What really stops
them being so enthusiastic about sex?

Ron Swaisgood: Actually I think that's a bit of a misnomer. It's not that the pandas don't do what comes
naturally, they actually do what comes naturally quite well if given the appropriate environment and
circumstances, that's what some of our research here at San Diego Zoo has been about over the last 15,
20 years. We've been flying back and forth across the Pacific Ocean and we've been working with the
Chinese. Most pandas will mate naturally given the appropriate circumstances.

Robyn Williams: And what are the circumstances? Flowers, chocolate, or what?

Ron Swaisgood: Well, in pandas it's really about the perfume. And so pandas do have a special gland that
they use to mark their environment, and you remember now they are solitary, so they don't have
opportunity for face-to-face interactions that often in the wild, in fact they avoid one another. But they keep
tabs on one another through scent marking. And so what we found is that if you provide them with the right
opportunities to communicate with one another through scent marking at the right time, that actually the
aggression levels go down and the sexual motivation, libido, goes up. And you place them together at the
right time and all will usually go well.

Robyn Williams: Clearly, with that success rate. And I think his mother next door is chomping away at her
leaves, undistracted by the crowds, she doesn't seem to bother about the crowds looking.

Ron Swaisgood: No, you know, they are actually quite docile animals, and they do very well in a zoo
environment, quite happy to eat bamboo about 14 hours a day and not be bothered at all by their admirers.

Robyn Williams: It's an exciting life, isn't it.

Ron Swaisgood: Yes, and the other 10 hours is mostly spent sleeping. Every once in a while they get up
and move to a different bamboo patch.

Robyn Williams: They don't do anything else?

Page179of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Ron Swaisgood: Well, then comes the mating season, and that's when everything changes. It's very
difficult to find a panda in the wild, because they do live in a very dense bamboo habitat, but come mating
season they are actually quite noisy. And what we'll do is we'll up on ridges and listen for the panda
vocalisations. The males are fighting…the female, when she comes into heat, several males will aggregate
around her, follow her for several days or a couple of weeks. A female will often climb a tree and wait for
the males to duke it out down below. So yes, it's a time of a great deal of activity. There is often even a little
bit of bloodshed when the males fight, so they are not always docile. Then the female will come down and
they'll mate, and a few months later she will give birth to a cub, usually in a cave or a tree den, and raise
the cub.

Robyn Williams: Does the cub play at all?

Ron Swaisgood: Of course the cubs are very playful, they play with the mother, and then they'll play with
anything in their environment. They'll break off a piece of bamboo and roll around with it. They are very
playful animals.

Robyn Williams: I suppose y ou're not allowed to interfere and to make physical contact much?

Ron Swaisgood: Yes, we have a hands-off policy in terms of direct contact, and they are not pets. But
when they are in a zoo environment we want them to have a relationship with their keepers because it's not
about having no relationship because then it actually can be stressful if they are having to do things that a
keeper is asking them to do. So our keepers actually have very strong bonds with the pandas.
Robyn Williams: You gave the example then of the return of the cubs to China, and for some years you've
been returning animals to their native wilderness, if you like. Some examples of your successes?

Ron Swaisgood: Yes, so often when people think of zoos and reintroduction programs, which is what we
are talking about, returning animals to the wild, we think of them as coming from the zoo and back to the
wild, and actually we have done that on some occasions, but really what we do often now is a bit more
strategic. We have what I call demand driven re-introductions or translocations. So we are working on the
landscape, and where the animal is missing, perhaps it's extinct in the wild, perhaps it's locally extinct, we
try to bring them back, back to that ecosystem. So we're trying to play a role in the recovery of the whole
ecosystem, not just individuals. And so we have programs designed to do that. In some cases we'll breed
up dozens or hundreds of individuals and release them back. In other cases we'll do what's called
translocation and we will capture individuals from one location where there is a surplus and relocate them
and release them to establish a new population. And we've done that with black rhinos in Southern Africa,
we've done it with kangaroo rats here in southern California, and a number of other species. The California
condor being of course one of the classic examples.

Robyn Williams: That was down to very few numbers, wasn't it.

Ron Swaisgood: Yes, the California condor was down to 22 individuals, and all of them were brought into
zoos for breeding, and now we are up well above 400 individuals with about half of those in the wild. And
so we've been releasing them in California and out of the Grand Canyon. And then the zoo runs a project
down in Baja, Mexico, where we have over 20 condors flying free in Mexico for the first time in many
decades.

Robyn Williams: What depleted their numbers in the wild?
Ron Swaisgood: Well, a number of things led to the decline of the condor. One of the big ones was lead
poisoning. So when hunters shoot an animal, the bullet that is left in the environment the condors would
end up consuming, and that would kill them. And of course there's been a lot of other habitat changes in
California. What used to be an area that had lots of large animals roaming free now pretty much has one
large animal roaming free. And when we die we tend to bury them, so there is not much condor food.

Robyn Williams: And so what was the secret of being able to breed from, well, a couple of dozen to 400?
How did you manage that?
Ron Swaisgood: This was done by several zoos, with San Diego being one of the lead organisations doing
this. And yes, it's call ed aviculture, and it was a lot of learning and trial and error to learn the correct
techniques. One of the key things that was developed early on was puppet rearing for in cases when the
parents did not rear the chicks. We don't want them to imprint on humans because then they're going to
think they are human and they're not going to be very good breeders back in the wild. And so they are
reared with puppets and they are fed with a puppet that looks like the condor, and that was one of the keys
to success as well.

Robyn Williams: I see, isn't that clever! They are huge animals, aren't they, with a really vast wingspan.

Page180of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Ron Swaisgood: There's nothing more amazing than seeing a condor soar over your head in the wild. I've
been down to our field site here in Baja, Mexico, and yes, a nine-foot wingspan. And first thing in the
morning they are all roosting on the edge of these cliffs, and these are desert cliffs, and when the hot air
starts to rise they'll get enough lift and they'll start soaring. And if you sit up on top of the ridge in the
morning and wait for that thermal lift and then wait for them they'll just circle up and come right over your
head. And there's nothing more amazing than that feeling.

Robyn Williams: They're not killers, they're scavengers, aren't they?

Ron Swaisgood: Yes, they are scavengers, so they find something that has already died and they are
nature's cleaner-uppers.
Robyn Williams: Yes, hence having to avoid the lead. Well, those success stories are really indicative of a
new era for zoos because they used to be places where you kept animals and you can still look at them…I
must say I'm astounded by the hundreds, thousands of people you have here. I know it's a sunny day, but
what a turn-out. Is the public aware of the scientific part of what you do?

Ron Swaisgood: Yes, absolutely. What we are trying to do at the San Diego Zoo is bring people in for them
to enjoy the animals that we have here but we want them also to walk away with messages about what
actions they can take to conserve and protect our resources. And part of that is learning about our
programs, our conservation and science that we do, and how they can help to facilitate those efforts as
well.

Robyn Williams: Well, thanks very much, and good luck with the separation of these pandas. When are you
breeding next, do you know?

Ron Swaisgood: Well, the female will come into oestrus in the spring, typically April. And two years ago
when she last produced a cub, if she had just waited to have that cub for two more days she would have
set the world record for the oldest female to give birth. So she may be at the end of her reproductive life but
she is in very good health, and so we're going to see how it goes this year, and if she mates then we may
get one last cub from her. She has been a wonderful female for us and, as you know, she has brought six
cubs into this world here at San Diego Zoo.

Robyn Williams: Ron Swaisgood is director of applied animal ecology at the zoo.

And this is The Science Show on RN, where Natasha Mitchell of course presents Life Matters. She was
also an editor last year of the book Best Australian Science Writing, which we featured on this program. In
2014 the new editor is Ashley Hay, based in Brisbane, and here she is with a last-minute reminder should
you wish to send her an article.
Ashley Hay: As a writer for hire, I'm used to shuffling between a range of different projects, but my two
main jobs at the moment are editor of this year's Best Australian Science Writing anthology, to be published
by New South this November, and owner/operator of a five-year-old child. It's interesting how the two
occupations intersect.

My five-year-old is a walking embodiment of curiosity. He asks questions, he wonders about things, he
wants to know the how and why of what happens and where. He loves jigsaws too, turning the pieces face
up and beginning to assemble the image. He loves the moment when the cars or dinosaurs come into
focus. He loves the moment when the last piece clicks in, complete.

His combination of curiosity and jigsaws provides a strangely apt model for editing an anthology; the
curiosity of opening a submission for the first time, the rush of a first read that shows off its ideas and
contours, the flickers of connection or recognition between one piece and another, and the process of
unravelling whether these complement or cancel each other. In this way the parts of the whole can
combine.

Best Australian Science Writing provides a kind of snapshot of some stories that made it in science in the
past year, new and wonderful dispatches from the cutting edge of somewhere, cataclysmic reports from
different parts of our world that can take your sleep away, particularly if you are someone with an eye to the
future.

This, the anthology's fourth annual edition, gives us the chance to celebrate not only scientific research but
also the best ways we've found of talking about the discoveries and disappointments, the characters and
the metaphors. This will be the last edition to be supported by three years funding from the Copyright
Agency Cultural Fund. From 2015, Best Australian Science Writing will be on the lookout for new patrons.

Page181of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.As a novelist (another of my titles), I'll always argue that telling the stories matters, but stories about
science matter in a different kind of way. They are an integral part of the work science does in expanding
and explaining everything from the microcosmic to the macro.

When I first started wondering what shape this collection might take when submissions opened last
December, I conjured the American writer Joan Didion. She might not be someone usually associated with
hypothesis, experiment and analysis, but one of her most quoted lines seems suddenly to make a different
sense; 'We tell ourselves stories in order to live, she wrote in The White Album, and I saw this in terms of
the invention and the explanation that is vital to the work of science, and vital to the way we talk about it.

Perhaps this is giving the book a more literary purpose than you might expect, but it has helped draw the
first pieces together, and the overall picture of the anthology is starting to emerge. If you have contributions
you'd like to suggest might be part of it, you've got until 31st March to send them in.

Robyn Williams: And we'll have a link on the Science Show website to help you do just that. Ashley Hay in
Brisbane.

Last week our PhD graduate was Hungry Science Beast Niraj Lal. His hungry mate is equally ravenous,
Hamish Clarke, who does research on climate at the University of New South Wales.

Hamish Clarke: Although we feel weather at local scales, it's driven by forces which are really global in
nature. To illustrate this I'd like you to think of a sausage sizzling away on a hotplate. If you're like me you
regularly turn the sausage, making sure it gets cooked evenly. But no matter how often we turn it, the ends
of a sausage don't get cooked as well because they are not touching the hotplate.

Okay, the Earth is a bit like that sausage, rotating once every day, getting evenly warmed by the Sun, and
the north and south poles of the Earth are like the ends of the sausage, never really getting the full force of
the Sun. Unlike the sausage, Earth has an atmosphere and oceans which are perfect ways for moving this
extra heat around. And so a lot of what we know about the global climate system comes from following the
Sun's heat as it moves through water and air, outward from the Equator to the rest of the world.

Robyn Williams: And of course when the temperature goes up, especially here, the risk of fire soars, so
Hamish is also keen to know, being a Hungry Science Beast, what really sets fires going.

Hamish Clarke: When it comes to bushfire risk, what really matters? Ross Bradstock at the University of
Wollongong has come up with a model he calls the four switches of bushfire. These are: one, the amount
of fuel; two, the dryness of the fuel; three, the weather conditions; and four, a source of ignition. Each of
these factors is a switch, but, unlike most appliances, just having one switch isn't enough, you need all four.
If even one of the four switches is off, you won't get a fire.

For example, in the Blue Mountains west of Sydney where I live there is plenty of fuel, several very high fire
danger days a year, and a reasonable supply of lightning, hazard reduction burns and arson. But we don't
get many long stretches without rain to dry the abundant fuel out. As we've seen, three switches are not
enough to make a bushfire, and a so-called limiting switch here is fuel dryness.

Let's compare this with Australia's inland; it gets very hot, it's very dry, there's plenty of lightning, the fuel
dries out quickly, but there just isn't a lot of fuel to burn in the first place, partly because it's so dry. The
limiting switch here is fuel amount. The key insight of the four switches is not in the discovery of any new
factors in bushfire but in the way we look at them. So often in science it's these changes in perspective that
can lead to new ideas.

Let's think about climate change. If it leads to longer dry spells, then the four-switch model tells us that this
matters most in places where fuel dryness is the limiting switch, like my home town. Hmm.

Robyn Williams: Hmm indeed. Hamish Clarke, living in a four-point risk own. He does research with the
New South Wales Department of Environment, and a PhD at the University of New South Wales. Another
PhD on The Science Show next week.

[Music: Ave Maria from Vespers by Rachmaninoff]

How sublime. Uplifting. But perhaps also analgesic. Miguel Farias lectures in psychology at the University
of Oxford and does some wonderfully unexpected experiments on belief, experiments you'd expect to be
illegal, like giving pain to his subjects.

How can you do an experiment that tries to find out whether those who believe in God have a different
experience of pain from, say, atheists? How does that work?

Page182of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Miguel Farias: Yes, so what we did was to give electric shocks to participants. You just have a continuous
painful electrical stimulus on the back of your hand, and you put them in an MRI scanner while this is
happening and it gives subjective ratings of how painful it is. And they are either looking at an image of the
Virgin Mary or a secular image. So you've got these subjective reports of how intense the pain is and you
look at what's happening in their brains.

Robyn Williams: And you're allowed to do that are you?

Miguel Farias: You know, actually we had a problem with the ethics committee.
Robyn Williams: I'm not surprised!

Miguel Farias: Not because of the pain aspect of it but because of the religious part. We were being
challenged on the fact that we are using an image of the Virgin Mary, so the ethics committee challenged
us on that, they said why aren't you using an image of Christ? So we had to methodologically explain why
we wanted to use Catholics rather than every kind of Christian.

Robyn Williams: What did you find? Who could put up with the pain more? Those with a Jewish association
or a Catholic association or what?

Miguel Farias: So unfortunately we only tested Catholics and atheists, and there was a lowering of pain
perception for Catholics only when looking at the image of the Virgin Mary.

Robyn Williams: So you felt less pain if you were looking at the Virgin Mary?

Miguel Farias: Yes, for Catholics. But we interviewed them afterwards to try to understand what was going
on, and the kind of reports we got had to do with what psychologists call a reappraisal process. They were
focusing on aspects of their faith, the role of Mary in the Gospels or praying or thinking of religious
experiences they'd had before. So it was this which allowed to down-regulate the experience of pain.

Robyn Williams: And so are you suggesting that if you do have this religious belief you are somehow
physiologically protected.

Miguel Farias: Let's say that we had a decrease of 14% in terms of pain perception, and this we think is a
subjective reinterpretation of the pain, because when we look at the pain matrix in the brain we get exactly
the same level of activation.

Robyn Williams: I see, so the body might have felt the pain but the mind felt it was less.

Miguel Farias: Yes, exactly, and there comes the whole subjective psychological and effective component
of pain.

Robyn Williams: So you had these atheists on your hands and you were inspired to take an experiment
further. In what way?

Miguel Farias: Yes. Just to give you an example, more recently we've been looking at scientists and we've
asked them specifically…this is an experiment in which we put them in a situation where they have to give
a speech, an impromptu speech on something which raises their levels of stress. Before that we get them
to think about how science has been meaningful, to write about an event where you thought that science
was meaningful in your life and tell me how you thought and felt about it.

And often we got these beautiful narratives of how science has helped them to deal with stress. One
particular scientist gave the example of how whenever he was stressed he just looked at BBC
environmental videos, especially about animals, how are looking at animal and plant life made him feel
much more relaxed. Another one gave the example of going through principles of physics whenever he
was stressed, how it just suddenly made everything come into place.

Robyn Williams: So it's a personal tool.

Miguel Farias: Yes, exactly.

Robyn Williams: It's the first time I've heard that science can be therapeutic in the same way maybe that
going to church could be.

Miguel Farias: Well, there is a twist to my interest in this because there is this huge literature, mostly
coming from American doctors looking at these correlations between health variables and religion and
saying that religious people have healthier lives, live longer and are happier and that sort of stuff. And I
thought actually can we replicate this with a different sort of belief system? And when I started thinking
about this with my colleagues, there was a team of Dutch psychologists that had been looking at John

Page183of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Gray's…you know, the guy who's at the London School of Economics who wrote Straw Dogs, the myth of
progress, so they were looking at the myth of progress…

Robyn Williams: Yes, he was a professor of European thought.

Miguel Farias: Yes, exactly. He's a wonderful nihilistic atheist, very different from the Dawkins kind, almost
Nietzschean kind of existentialist, and he's very critical of the idea of progress, that we actually believe that
we are morally progressing, not just in terms of technology but in terms of actual moral progress. So they
devised a series of social and psychological experiments where they show that if you put people in
situations of uncertainty and anxiety, they believe more in moral progress.

Robyn Williams: It makes sense.

Miguel Farias: Yes, well…

Robyn Williams: Let me take you to prison now and another example of the kind of experiments that you
were doing, taking yoga to prisoners. How did that come to be?

Miguel Farias: So I met the person who runs this small charity based in Oxford called the Prison Phoenix
Trust who has as one of the patrons Jeremy Irons.

Robyn Williams: The actor?

Miguel Farias: The actor, yes. And I learned about this wonderful history of two women who had dedicated
part of their lives to taking yoga and meditation into prisons. And it was one of those moments that as a
psychologist I thought, wow, if this works it would be wonderful to test it and to show that actually using a
proper experimental design it works. And I would be in a unique position because as a research
psychologist my stuff doesn't have a practical edge or application to it. And I thought, wow, perhaps this
would be a way of giving back something to people who are in a rather deprived and unfortunate situation,
being in prison.

So that was really what sparked the interest, in a kind of subtle ideology of the people who run this
organisation, which is mostly run by volunteers, and it's a very hippie, new-ageish idea. Remember Timothy
Leary in the '60s. So if you put people in the right frame of consciousness it will change them, so he was
trying to go around giving LSD to politicians. The idea with transcendental meditation was very similar in
the '70s, that if you just put people in the right frame of mind it will change, crime will go down. So the idea
of most of the volunteers who run this isn't very unlike that, they believe that if you get prisoners to realise
their true spiritual nature they will just be enlightened and don't feel the need to be criminals.

Robyn Williams: Endure being locked up a bit better.

Miguel Farias: Ah, I would think of that as potentially the negative side of meditation and yoga, all of these
eastern spiritual practices, that it can actually lead you to be more passive rather than reactive.

Robyn Williams: So you went in, and did the prisons allow you to do this work with no problem?

Miguel Farias: Oh goodness no, no, it's a real headache getting into prisons, it took us one year to get
ethics permission. We wanted to use cortisol and they said if you get saliva samples you could run genetic
analyses on the prisoners that would be unethical. But I said, but we're not, we don't have the means, we
don't have the money to do it. And then because we were being sponsored by a foundation which money
comes from a pharmaceutical company, they said we would want to sell the data. I mean, complete
nonsense. Anyway, they very subtly told us that we can't give you permission, however if you were to go to
a regional governor and seek permission there, we would be fine with that, which is what we ended up
doing.

Robyn Williams: So you went to which prison?

Miguel Farias: We went to the Midlands prisons.

Robyn Williams: And the prisoners were welcoming to you, or did they briskly tell you to bugger off?

Miguel Farias: We had two female research assistants, one of whom used to be a model, so that was
rather successful with the male prisoners. Most of them were quite happy to try to do something. We
randomised them into a control group or a yoga group. There's some kind of ongoing prejudice about yoga
being a girlie activity, but most of them were happy to engage with it.

Robyn Williams: And the results?

Page184of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved. Miguel Farias: So we got some interesting results. We had prisoners doing a ten-week yoga course, and
we saw significant reductions in tress, increases in positive effects in general psychological well-being, and
we also used an impulsivity task, a very simple computer task—go, no-go—where we saw that they were
better at impulsivity, so at withholding their behavioural response, which is potentially the most promising
thing since most of criminal behaviour has to do with an inability to withhold your impulses. So that's
promising. I'd like to do some more research on that.

Robyn Williams: When you went away, did they continue the yoga?

Miguel Farias: It's rather problematic to track what happens to these prisoners because for some reason,
which I'm not entirely clear, they get moved around prison very, very often. So we actually had to negotiate
with the prison governors not to move these participants for 10 weeks. I don't know whether the purpose is
not to create social bonds, I think it's a deeply alienating experience.

Robyn Williams: Well, they're not supposed to have fun when they go there, are they.

Miguel Farias: No, I don't think they have much fun.

Robyn Williams: The overall impression one gets from your work is that you are willing to look at these
really exciting attitudes that people have about life, how you get on with life, how you manage to keep
yourself stable, how you enjoy, how you even resist pain. It's most unusual really in a psychologist to get
such a wonderfully broad approach, is it not?

Miguel Farias: Yes, my head of Department has told me that my research interests do not fit those of the
Department. I just do what I enjoy, and yes, I think that most of my work is interesting for people outside of
academic psychology. I'm trying to write a sort of popular psychology book on the yoga side of things. We
have as a provisional title From Monster to Buddha.

Robyn Williams: From Monster to Buddha, right.

Miguel Farias: Well, the problem we've had so far is that the feedback we've got from publishers is because
we are introducing a critical edge to it, it's not just 'oh yes, yoga and meditation can do all these wonderful
things and can promote personal change', we are actually looking also at the critical aspect of it.

Robyn Williams: From Monster to Buddha, a critical look at yoga. Sounds fun, doesn't it, especially if he
can keep the crims out of jail and into 1960s tie-dyes instead. Miguel Farias is Portuguese and lectures in
experimental psychology at Oxford.

Next week The Science Show investigates how terrorists use the internet, how an Australian marine
scientist is helping to green the port of LA, and how Marcus Chown went swimming with Stephen Hawking.
Production by David Fisher and Mark Don. I'm Robyn Williams.

IN i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences
NS gsci : Sciences/Technologies | ntra : Transcripts | gcat : Political/General News | ncat : Content Types |
nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE
Filter | grel : Religion | gcom : Society/Community/Work

RE austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific |

ausnz : Australia/Oceania | queensl : Queensland

PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN Document ABCTRS0020140331ea3s0005m

Page185of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.