Wilmar, First Pacific continue talks with Goodman Fielder after S$1.5b offer spurned

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

HOT NEWS
Wilmar, First Pacific continue talks with Goodman Fielder after S$1.5b offer spurned

597 words
29 April 2014
TODAY (Singapore)
TDAYSG
APM
8
English
(c) 2014. MediaCorp Press Ltd.

SINGAPORE — Wilmar International and a Hong Kong investment firm will continue discussions to
acquire Australia’s largest baker, Goodman Fielder, after their A$1.3 billion (S$1.5 billion) joint bid was
rejected yesterday, as the Singapore-listed commodities giant seeks to capitalise on its strong
distribution channels in China to expand into branded products.
The A$0.65-per-share all-cash bid from Wilmar and Hong Kong-listed First Pacific represented an 18.2
per cent premium to Goodman Fielder’s previous close of trade on Thursday, but the Australian food
giant and its largest shareholder Perpetual Investment said the offer “materially undervalued” the
company.

Had it been successful, it would have been Wilmar’s biggest takeover since its A$1.5 billion purchase of
CSR’s Australian sugar business in 2010, Bloomberg data showed. In United States dollar terms, it
would be the third-biggest food takeover in the Asia-Pacific of the past five years.

“The A$0.65 price does appear opportunistic, given that the recent profit downgrades have been driven
by one-off factors that we think will reverse,” said Mr Paul Skamvougeras, portfolio manager at Perpetual
Investment, which owns 12 per cent of Goodman Fielder. “Having said that, however, we have
encouraged the company to continue dialogue with Wilmar to extract value for shareholders.”

Meanwhile, Wilmar and First Pacific, which will form a 50-50 joint venture for the bid, said they “will
continue to seek engagement with the (Goodman Fielder) board about entering into due diligence”.
Wilmar is the third-largest shareholder in Goodman Fielder, with a stake of 10 per cent. A successful
takeover would add brands such as Meadow Fresh yogurt, Olive Grove margarine and Wonder White
bread to Wilmar and First Pacific’s Chinese and South-east Asia-based consumer businesses. Chinese
shoppers prefer imported food and beverages due to concerns over local quality and food safety,
according to focus-group analysis quoted in a report last November by the Hong Kong Trade
Development Council.

Mr Carey Wong, research manager at OCBC Investment Research, said Wilmar could use its mature
distribution channel in the region, particularly in China, to tap the surging demand for quality foods. “It
only makes sense for them to increase the number of brands they can distribute through their channels.
What they are offering is not made-in-China products, sold in the Chinese market that is very sceptical
of local products,” he said.

Australian and New Zealand food assets have become increasingly attractive to offshore investors, as
the countries position themselves to provide for Asia’s rapidly growing middle-class. In January, China’s
Bright Food Group said it had agreed to buy Australian dairy company Mundella Foods for an
undisclosed sum, expanding the state-owned conglomerate’s overseas reach and boosting its exposure
to the growing dairy market.

Mr Don Williams, chief investment officer at Platypus Asset management, said that while Australia had
high-quality businesses in the food-producing sector, Goodman Fielder has historically generated
dreadful returns for shareholders.

Page168of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“I am not sure if Goodman Fielder has any strategic value but it’s a cheap business in the right space,”
he said.

Earlier this month, Goodman Fielder cut its earnings guidance for this year by as much as 15 per cent,
saying that trading conditions had deteriorated and that planned measures to save on manufacturing
and supply chain costs had been delayed. It added that it might face asset write-downs. AGENCIES

CO
IN
NS
RE

fdgl : Goodman Fielder Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Corporate

IPD
PUB MediaCorp Press Ltd
AN

Document TDAYSG0020140428ea4t0000q

Page169of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.