TPG's tender playbook on Inghams

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
TPG's tender playbook on Inghams

Inside the deal Joyce Moullakis
656 words
17 April 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
41
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Private equity group TPG has drawn on a familiar playbook in seeking to extract as much value as
possible from its bumper $880 million purchase of poultry business Inghams Enterprises.
Only a year after being ingested, the acquisition is already being touted by some as a gold-star deal
in the buyout industry. TPG co-head of Asia Ben Gray is seeking to capitalise on the higher yield
available from Inghams properties – relative to the chicken producing business that supply big name
companies, including Woolworths and KFC.

If the two Inghams property portfolios, spanning 53 properties in Australia and New Zealand, sell at the
expected yield, the sale will come in at a tidy $625 million. That's a big number relative to the price
paid.

This is likely an early step towards an exit. It is also a reminder of how TPG and others handled the
Myer sale.The subsequent sale and leaseback of Myer's Melbourne CBD district in mid-2007 netted
about 1.2 times the total original equity. The company hit the local bourse about 18 month later. The
Myer sharemarket listing was a boon for the vendors but not investors that piled into the stock (it has
never traded above its issue price). The playbook is also being dusted off as TPG and co-investor The
Carlyle Group explore spinning properties out of private hospital operator Healthscope, ahead of a
trade sale or listing.

In the Inghams case, a property fund was a preliminary consideration by TPG but it has since drafted in
agent CBRE  to manage a sale and leaseback campaign. Danny Thomas and Mark Granter are ruling
the roost for CBRE on the sale.

Expressions of interest were due on Tuesday as pension and sovereign wealth funds circled. The
properties will likely be sold in two portfolios and the assets include breeder sheds and large chook
processing facilities.
Rent from the properties is about $50 million annually and the expectation is the portfolios will sell on a
yield of about 8 per cent. It must be noted that banking sources suggest some properties were carved
out of the Inghams sale ahead of the auction. The Ingham family, led by BRW rich-lister Bob Ingham,
turned to then Investec Australia chairman David Gonski on the sale mandate in 2012. Gonski has a
relationship of more than 30 years with the family.Tactical jousting

After trade buyers fell away, the race for the business was contested by Blackstone and its advisers,
led by Barclays, which was tipped as the frontrunner.

TPG, advised by Macquarie Capital, started its run late, but elbowed aside Blackstone in the end.
Succession planning issues, management profile and protracted timing put the initial public offering
option on the back-burner. The jousting was tactical.
Gray flew into Sydney from Hong Kong to see Woolworths chief Grant O'Brien on February 28, to
ensure a firm grip on its coveted distribution deal, and a binding deal was clinched soon after.

Page279of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.TPG sank about $260 million of equity into the business and financed the remainder of the
acquisition with borrowings from an eight-strong syndicate of lenders. While the TPG-led
debt-for-equity deal to save Alinta in 2010 is seen as the private equity group's top deal in Australia, if
the Inghams exit goes to plan, it will also rank highly.

TPG is thought to have removed some middle management roles, while natural attrition has also
contributed to lower headcount. The Australian chicken meat federation expects chicken meat
produced will rise to 1.2 million tonnes in Australia this financial year, up from 750,000 tonnes a
decade ago. That is a positive, but TPG will be mindful of the competitive nature of the industry and the
potential for overcapacity. No doubt bankers will keep a close eye on TPG's playbook.

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

inent : Inghams Enterprises Pty Ltd | tpgpar : TPG, Inc.
i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100121 : Poultry Farming | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv :
Investing/Securities | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
cacqu : Acquisitions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 :
Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140416ea4h00003

Page280of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.