CNN: CUSTOMERS INCLUDE SOME OF THE WORLD'S LARGEST CONSUMER GOODS COMPANIES, TESTIMONY TO THE EAGERNESS WITH WHICH CARDIA'S LOW CO2 AND...

HD CNN: CUSTOMERS INCLUDE SOME OF THE WORLD'S LARGEST CONSUMER GOODS

COMPANIES, TESTIMONY TO THE EAGERNESS WITH WHICH CARDIA'S LOW CO2 AND FULLY
COMPOSTABLE PACKAGING MADE FROM RENEWABLE MATERIALS IS SOUGHT
Jenny Prabhu

BY
WC 3,208 words
PD 3 April 2014
SN OzEquities News Bites
SC NBOZEN
LA English
CY Copyright 2014 News Bites Pty Ltd. All rights reserved.
LP

AUSTRALIAN COMPANY NEWS BITES

OZEQUITIES NEWS BITES

TD

It has been a long road for Cardia Bioplastics since it listed on November 21 1996 (as a miner), soon after
changing its focus to eco friendly products.

Cardia in its early years developed low carbon, biodegradable alternative technologies for various sectors
- including mining, timber, manufacturing, agricultural pesticides and others.

By 2002 Cardia had narrowed its focus to the manufacture of bioplastics resins and finished products
derived from renewable resources.

It holds several patents on products that reduce the carbon footprint of petro chemical plastic packaging by
up to 50% (for biohybrids) or that are fully compostable - and with comparable performance to
petrochemical plastic products.

The IPCC report last Monday has lent new urgency to the need to reduce carbon in the atmosphere and
reduce pollution if the rise in global temperatures - seen as irreversible - is to be limited to 2 degrees
higher - which will be damaging, but not as disastrous as temperatures rising above those levels will be.

And while rising temperatures threaten all the natural world, and many species on land are set to
disappear, warming temperatures, increasingly acidic oceans and pollution threaten to overwhelm large
areas of the earth and decimate sea creatures, including all species fished for food.

The rise and rise of pollution in the oceans from plastic packaging
One such report in the US in 2011 stated between 100 and 200 billion pounds of plastic is manufactured
annually. An estimated 10% of plastic ends up in the oceans every year. About 20% comes from ships and
platforms in the sea. The remaining 80% comes from the land – garbage that travels through storm drains
or watersheds and accumulates in streams, rivers, and bays. Eventually this plastic garbage finds its way
to into the oceans.

The oceans consist of complex networks of currents that circulate water around the world. Large systems
of these currents, coupled with wind and the earth’s rotation, create “gyres” — massive, slow rotating
whirlpools in which plastic trash can accumulate.

The North Pacific Subtropical Gyre is a slow moving, clock-wise spiral of currents created by a
high-pressure system of air currents. It is an area that traditionally supported plankton and small sea life,
but now the plastic in some parts of this Gyre outweighs the plankton by a ratio of six to one.

This Gyre is the home of two massive ocean garbage collections – the Western and Eastern Pacific
Garbage Patches. The Western Garbage Patch circulates between California and Hawaii and, according
to an article in the LA Times, is estimated to be twice the size of Texas. The Eastern Garbage Patch
circulates between Hawaii and Japan.

Page84of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Known collectively as the Great Pacific Garbage Patch, it was discovered in 1997 by Captain Charles
Moore, who founded the nonprofit Algalita Marine Research Foundation in Long Beach, CA.

Other major gyres exist in the South Pacific, North and South Atlantic, and Indian Oceans. Smaller gyres
have been discovered near Alaska and Antarctica. Moore estimates that bits of plastic now outnumber
plankton in many parts of world's seas.

According to the National Geographic website, a team of Japanese scientists found that plastic breaks
down at cooler temperatures than expected within a year of the trash hitting the water.

The team collected samples in waters from around the world according to lead researcher Katsuhiko
Saido, a chemist with the College of Pharmacy at Nihon University in Japan.

“All the water samples were found to contain derivatives of polystyrene, a common plastic used in
disposable cutlery, Styrofoam, and DVD cases, among other things,” said Saido, who presented the
findings at a meeting of the American Chemical Society in Washington, D.C in August 2009.

Roughly 44% of all seabird species, 22% of cetaceans, all species of sea turtles and many species of fish
have been documented with plastic in or wrapped around their bodies.

Sealife cannot distinguish plastic from food – and ingesting debris that blocks the digestive tract can harm
the smallest to the largest creatures. This non-nutritive bulk eventually starves birds, mammals, and fish.

Genetic altering chemicals have been shown to impede the ability of fish to reproduce and as debris
absorbs heat from the sun, it warms sea water making it unsuitable for sea life. Many fisheries and
ultimately the world’s food supply is threatened by ocean plastic pollution.

There are other deeply concerning, potential human health impacts from these toxic chemicals that enter
the marine food chain through plastic ingestion. Ongoing research explores whether they work their way
up the food chain to become increasingly concentrated and enter our bodies through the seafood we
consume.

* * *

Size of the potential bioplastics market in the European Union alone (from Wikipedia)

COPA (Committee of Agricultural Organisation in the European Union) and COGEGA (General Committee
for the Agricultural Cooperation in the European Union) have made an assessment of the potential of
bioplastics in different sectors of the European economy:

Catering products: 450,000 tonnes per year

Organic waste bags: 100,000 tonnes per year

Biodegradable mulch foils: 130,000 tonnes per year

Biodegradable foils for diapers 80,000 tonnes per year

Diapers, 100% biodegradable: 240,000 tonnes per year

Foil packaging: 400,000 tonnes per year

Vegetable packaging: 400,000 tonnes per year

Tyre components: 200,000 tonnes per year

Total: 2,000,000 tonnes per year
*Sustainable and renewable Bioplastics packaging is currently estimated to be 1% of the $200 billion per
annum plastics packaging market, with exponential growth expected.

*Bans on conventional plastic bags (from Cardia's presentation on April 1)
The US, Europe, Latin America, Australia, Japan, India, China, Middle-Eastern governments have
legislated or supported bans on conventional plastic bags in an effort to reduce waste and their carbon
footprint.

Compostable products - international standards

Page85of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The EN 13432 industrial standard is arguably the most international in scope and compliance with this
standard is required to claim that a product is compostable in the European marketplace. In summary, it
requires biodegradation of 90% of the materials in a lab within 180 days.

The ASTM 6400 standard is the regulatory framework for the United States and sets a less stringent
threshold of 60% biodegradation within 180 days, unless it is a homopolymer, then it would need to be
90%, again within industrial composting conditions, where the facility is at or above 140F. Municipal
compost facilities do not see above 130F.

Many starch based plastics, PLA based plastics and certain aliphatic-aromatic co-polyester compounds
such as succinates and adipates, have obtained these certificates. Additive based plastics sold as
photodegradable or Oxo Biodegradable do not comply with these standards in their current form.

* * *
Cardia owns a strong intellectual property portfolio of 11 patent families with 12 patents so far granted in
key markets, invented by Cardia's R&D team.
The company already has ample resin manufacturing capacity in Nanjing, near Shanghai and its film and
bag making capacity is currently being doubled, as well as film and bag manufacturing factories under
contract in other countries.

Cardia Bioplastics customers include Procter & Gamble, Kimberly-Clark, Nestle, Colgate-Palmolive,
Henkel, Breville, McDonalds, Toyota, Jusco, Johnson&Johnson, 7-Eleven and KFC as well as Councils in
China - and the Brisbane Council for its carrier bags, waste management and packaging productss - apart
from several other smaller customers.
Cardia has business development and sales offices in Australia, China, Malaysia USA and Brazil.
The company was awarded the IAIR Green Excellence Award, one of the world's leading prizes for
excellence in global economy and sustainability, in February this year.

Management is tenacious, knowledgeable and energetic and while achieving critical mass is seen as the
first step towards profitability, management is clearly focused on achieving profitability as soon as possible
- after which a consolidation of shares would be recommendable.

Cardia is currently raising funds via a non underwritten non renounceable rights issue to its shareholders
at $0.003 to raise approximately $2.7 million before costs as well as a placement of potential short fall to
professional and sophisticated investors.

Both rights issue and placement of short fall have free attaching options on a 1 for 3 basis exercisable at
$0.006c on or before December 31 2014.

Ex date for the share issue was March 12.

CARDIA BIOPLASTICS LTD - A SNAPSHOT

Cardia listed on November 21 1996 as Cardia Mining, with Pat Volpe (who resigned as Chairman and non
exec director last year but remains a major shareholder) having been its guiding light since foundation.

Cardia's focus had begun to change to environmentally friendly technologies in 1998, and by 2002
Cardia's focus had changed wholly to environmentally friendly technologies for sectors from mining to
cosmetics, later focusing entirely on bioplastic resins and packaging products, developing its own
intellectual property of 11 patent families protecting formulation, production, processing and application of
its Bioplastic resins and packaging products.
In 2007 Cardia established its manufacturing and product development facility in Nanjing, China.
The first commercial outcome was in 2008, when Cardia supplied its bioplastic carry bags and waste
management products to the Beijing Olympics.

The global head office and application development center is in Melbourne. Cardia manufactures its
proprietary resins and films and bags in its own 7,200 tonne capacity plant in Nanjing. Its film and bag
making capacity is currently being expanded and will be doubled again in June/July.

*Cardia manufactures its proprietary products from starch based plastics, derived from industrial starch.

Starch possesses the characteristic of being able to absorb humidity, and is thus being used for the
production of drug capsules in the pharmaceutical sector. Flexibiliser and plasticiser such as sorbitol and

Page86of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.glycerine are added so the starch can also be processed thermo-plastically. By varying the amounts of
these additives, the characteristic of the material can be tailored to specific needs (also called
"thermo-plastic starch"). Industrially, starch based bioplastics are often blended with biodegradable
polyesters.

Starch-based plastics constitute about 50% of the bioplastics market.

*Cardia has found it far more profitable to manufacture product in its own operation, selling it through its
own sales force in Australia, China, Brazil, US and Malaysia - selling to local governments, retailers,
brand owners and packaging companies.

Since it is not practical to export finished films and bags to some countries such as Brazil because of high
import duties, the company has manufacturing partners in Brazil that manufacture films and bags using
Cardia resins manufactured in Nanjing.
Among its customers in Australia, China and elsewhere Cardia also numbers commercial relationships
with some of the world's leading packaging manufacturers that have adapted Cardia's Compostable and
Biohybrid resins for their commercial packaging applications.

These include Sealed Air, Mondi, Valgroup, Amcor, Jockey, Wipack, VIP, Alto, RPC, Norcan and Mabesa.

In the 2014 year Cardia has signed several strategic supply agreements including Ricoy Supermercados &
Drogaria Araujo in Brazil ($A1.4 million per annum sales forecast), Nanjing Jiainye and Qixia Districts,
China ($A1.4 million p.a. sales forecast), EcNow Tech in the US ($400,000 p.a. sales forecast) as well as
Pacific Springs, Yukon Spring & Norcan Flexible Packaging- Canada, Ecoriginals - Australia, So Delicious
Dairy Free USA and Truly Green - the Maldives.

Most recently, on April 3 Cardia Bioplastics Ltd announced a leading American manufacturer of personal
hygiene and diaper products has doubled its orders of Cardia Biohybrid film to $1 million per annum
forecast, expanding the use of Cardia Biohybrid hygiene film across different product lines with further
potential to increase its use. The manufacturer, who cannot be named due to commercial sensitivity
designs, develops and manufactures its own proprietary range of personal hygiene products and diapers
as well as US retailer private label brands.

Cardia and the manufacturer had established a supply relationship for Biohybrid film two years ago.

CNN managing director Dr Frank Glatz said in the report diaper and personal hygiene companies globally
are placing orders in response to customer demand. "In addition, our products are inherently soft touch
and fully food contact compliant, making them a natural choice for films in direct body contact".

The competition

While there are local and global competitors with bioplastic products the market is vast, and growing.

Cardia Ltd financials

Code: CNN

Last Traded price 0.3c.

Shares Issued 2,814m.

Options on Issue 300m.

Market Cap $8.4m.

*Cardia is currently raising funds via a placement at $0.003 to professional and sophisticated investors as
well as a non underwritten non renounceable rights issue to raise approximately $2.7 million before costs.

Both placement and rights issue have free attaching options on a 1 for 3 basis exercisable at $0.006c on
or before December 31 2014.

Ex date for the share issue was March 12.

Directors:

Richard Tegoni, Non-Executive Chairman

Richard is Chairman of Cardia Bioplastic Ltd and was first appointed as Non-Executive Director of the
Company on 21st December 2012. He holds a Masters of Business Administration with the Australian

Page87of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Graduate School of Management (AGSM), Diploma in Mortgage Broking and a Diploma in Financial
Markets with the Securities Institute of Australia (SIA).

Richard has a background in finance, banking and sales & marketing. His experience includes senior
marketing and strategy management positions with Optus Communication, Chief Operating officer and
Company Secretary of Melbourne University Publishing Ltd together with senior business advisory &
consulting roles with various small to medium sized companies.

Frank Glatz, Managing Director
Frank has overall responsibility for the business and the strategic direction of the company, with
particular focus on international commercialisation and business development. Prior to joining Cardia
Bioplastics, Frank was employed by Plantic Technologies to establish their European operations and to
commercialise their technology internationally. Before joining the bioplastics industry, Frank worked for
more than ten years in the plastics and packaging industries in general management, commercial and
technical roles with ICI Australia, Qenos and Orica. Prior to this, Frank conducted polymer research in
Germany and Japan. He holds MSc, PhD and MBA qualifications.

Steve Bendel, Non-Executive Director

Steve is currently the sole proprietor of accountancy practice Bendel Partners Pty Ltd. Bendel Partners
have a diverse range of clientele ranging from small and medium sized business, single and
multi-tenanted commercial property investors & syndicates. Bendel Partners are actively involved in
property syndications, property development, lease negotiations, sourcing and negotiating finance with
major lending institutions.

Steve’s qualifications include a Bachelor of Education from Victoria College Rusden with a Graduate of
Diploma (Accounting) from Monash University. He is also a member of CPA Australia.

Gideon Meltzer, Non-Executive Director
Gid has significant Capital Markets and Corporate and Commercial experience having served as General
Counsel and Company Secretary at an ASX S&P 200 company and smaller capped listed companies
where he advised the boards on a range of corporate transactions and governance. He has held a
number of senior positions at legal firms and prior to establishing GM Legal & Corporate Advisory of which
he is principal, Gid was a partner in the Corporate Practice Group of Cornwall Stodart.

Gid's qualifications include Bachelor of Economics and Bachelor of Law along with a Graduate Diploma in
Taxation Law from Monash University.

Management:
Rekha Bhambhani, Financial Controller/Company Secretary

Rekha has been Chief Financial Officer of Cardia for last 7 years and has also worked as an assistant with
the previous Company Secretary- Mr John Wilson on company secretarial matters. Prior to that, she
worked in accounting and finance positions in India for more than 8 years.
Rekha holds a B.Com, ACIS, ASA, ACA (ICAI), DISA (ICAI).
Chen (Jacky) Yi, General Manager China

An experienced packaging specialist Jacky has commercialised a number of bioplastics technologies.
Based at the company’s Nanjing facility, as General Manager he is responsible for the Cardia
Bioplasticsbusiness in China. Jacky was instrumental in Biograde winning the exclusive supply of
certified biodegradable packaging to the 2008 Beijing Olympics and Paralympics. He is a graduate of the
University of Science & Technology, Beijing, and has a Diploma of International Trading from the
Management College of China in Beijing. He also holds a Bachelor of Science from Upper Iowa
University, USA. He is a regular speaker at bioplastics conferences in Asia.

James Beck, Managing Director, North America

Canadian educated, James has 28 years’ packaging experience as a senior manager in sales, marketing
and product development. He was Division Manager with Price Daxion (now Unisource), General Manager
of United Shipping Supplies, was founding President of Dove Sales and Marketing packaging distribution,
and was a founding consultant of Enviro Smart Packaging promoting biodegradable plastic technologies in
Europe, the Middle East and Africa.

Joao Paulo Mignot, Managing Director, Latin America

Page88of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Joao Paulo has many years of international experience in the plastics, packaging and logistics industries.
Joao Paulo was the former Managing Director of Tecno Ambiental and participated in the Brazilian
Government Council that enacted new waste management laws for landfills, hospitals and the veterinary
industry. He also was the Operations Director for Fedco in Miami/USA with responsibility for supply chain,
logistics and Latin American Business development.

Joao Paulo has been engaged in sustainable packaging and Bioplastics for more than 5 years, leading
many initiatives in the Brazilian market. He holds a Bachelor degree in Business Administration.

Iqbal Huq, Managing Director, Malaysia
Iqbal has many years experience in business managment and logistics. He worked in senior
management roles in sales, marketing, business development and distribution. Iqbal has been engaged
in sustainable packaging for several years, leading many initiatives in the Malaysian market.
Li (Brian) Jun, Vice General Manager China

With many years experience in international supply chain management and sales, as Vice General
Manager China Brian is responsible for managing Cardia Bioplastics export business and leads the
China sales team. Brian has in-depth experience and excels in an international and export oriented
customer environment.

Markus Leufgens, Technical Manager, based in Melbourne

With a sound background in polymer engineering, Markus is responsible for global application
development and technical support. He has more than 20 years’ experience in the plastics and packaging
industry in Europe and Australia with global companies, such as Dow Chemical and Amcor Packaging. His
roles included research and development, technical service, manufacturing, plant engineering and product
development. Prior to joining Cardia Bioplastics, Markus worked for 5 years with Plantic Technologies in
application and product development where he complemented his technical expertise with an in-depth
knowledge of bioplastics.
Chen, Changping, Technical Director, China

An excellent polymer scientist with more than 20 years experience in the field of bioplastics product
development, Mr Chen invented our product technology. Based at the company’s Nanjing facility, he is
responsible for the Cardia Bioplastics global product development and manufacturing.

Major shareholders
Polarity B Pty Ltd (Pat Volpe) 8.5%

Richard Rodger Tegoni and Mrs Debra Marisa Tegoni 8.185

Dentost Pty Ltd 5.78%

Vermar Pty Ltd 5.02%.

The Top 20 hold 44.82% of Cardia

This is our third Week's Special on Cardia. The second was dated January 4 2002. Cardia was trading at
15.5c.

NS

RE

c133 : Patents | m11 : Equity Markets | nanl : Analyses | c32 : Advertising | c13 : Regulation/Government
Policy | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cgymtr : Intellectual Property | cinprp :
Industrial Property Rights (Patents/Trademarks) | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | nanjin : Nanjing | usa : United States | victor : Victoria (Australia) |
apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | china : China |
chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz :
Eastern Asia | jiangs : Jiangsu | namz : North America

PUB News Bites Pty Ltd
AN Document NBOZEN0020140403ea43000b5

Page89of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.