UPDATE: Dissenting shareholders fail to derail ROC's Horizon Oil merger

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

UPDATE: Dissenting shareholders fail to derail ROC's Horizon Oil merger

614 words
11 July 2014
Platts Commodity News
PLATT
English
Copyright 2014. Platts. All Rights Reserved.

Sydney (Platts)--11Jul2014/216 am EDT/616 GMT (Updating with comment from Horizon Oil)
Dissenting shareholders have failed in their attempt to amend Australian Roc Oil Company's constitution
in a bid to frustrate the company's planned A$800 million ($751 million) "merger of equals" with
Horizon Oil.

The amendment was put to the vote at an extraordinary general meeting in Sydney Friday, called by
funds management company Allan Gray and Hostplus Superannuation. Allan Gray is ROC's biggest
shareholder with a stake of 20%.

The meeting was called to vote on a special resolution to amend ROC's constitution with a view to calling
off the proposed merger with Horizon. The amendment failed to gain the required approval of 75% of the
votes cast, garnering just over 51.15% in a poll.

The proposed merger between ROC and Horizon was agreed by the two companies on April 29 and is
targeted for completion in August. The deal may be further complicated, however, by the emergence of
two other unidentified bidders, who have approached ROC with unsolicited indicative proposals.

ROC has advised shareholders to take no action in response to these proposals, noting there is no
certainty they will develop into formal offers.

Under the terms of the agreed merger, Horizon shareholders would receive 0.724 of a share in ROC,
which would retain its identity as the operator of the expanded group's assets in Malaysia, China and
Papua New Guinea. ROC's existing shareholders would hold around 42% of the merged company, with
Horizon shareholders owning about 58%.
Horizon Oil welcomed the result of the meeting. "As a consequence of the Roc Oil shareholder decision
at the EGM, Horizon Oil's proposed merger with Roc Oil by way of a scheme of arrangement remains on
track," the company said separately, adding that ROC shareholder approval was not required to
implement the merger.
"The independent expert report prepared for Horizon Oil in respect of the scheme has concluded that the
scheme is in the best interests of Horizon Oil shareholders," the company added.
"The Roc Oil board is also unanimously of the view that the scheme is in the best interests of all Roc Oil
shareholders, supported by Roc Oil's independent expert report," the company added. "The merger will
bring together two highly complementary companies, creating a leading Asian-focused upstream oil and
gas company that will provide a platform for significant potential growth and value realization."

The scheme meeting at which Horizon shareholders will be asked to vote on the merger will be held on
August 7.
ROC and Horizon are partners in an oil field which is currently producing around 13,000 b/d in China's
Beibu Gulf.
The expanded company's key growth asset in Malaysia would be its 50% stake in Petronas Carigali's
D35, D21 and J4 oil fields, offshore Sarawak. The fields, currently producing 10,000 b/d of oil and
17,000 Mcf/d of gas, are to be redeveloped at a cost of $250 million.

Page209of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Horizon's major contribution to the merged group would be its 30%-held Stanley and 27%-held
Elevala/Ketu projects in PNG. A $300 million development of the Stanley field has been approved by the
PNG government and is expected to be completed in 2016, producing 4,000 b/d of condensate and
140,000 Mcf/day of gas. In the longer term, Horizon's PNG assets are expected to form the basis of a
mid-scale LNG project.

Christine Forster, christine.forster@platts.com

Edited by Irene Tang, irene.tang@platts.com

NS

RE

c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cmerg : Mergers | cacqu :
Acquisitions | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South
Wales
0100

IPD
PUB Platts, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc.
AN

Document PLATT00020140711ea7b000gu

Page210of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.