Meet the facilitators

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Perspective
Meet the facilitators

Samantha Hutchinson
2,732 words
25 January 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
18
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Connections
Chinese and south-east Asian investors are spending more money on property in Australia than ever
thanks in large part to the work of intermediaries, writes Samantha Hutchinson.

Monika Tu ran a successful company importing computer accessories for 20 years before realising
that the assistance she had been giving to Chinese friends trying to find homes in Australia was a
business opportunity in its own right.

A fast-talking extrovert with a penchant for designer threads and an Australian permanent resident
since 1992, the Shenzhen-born businesswoman had been acting more and more as an informal go-to
point for what seemed like every Chinese family wanting to move to Sydney.
Chinese friends wanted to know where to buy, what schools to send their children to and which
agents were known for delivering a good service. Also, did she know if there were any houses on the
waterfront with five bedrooms they might like?
Her company Black Diamondz Property Concierge opened in early 2009, and has turned over more
than $100 million in property sales in the past 18 months. It has also been linked to some of the most
high profile, and highest grossing sales in Sydney to Chinese buyers.

Tu is the first to admit that what she does isn't rocket science, but is adamant that she is in a position to
deliver a service to Chinese and south-east Asian clients and local agents and vendors that few are
able to deliver. "I've been here long enough to understand both cultures," she says.Good connections
A solid contact book also sets her apart. A former employee of China's Department of Foreign Affairs,
she describes herself as having a "high profile" in China, with a "good connection" to the government
and across various industries – a network furnishing her with a steady flow of well-heeled clients in
search of good education, clean air for their families and a secure investment. "Doing business in
China is all about relationships, it's about contacts and trust; and in the same way normal people might
not trust car salesmen or real estate agents at first, once you build that trust, everything else comes
easily," she says.

Tu stands out as one of the many players that have positioned themselves to take advantage of the
wave of Chinese and south-east Asian buyers rewriting the course of Australian property history.
The most recent figures available from the Foreign Investment Review Board show Chinese property
investment during the 2011-2012 financial year was worth $4.2 billion, with China the third-biggest
foreign investor in the domestic property market, behind the US ($8.16 billion) and Singapore
($5.7 billion).

Page213of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Sydney trophy home Altona at Point Piper sold in May 2012 for $53 million to Chinese businessman
Xiuzhen Ding. Another Point Piper waterfront home owned by Seven executive Bruce McWilliam sold
in April for $33 million to Forbes Rich Lister and Cubbie Station buyer Qiu Yafu.
In Melbourne this week, private Chinese investor Fu Wah International Group snared one of the
country's prime hotel sites, the Park Hyatt Melbourne for $135 million, continuing a wave of
Asian-lead investment.
The sale comes in the wake of a string of deals to offshore investors at blisteringly high prices,
including Chinese developer Greenland's $45 million purchase in October of a four-hectare parcel at
Flemington Racecourse for a future high-rise development which could have an end value in excess of
$500 million.Title lasts forever

The opportunity to own land outright on a freehold title, rather than the standard 70-year leases
granted in China, is one reason why developers are choosing to buy land in Australia. "Its simple, you
buy the site and don't lose the title – ever," managing director of developer Antaeus, Stanley Lei says.
Having no caps on the number of properties an individual can buy in Australia is also another
incentive.

Families living in Beijing are restricted to owning just two apartments. "Policies like this have driven
Chinese locals to outside China to invest," Lei says.

Clean air and a relatively pristine natural environment is another drawcard, as is Australia's range of
universities – well-respected in global standings, according to CBRE residential head David Milton.

"The investors I see are typically following their children who went to uni here, but once they get here
they see it as a great place to live and a safe place to invest," he says, adding: "this wave of
investment is hardly a new thing.
"The Chinese have always invested in Australian property, but the biggest change is what used to be
quite a small investment is now turning into something big."
Tu sees herself as a bridge between two cultures and describes her role in the property business as
being as much about cultural orientation as being an intermediary. "I think I know how to help. I've had
the experience from finding friends' houses and I am an investor myself. I was a new migrant and
I help new migrants."

The buyer: Matthew Xu
Chinese-born Australian resident Matthew Xu (pictured above) was one of the hoards who snapped up
apartments in Chinese developer Greenland's residential tower midway through construction on the
site of the former NSW Water Board headquarters in Sydney's CBD.
An accounting graduate from Xi'an in China's north-east and now studying towards his CFA (Charter
Financial Analyst) exams, Xu paid around $1.05 million for a two-bedroom apartment in what is
slated to become Sydney's tallest residential tower.
It is his fifth investment property.

Xu arrived in Australia in 2009 after an aunt in Sydney suggested he try out for a Masters of Finance at
the University of New South Wales. He arrived on a student visa but quickly found the combination of
fresh air, green open space and range of great job opportunities was a compelling proposition to make
a life in Australia.Better value to buy
He became a permanent resident and embarked on his first property purchase as soon as he could
to avoid paying what he found exorbitant rents.
"It was so expensive . . . I realised it would be better value to buy as soon as I could," he says. He now
owns apartments in Little Bay, Macquarie Fields, Burwood and Rhodes in addition to the recent
purchase in Sydney's CBD.

Xu has bought some of the apartments on his own. Other apartments, including the one in the city,
were funded with help from his parents, who run an agricultural business in China and invest in
equities. They are happy to invest in Australian property, he says, because it's is a much more secure
investment than property in China.
"Property prices have gone up so much in China and a lot of people think there is a bubble," he says.
"I think it's actually safer to invest here and I can get a good return."

Page214of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Affordability is also an issue, Xu says, adding that an apartment in Beijing equivalent to his central
Sydney flat would cost around $2 million.

"The prices are too high," he says of Beijing. "And people are scared in a few years the prices will go
down a lot." A lower Australian dollar has also made investment more attractive.

His parents are unlikely to ever move to Australia but now that he's married and working as an
accountant, he's here to stay.
"It's a beautiful country here, and the environment is so much better. China has really bad air quality
and terrible pollution. It makes a big difference."SH

The new deal

Local agents have long accepted that Ferraris and a protracted negotiation process are par for the
course when dealing with Asian property buyers. But a new crop of buying and selling practices,
including "net-to-vendor" agreements, are ruffling feathers.

A number of high-profile exchanges have been negotiated using the net-to-vendor model, which builds
an additional "facilitation" fee into the sale price, agents say.

A Sydney-based agent speaking on the condition of anonymity says he has seen instances where an
intermediary involved in the deal will demand an introduction fee, taken either out of the agent's
commission or as a proportion of what the vendor receives.

In these agreements, the fee is shared between the buyers' agent and the numerous lawyers,
accountants and in-betweens who put the deal in train by introducing a prospective buyer.

It's a practice some local agents call "unconscionable".
"I'm not sure how practices like that fly in Europe or Asia but, frankly, I think it's just taking advantage
of buyers," said one agent. "I mean, they're paying a substantial margin to these groups, and the
higher price may not necessarily be reflected in the value of the home." Vendors are missing out too,
he says, and are receiving less than they should for saleable, good-quality property.

Other local agents say they understand the custom and are prepared to play ball, arguing it takes a lot
of people to convert a businessman, living in one of China's industrial cities and pondering an
investment in Australian property, into a buyer signing a deed of exchange.

"I think some people forget these clients are living thousands of kilometres away and, in many cases,
have never visited Australia," an agent in Sydney's eastern suburbs said. "It can take a lot of work and
numerous introductions to get them to the point where they're seriously thinking about a purchase, not
to mention time spent building trust." SH
The local developer: Anne Bi, B1 Group

Almost 25 years after arriving in Brisbane as a student, where she slept in the corridor of a crowded
house, Anne Bi (pictured right) has built the tallest residential tower in Parramatta, NSW, and is
midway through construction of a $200 million project with 210 apartments in Sydney's Burwood.

A Beijing-born Australian citizen, Bi turned her first dollar in the early '90s buying and running a
Chinese restaurant in Brisbane. She sold the restaurant two years later, taking the profits back to
China to start a micro-brewery, before returning in 1995 as a permanent resident.

"It's great weather and a great environment, and I thought it was a good place for my kids," she says.
Bi's business portfolio includes property and manufacturing interests in China, and fast-food chain
Thai Noodlist in Sydney's CBD. While her foray into residential development came comparatively late
in life, she says development was always her goal.

"When I first came here, I slept on a timber floor. I wanted to live in a big house and to build buildings
so that people could have their own. Everyone wants their own home – it's part of Chinese culture."
Bi bought a site in Parramatta's Church Street on the eve of the global financial crisis in 2007 and
began building in 2010. Early funding for the $70 million project came from the Arab Bank of Australia,
which came on board when local banks knocked her back.

Page215of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.She now gets funding from a combination of the big four local banks. A number of Chinese "friends",
whom she declines to name, have also helped, but she is adamant the money is not from Chinese
banks.
She likes Australia for the regulatory certainty and transparency that she says don't exist in China.
"The government is supportive here . . . whatever the law says, you have to follow it. It's not the same in
China."

Offshore buyers make up less than 10 per cent of sales in B1's buildings in Parramatta and Burwood.
"If you're building a good product, local buyers don't care if the developer is Asian, Singaporean,
Malaysian or whatever. They think you're all on the same level, and they're just as supportive," Bi says.

The offshore developer: John Yuan, 88 Construction and Stanley Lei, Antaeus

Builder John Yuan and developer Stanley Lei cut their teeth running large-scale construction and
development projects throughout China and Canada, but in Australia, they're only just getting started.

88 Construction is the local building arm of Shanghai developer Heng's Corporation, which has built
Shanghai's High Court and other major projects across all property sectors in China. Antaeus is
Heng's local development arm.

The two groups have completed about 150 townhouses and apartments in Sydney, between
Parramatta, Strathfield and Killara, and have almost 200 townhouses in the pipeline in Adelaide and
Sydney, with more to come. 88 Construction prefers Chinese banks for funding, allowing them to
borrow against the group's Chinese portfolio.

Antaeus chooses local banks, which know the local market better and are happy to take on more risk,
Lei says.

Alongside the good, natural environment, high-quality education, and a growing economy, Lei lists
regulatory certainty as the key drawcard for Asian-based developers.

Certainty and transparency are also prized by buyers, he says. "They're actually coming to Australia
because they want to deal with a business environment where everything is transparent . . . where
companies have to file accounts every year."
Yuan says the broader company feels they can rely on Heng's customers in China to buy the brand in
Australia.
"Our buyers feel comfortable with the product in China and so they like it in Australia . . . they like to
come back to us," he says. SH

The agents: Mark Manners and Richard Simeon
Fresh off the plane from the Shanghai Luxury Property show and from opening a Shanghai office,
Sydney agent Mark Manners knows why Chinese buyers have their eyes on Australian property.

"I was there when the pollution count got up to 600 [micrograms per cubic metre].

"The smog was orange. It made your eyes water and tasted gritty in your mouth," he says.
Alongside business partner Richard Simeon, the Mosman-based property veteran has sold more than
$100 million in residential property to Chinese buyers in the past 18 months. With a new business
and online portal targeting buyers outside Australia, Manners reckons they're on track to better that
performance. "We recognise at the top-end – from $5 million – the Chinese are very good buyers for
quality property. For homes over $10 million, locals just aren't looking," he says.

Offshore buyers are harder to pre-qualify, he says. "Groups turn up and you don't know who the buyer
is".

Apart from opaque identities, offshore buyers have a multitude of needs: agents to drive them round,
show them schools and offer a more, personalised service. "But its worth it", Manners says.

"There's a limit to how much the local market will pay. You have to have an international strategy to
attract buyers, and local vendors are already in touch because they know it too." SH

The dealmaker: Mark Wizel, CBRE

Page216of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Melbourne-based agent Mark Wizel has sold $937 million in inner-city commercial and residential
property to Chinese and south-east Asian developers in the past 30 months. Two deals sealed before
Christmas will add more than $60 million to the total.

On the Wednesday before Christmas, Wizel showed a Singaporean developer, World Class Land,
around the Southbank hotel and residential tower Australia 108. WCL lodged a non-refundable
$500,000 deposit for the site by 7pm, and after three days of due diligence, the deal closed for $42.3
million on Christmas Day.

It's a swift move, but Wizel says it's the sort that local developers need to expect more of as interest
from Chinese, Malaysian and Singaporean investors grows. "Everyone looks at recent sale prices and
says 'this is an abnormal market', but that's no longer the case. This is a normal market. Developers
need to realise if you can't compete, you're going to be left out."

Asian investors typically prefer sites which are already built, or those which already have development
approval. Once they've got them in their sights, they're prepared to bid particularly hard for them.

"I think local developers could find themselves pushed out further and further from the CBD . . . these
new investors have got the money, and I haven't seen anything like it," he says. SH

IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

icnsl : Business Consultancy | iacc : Accounting/Consulting | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | reqrac : Suggested Reading Accounting/Consulting | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | redit : Selection of Top
Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | china : China | brisbn : Brisbane | sydney : Sydney | beijin : Beijing | apacz : Asia
Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia |
nswals : New South Wales | queensl : Queensland
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140124ea1p0001t

Page217of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.