Race for sites to develop as apartments

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Race for sites to develop as apartments

Samantha Hutchinson
540 words
20 March 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
49
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The wave of residential conversion sweeping Australia's major capital city markets is gathering pace
in North Sydney, where an aging commercial asset has sold to a residential developer for
$45 million.
The medium-rise commercial building at 144 Pacific Highway has plans for a 24-storey mixed-use
development and is owned by Strand Estates.

The sale comes in the same week local and international developers are locked in a battle to secure
an older commercial asset with approval for up to 130 apartments at 61 Lavender Street in Milsons
Point. The asking price is above $95 million.

"These developers are realising that when a planning process is underfoot and a building's end-use
isn't set in concrete, the gross realisation rate per square metre for a residential use can be a lot
higher than what's already existing," said CBRE executive managing director Scott Gray-Spencer.
Expressions of interest closed on Tuesday. Negotiations are continuing.
Residential developers are widening their search in capital cities for possible sites, after 12 months
when national house prices soared 10.3 per cent in capital cities.
CBRE residential development director Matthew Ramsay points to Chinese-backed property group
Bridgehill's $49 million purchase of the Australand-owned TAL building in Milsons Point in January
2013 as the start of the latest wave of interest in the satellite business district.Residential
performance

"Developers are looking at the area's proximity to workforce, the railway, the CBD. They're also taking
into account the performance of residential assets in the surrounding suburbs which in some cases
are up about 15 per cent," Mr Ramsay said.
Site prices in St Leonards are about $200,000 a unit, but recent sales in North Sydney indicates unit
prices over $200,000 a unit, according to CBRE.

Listed developers Charter Hall and Leighton Holdings are cashing in on demand for sites with
residential approval by banding together on a joint rezoning application.
The developers own commercial buildings at 476 and 504 Pacific Highway and are seeking approval
for a complex of about 900 apartments.
Meanwhile, private developer Winten Group is mooted to be weighing up residential options for its
commercial site at 88 Christie Street.

Winten chief executive Anthony Otto shrugged off suggestions that plans for conversion were in the
pipeline at the site, arguing the group was adopting a "watch and wait" strategy.

Page143of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."We've got a [commercial] DA recently approved . . . we'll watch and wait to see what Leighton and
Charter Hall do and what traction they get."

St Leonards, two kilometres from North Sydney's major business district, has been overlooked in
recent years by commercial tenants in favour of sites with a larger supply of newer, A-grade
accommodation. Residential demand in St Leonards is strong. Apartments in developer Holdmark's
$150 million complex on Atchison Street with 278 apartments, are believed to have posted an average
sales price of between $11,000 and $13,000 a square metre.
Key points Residential developers are widening their search for commercial buildings with
apartment potential. They know the realisation rate for residential use can be a lot higher than a
site's existing income.

IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140319ea3k00038

Page144of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.