Uranium : Toro Energy Attracts New Investor

Features

SE
HD Uranium: Toro Energy Attracts New Investor
WC 826 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

7 November 2014
Nuclear Intelligence Weekly
URIW
English
© 2014 Energy Intelligence Group, Inc. All rights reserved.

TD

Australian miner Toro Energy received a big boost for its Wiluna underground uranium project this week
when the Sentient Group, a private equity group focused on the global resources industry, announced it
would put A$10 million ($8.6 million) cash into Toro, with another A$10 million to support the Wiluna site
in Western Australia. In exchange, Toro will acquire Sentient's Canadian assets, including part of the
Matoush uranium site located in northern Quebec, in a deal valued at approximately A$18.9 million.

Vanessa Guthrie, Toro's managing director, told NIW this week that the deal provides the company with
"a solid financial foundation and a new strategic shareholder." Overall the deal will make Sentient a
shareholder in Toro, with a 18.9% stake, behind Oz Minerals (21.9%) and Mega Uranium (21.5%). The
transaction includes Toro's acquisition of Sentient's 19.8% equity interest in Canadian exploration and
mining companyStrateco Resources, which wants to develop its 100%-owned Matoush deposit, which
the company touts as having one of the world's highest-grade deposits with the potential for producing up
to 60 million pounds of U3O8 at an average of $27 per pound. The company says it has secured all
necessary approvals for exploration to begin, apart from the provincial Ministry of Environment, Wildlife
and Parks which denied Strateco a permit on Nov. 7 after the Mistissini Cree refused consent over
concerns about uranium development near their hunting grounds and trap lines.
Toro's ambitions to be a leading Australian uranium producer rest for now on Wiluna which is set to
become the first uranium mine in Western Australia following final environmental approvals granted in
April 2013. Last November, the firm acquired its sixth Wiluna deposit -- Lake Maitland -- from
Ontario-based Mega Uranium. The deal increased the firm's assets by 42% to approximately 76.5
million lbs of U3O8 at a grade of 479 parts per million and represents approximately 31% of the overall
project's resource base (NIW Nov.22'13). The Perth-based company plans to produce around 2 million
pounds of U3O8 per year from its 100%-owned Wiluna project over a 16-year mine life. The capital costs
for the project are estimated to be A$315 million.

While the project has not received final authorization for production, it does have approvals from the
Western Australian and federal governments to establish a processing facility and to commence
underground mining at two of Wiluna's deposits, Centipede and Lake Way. The Australian company is
also currently engaged in environmental and other approval processes to mine two additional deposits at
Wiluna -- Millipede and Lake Maitland. Beyond that are negotiations with the Wiluna Native Title Holders,
"and a final mining agreement is expected to be completed early in 2015," the company said.
Possibly the biggest obstacle to commencing overall operations is the uranium market itself. Guthrie told
NIW this week that, "to bring Wiluna into production will take two and a half years from the Final
Investment Decision ... we do not predict a time to production delivery because of the state of the market,
as final investment decision is dependent upon project financing which is dependent upon the uranium
market recovery." Toro told NIW that much of the company's focus has been reducing projected capital
and cash costs, as well as decreasing reagent needs. As of September, the firm had $5.4 million cash on
hand. The company has also hinted at another "breakthrough" in the near future, however it is
unconfirmed as to what that might be.

Toro has other exploration interests in Western Australia, the Northern Territory and Namibia. The group's
Theseus project, located on the Western Australian and Northern Territory border, is estimated to hold 22
million to 44 million lbs of U3O8; however, the group has not been able to "undertake significant
exploration studies since [2012] due to the state of the uranium market," Guthrie said. Toro's "flagship
asset" remains the Wiluna project, and the company is optimistic that market conditions will improve in
the near future, believing that emerging markets such as China and India, as well as the United Arab
Emirates, will continue to develop their nuclear industries and support uranium prices. "It is the medium

Page57of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.term and beyond that provides conditions for pricing to return to the incentive level needed for new mine
supply to be developed," the company said in a statement.

Guthrie is confident in Toro's future prospects, commenting that, "with a stable financial platform now in
place for the next four years, we see 2015 as a year in which we will continue to improve the Wiluna
project through resource development, optimization and R&D studies ... these will then support us
securing a strategic partner for the project and bring us to project financing we hope during 2016."

Kevin Pang, Washington

kpang@energyintel.com

CO golpla : OZ Minerals Limited | srscsi : Strateco Resources Inc | treng : Toro Energy Ltd | altvst : Advantage

IN

Link Inc
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i15 : Nuclear Fuel | iuran : Uranium Ore Mining | i1 : Energy | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i231 : Non-metallic Mineral Mining/Quarrying | i232 :
Mineral Mining Support Activities

NS m143 : Energy Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat :

Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Energy Intelligence Group Inc.
AN Document URIW000020141209eab700009

Page58of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.