Operators opt to build in hot sales market

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Operators opt to build in hot sales market

Samantha Hutchinson and Larry Schlesinger
415 words
17 July 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
40
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The hotel investment tide has turned, with groups looking at new developments rather than competing
for the short supply of existing assets.
The comments come as hotel owners and operators from around the world converge on Sydney for
Megameet 2014, a series of co-located and linked tourism events over three days. Speakers at the
events, which include Hotels World and Luxury Hotels World, include Bob East, the chief executive of
the recently floated Mantra Group, and Barry Robinson, chief executive of the South Pacific
operations of the world's largest hotel company, the Wyndham Hotel Group.

At the conference, Intercontinental HotelsGroup will announce a new Holiday Inn Express hotel to be
built in Brisbane in partnership with developer and operator Pro-invest.
Singapore-based group SilverNeedle Hospitality will also announce a second Sage Hotel in Australia
to be built in West Perth. The announcements are part of broader trend in which a shortage of hotels
on the market is forcing owners and operators to consider building new developments.
Large-scale hotel listings have attracted fierce interest, with more than five "serious investors" circling
Sofitel Sydney Wentworth hotel before it was sold to Singapore's Frasers Property group for
$202.7 million in mid-May.
Starwood's flagship Sheraton on the Park is the next asset in contention, with more than four
contenders reportedly considering the site valued at $450 million.

"There's a lack of hotels out there, and in larger cities, investors and owner operators are being forced
to consider new hotel projects," JLL Hotels and Hospitality managing director Mark Durran said.
In many cases, the development wave is under way, in the form of Singaporean group Hiap Hoe's
$500 million hotel and residential complex in Melbourne's Docklands, Chinese group Golden Age's
174-room Sheraton in Bourke Street, Melbourne, and a new Travelodge and Adina hotel in Sydney's
Mascot.
"There's still a lot of buyers that want in, and they can't get the property they want," CBRE regional
director Ken Smith said. "It's forcing yields down but it's also forcing people to look at other
alternatives, like building."

The decade-high pipeline of more than 50 new hotels will be highlighted by JLL Hotels' Karen Wales,
while analysts will forecast room revenues to rise by as much as 7.5 per cent per annum over the
remainder of the decade.

CO

inhogr : InterContinental Hotels Group PLC | slrhp : Mantra Group Pty Ltd | wynwld : Wyndham
Worldwide Corporation | cvcaph : CVC Asia Pacific Ltd | cvccap : CVC Capital Partners Limited

Page191of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

i6651 : Hotels (except Casino)/Motels | ihotel : Hotel Construction | ireest : Real Estate | i501 : Building
Construction | i66 : Hotels/Restaurants | i665 : Lodgings | iconst : Construction | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality | itourm : Tourism
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140716ea7h00009

Page192of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.