Foreign buyers welcome

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Foreign buyers welcome

Nick Lenaghan
627 words
12 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
32
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Australia's peak real estate group is urging the federal government not to tamper with foreign
investment rules, and says the much-hyped effect of offshore home buyers on prices has been
exaggerated.

Instead, foreign buyers play a vital role in increasing the supply of new housing through a preference
for off-the-plan purchases.

The Real Estate Institute of Australia has dismissed the influence of foreign buyers in the
established home market as "negligible".

Offshore investors, including those from Asia, got the keys for a mere 0.1 per cent of dwelling stock
in 2012-13.

The REIA makes a frank assessment in its submission to the parliamentary inquiry into foreign
investment in residential real estate, which closed to submissions last week.

It is the one to become public from the inquiry, which is chaired by lower house MP Kelly O'Dwyer,
whose blue ribbon seat of Higgins covers some of Melbourne's most prestigious property markets,
such as Toorak and South Yarra.

"First home buyers are buying different stock to foreign investors," REIA chief executive Amanda
Lynch told The Australian Financial Review.

"The preference for first home buyers is very clearly existing housing. Foreign investors are buying
new properties off the plan."
Typically, offshore investors buy off-the-plan apartments in higher price categories. In the
established market, foreign buyers are active in the higher brackets, so they are unlikely to be
competing with the average purchaser or first-time buyers, the REIA found.'Beat-up' about Chinese
investment

The REIA chief said there had been a "beat-up" about foreign investment, with most attention on
Chinese buyers in the residential sector. By comparison, US and Canadian investment combined
into all Australian real estate – commercial and residential – outweighed total Chinese investment.

"There is a fear factor, of being taken over by foreign investment. When we look to the facts that
argument does not stand up," Ms Lynch said.

"It's very much an emotive response which is all part of this beat-up. There's a lot coverage about
Asian investors. We're keen to have a reality check."
Under current guidelines, foreign investors can buy new homes and off-the-plan dwellings, while
temporary residents can acquire an established home to live in. The Foreign Investment Review

Page129of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Board approved $17 billion worth of applications to buy residential property in 2012-13 in a market
with a turnover of over $300 billion.

The REIA found that a "major contributor" to rising house price and declining affordability is the
undersupply of housing.

"Unless supply is addressed the gap between supply and demand is forecast to widen to
375,000 dwellings by 2015," it said.

Much recent analysis of Australia's housing shortage was conducted by the National Housing Supply
Council, until it was axed by the Coalition government when it took office last year.
Sydney agent John McGrath has backed the call to keep Australia's residential markets open to
offshore investors, as other strong markets such as London and New York are. Mr McGrath said
there was "no doubt" Chinese buyers had an impact on prices in a certain, limited Sydney localities,
but "in the rest of Sydney, it's had very little impact."

In Melbourne, Jellis Craig agent Peter Vigano, who works the wealthy eastern suburbs, said the
significant investment visa program had led to a resurgence in Chinese investors.
"There's a lot of Chinese coming in for one or two days, buying and then flying back off."

The REIA has recommended more stringent enforcement of the foreign investment rules and tougher
penalties for breaching them. It has called for heavier fines for temporary residents who fail to divest
property when they leave the country.

CO
NS

RE

PUB
AN

reioa : Real Estate Institute of Australia
e1121 : Home Sales/Housing Affordability | ereal : Real Estate Markets | e11 : Economic
Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140511ea5c00027

Page130of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.