No compelling reason to step in yet

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

MarketWatch
No compelling reason to step in yet

EXCHANGE WITH DAVID ROGERS
718 words
22 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
35
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Bargain-hunters will be keeping a close eye on the local sharemarket after a particularly bad
performance this week, but it may be a bit too early to start piling back in.
Plunging iron ore prices, lower economic growth forecasts and nervousness about the upcoming report
of the Financial System Inquiry, combined with profit warnings in the industrials, healthcare and mining
services sectors, caused the biggest weekly falls in almost 18 months.

The S&P/ASX 200 fell 2.8 per cent to a four-and-a-half week low of 5304.3, leaving it in negative
territory for calendar 2014.

It was the worst week since June last year, when the index fell 3.8 per cent as global markets suffered
from the “taper tantrum” following news of the US Federal Reserve’s plan to reduce its quantitative
easing, which it completed last month.

On a two-week basis, the local market is down 4.5 per cent — and it’s now well on the way to eclipsing
the 6.1 per cent pummelling that occurred in the five weeks from late August this year.

To put things into perspective, the Morgan Stanley Capital International index was on track for a 0.6 per
cent rise for the week, and the US S&P500 was heading for its second weekly rise in a row.

Under-performance has been a year-long phenomenon for the Australian market. As of yesterday it
was down 1 per cent for the year, versus an 11 per cent rise in the US S&P 500.

With the exchange rate also losing ground, the local market has underperformed the S&P 500 by about
15 per cent this year in US dollar terms.
The Australian market has had to contend with a falling iron ore price as economic data from Japan
and China continued to disappoint observers.
Japan slipped back into recession in the third quarter, China’s new house prices have continued to fall,
non-performing loans have soared, and manufacturing expansion appears to have stalled.

On the positive side, US bond yields have stabilised in the past few weeks and Japan’s increased
quantitative easing program has reinvigorated the Australian dollar “carry trades” that have
underpinned high-yield equities in recent years.
Japan flagged an additional 3 trillion yen ($30 billion) stimulus package after the GDP data this week.

However, Australia’s banks have suffered from uncertainty about the Financial System Inquiry, which is
expected to recommend increased capital reserves for the majors — with a bit of luck, the FSI outcome
won’t be as bad as expected and banks will rally on the news.

Page229of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.But renewed concern about the domestic economy has also started to weigh on the banks and other
domestic growth sensitive sectors, and that could easily trigger another selloff in the Australian dollar,
leading offshore investors to stay away from Australian shares in the short term.

Goldman Sachs’s Australian chief economist Tim Toohey this week lowered his 2015 GDP forecast to
2 per cent versus a previous forecast of 2.3 per cent and a market consensus of 2.9 per cent.
His GDP growth revision reflects weaker economic growth in Japan, China and Europe, sharper than
expected falls in commodity prices, a higher probability of an El Nino weather pattern in Australia in
2015 resulting in drought conditions in eastern Australia, tighter financial conditions due to a higher
trade-weighted exchange rate index, faltering equity prices and widening corporate bond spreads, and
a tepid recovery in non-mining economic growth.

The Bureau of Meteorology raised its El Nino warning to “alert” status this week.
“There are few signs of non-mining investment accelerating in the near term, housing investment
growth looks set to slow, government demand growth appears set to remain strained and consumers
are showing few signs of embarking on a materially stronger growth path,” Toohey warned.“Solid
population growth, rising productivity and very strong growth in resource export volumes support the
case for medium term optimism; nevertheless, the growth outlook for 2015 remains challenging in our
view.” Toohey later pushed his expectation of the start of interest rate normalisation in Australia from
November 2015 to March 2016.

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

fed : Federal Reserve Board
i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
e1101 : Economic Growth | c151 : Earnings | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11
: Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141121eabm0008g

Page230of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.