YEAR SHAPES UP FOR MANY TAKEOVERS

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
YEAR SHAPES UP FOR MANY TAKEOVERS

TONY KAYE
724 words
1 February 2014
Herald-Sun
HERSUN
HeraldSun
68
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

eureka report IF all the financial forecasts are correct, the conditions are just right for a surge in the
number and size of corporate takeover deals across Australia in 2014.
An acceleration of the global economic recovery, rising business confidence, a lower Australian
dollar, and a growing list of cashed-up corporate investors eager to buy up premium, undervalued
assets around the world, will likely propel mergers and acquisitions activity.

Add to this factors such as low interest rates and improved funding options, meaning that potential
buyers can raise affordable funds from banks or capital markets if they so desire. In addition, general
expectations that the Australian economy will slow to some degree means that organic growth might
be harder to come by — and so growth by acquisition could appear very attractive.

And, with the new government taking aggressive steps to pay down sovereign debt, overall
uncertainty about Australian financial risk is rapidly improving.

Takeover deals will come in all shapes and sizes.
Cashed-up private equity firms and venture funds, including from the United States and Europe, also
are likely to be among the key takeover players.

Foreign companies are keen to invest here — a fact that will no doubt keep the decision makers at the
Foreign Investment Review Board busy. The FIRB was tested last year when it scrutinised, and
subsequently rejected, a $3.4 billion offer for grain co-operative GrainCorp by Canada’s Archer
Daniels Midland. It deemed the bid not in the national interest.

But scores of other foreign bids have been approved.
Just in the last few days, the Canadian dairy giant Saputo has tightened its takeover hold on Victoria’s
Warrnambool Cheese & Butter — with its $530 million deal enough to stave off stiff competition from
Australian bidding rivals Bega Cheese and the Murray Goulburn co-operative.
Figures just released by the research firm Dealogic show a total of 1393 M&A deals involving
Australian companies, with a combined value of $US86 billion, were announced last year.
The biggest was the $7.5 billion acquisition of Singapore Power’s Australian energy assets by State
Grid, China’s key power distributor, followed by the $7 billion restructure of the Westfield property
group, and the $5.3 billion sale of Port Botany and Port Kembla by the NSW Government to a
consortium led by superannuation heavyweight Industry Funds Management.

More big deals are on the cards, with infrastructure assets one of the biggest areas identified as the
federal and state governments move to privatise operations ranging from electricity generation and
distribution networks to hospitals, roads, railway lines and rolling stock, to ports.

Page77of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.And then there’s billions of dollars of other assets set to come into play, including whole companies
as well as parts of companies that are put up for sale to raise much-needed cash. While some experts
are predicting that the mining sector won’t be a major area of takeover activity, the devaluing effect of
lower prices for some metals commodities and a lower Australian dollar will put many resources
companies firmly into the bidding zone.

Takeovers specialist Tom Elliott this week named in Eureka Report three listed companies that he has
on his radar screen as hot buys.
They include a listed mortgage broker, an online travel bookings company, and a major oil and gas
producer. He also listed another three well-known companies as wait/holds on the basis that he
expects there will be further activity in them over time.
Elliott has an extremely good takeovers record. In fact, he specifically named Warrnambool Cheese &
Butter as one his strong takeover targets in September last year — the day before Bega launched a
surprise $319 million cash and scrip bid.

Now, he says, it’s time for Warrnambool shareholders to enjoy the cream. “At $9.43 per share, WCB
shareholders should take their money and look for the next opportunity in the agricultural space,”
Elliott says.

But there are plenty of potential takeovers in other sectors. It’s a case of picking the trends and buying
into the opportunities.

Tony Kaye is the editor of Eureka Report. To read more by Tony and other experts, visit
www.eurekareport.com.au Trial Eureka Report - FREE for 21 daysRegister now at
www.eurekareport.com.au

NS

RE
PUB
AN

c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c182 : Asset Transactions | npred : Economic
Predictions/Forecasts | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions |
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document HERSUN0020140131ea2100096

Page78of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.