A magnate for a mum

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
A magnate for a mum

Jonathan Barrett
1,147 words
3 December 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
36
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Family dramas John Hancock has had an up and down relationship with his mother, Gina Rinehart –
despite the fact they agree a good 90 per cent of the time, writes Jonathan Barrett
Billionaire miner Gina Rinehart and her son John Hancock were having dinner near the banks of the
Chao Phraya River in Bangkok when they started discussing media investment.

It was late 2010, during Loi Krathong – Thailand's lantern "festival of lights" – and Rinehart had recently
spent just over $165 million buying a 10 per cent stake in the Ten Network through the company she
controls, Hancock Prospecting. She appeared to be trying to buy media influence.

The investment not only surprised the market, it had surprised Hancock. It's not that the mother and
son shared all information – Hancock had, after all, changed his surname from Rinehart to Hancock by
deed poll after a falling out – but it's the sort of business discussion they would normally enjoy. They
were, for the moment, getting along well and Rinehart had specifically taken time out of her schedule
to have dinner at the Mandarin Oriental Hotel with her son who was living in Thailand.
According to Hancock's recollection of the evening, Rinehart then told him she wanted to buy a stake
in the The West Australian newspaper. At the time, this could have been done through either a direct
investment in West Australian Newspapers or through Seven Group Holdings.
"She said she was going to buy into the paper, and I said Stoksey controls it," Hancock recalls,
referring to Kerry Stokes' tight grip over the network and newspaper.

"That's when I suggested the open register that was Fairfax," says Hancock, referring to the publisher
of The Australian Financial Review, The Sydney Morning Herald and The Age.

Hancock picked up his Blackberry and punched in the Fairfax ticker, FXJ, into Google Finance to have
a look at the company's market capitalisation. A couple of minutes later, Rinehart called her
company's chief financial officer and close ally, Jay Newby, in Perth.
"She picked up the phone and said, 'Jay, don't buy The West tomorrow, let's buy Fairfax instead'."
Rinehart emerged with a stake in Fairfax, and is now its largest shareholder.

She declined to comment on her media investments on Tuesday.

While acknowledging the events of that Bangkok night were somewhat surreal, Hancock says it was a
pleasant evening, and indicative of their ability to get along.

It turned out to be one of the last times in recent years the mother and son shared a genuinely
pleasant moment.

Page44of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Within 12 months of the 2010 dinner, Hancock and two of his sisters, Bianca Rinehart and Hope
Welker, launched Supreme Court action against their mother over her actions as a trustee of assets
left to the four children by Gina Rinehart's entrepreneurial father, Lang Hancock. The third child, Hope
Welker, later pulled out of the court action. That battle was sparked in 2011 after the then-trustee, Gina
Rinehart, extended the vesting date of the trust to 2068, just days before it was due to vest when the
youngest child, Ginia, turned 25.

Gina Rinehart has since voluntarily relinquished the role of trustee. The court is yet to appoint a new
trustee.

The two eldest children, John Hancock and Bianca Rinehart, have now launched fresh litigation in the
Federal Court alleging assets left to the children were wrongfully transferred to the control of the Gina
Rinehart-controlled Hancock Prospecting.

The statement of claim also alleges that the four children should control 49 per cent of Hancock
Prospecting, and Rinehart 51 per cent, as opposed to the current 23.45 per cent/76.55 per cent
carve-up.

A spokesperson for Gina Rinehart said on Tuesday that while it was not appropriate to discuss cases
before the courts "it is worth remembering these projects are important to both West Australia and the
nation, and the people working on them both directly and indirectly, in addition to other parties".

During the litigation of the past three years, Rinehart and her representatives have at different times
described the children taking legal action against her as "privileged" and that they should "go out and
earn for themselves". They have also been accused of harming the family interests by "extracting
publicity for the dispute".
This has included a "real risk of commercial harm" to projects including the partly built
$11.8 billionRoy Hilliron ore mine.
Hancock, who denies the allegations and has vowed not to disrupt existing commercial arrangements
should the litigation prove successful, says his mother has not acknowledged his own business
credentials.

"Nobody survives long disagreeing with her," he says. "But over the passage of time, she has adopted
many of my ideas – she obviously likes them." In the past several weeks, it has emerged that Hancock
Prospecting has substantially increased its investment in non-mining assets, which includes the
purchase of several cattle stations, and a proposed investment in infant milk powder.
The mining magnate has also raised the idea of building a $175 million specialist hospital in Darwin
to treat wealthy patients.
The proposed $500 million milk powder plan – a Hancock Prospecting-led joint venture with a
Chinese industrial – would require the construction of a processing facility in south-east Queensland to
export formula to the lucrative Chinese market.
A Hancock Prospecting spokesperson said on Tuesday the dairies business plan was developed
almost 12 months ago.

"A department of Hancock Prospecting, at the request of Mrs Rinehart, had been looking at agricultural
investment for approximately two years prior to this," the spokesperson said.

Hancock says it is a good idea – and that it was his.
He says he presented the idea in 2011 to his mother of co-investing with a Chinese company to
export milk powder, which is the main ingredient in baby formula.
"When I suggested this business and strategy of engaging the Chinese three years ago, it was
considered left field.
"Now it's the biggest investment of our family's history outside of iron ore. She obviously liked my
idea."

Up until about six months ago, Hancock and Rinehart were communicating fairly regularly.

That ended when Bianca Rinehart appeared in the Supreme Court proceedings in June, after she put
herself forward as a potential trustee for assets left to the four children, despite protestations from
her mother.

Page45of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Bianca's nomination was ultimately unsuccessful.

Hancock says the relationship with his mother is a "conundrum", given sometimes they genuinely get
along well, as was the case at the Bangkok dinner.
"It was a beautiful evening and I enjoyed my mother's company very much," he says.

"Ninety per cent of the time we think similarly, although her views can be more extreme. The difficulty
is caused with the other 10 per cent."

CO
IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

hkpros : Hancock Prospecting Pty. Ltd.
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | thail : Thailand | bakok : Bangkok | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | seasiaz :
Southeast Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141202eac30001g

Page46of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.