OFF DUTY --- Adventure & Travel -- Road Warrior: On Planes, Sleep and Don't Eat

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

OFF DUTY --- Adventure & Travel -- Road Warrior: On Planes, Sleep and Don't Eat

By Alyssa Abkowitz
780 words
13 March 2014
The Wall Street Journal (Asia Edition)
AWSJ
W5
English
Copyright © 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Simon Henry is the co-CEO of Juwai.com, a real-estate portal that offers world-wide property listings
for Chinese home buyers.

The Shanghai-based Australian talks to the Journal about pounding the pavement, polite immigration
officers, and enduring food poisoning on a 15-hour flight.

WSJ: How often do you travel?

A: Probably once every two weeks.

WSJ: Where do you go most often?
A: Hong Kong, Shanghai, San Francisco, Sydney and London.

WSJ: Preferred airline?
A: Generally Cathay Pacific [Airways] because our head office is in Hong Kong and it has the best
connectivity to everywhere else in the world.

WSJ: Favorite airport?
A: Hong Kong, because it has great food, great services and great staff. Shanghai would be a close
second because Chinese immigration [there] is probably second to none. They're friendly and
welcoming. After getting off a long flight, it's nice to get people who actually smile and say, "Hello,
how are you, good morning."
WSJ: Favorite hotel?

A: The Dusit Thani in Bangkok. It's classic old-world service, great location and good food. The rooms
have a colonial feel with timber walls, timber floors, comfortable couches and lounge areas. They've
got a garden oasis in the middle of the hotel where you sit and hear the water and see the carp, and
nine or 10 restaurants on site. It's a place you can go and just not leave.

WSJ: Packing essentials?

A: Multi-power adapter, iPhone cord and my computer. They're with me everywhere. I also bring a
travel pillow and La Mer moisturizer.

WSJ: Packing strategy?

A: It takes me 10 minutes to pack for a trip whether it's for a week or 10 weeks. I just start at my feet
and work my way up: socks, slacks, underwear and shirts. The main thing is not to overpack and the
most important thing is money, passport and wallet. Everything else you can buy.

WSJ: Travel tips?

Page155of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.A: Book early and upgrade using airline points if you have them. That extra 2 inches makes a big
difference.

WSJ: Tips to avoid jet lag?

A: Be so exhausted before you get on the plane that you sleep the whole way. The best thing is to
stay as natural as you can -- [drink] lots of water. Set your clock to the time of your destination as
quickly as possible and try to get into that time zone as soon as you get on the plane.

WSJ: How do you stay in shape on the road?

A: I walk a lot. And most importantly, watch what you eat.

WSJ: Favorite city to visit?

A: London. It's the only truly world city. You can be in London for three days and not hear any English
spoken. There are so many international people. It's a mixture of villages, a delight to be in, and
everything you want is there.

WSJ: Favorite restaurants in London?

A: Costa Coffee. You don't tend to get really good coffee in Shanghai, and London has some really
good coffee.

WSJ: Which Asian city has the best food?

A: Bangkok, closely followed by Tokyo. They tend to base their meals on incredibly fresh products
that are very high-quality and have a lot of different, diverse flavors. I always get street-side noodles
in Bangkok and barbecue in Japan. Usually the smaller the barbecue restaurant, the better.

WSJ: Best travel experience?

A: A five-week holiday 10 years ago where we spent the whole time between London and Paris with
family and friends walking the cities all day every day. It was the first time I'd ever been to London or
Paris, so everything was new.

In Paris I had my first pizza with a raw egg in the middle. It sounds awful but was absolutely
sensational.

WSJ: Worst travel experience?

A: Getting food poisoning from a meal on a 15-hour flight to New York. Apparently it's supposed to be
almost impossible to get [food poisoning on planes] because they radiate the food to such a level. But
I hadn't eaten anything for 24 hours beforehand, so it was the only thing that made sense. [The flight
attendants] were apologetic but they couldn't really do anything.

WSJ: So do you avoid airline food now?
A: Yes, I try. I now make sure I eat before I get on the plane and have only a few snacks on board.

---

Edited from an interview by Alyssa Abkowitz

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

CO
IN

NS

RE

IPC
PUB

cathp : Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd
i75 : Airlines | i7501 : Scheduled Passenger Airlines | iairtr : Air Transport | itsp :
Transportation/Logistics
gimm : Asylum/Immigration | gtour : Travel | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gpir
: Politics/International Relations | gpois : Poisoning | ghea : Health | gmed : Medical Conditions
china : China | austr : Australia | thail : Thailand | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
NND
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

Page156of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document AWSJ000020140313ea3d00006

Page157of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.