Developer’s towering aspirations

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Developer’s towering aspirations

GREG BROWN, DEVELOPMENT
287 words
10 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
21
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Plans to build a landmark office tower in Sydney’s harbourside Circular Quay, have been submitted
by Lend Lease, adding to a spate of potential development in the precinct.
While much of the focus in Sydney has been on residential apartments, the group is aiming to build
a 40,000sq m to 60,000sq m office building in place of its three properties on the prominent block,
which is bounded by Alfred, Pitt, Dalley and George streets.

It comes as an office tower on the same block, Gold Fields House, is being sold as a potential $1
billion apartment development. Chinese-backed developer AXF Group and the listed Mirvac Group
also have development aspirations on that block.

Lend Lease owns the two old Westpac buildings, at 182 George Street and 33-35 Pitt Street, as well
as the Jacksons on George pub. It is understood the group would need the council to amend
planning controls on the site in order for its development to be approved. JLL has been called in to
find a capital partner for the project and tenants for the tower.

Lend Lease submitted its plans alone despite at one stage considering jointly submitting plans with
AXF. It is not yet known whether the two groups would later strike a joint venture agreement to
develop the site.

A Lend Lease spokesman confirmed that a development application had been submitted.“Last week
Lend Lease lodged a draft planning proposal to the City of Sydney for its assessment. Along with its
design and planning consultant team, Lend Lease has prepared an urban design study that would
inform potential amendments to the planning controls for the site,” he said.

CO
IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

mirva : Mirvac Group
i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest : Real Estate
gplan : Urban Planning/Development | c24 : Capacity/Facilities | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141009eaaa0002m

Page243of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.