Baird’s $1.7b port sell-off

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Baird’s $1.7b port sell-off

JENNIFER SEXTON business editor
435 words
1 May 2014
Daily Telegraph
DAITEL
Telegraph3
2
English
Copyright 2014 News Ltd. All Rights Reserved

PREMIER Mike Baird has clinched his first big privatisation deal, selling Newcastle Port for $1.75
billion yesterday.
Mr Baird pledged the net proceeds of $1.5 billion would be spent on infrastructure, with one-third
directed to rural projects.

Newcastle will get $340 million to revitalise its CBD, on top of the $120 million already allocated.
The port’s new owner is an equal partnership between Hastings Funds Management and China
Merchants, which has taken a 98-year lease in what Mr Baird described as “an amazing result” which
“exceeded expectations”.

On being elevated to Premier after Barry O’Farrell tripped up over a $3000 bottle of Grange Hermitage
wine at an ICAC hearing, Mr Baird said privatising tired assets would be key to his revitalisation
agenda for NSW.

“Today, the state has much more financial flexibility to invest in the infrastructure that we need across
NSW that we didn’t have before today,” Mr Baird yesterday.

“There’s obviously more announcements to come but the firepower of NSW just got stronger.
“It reflects a momentous result.” The sale brings to almost $7 billion the coffers of Restart NSW, the
fund dedicated to building roads, railways, bridges and upgrading hospitals and schools.

“The infrastructure we are able to deliver is going to bring relief to communities across this state,” Mr
Baird said.
The Port of Newcastle is the world’s largest coal port, exporting 41 per cent of Australia’s coal.

“For a long time, people have spoken about the need for urban renewal in Newcastle,” Mr Baird said.

“Well, today it has become a reality. It is going to be renewed; it is going to be the jewel of the
Asia-Pacific.” Treasurer Andrew Constance said the sale was a strong endorsement of the Hunter’s
mining industry and said the new owners had the management experience and resources needed to
make the port’s future strong.

Hastings has been involved in other government sales, including the Sydney desalination plant at
Kurnell and the Cairns and Mackay airports in Queensland.
As Treasurer, Mr Baird negotiated the $5.1 billion sale for Port Botany and Port Kembla electricity
generators to a consortium mostly of super funds and led by Industry Funds Management.

î EDITORIAL PAGE 28

Page272of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.WORKING CAPITAL * 98-year lease sold for $1.75 billion.
* $1.5 billion to be spent on infrastructure.

* 30 per cent of the proceeds go to rural infrastructure.
* $340 million to be spent on revitalising Newcastle CBD.* Port sold to Hastings Funds Management
and China Merchants.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

hasfml : Hastings Funds Management Limited | wstpac : Westpac Banking Corporation Limited
i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150211 : Unit Trusts/Mutual Funds | ifinal : Financial
Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document DAITEL0020140501ea510000c

Page273of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.