Selling milk to China online

HD
CR
WC 620 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Selling milk to China online

The Australian

18 September 2014
00:00
theAustralian.com.au
NLAUSW
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

TD

THE premium milk company backed by Sydney’s Perich family is in advanced negotiations to sell fresh
Australian milk.

A2, which is listed on the New Zealand sharemarket and 17 per cent-owned by the Perich-family
controlled health food companyFreedom Foods, has struck a deal with Chinese online retailer Jingdong
to offer fresh Australian milk to the 500,000 registered users of the site.

The milk, which is produced at a2’s Smeaton Grange processing facility outside of Sydney, is being sold
direct to Chinese consumers over the internet at an average price per litre of 48 yuan, which converts to
about $8.60. The prices have been as high as 60 yuan.
While regular cow’s milk contains a blend of the A1 and A2 beta casein proteins, a2 claims it is the only
company that processes milk exclusively containing the A2 protein, which many people say is easier to
digest than regular milk.
After several months of trials the first delivery of a2 milk on Jingdong was made on August 29 and a2
plans to ship at least 1.5 million litres of fresh milk to China over the next 12 months. It expects demand
to at least double each year.
“Jingdong developed a strategy for a new business stream which was high quality fresh foods that
consumers can order and have delivered to their door within 24 hours. They were looking for a premium
high quality fresh milk to be one of their leading brands on the platform and they came to us,’’ a2’s
general manager Asia, Phil Wohlsen, told The Australian from Shanghai yesterday.
A2 also has a long-life UHT milk product that it supplies to China, and Mr Wohlsen said that with fresh
and UHT milk combined, the company could “easily supply 10 million litres (to China) within two years
and 20 million after that with fresh milk being the flagship’’.
In July, a2 also received approval from the Chinese authorities to resume shipments of its Platinum
brand infant formula after a break of more than two months following the contamination scare that hit New
Zealand dairy giant Fonterra. The infant market in China is expected to double in size by 2020.

a2 is now targeting a launch on Alibaba’s online retail platform Tmall by the end of this year; it’s one of the
most visited websites in China.

“Alibaba is the next big opportunity. Their platform is Tmall and Tmall are very interested,’’ Mr Wohlsen
said.
The group is also getting some interest from high-end supermarkets in China.
NSW dairy co-operative Norco is already supplying fresh milk into Chinese supermarkets and plans to
more than double sales under a new distribution agreement with a Chinese importer. Its milk is selling for
the equivalent of about $9 per litre in Shanghai.
“Good quality milk from Australia, with several brands operating, overall is a good thing because it builds
that overall story for Chinese consumers.
“ They can buy into good-quality fresh milk that is getting into China in good shape and being delivered
to them in good position,’’ Mr Wohlsen said.

Page129of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The comments came as federal Agriculture Minister Barnaby Joyce said Australian dairy farmers should
welcome Chinese investment, which aimed to lift output and help improve productivity from current levels
across the industry.
Mr Joyce this week toured the Wondersun Dairy in the Heilongjiang province in China’s northeast, which
has a herd of 2300 cows sourced from Australia.

The cows are milked three times a day, producing about 36 litres a day each, compared to twice a day,
which is the industry standard in Australia.

Additional reporting: Scott Murdoch

IN

NS
RE

i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i413 : Dairy Products | i656000301 : Etailing | i41 :
Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | icnp : Consumer Goods | iecom : E-commerce | ifood :
Food Products | iint : Internet/Online | iretail : Retail | itech : Technology
gnutr : Nutrition | gcat : Political/General News | gfod : Food/Drink | ghea : Health | glife : Living/Lifestyle
china : China | austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries
| dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales

PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document NLAUSW0020140917ea9h000p2

Page130of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.