Far East fixes sights on expanding local empire

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PrimeSpace
Far East fixes sights on expanding local empire

EXCLUSIVE: KYLAR LOUSSIKIAN
532 words
23 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
27
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE sprawling Singaporean Far East Organization conglomerate will target Australia for a major
strategic play, according to one of the company’s executives.

Fang Ai Lian, chairwoman of FEO’s Australian division, said FEO would aim to be one of Australia’s
biggest developers in the long-term, leaving open the possibility of bringing a range of retail, hospitality
and residential products to the market.

FEO owns 21 shopping centres in Singapore, some 130,000sq m, as well as hotels, serviced
apartments and medical centres.
Citing a need for diversification and an alternate engine for growth — Singapore’s real estate sector
has struggled with intensifying competition and tight government regulations — Mrs Fang said the
company would replicate some of the strategy employed when it entered Hong Kong.
The company expanded to Hong Kong several decades ago and has grown into the city’s third
largest developer with a string of hotels. “We don’t flip (properties); we are there to build sustainable
and recurring revenue,” she said.

FEO, Singapore’s largest private developer, has quietly built a portfolio worth $1.4 billion, acquiring six
office properties in Sydney and Perth this year.
But the group’s first Australian project will most likely be the development of an 18ha residential
estate in the northwest of Melbourne, with the company submitting plans for 260 homes.
Mrs Fang said FEO had owned the site for more than 30 years, but hoped to launch sales for the
development by the end of next year. The project, designed by DKO Architects, will be the company’s
first house-and-land package outside Singapore.
The office property portfolio will be kept leased for the foreseeable future, according to Mrs Fang, with
the company benefiting from recurrent income as it decides which to redevelop.
But she pointed to the Clocktower Square mixed-used precinct in The Rocks, Sydney, as the site with
the most urgent need for refurbishment, and said the company was considering its options.

Mrs Fang didn’t rule out more acquisitions, and said the recent depreciation of the Australian dollar had
made purchases “more attractive”. She said the company, which had partnered with Frasers
Centrepoint and Japanese developer Sekisui House on projects in Singapore, would be interested in
similar partnerships in Australia.

FEO has several hospitality assets in Australia, largely due to a half stake in TFE Hotels, which
operates about 70 hotels under the Adina, Medina, Vibe, TraveLodge and Rendezvous brands.

Page175of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.FEO has entered into a partnership with diversified investments company Straits Trading to acquire
further hotels in Australia. Mrs Fang said there were opportunities to import other FEO hospitality
brands, including Quincy, Village and Oasia.
The company confirmed two of the most recent acquisitions — a heritage building on the corner of
Elizabeth and George Streets in Brisbane, and an office tower at 280 George Street in Sydney — were
slated for hotel conversions in the next 18 months.Several other major Singaporean groups have
targeted Australia for long-term expansion, with Frasers Centrepoint acquiring Australand Property
Group and City Developments, the second largest private developer after FEO, running the ruler over
Leighton Properties.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | singp : Singapore | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141022eaan0006k

Page176of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.