Crown Resorts Wagers On Las Vegas Recovery

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Crown Resorts Wagers On Las Vegas Recovery

By Kate O'Keeffe
535 words
5 August 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
16
English
Copyright © 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Crown Resorts Ltd., the casino company controlled by Australian billionaire James Packer, plans to
work with Oaktree Capital Management LP and former Wynn Resorts Ltd. executive Andrew Pascal on
a Las Vegas Strip casino project.

The investors are part of a growing circle betting on a recovery in the world's second-largest gambling
market, after the financial crisis halted a building boom in the city.

The parties bought a controlling interest in a 34.6-acre piece of land on Las Vegas Boulevard,
according to a joint statement issued Monday. Crown, the venture's majority owner, has spent US$280
million on the project, including the land acquisition, according to its statement to the Australian
Securities Exchange. The investors projected breaking ground late next year and finishing the project in
2018.
The site had been owned by Israeli businessmen whose plans to build a casino-resort modeled after
New York's Plaza Hotel were upended by the recession. It is adjacent to a site where Genting Bhd.
plans to build a $4 billion casino-resort. The Malaysian company took over Boyd Gaming Corp.'s
Echelon project, which had been halted in 2008 because of the financial crisis.

Mr. Packer felt the pangs of the financial crisis personally. Several of his Las Vegas investments went
awry during the period, including one in the Fontainebleau casino-resort just up the road from his new
project's site.
Fontainebleau Las Vegas halted construction and sold its furniture after entering bankruptcy protection
in 2009. Crown and Mr. Packer settled a lawsuit filed against them by a group of lenders to that project
in June.

Crown meanwhile has focused on casino ventures on the other side of the world, including in the
Philippines, Sri Lanka, at home in Australia and in the world's largest gambling hub, the Chinese
territory of Macau.

But casino executives, investors and analysts lately have been talking up the Las Vegas Strip's
prospects again. The $415 million SLS Las Vegas, built on the site of the former Sahara hotel and
casino of the Rat Pack era, is set to open this month. In May private-equity firmBlackstone agreed to
pay $1.7 billion to Deutsche Bank AG for the Cosmopolitan of Las Vegas, another Strip casino-resort
that ran into financial trouble during the downturn. Caesars Entertainment Corp. and MGM Resorts
International also have invested in casino and entertainment projects on the Strip recently.
Union Gaming Research analyst Robert Shore said his firm has seen "a clear positive demonstrative
change" in business in Las Vegas over the past six to nine months. Gambling revenue on the Las
Vegas Strip rose 3.5% in the first half of this year over a year earlier and revenue per available hotel
room in the area rose 9.9%, official data show.

"All the development coming to Las Vegas collectively lends credence to the Strip recovery story, which
was further highlighted by today's news, as very smart and highly sophisticated gaming investors and
developers are looking to deploy their capital in the market," Mr. Shore said.

Page398of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

CO
IN

NS

RE

IPC
PUB
AN

crncas : Crown Resorts Limited | oaktcm : Oaktree Capital Group LLC | wynnr : Wynn Resorts Ltd
i97912 : Gambling Industries | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality | i66 : Hotels/Restaurants | i665 : Lodgings
| i6652 : Casino Hotels | i831 : Financial Investments | i83107 : Portfolio/Fund/Asset Management |
ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | itourm : Tourism
c184 : Joint Ventures | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | c18 :
Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin :
FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | lvegas : Las Vegas | usa : United States | usnv : Nevada | usw : Western U.S. | apacz
: Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North America
ABO
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document AWSJ000020140804ea8500010

Page399of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.