Suites adding tiers to luxury

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Suites adding tiers to luxury

ALISTER THOMSON ALISTER.THOMSON@NEWS.COM.AU
441 words
20 June 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
6
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE southern Gold Coast luxury apartment market has received a major boost with Hong Kong
development company Sanbano racking up more than $10 million in sales at its Coolangatta
building.
Sanbano, which is solely backed by Chinese investor JianZhong Yang, is a $85 million, 25-level
tower on the corner of Marine Pde and Dutton St, which is being marketed as the “Palazzo Versace” of
the southern Gold Coast.

Yesterday Mr Yang toured completed units in the highrise and was personally handed the
development approval for another $78 million tower in Southport by Gold Coast Mayor Tom Tate.

Zhen by Sanbano will contain 221 units across two towers and be constructed by Eastview QLD, the
same company also building Sanbano’s Coolangatta tower.
Cr Tate said Mr Yang was leading the charge for the revitalisation of the property sector.

“I said previously that this is the year of the crane and Mr Yang’s vision is igniting the rest of the city,”
Cr Tate said.
Ten whole-floor apartments have been released to the Australian market, priced from $2.72 million
with CBRE residential sales manager Chris Litfin expecting strong local interest.

“What surprised me is the amount of money in this area,” Mr Litfin said. “We have people with
property in Terranora and Currumbin who are looking to buy in this building.” Southern Gold Coast
Chamber of Commerce president Gail O’Neil said the area was getting increasing attention from
investors.

“We have the best of both worlds down here,” she said.
“It still retains the laid-back lifestyle and you can build a luxury apartment and retain that lifestyle.” Ms
O’Neal said the building would be great for local tourism operators, restaurants and other businesses.
Eastview Australia managing director Graham Goldman would not disclose the sale price for the
building’s penthouse but said it was in excess of $4 million and bought by a Chinese investor.
The highest unit sale in Coolangatta in the last three years was for unit 1202 at Elysee, which sold for
$3.25 million in November, 2011.

Sanbano Coolangatta is on track to be completed by September. The building is located on a 1006sq
m site facing north to Coolangatta beach. The 10 apartments just released to the market are 316sq m
with three-bedrooms, three-bathrooms and a media room.

Page230of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Sanbano has a third development site in Southport on Nerang St, with plans for 51-storeys and 555
units.Mr Goldman said Sanbano was likely to proceed with the Scarborough site first before the
Nerang St site.

NS

RE
PUB
AN

mpcsmt : Precious Metals Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mcat :
Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E
Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020140619ea6k0001e

Page231of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.