Aurizon axes 480 rail maintenance jobs

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Aurizon axes 480 rail maintenance jobs

Sarah-Jane Tasker, redundancies
498 words
9 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
20
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

AUSTRALIA’S largest rail operator Aurizon is set to axe up to 480 jobs from Queensland as it
continues to pull costs out of its business.
Days after announcing it had teamed up with Chinese giant Baosteel in a $1.4 billion bid for
resources company Aquila Resources, Aurizon revealed it was restructuring its rolling stock
maintenance operations in Queensland.

Aurizon revealed yesterday it had started consultation with employees at its maintenance operations
in South Townsville and Redbank, with the first job cuts expected to hit next month, with further
reductions occurring until 2017.
The restructure of its heavy maintenance operations, four years after the previous Queensland Labor
government sold off what was previously QR National, is part of the company’s transformation
program announced in mid-2013.

“The proposed changes in Queensland, on which consultation commenced yesterday, represent a
major operational reform for the company and will impact a significant number of employees,” the
company said.

There are 450 workers at the Redbank facility and 115 at South Townsville. A small reduction of staff
at Redbank is expected by next month, with a further reduction by June next year and then a
progressive wind-down of activities through to June 2017, when it is proposed the workshop will
close.

In Townsville, roles will be reduced next month, with the remaining roles to conclude in June 2016,
when the site will close.

“If proposals are implemented, in total it is expected approximately 480 of these employees will
potentially be impacted by 2017,” the company said. “Of this figure it is anticipated a number will be
offered redeployment and retraining opportunities.” The redundancies are part of the company’s aim
to deliver a $130 million productivity improvement by 2015.

Aurizon said that the restructure program announced yesterday would improve rolling stock
maintenance productivity, with better work practices and modern equipment, coupled with newer and
fewer locomotives and wagons.

“A smaller and more productive fleet means less assets, resources and employees are required to
maintain the fleet, while meeting growth and customer requirements.” Aurizon said it would stop
passenger-related maintenance contracts for Queensland Rail at Townsville and Redbank when those
contracts expire at the end of next month and June next year.

“There is also a proposal to reduce existing capacity across the two workshops in Townsville and
Redbank because it exceeds current and forecast maintenance demand for freight operations by
Aurizon,” the company said.

Page273of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Aurizon is looking to centralise heavy maintenance and component overhaul work in Queensland to
Rockhampton, which is closer to most of its services in central Queensland. It will also increase the
scale of maintenance activities at that site.In the Aquila deal, announced on Monday, Aurizon will
emerge with a 15 per cent stake in Aquila and head up the infrastructure arm to develop the rail and
port to support its iron ore project, if the bid succeeds.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

qrntnl : Aurizon Holdings Limited
i71 : Railroads | icargo : Freight/Cargo Transport | irailtr : Road/Rail Transport | irfrght : Railroad
Freight | itsp : Transportation/Shipping
ceffic : Corporate Process Redesign | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140508ea5900080

Page274of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.