China 's moguls circle Australia

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

World
China's moguls circle Australia

Philip Wen, Beijing
786 words
2 November 2014
Sunday Age
SAGE
First
23
English
(c) 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

To set foot in a real estate expo in China is to run a frantic gauntlet of sales staff thrusting glossy
pamphlets into every hand they can find.

Vying for the attention of cashed-up investors is always competitive at major property events, with
hundreds of property developers spruiking dreams of home ownership - and not just in China.

In exhibition halls in China's major capital cities, prospective buyers are just as likely to come across
promoters for house and land packages in suburban Melbourne, or off-the-plan inner-city apartments in
central Sydney, as they are for a luxury development in China's southern resort of Sanya.

But after years of heady growth spurred by the building - and buying - of high-rise apartments on a
mind-bending scale, property prices in China have slid backwards for five straight months, prompting
fears of a deeper price correction. Although many property analysts are confident the governmentwill
intervene if needed to prevent a full-blown property crisis, the sector is routinely rated a major risk factor
amid the slowing trajectory of China's economic rise.
"Chinese property prices are at this critical juncture," Wang Peng, the managing director of property
developer Hanya Federal, told Fairfax Media. He says prices in second and third-tier cities - essentially
those outside Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou - are especially fragile given that local developers
continue to build.

"If you're a rational investor, you'll be selling all the houses you don't need. If you don't, in a few years
you won't be able to," he says. "Many, many people are selling their house in China and buying
elsewhere, maybe in Australia, maybe in the United States."

The evaporation of easy returns has seen top-end property developers branching out away from
Chinese real estate, and seen some of the country's most prolific businessmen invest in Australia.

Property mogul Wang Jianlin, a former military officer, who owns the most movie screens across the
world thanks to the acquisition of the US-headquartered AMC Entertainment, hopes his Qingdao
Oriental Movie Metropolis will help China surpass Hollywood as the centre of the film universe.
Recently bumped from top spot of China's rich list by tech giant Alibaba founder Jack Ma, Wang
established an Australian arm of his sprawling Wanda Group empire in August. Funded with an initial
cash chest of $1.7 billion, Wanda Australia's first foray will be a joint venture with fellow Chinese group
Ridong to develop the $1 billion Jewel hotel and apartment resort complex on the Gold Coast, amid a
string of acquisitions in London, Madrid and other parts of Europe. Wanda has the ambition of
becoming the largest owner of five-star hotels across the world.

"In the past five years, Wanda's income has grown at [an average of] 35 per cent a year," Wang said
last year. "I think this is a normal speed, but some feel it's too fast. But if we took regular steps to grow,
we wouldn't be able to become No 1 in the world."

Page85of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Even more diverse is the extraordinary spending spree of Xu Jiayin, chairman of conglomerate
Evergrande and co-owner (with Jack Ma) of arguably the richest football club in Asia, Guangzhou
Evergrande Taobao.

Just last month, Xu, also known as Hui Ka Yan, caused a stir when he jetted into Australia with his
entourage in a private Airbus A319, scouting for deals on the Gold Coast, and in Brisbane and Sydney,
according to sources.

Back at the property expo in Beijing, Wang Peng remains busy convincing interested investors to sell in
China and buy in Australia. Wang himself, who amassed a modest fortune by riding China's property
boom, has traded in his Beijing apartments for an apartment in Sydney's Ryde, and a house and land
package in Point Cook, on the western fringes of Melbourne.
Backed by a multibillion-dollar head company, Hanya has launched a 110-apartment development in
Melbourne's Box Hill aimed at convincing other Chinese investors to make the same switch.
Demonstrating the buying power of cashed-up Chinese investors, Wang says Australia is popular
because property prices are perceived as "cheap" compared to the big cities in China.
Australia also has lower home-loan deposit requirements compared to China, where banks often
require around one-quarter of the property's value upfront, amid tightening lending conditions.
"The amount of Chinese developers entering the Australian market is increasing exponentially," Wang
says, "and the only reason these businesses dare to venture into this market is because there is the
scale and the demand."

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
china : China | austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) | beijin
: Beijing | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz
: Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz :
Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SAGE000020141102eab20002o

Page86of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.