TELEVISION’S TOP EARNERS

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Lifestyle
TELEVISION’S TOP EARNERS

Amy Harris
1,201 words
1 June 2014
Daily Telegraph
DAITEL
Telegraph
132
English
Copyright 2014 News Ltd. All Rights Reserved

Their faces beam out at us every night and it’s no wonder they’re always smiling — you should see their
salaries, writes Amy Harris

1 LARRY EMDUR THOSE lucky enough to be at home on the couch after 9am are no strangers to the
lovable larrikin that is Larry Emdur. But what you may not know is The Morning Show’s “Laz’’ is also
making insane bank — a rumoured $1.2 million per year in fact.

And he can thank Nine boss David Gyngell in part for that. After all, when Gyngell gunned hard for
Emdur back in early 2012 it only served to push his price through the roof at Seven and David Leckie
famously dug deep to keep him planted at Martin Place. And, while you wouldn’t know Emdur is oozing
cash to look at him (sneakers, jeans and a Bonds T-shirt is his off-camera uniform), the affable TV
veteran enjoys a few lavish spoils, none more than his multi-million dollar Dover Heights pad, the doors
of which he often throws open for parties.

“We built this house for entertaining so I have no concerns about having all my media and TV mates
around,’’ he said back in 2012.
Still, we wouldn’t blame Laz for locking the good china away.

2 DAVID KOCH ANOTHER of Seven’s big-earning male TV hosts, David Koch, was the subject of all
sorts of brouhaha back in 2008 when it was revealed his $1 million paycheck was significantly higher
than then co-host Melissa Doyle (who is no slouch with her $700,000 annual package).

However, Koch has since stated for the record that his take-home took a trimming last year when belts
were allegedly tightened across the board at Seven.
Still, it’s hardly beans on toast at the Koch household, with the Sunrise host also spinning gold out of his
other career as — what else — a personal finance expert with columns for Pacific Magazines, Yahoo
Finance and The Daily Telegraph’s Money HQ.
Ka-ching!

3 TRACY GRIMSHAW CHANNEL 9’s highest-ranking female presenter has a pay packet to match
though the long-time A Current Affair host is famously private about her salary which, according to TV
insiders, is a “safe” seven figures.

What we do know for sure is that Grimshaw, 54, remains hugely popular at Nine and is very well liked
around the traps at Willoughby.

It says a lot for the TV veteran, who famously copped to getting drunk and walking naked through the
halls of Crown Towers after one-too-many tequila shots with James Packer after the Logies many years
ago.

Page192of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.With stories like that, what’s not to like?

If anything, a pay rise is in order. Cough up Gynge.

4 REBECCA GIBNEY A BEEFED-UP producer credit on her new show, The Killing Field, has helped
Rebecca Gibney leverage her way into the Millionaires Club, having jumped up from the $700,000 a
year she earned on Packed To The Rafters.

And she’s worth every cent, according to the swinging, er, brass at Seven, who are smart enough to
know the Gold Logie winner and audience favourite carries enormous sway among viewers.

And the 49-year-old is showing no signs of slowing either, telling The Telegraph recently that she feels
immune to the “expiration date” that hangs over so many women in the entertainment business.

That Olay coin doesn’t hurt the bank balance either.

You get that money, girl.

5 KARL STEFANOVIC CHANNEL 9’s everywhere man has never confirmed he pulls down seven
figures from his boss (and BFF) David Gyngell, but an industry fable has it that Stefanovic’s Gold Logie
win nudged him into the coveted, gold-star pay bracket.

Not bad for a bloke who turned up drunk on air after the same event three years prior. Ha, ha, we kid —
sort of.

Seriously though, Stefanovic’s mix of boyish gregariousness and journalistic chops has certainly
translated into some serious coin, which could increase should he make the rumoured move from Today
to a rumoured late-night talk show.

Success in a late-night slot is a famously lucrative venture, but not “Letterman lucrative”. More like
“Vizard lucrative”. Still, pretty lucrative.

6 SCOTT CAM BEFORE the famous “Boganaire Battle at Bondi”, rumour had it that James Packer sent
David Gyngell a backhanded little text message on the night of the Logies bragging that while Gyngell
was hanging with the likes of Scott Cam, Packer was dining with Robert DeNiro.

It may have been intended as a poorly executed humble brag, but let’s not sell Cam too short; the dude
is pretty damn loaded.

Sure, not DeNiro loaded but with a serious property portfolio and a seven-figure salary thanks to his
contract at Nine, he’s hardly the type to be denied a table at Nobu. That is, of course, if they have XXXX
on tap and a decent dosa.

7 PETER OVERTON THERE’S not much you can say about Peter Overton really.

He’s married to Jessica Rowe. He presents the News on Nine in Sydney. Nine are beating Seven in that
slot and that is a very big deal and it makes people at Channel 9 very happy.

And Overton gets paid oodles and oodles of money. The end.

8 MARK FERGUSON IF the nickname ‘Ol blue eyes’ wasn’t already taken, then surely it would be
bestowed on Channel 7’s new Sydney newsreader Mark Ferguson.

Broken down, that’s about $500,00 per peeper, per year.

Not a bad deal for the former Nine News presenter, who seems to have worked things out nicely after he
allegedly quit his old network when his pay was cut from $700,000 per year to just $500,000.
Clearly you can see why. Half a million dollars a year in Sydney TV circles is practically the minimum
wage.

But here he is at Seven, back on top and going toe-to-toe with his replacement at Nine, Peter Overton.

How poetic.

9 SONIA KRUGER SWITCHING networks is always a sure-fire way to up your market value and Sonia
Kruger did this in impeccable fashion last year; ditching DWTS and Seven to take the reins at Nine’s
Mornings.

She also multi-tasks as the host of Big Brother, which helps pad out that nice big pay packet.

Page193of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Add to that the nice bit of side money she pulls in spruiking for diet meal company Lean Cuisine and
there’s nothing lean about the Kruger bank balance.

Nothing!

10 HAMISH AND ANDY ACCORDING to last year’s BRW Rich List, funnymen Hamish Blake and Andy
Lee earned a combined $4 million.

However, it’s understood that much of that comes not from their deal with Nine but a lucrative
arrangement with the Today radio network.

However, Hamish & Andy’s Gap Year has certainly found an audience with Channel 9 viewers, ensuring
the duo will likely rake in some serious cashola for some time yet.

Which is no doubt good news for Lee’s new girlfriend.Zing!

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gtvrad : Television/Radio | gcat : Political/General News | gent : Arts/Entertainment
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document DAITEL0020140531ea610002k

Page194of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.