STOKES’S SEVEN LIKE NO OTHER

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
STOKES’S SEVEN LIKE NO OTHER

Terry McCrann
340 words
1 April 2014
Herald-Sun
HERSUN
HeraldSun
25
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

A TINY takeover shows us that — to borrow the description used by David Jones — there really is
no other media company like Kerry Stokes’s Seven Group.

It is a timely reminder that Stokes’s Seven Group is actually comprised of two very different
companies.

The one everyone knows is the partly-owned but fully-controlled Seven Network, which is both the
TV business of that number and the West Australian print newspaper.

The bit that’s not well identified with Australia’s, of recent times, most aggressive but also relatively
reclusive media proprietor, has actually been the most profitable; and that’s an industrial services
business built around the lucrative Caterpillar franchise in Australia and China.
Now his Seven Group is bidding a paltry 2c a share for the equity in troubled oil and gas hopeful
Nexus Energy. This will cost petty cash of around $27 million.

However Seven Group is also committing to fund Nexus’s capital commitments of more than $400
million over the next few years. These are to a variety of projects.
This is a serious commitment of Seven Group’s cash and its corporate valuation to the energy
business. It is driven by CEO Don Voelte, formerly the CEO of a much bigger energy group
Woodside, but with the clear endorsement and support of Stokes.

It is self-evidently a diversification away from media. It is also a move away from the heavy reliance
on the ‘hard’ China-boom commodities such as coal and especially iron ore; Caterpillar’s bread
and butter.
It reinforces the choice investors have. They can invest directly in the ‘pure’ media company. Seven
Network. But accept they are investing in a controlled entity.

Or they can invest in the parent Seven Group, where their money will sit next to Stokes’s. They get
diversification but also only part of the media business. Which both reduces portfolio risk and leaves
them exposed to really carrying all the Network equity risk.Interesting.

CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB

entity : Nexus Energy Ltd
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.

Page15of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document HERSUN0020140331ea410007v

Page16of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.