Mega merger gets Bernstein nod

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Mega merger gets Bernstein nod

Matthew Stevens
1,424 words
17 September 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
36
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

It feels a awful lot like Ivan Glasenberg has been out and about again.
For some time there has been speculation effervescing through big mining that Glencore's
enamel-hard chief executive has eyes for a tectonic takeover that would complete the Baar-based
commodity trader's transition into the world's most diversified miner.

Now, for a guy who runs a massively complicated and successful marketing business that remains
opaque enough to be dubbed a "black box" in one contemporary analyst note, Glasenberg has proven
cheerfully public with his upstream thought bubbles. This year alone the South African-born Australian
citizen, who runs a Swiss conglomerate from London, has made announcements on behalf of his major
cousins BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto.

Back in March, Glasenberg revealed, in almost one breath, that Glencore had been in discussions with
Rio about a merger of their respective Hunter Valley thermal coal operations and that it was kicking
the tires on BHP's troublesome Nickel West business. Needless to say, this protocol busting did not go
down well with either of the Anglo-Australians.

Now, if we are to believe the gathering chatter, Glasenberg has set his acquisitive gaze on Rio Tinto.
And this tentative but persistent conversation has now been punctuated by a note published by
Bernstein Research. It highlights the logic of a Glencore-Rio alliance above pretty much anything else
Glasenberg might do. A daunting propositionThe simple but daunting Bernstein proposition is that
$US80 billion ($89 billion) Glencore should make a premium, scrip and cash offer for
$US110 billionRio Tinto.

An alternative would be for Glencore to go after Anglo-American. But the advice is that we should
believe Glasenberg's consistent advice that he has no interest in making that happen. Rio, on the other
hand, is the "biggest possible fish" in global mining and one that would deliver Glasenberg to a seat of
matching, but thoroughly different, power to current resources kingpin, BHP. And, given it marched to
the Bernstein beat, the new Glencore would promptly become mining's must-own stock.
"A Rio Tinto-Glencore combination would create market-leading positions in iron ore, copper, nickel,
zinc and coal as well as significant optionality around a number of lesser metals and minerals,"
Bernstein's London-based senior analyst, Paul Gait, writes.
"Moreover, it would create the biggest and most diversified mining company on the planet. It would be
a Glencore-Rio combination that would quickly become the 'must-own' stock for anyone looking for
mining exposure.

For as long as BHP Billiton wore that mantle they were rewarded with a premium valuation. A re-rating
on the combined company EBITDA could deliver a value uplift of ~$US35 billion," he wrote.

That may, of course, be quite true. But, just as it is true that Glasenberg has floated the potential of his
dream team, so it would be accurate to suggest that Rio is treating this whole, odd discussion with

Page101of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.cautious disdain. Few inside or outside Rio believe a deal would be possible or particularly advisable.
Not only are synergies hard to identify outside of the operational overlap of Australian thermal coal but
there is a conviction that governments across a great host of the new and old commodity economies
would take a very dim view of the while thing.Concern of regulators
The history of mining mega-mergers is not encouraging. Where miners identify shape-shifting
synergy and value creation, regulators from Brussels to Beijing have seen only unacceptable
consolidation, reduced competition and increased market power.

Before it was finally undone by the global financial crisis in November 2008, BHP's contested pitch for
Rio was delayed and fiercely redrafted by the European competition regulators. And the subsequent
proposal to form a national iron ore champion with the agreed merger of BHP and Rio's Pilbara iron
ore arms was, in the end, scuttled by regulatory resistance in China, Europe and even Australia. Here,
rather famously, the ACCC could not find its way to clearance even though it had green-lighted the
original takeover. Go figure!

Glasenberg has recent experience of the reach and power of competition regulators. The only way he
was able to complete the $US64 billion takeover of Xstrata was by selling the company's best copper
asset, Las Bambas in Peru. That disposal was forced on Glencore by China's competition regulator.

But these issues don't seem to cloud the Bernstein view. And the reason we think this is important is
that we are guessing this work, to some degree, is channelling Glasenberg.

That might, for example, explain Gait's cake-and-eat-it-too moments. He applauds the rescue of Rio's
tarnished balance sheet and reputation by chief executive Sam Walsh. But he identifies a triptych of
strategic problems that are "eminently fixable" but apparently not by Rio management present or future.
While highlighting the emerging fragility of Rio's iron ore strategy he also writes that the risks
generated by the miner's "unbalanced" portfolio have been overblown. He then suggests that, under
Glencore's direction, Australia's biggest iron ore business could carry a whole lot more debt. Going
into high gearThe data suggests Glencore is content to carry a higher level of gearing that Rio. It
boasts a 25 per cent EBITDA margin from mining assets. And they are geared at 2.9-times net debt to
gross earnings. Rio Tinto, on the other hand, generates a 42 per cent margin while gearing sits at
under 1 times net debt to earnings.

"If the combined entity were to accept the same level of financial gearing as Glencore today (and it
should be able to support more, not less, given the improvement in operational gearing) a surplus
$US49 billion of cash could be liberated from the balance sheet.
"This would give Glencore the ability to use cash for a significant part of any acquisition
consideration," Gait muses. Oh and what are Rio's big three problems? Apparently, that the world now
has too much iron ore; that Rio's management has failed to "understand the different between portfolio
and incremental economics; and that its share price is "too cheap".

So what is the answer to all that?
"All that [is] required is to hand the world's best mining assets to the world's best management – and
Glencore are making a pretty strong case that they, more than anyone else, understand what it will take
to drive value in today's market."

It has to be said, this is a pretty big call.First off, as the Bernstein note acknowledges, Rio Tinto has
outperformed Glencore since its IPO in May 2011. And second, the starting point for any meaningful
analysis of effective management in mining is safety. And it is a fact tragically unavoidable that
Glencore has an unacceptable recent record of work place fatalities.Safety doesn't equal management

Glencore has set about taking global the safety programs designed for, and installed in, its Australian
coal operations. But its safety record simply does not sustains any claims of management
pre-eminence. And the company well knows this.

To be fair, the Bernstein view is coloured mostly by a conviction that Glencore has a clearer focus on
what shareholders really want: capital discipline which translates in greater returns. And the best
people to deliver that are the rational economists that drive the likes of Glencore rather than the
operationally focused engineers that drive the likes of BHP.

With that Bernstein's Gait wonders what will happen to Rio when the Walsh era of rationality comes to
its end. "What is Rio Tinto's strategic identity in a world of slowing iron ore demand? What will be the
strategic direction of Mr Walsh's successor? Will he recognise the changing nature of Rio Tinto's

Page102of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.business or will he repeat the mistakes that almost brought about the demise of the company in 2008
in a search for growth everlasting and commodity diversification?" Gait asks.
We can answer some of the questions. Rio will be the biggest and lowest-cost producer in global iron
ore that will generate margins of 50 per cent even at circa $US80 a tonne. Walsh's retirement will
unlikely inspire strategic change given it is tipped CFO Chris Lynch will get the nod and he has walked
in lockstep with the boss since the recovery mission started last year. And, no, dark history will never
be repeated.

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | march : Glencore PLC | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources |
ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c18 : Ownership Changes | cacqu : Acquisitions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c181 :
Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140916ea9h00027

Page103of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.