SS&C Technologies at JPMorgan Global Technology, Media and Telecom Conference - Final

HD SS&C Technologies at JPMorgan Global Technology, Media and Telecom Conference - Final
WC 5,035 words
PD 21 May 2014
SN CQ FD Disclosure
SC FNDW
LA English
CY © 2014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.
LP

Presentation

STERLING AUTY, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: All right, thanks, everybody, for joining us. My
name is Sterling Auty; I'm the software technology analyst here at J.P. Morgan . Happy to have with us Bill
Stone , who is the Founder and CEO of SS&C .

TD

I'm going to turn the microphone over to Bill. Go ahead and give us a bit of a brief overview, and then I will
start off with questions and I'll bring the audience in very quickly after that. With that, Bill?

BILL STONE , CHAIRMAN AND CEO, SS&C TECHNOLOGIES HOLDINGS , INC.: Sterling, thanks, and
thanks, everybody, on this Wednesday morning. SS&C has been around for 28 years. We just finished a
great quarter in Q1. We offer a range of software and services around the world for investment
organizations.

We have about 4300 employees in 46 offices, and we think that we're in a market where they spend $100
billion a year to do investment processing and investment accounting for various asset managers, be they
hedge funds, fund to funds, private equity funds, bank-owned funds, insurance companies, pension funds,
government funds, real estates, REITs, so forth and so on. We think we have a chance to be a major
player and we've put a lot of money into that.

In the first quarter, we spent 25% more on sales and marketing than we did in the first quarter of 2013, so
our number went from $9.4 million to $11.8 million, and we still grew operating margins by 170 basis
points. And I think our EBITDA margins were 41.3% in the first quarter of 2014.

STERLING AUTY: So long those lines, it's been a couple of years now that you've had PORTIA and
GlobeOp, specifically, in terms of acquisitions as part of the Company. Are all the synergies in terms of
cost synergies done? Do you have the margins on those businesses where you expected to get them and
is there anything left?

BILL STONE : Well, there's always something left. The business at GlobeOp was doing, I think about $209
million in revenue when we acquired them and about $60 million in EBITDA, so about a 28% margin
when we acquired them. They are running close to 40% margins for us now and the revenue's up to over
$240 million, so I think we're at about $100 million of EBITDA on GlobeOp.
On PORTIA, we've ticked the revenues up to almost $25 million from $21 million when we acquired them,
and EBITDA has gone from something around $13 million, $40 million to about $24.5 million. So we
think those are both great businesses.

We think that GlobeOp needed maybe a little more strategic direction, and we think that PORTIA just ne a
little tender love and care. They have been on the market four years out of the past six. It's awful hard to
keep morale up and keep people selling when everybody is asking who's your new parent going to be?
STERLING AUTY: Let's take a step back for those that don't know the Company as well. Can you give
investors a sense of the mix of your business in terms of -- how much of the business is kind of SaaS
delivery, how much of it is a BPO in terms of actually doing the fund accounting, etc. on behalf of your
customers versus what's left that's still kind of a traditional perpetual software license model?
BILL STONE : Sure, so in the -- 2013, for instance, we had about $713 million in revenue. Our recurring
revenue is about 92%. The SaaS part of it, which we label software-enabled services, is probably about
30%. The BPO part, which we use all of our own software, right, so we're not doing things that are -- we

Page244of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.went through accounts payable for BPO, we went through accounts receivable. We do credit default swaps
and statistical arbitrage and stuff like that from an accounting and information delivery standpoint.

That represents about 40% of our business. So those two combined are 72%, 73%. Maintenance is about
$105 million and that's a traditional maintenance business off of licenses that we've sold over the 28 years
of our existence. And then 4% -- about $28 million, I think, is licenses and about $30 million are
implementation services and other consulting services.

STERLING AUTY: So within that -- now let's kind of talk a little bit about the competitive landscape for
those businesses. Who are your primary competitors?

BILL STONE : Yes, you know, the great thing is we don't compete against Google ; we don't have Amazon.
There's no monsters in what we're doing. Our major competitors when we're doing the work for people tend
to be State Street , Bank of New York , Citco, J.P. Morgan , HSBC , [Head to Serve].

In software, we generally compete against Advent, SimCorp , SunGard , Eagle -- which is part of Bank of
New York , and State Street again. They own Princeton Financial Systems . So those are kind of the two
major sections that we compete against.

STERLING AUTY: So I think about your business in terms of the growth. It seems that you do extremely
well in two situations. One, when assets are growing, whether that's the market and typically like -- take a
look at last year, I think assets under management in the US across the asset classes were up like 16%. It
seems like that's a great environment for you.
And the second phase is when you've made a major acquisition, which you have proven time and again to
execute on. Is that a fair characterization and if so, how would you characterize the environment that we
are in here for 2014 in terms of being supportive of your growth?

BILL STONE : I think those things are historically true. We've done a really good job with acquisitions. We
drive a lot of synergies. I think that we are in some transformational stages. What I was saying about our
sales force -- we have probably growing our sales force from maybe 70 to 110 over the last 18, 20 months.
We're going to grow it from 110 to 150 over the next 2 or 3 quarters.

And I think that -- I just met a very senior guy from Goldman Sachs , retired, and he brought SS&C up to
Perry Capital, which is one of the biggest hedge funds in the country, and also to Fortress, which is another
huge hedge fund and private equity fund.

Neither one of them had heard of us. That's a problem, right. So I think -- now we need to figure out how to
fix that problem. And if you listen to CNBC, when they come to see us, they can fix it for us. Of course, then
our margins will go from 41% to 24%, so we're not sure we want them to fix it for us.

So it's figuring out how to do it in the most cost-effective way where you get the most bang for your buck on
your marketing dollars. SS&C has got 1000 chartered accounts and CPAs. We are a bit skeptical of
marketing, right? Part of it is my money, and I am one of those CPAs, so we're working on it.

I think we're going to get better known, and I think as we get better known, that is going to change.
Because when we get a chance to show what we have -- our technology is better, our people are better,
and our processes are better. Our pricing is not cheap, but we are not out of the world, either, so when we
get a chance to show people, they say, where have you been?
So I think -- we won Ares, which was -- when we first started talking to Ares, they were $42 billion, $43
billion in assets. Now they are almost $70 billion. When we signed them, they were $55 billion or $56
billion. So there's a great advantage to winning very large organizations and what that's done to the
marketplace about where we sit.

STERLING AUTY: The customers that you serve absolutely have to have something, otherwise they
wouldn't be in business. So I would imagine that every time you go in, you are displacing something,
whether it's in-house, third-party, etc.
How does that impact the sales cycles, because I'm thinking as you're talking about increasing the sales
headcount, does that have any impact in terms of would you expect as you get better known that maybe
those sales cycles would change?

BILL STONE : I don't necessarily think the sales cycles would change, but number of sales cycles that we
are in will change. And so, just by -- right now, we have stuff coming in to the top of the funnel faster than
we've ever had. Now what does that mean? Well, it means that some of them will close in 3 months, and
some of them will close in 6 months, 9 months, 12 months, and so forth out to 24 months.

Page245of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.But since there are so many more of them, we should have more of an uplift in our revenue, and I think it
will start manifesting itself over the next one to two years. I think we're going to continue to invest, and
Goldman Sachs sold their fund administration business 1 1/2 years, 2 years ago to State Street .

When Goldman Sachs does one of those things, generally Morgan Stanley is just a year behind. In this
case, they are two years behind, but they tend to be the leader and so there's a good chance that maybe
Citi, maybe J.P. Morgan , maybe Morgan Stanley , or maybe some of the other big banks will decide --
HSBC -- will decide to shed their fund administration businesses and SS&C would be a natural acquirer.

STERLING AUTY: Outside of those fund administrators continuing to consolidate, are there other
segments of the market that you see that are ripe for consolidation?

BILL STONE : We think that the technology landscape, as well, will also consolidate. So where there's
Princeton Financial System , and State Street , and Eagle Development at Bank of New York , and Advent
Software out in San Francisco, and SimCorp out in Copenhagen. There won't be that many, and we again
would be natural acquirers for any those businesses.

We would get lots of synergies. We would bring lots of expertise to bear and there would be tremendous
cross-selling opportunities. And most of those that I just mentioned, other than the big banks, but even
inside the big banks, Eagle or Princeton is not used as an outsourcer, not used as a SaaS provider.

So the big advantage SS&C has done -- since 2002, we've really restructured our business models so
where we are a large services component with our technology. So we have numbers of clients that pay us
in excess of $15 million a year, some that pay us up to $40 million year.
You don't get that in software. You couldn't sell somebody a license for $40 million a year. That never
happens. So the biggest software license I think we've ever sold is about $5 million.

STERLING AUTY: So when you think about the consolidation valuation, you've always been very
disciplined in terms of the valuations that you've paid in terms of acquisitions through the years. Obviously,
multiples have compressed in the market, but where are the heads at in terms of some of these private
companies and in terms of how they view their own value? Has it adjusted yet, or do they still kind of have
hopes of sky high valuations?
BILL STONE : I went and looked at a company in Minneapolis five or six weeks ago. Now it's $30 million
in revenue, going to do $40 million in revenue in 2014. Really nice company. So the banker handed me a
list of synergies -- kind of like this page of synergies. Couple, you know, four or five pages, and first page
said in part of their business that we'd get synergies between -- over the next five years, between $395
million and $2.6 billion.

So I kind of flip through it like this and tossed it in the middle of the table and the guy said, don't you want to
go through the synergies? And I kind of looked at him and said hey, you guys, I brought my own cocaine.
(laughter)
So then when they asked are you going to bid, I said, look I don't want to insult anybody, but I'm not paying
you 15 times sales. Now if you are selling cocaine and it was legal, maybe. But for accounting software for
the investment world, we're not getting there.

And so you can only deal with people that have something that, at least in your sphere, is a rational price.
And if it's not rational, then you are really sticking your neck out. It doesn't mean you can't make money,
even if you pay it irrationally, but you better be perfect. And SS&C is a bunch of humans, which makes us
not perfect.

STERLING AUTY: So when you look at where the business is today from a geographic standpoint,
GlobeOp definitely bolstered your position internationally. Where do you feel you are in terms of that build
out and where is the opportunities to go from here?

BILL STONE : We only get 2% or 3% of our revenue in Asia Pac. Over the next 3 years, we ought to move
that up to maybe 10% or 12%, and given that we grow in the next 2 or 3 years, for, say, $1 billion maybe,
we ought to be having $100 million. Right now it's about $15 million to $20 million.
So we are building out Hong Kong; we've hired some people -- some senior people. We are moving some
people from Mumbai to Hong Kong. We've got some great clients in Hong Kong and they want us to have
a bigger presence. We also have a nice little office in Singapore that we want to make bigger, so we think
there's opportunity there. We would like to grow in Japan, but that's been very difficult -- very difficult place
to grow in.

So we have a good office in Sydney. We have opportunities; it's just we have to execute.

Page246of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.STERLING AUTY: One more question along those lines. I want to bring the audience in. When you look at
that -- is organic investment really what's going to be necessary, especially in Asia? Or are there assets
that could help speed the penetration in terms of acquisition?

BILL STONE : Yes, there's some interesting things that you can buy. Obviously, we did GlobeOp, which
was a publicly traded company in London, and we acquired Financial Models, which was a publicly traded
company in Toronto. Buying a company in Australia or Japan I think will be somewhat problematic, just
from the distance and the ability to spend enough time to get it done.

I spent hundreds of hours on GlobeOp. And I don't know that that opportunity would present itself going to
Sydney, where it takes you a day to get there, takes you a day get back, and it takes you a month to
recover. So I don't know that our -- but organically, I think there's real opportunity for us to grow.

And as we start growing organically, I think some entrepreneurs will come and want to be sold to us.
Because a lot of times, we are able to buy their business at a pretty good price, give them a really nice
employment contract with an equity upside, and they get two bites of the apple, and that's been very
attractive to a number of the people that we have acquired over the last 15 years or so.

STERLING AUTY: I don't know. I could see a winter in Sydney, summer in the States type of management
style. That might work out.

BILL STONE : That's right. Especially when I get my A380.

Questions and Answers

STERLING AUTY: Questions from the audience? Yes?

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: It seems like the biggest beef I hear amongst the financial service
clients is all the dollars they put into compliance and what have you. Are you looking at plays in that area
as well, too, or --

STERLING AUTY: So how does compliance play into the business and the growth?

BILL STONE : Sure. We created something called a regulatory solutions group a couple years ago. We just
went through our 200th client that we've gotten, and about over 40% of them weren't using us for anything
and now are using us for regulatory compliance. We have a tremendous amount of expertise in things like
Form PF, FATCA, AIFMD, CPO-PQR, Solvency II, Basel III.

So we have a whole group that that's all they do. And it sometimes is a little tension filled when you're with
clients and they are saying you're making money off all this regulation. I always tell them is is that they are
regulating you, they're not regulating me. So I'm here to help you if you want to use us to help you comply
with the regulations, but we're not the ones being regulated.

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Are you guys considering all the fee thing -- I use a kind word --
that the marketplace is making them. What do you guys think of (inaudible - microphone inaccessible)?

BILL STONE : Yes, so the market opportunity in compliance and regulatory solutions -- we think the market
is probably going to spend on average an additional $1 billion dollars a year, and that's probably on top of
the $10 billion or $15 billion they already spend.
And we are up to pushing $20 million in revenue and we think over the next two or three or four years, we
ought be able to double, triple that, maybe. And there's a lot of opportunity, it is just getting people
comfortable and walking them through the process.

STERLING AUTY: Other questions? Yes?

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: I think you did a great job at acquisitions. How you think about
organic growth, both what's a reasonable target rate and what's the organic growth been the last few
years?

STERLING AUTY: So what has your organic growth been in the last couple of years and what's a
reasonable target going forward?

BILL STONE : Yes, the last couple of years we've been mid-single digits -- 5%, 6%, 7%, 8% each quarter.
Before the financial crisis, we were running 13% to 18%. There's not much animal spirits out in the financial
services industry right now. So you don't find a whole lot of formation.
I think the term insurance company formation might be an oxymoron. I think that very similar on [lonely]
asset managers or also banks. So you are not going to get the kind of lift. And then we also used to get

Page247of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.some lift, because our -- most of our contracts had kickers for maintenance renewals and other renewals --
CPI plus a few hundred, 200, 300 basis points.

That used to give us 5%, 6% rate increase and now it gets us 2% or 3% rate increase. So I mean, I think a
reasonable rate on organic growth is 5% to 10% over the near term, which I would say 2 to 3 years.

If we hit the accelerants, I think we have, I think we might be able to move it to where it's 8% to 12%, but
that's going to manifest itself on whether or not us hiring all of these new salespeople works out. We think it
well, and we think the opportunities are there to grow faster.

STERLING AUTY: Other questions? Yes?

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Seems like one of the (technical difficulty) customer relationships
that firms like State Street have already in place? And other places where you could be, I guess we call it
the [nibbing] in certain places inside their opportunities or where are you focusing those (inaudible -
microphone inaccessible)?

BILL STONE : Yes, the REITs opportunity really kind of came out of winning a large mandate from Western
Asset Management. And they moved their REIT business from State Street to us.

Also, we pitch hard on internal control systems. So if State Street 's your fund administrator and your
custodian, and they reconcile to each other, that's not too independent, right? So we push pretty hard on if
it's your money and it's your business, why on earth wouldn't you have separation of duties? And other
people talk about financing as being a real carrot.
But BlueCrest is our biggest client, and they were going to move $12.5 billion in assets to HSBC from
GlobeOp, and we were told that before we bought GlobeOp, so we were well aware. But we convinced
them not to move it, and I think because our processes, our people, and our technology is better and there
is a $40 million organization in London that was between us and a major multi-trillion dollar bank.

And the CFO says look, we've had a 30 year relationship, I agree with you that you have better technology,
better people, and better processes, but I'm sure if there's ever a problem in our derivatives, the bank will
step up and use their balance sheet to solve it.

So I hadn't talked to them -- I called them and that was the feedback I had gotten and I said I understand
that you're counting on the bank to step up if you have a problem on your derivatives. I said of course, you
are the CFO, and you will have made a decision against going with the best technology, the best people,
and the best processes.

So when there's that balance sheet being used -- which, I believe, they would use it, you won't be the CFO
anymore. So they went with us. You've got to break these things down into practical terms. But you make
that decision as a CFO. That's not a good decision, you know, and derivatives already have enough
leverage in them that you don't want to take more risk in that operation; you want to take as little
operational risk as possible.

STERLING AUTY: Yes?

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Following up to the organic question, it sounds like you're going to
be putting a number of feet on the street in sales organizations, but you mentioned that the hedge fund
community, kind of $8 million. How are you going to make sure that you bring these people in and they
ramp-up productivity in an efficient manner?

BILL STONE : Well, we try to hire professionals, and we pay them well, and we have high expectations.
And when they don't meet our expectations, we get different ones. And it's not that we don't train them --
we go through significant training in both role-playing and education on our products and -- but SS&C is not
a place where you have 10017 in New York City. That is your ZIP Code. So we don't do it that way.
Your territory is Earth, right. You go find a lead, it's yours. Now somebody else already has that lead, we
track that, and we manage that. But SS&C generates probably 70%, 80% of the leads, and so we don't
want to have our best leads, say, be in Houston, and we have maybe a really weak sales person in
Houston.
We wouldn't give that lead to the guy in Houston. We're going to give that lead to a guy in New York, or a
guy in Chicago, or a gal in LA. We're not -- the best leads go to the best salespeople.
And the only time the best salespeople don't get the next best lead is because they are already full. They
can't manage any more. That's our whole processes and it also leaves -- the ambitious people have a
really big hunting territory and they really like that.

Page248of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.STERLING AUTY: Yes?

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Can you talk about your balance sheet? Where you are in terms of
leverage and your thoughts on using cash flow going forward?

BILL STONE : Yes, we are at about 2.2 times levered, and when we bought GlobeOp and PORTIA, which
we closed late June 2012, we were about 4.3 -- 4.3, 4.4, I think. So we've made more than two turns of
leverage reduction since a little less than two years ago. We are very comfortable at the 2.2. We are
generating free cash flow of over a couple of hundred million dollars a year.

Historically, we've paid down debt. Our debt carries a 3% weighted average coupon on it. Obviously that's
pre-tax. So after tax, that's about 2%. I think the analysts have us at about $2.30 a share for this year. I
think on $46, that $2.30 is 5%, right? So I'm not a financial wizard, but I think buying back our stock, where
we get 5% return, is better than paying off our debt, which we are paying off 2% net debt.

So I think stock buybacks will be a larger part of what we do. And acquisitions are always going to be the
lead, and we would lever back up if we got the right acquisition. And we levered 6.8 when we went
private, and then we levered about 4.4 when we did PORTIA and GlobeOp.

I don't think that we would go back to 6.8, unless we thought we could make a boatload of money. But if we
thought we could make a boatload of money, then we might. But more than likely, I would say high 4s,
maybe to 5. And then that would have to be a great acquisition for us, too.

STERLING AUTY: Last question. You won some larger accounts. Can you talk to us about how they ramp,
so how they phase in and what that does to your growth rate in the near term?

BILL STONE : Yes, we -- as I said earlier, right, we sent out a press release when we won Ares. Ares is
probably 80% on the original contract with them, but probably less than 50% on the opportunity at Ares. So
Ares is an extremely large opportunity for us.
And they've brought us three or four other very large private equity and hedge fund opportunities. We just
signed Vertis; we signed several other ones that are quite large about the same time we signed Ares. The
next quarter we signed Crescent, which is an $11 billion credit fund in LA.

The ramp-up is happening. It's happening -- it never happens as fast as you want, but we are getting very
good at it. And we've gone from zero people in Los Angeles, 18, 19 months ago, to 75 now. So we are
investing heavily in California, which is -- it's very robust for investment organizations right now. And we
think we will start getting lift in the second -- over the next couple to three quarters.
I told you little bit about when we bought GlobeOp that we saved $12.5 billion from BlueCrest going to
HSBC , but BlueCrest, pretty smart people on, they wanted the same pricing that HSBC had offered them,
which, of course, that was about half their assets back in 2012.
So we did that. So we gave them a couple of basis points on that $12.5 billion, so that's about $2.5 million,
$3 million. But BlueCrest is now $40 billion and we have all that. So it's been a very good negotiation for
us.

STERLING AUTY: All right, with that, Bill, thank you so much for joining us. We appreciate it.

BILL STONE : Okay, Sterling, thank you.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this
web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon
current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those
stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more
specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and
believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the
assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results
contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF
THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE
AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR
INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO
WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE

Page249of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE
BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND
THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER
DECISIONS.]

CO ssandc : SS&C Technologies Holdings Inc | crlylg : The Carlyle Group
IN

iappsp : Cloud Computing | i8394 : Computer Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | i3302 :
Computers/Consumer Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302021 : Applications Software | icomp :
Computing | itech : Technology | ivmsoft : Vertical Market Applications Software

NS c315 : Conferences/Exhibitions | ntra : Transcripts | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types
| nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
RE usa : United States | houst : Houston | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |

austr : Australia | namz : North America | nswals : New South Wales | uss : Southern U.S. | ustx : Texas

PUB CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
AN Document FNDW000020140523ea5l005sd

Page250of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.