MMG boss prefers quality assets

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
MMG boss prefers quality assets

Amanda Saunders
722 words
26 August 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
17
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Andrew Michelmore, the boss of Chinese-owned MMG, says the suite of assets the mining majors
have up for sale are of no appeal, even if they can be picked up on the cheap.

"The ones [the majors] tend to want to sell are the ones that they don't want or don't see value in,"
the Melbourne-based Michelmore says.

"We've looked at a number of them for the past few years – they've been running this process for
almost three years. We've looked at them but we haven't found one [we would want]."

The fact the assets are cheap makes no difference, he said. "Like every other bargain you've
bought in your life . . . you don't value it."

Many of the majors, led by BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto, have put assets on the chopping block, as
they seek to slash costs and exit non-core and under-performing businesses.
MMG, which is Australian managed, Hong Kong listed and Chinese controlled, is keeping an eye
out for acquisitions to fuel growth.
But its immediate priority is bedding down its $US5.85 billion ($6.28 billion) purchase of the
coveted Peruvian copper mine Las Bambas.
MMG led a consortium of Chinese entities to buy the prized asset from commodities trading giant
Glencore this year, in a forced sale. It was finalised last month.
The sale was required by Chinese authorities before they would approve Glencore's merger with
fellow Swiss giant Xstrata, given fears about the huge influence the merged group would wield over
the copper market.
MMG's major shareholder is Chinese state-owned enterprise Minmetals, which holds about 74 per
cent of its register.Thinking long term

The prized Las Bambas asset is expected to operate for at least 20 years, which is in keeping with
MMG's "long-life" acquisition strategy. Construction is expected to be finished in 2015.

Michelmore says assets have no appeal unless they have a mine life of at least 10 years, but a
20-year minimum is his preference.

"Most of the [assets] that are being divested don't have much life; they are getting towards the end
of their lives.

"Interestingly we've watched some of them go for incredibly high numbers and you go, 'Wow, how
are they going to get their money back on that?' "

Page12of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.He said MMG preferred to buy in at the late construction stage of a project, and focused on
exploration potential.

"If you are going to pay for what's there, you don't ever pick up a bargain," he says. "Or if you do, it's
like every other bargain you've bought in your life: it sits in the bottom of a closet somewhere
because you don't value it."

MMG has walked away "a lot of times" from due diligence on assets priced "at full value", he says.
As for BHP's $US15 billion spin-off of unwanted mines, unveiled last week, Michelmore says it is
"attractive" because it fills a gap in the Australian market.Speculation about listing
Investors are starved of mid-tier mining companies in Australia, and there has been persistent
speculation that MMG will list on the ASX to capitalise on the gap in the market.

"The feedback is always that if we were listed [in Australia] people would be interested but they
would also have to buy us because all the meaningful mid-tiers have disappeared in Australia, a bit
like in the United States and Canada."

But Michelmore said a decision on a secondary listing, which could also be taken in the other key
mining markets of London or South Africa, would be made after Las Bambas was up and running.
"Hong Kong is relatively naïve in their understanding of the minerals business," he says.

"If we want to grow and attract more investment we can't just rely on our major shareholder and
Chinese funding, we have to look at where else we grow and how else we do it."
MMG's market capitalisation is about $2.1 billion
He said China will ultimately measure MMG's success by whether it can broaden its shareholder
base to attract substantial Western institutional investment. "It is part of China moving out of
China."

orieml : MMG Limited | cminmc : China Minmetals Corporation | imreht : Inner Mongolia Baotou
Steel Rare-Earth (Group) Hi-Tech Co Ltd | lawspr : Minmetals Land Limited
i22 : Primary Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | i2245 : Aluminum | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources
c182 : Asset Transactions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140825ea8q0003w

CO

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page13of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.