Norton’s hostile takeover bid is short on uptake

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

WestReg
Norton’s hostile takeover bid is short on uptake

Jarrod Lucas
231 words
16 June 2014
Kalgoorlie Miner
KALGOO
First
3
English
(c) 2014 West Australian Newspapers Limited

Chinese-owned Norton Gold Fields looks set to extend its $24 million bid for Bullabulling Gold
after slow uptake from shareholders.

Norton is now Bullabulling’s biggest shareholder with voting power of 15.9 per cent.

The 7 cents a share offer is due to close today.
After launching the hostile takeover on April 17, Norton’s stake in Bullabulling has grown from 2.5
per cent on the back of acceptances and market buying.

An extension appears likely unless there is a late rush of acceptances.

Norton managing director Dianmin Chen said the miner was hopeful of receiving more
acceptances before the offer closes.

This month, Norton and Bullabulling received what amounted to a slap on the wrist from the
Federal Government’s Takeovers Panel for “unacceptable circumstances” during early exchanges
between the companies.
Norton, controlled by China’s biggest gold producer Zijin Mining Group, says it has enough cash
to fund the takeover and the muscle to develop Bullabulling’s 3.7Moz project.
The project’s capital costs are expected to be about $450 million.
Meanwhile, Excelsior Gold placed its shares in a trading halt on Friday pending an announcement
on the long-term milling arrangement for its Kalgoorlie North gold project.

Excelsior has been linked as a potential source of feed for Norton’s Paddington mill.

cnchgd : Bullabulling Gold Limited | nogofe : Norton Gold Fields Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document KALGOO0020140615ea6g0000c

Page192of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.