Angang, COSCO in talks on Australian iron ore shipments

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
VOL
LA
CY
LP

TD

News Stories; Asia
Angang, COSCO in talks on Australian iron ore shipments

Hongmei Li
394 words
14 August 2014
Platts SBB Steel Markets Daily
STEELDLY
ISSN: 1935-7354, Volume 8, Issue 159
English
© 2014 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

China's Anshan Iron & Steel (Angang) is in talks with the country's largest shipping company, China
Ocean Shipping (COSCO), on the possibility of cooperating on iron ore shipments from Angang's 8.8
million mt/year Karara project in Western Australia, company officials said Thursday.
Angang, based in northeast China's Liaoning province, is the majority shareholder of the Karara
project, with a 52.16% stake,, with the balance held by Australia's Gindalbie Metals. "We have not
reached an agreement on the best cooperation model yet," an official from COSCO Bulk Shipping said
Thursday. "Possibilities such as a logistics service joint venture or a simple COA [affreightment]
contract have been touched upon."

Beijing-based COSCO Bulk Shipping is COSCO's dry bulk commodities shipping unit. The official said a
joint venture may not be favorable to Angang, given vessel overcapacity in the global dry bulk market.
An Angang official agreed, suggesting Angang -- like other Chinese mills -- is very conscious of
operational and production costs due to razor-thin profits. Setting up its own fleet exclusively for iron
ore from Karara may not be in its best interest unless the investment package is particularly attractive,
he said.

The two companies aim to reach an agreement by the end of 2014.
Since Karara was commissioned in January 2013, Angang has been issuing tenders for its iron ore
shipments, and due to the limitations at the port of Geraldton only Panamax vessels have been used,
whch are not as as economical as the larger Capesize vessels, the Angang official said.

Located 225 km (139 miles) east of Geraldton in Western Australia's Mid West region, Karara has yet to
ramp up to its full 10 million mt/year capacity due to ongoing commissioning problems and technical
issues.

Angang and COSCO have a long-term business relationship, sealing a strategic cooperative
partnership in 2000, and COSCO has been shipping Angang's steel, iron ore and coal for exports and
imports. Angang is the largest mill in northeast China, with 25 million mt/year of steel capacity in
Liaoning.

COSCO Bulk Shipping owns and operates over 300 bulk vessels of various types such as Capesize,
Panamax, Handymax and Handysize, with a total carrying capacity of more than 30 million dwts.

Hongmei Li

CO
IN

cos : China Ocean Shipping (Group) Company | gingol : Gindalbie Metals Ltd
i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i211 : Metal
Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying | iship : Water Transport/Shipping | itsp :
Transportation/Shipping

Page120of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

IPD
PUB
AN

china : China | austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | liaon : Liaoning | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Shipping
The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Document STEELDLY20140828ea8e00013

Page121of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.