Qantas may pursue split structure

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Qantas may pursue split structure

Jamie Freed and Sarah Thompson
821 words
23 July 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
18
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Qantas Airways is considering a split of its domestic and international arms to attract more foreign
investment as part of its wide-ranging structural review.
Less than a week after the Senate passed changes to the QantasSale Act in a compromise deal,
sources said the airline was studying whether it should pursue a similar structure to rival Virgin
Australia Holdings.

Qantas is due to provide an update on its structural review alongside its full-year results in August. It
is also considering options such as a partial sale of its frequent flyer business or Jetstar as part of the
review.

Analysts said a split of the domestic and international arms, which would allow for greater foreign
investment in Qantas's domestic business, would be a positive for the ailing carrier.

"We are of the view that would take some work but we don't think it would be impossible to achieve,"
Deutsche Bank analyst Cameron McDonald said. "I do think that [Qantas] obviously are keen to have
a seat at [the global airline consolidation] table if and when it becomes appropriate."

Virgin split the ownership of its domestic and international business in 2012 through an in-specie
distribution of shares in its international division to its holders at the time.

Virgin's international division is an unlisted entity with a separate Australian-controlled board and
ownership structure from the domestic division. Air New Zealand, Singapore Airlines, Etihad Airways
and Sir Richard Branson own nearly 80 per cent of Virgin shares, but the international division is
majority Australian-owned to comply with the Air Navigation Act.Foreign investment

Splitting Qantas's domestic arm from its international arm would allow for a significantly larger
investment in the company by a foreign carrier than is achievable easily in practice even after the
QantasSale Act changes passed on Friday.

The revisions agreed in a compromise with Labor allow a single foreign airline or investor to hold up
to 49 per cent of Qantas, versus prior restrictions that barred any foreign investor from owning more
than 25 per cent or group of foreign airlines from owning more than 35 per cent.

However, Qantas must remain 51 per cent Australian-owned to maintain its international traffic rights
under the Air Navigation Act. It already has about 38 per cent foreign ownership even though there
are no airlines on the register.

That means no foreign carrier would be able to buy more than 11 per cent unless it purchased the
stock from other foreign shareholders or was issued shares in an equity placement, unless Qantas
split its domestic and international arms.

Page107of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Its ability to split them under the latest version of the QantasSale Act is somewhat unclear, as some
of the language refers to "Qantas" rather than "Qantas International" even though most of the
restrictions placed on it are of the same type that apply only to Virgin's international arm under the Air
Navigation Act.

But Transport and Regional Development Minister Warren Truss in February highlighted the potential
for Qantas to split its structure, meaning the government is unlikely to oppose such a move.

In March, Qantas chief executive Alan Joyce said told a Senate inquiry that talk of any such move
was "hypothetical". "We have not got any plans," he said at the time.Net loss could hit $1 billion

Qantas in February froze work on a costly plan to split the Air Operator's Certificates, or licences to
fly, for its domestic and international division and reintegrated some of the operating management
structures for the businesses. However, Mr Joyce has said the split, if revived, could be done within
six to nine months. Qantas's domestic and international businesses already report financial results
separately.
Qantas is expected to report a full-year pre-tax loss of $747 million, but there is speculation that
one-off costs and write-downs could lead to a net loss of more than $1 billion.
CAPA Centre for Aviation executive director Peter Harbison said Qantas should follow Virgin's lead
and split its operations but he did not know if it would.

His aviation consultancy on Tuesday published a detailed report on Qantas which suggested the
airline would not be able to mimic the Virgin structure without significant opposition.

"Were Qantas to make any such move, legal challenges would create uncertainty and risk significant
degradation of goodwill from employees, the public and politicians," the CAPA report said. "This
opposition is founded mostly on a range of intangibles and misconceptions, liberally sprinkled with
vague nationalistic sentiment, but it is effective nonetheless."
Potential suitors Emirates and China Southern have denied any interest in buying an equity stake in
Qantas. CAPA said interested parties were unlikely to express interest under the current structure, but
if a similar one to Virgin was possible "that would almost certainly change".

vrbair : Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd | qntas : Qantas Airways Ltd
i75 : Airlines | i7501 : Scheduled Passenger Airlines | iairtr : Air Transport | ilowair : Low Cost Airlines |
itsp : Transportation/Shipping
cstksp : Stock Splits | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c17 : Funding/Capital | c171 : Share Capital |
cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140722ea7n0002n

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page108of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.