THE developer behind Tamworth's new Woolworths/Dan

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

early general news
THE developer behind Tamworth's new Woolworths/Dan

420 words
20 September 2014
Northern Daily Leader
FNODAL
5
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

THE developer behind Tamworth's new Woolworths/Dan Murphy's project has scotched claims he
made a packet on the deal at ratepayers' expense.
Moree businessman Theo Tzannes, who paid $2.5 million to council for the Prince of Wales Park last
year and on-sold the project to a Chinese company for $30 million, said assumptions he had
pocketed more than $20 million on the development were "absurd".

It comes a day after Tamworth deputy mayor Russell Webb defended council's decision to offload the
land to a private developer.

For the first time, Mr Tzannes revealed the true cost of transforming the old Weston factory and the
park into a shopping precinct.

Costs, he said, included $700,000 alone for construction certificates and close to $1 million for
engineering and architectural work and road studies.

Add in the expense of building the supermarket and liquor outlet for Woolworths and he said the
project had cost him close to $25 million, ten times the amount some critics had claimed.

"I'm stunned that there is criticism of this project at all," Mr Tzannes said.
"I paid $300,000 above market valuation (for Prince of Wales Park) and it's taken me five years of
work to get to this point.

"This will create hundreds of new jobs for Tamworth, a new shopping centre for residents and has
brought large-scale Chinese investment into the town for the first time."
He said the foray of Everich into Tamworth marked the largest step a Chinese company had ever
taken into a retail project in regional Australia.
Mr Tzannes revealed he had originally bought the City Sider Motor Inn site for the supermarket
development but opted against building there at the 11th hour.

"It had specialty shops and I would have had to take tenants from the main street to fill them," he said.

"I really didn't want to do that."
He was also deeply critical of two environmentalists who marched on the site yesterday ((Friday))
morning.

"There'd be lucky to be half a dozen trees there and it has full DA approval," he said.

"They entered the block illegally and abused some of the workers.

"If they wanted to complain, they should have gone to council."

Page191of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Work is underway at the site and the supermarket and liquor store are expected to be operational by
the end of next year.

CO
IN

RE
PUB
AN

wolwth : Woolworths Limited
i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i641 : Food Retailing | i6411 : Supermarkets/Grocery Stores | i654 : Specialty
Stores | iretail : Retail
nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FNODAL0020140919ea9k00021

Page192of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.