Rinehart secures Roy Hill funding

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Rinehart secures Roy Hill funding

Saskia Pickles
500 words
21 March 2014
Business News
WABN
English
© Copyright 2014 Business News Pty Ltd.

Gina Rinehart has secured final funding for her massive Roy Hill project, virtually ensuring her
family's long-held dream of operating its own iron ore mine.
Mrs Rinehart's Hancock Prospecting signed a $US7.2 billion ($A7.98 billion) funding package in
Singapore on Thursday with an international consortium of 19 banks and five export credit agencies.

Roy Hill chief executive Barry Fitzgerald said the funding package was the biggest of its kind in the
world.
"I am advised this is the largest ever project financing for the development of a land-based mining
project worldwide," he said in a statement.
Mrs Rinehart said the $US10 billion project, which is already under construction, will employ up to
3,600 people during construction, and a further 2,000 staff once operations start.
The mine expects to export its first iron ore in 2015 and is targeting annual production of 55 million
tonnes.

Mrs Rinehart said the mine, which is 70 per cent owned by Hancock Prospecting, would
"significantly benefit our West Australian and national economy".
"We look forward to becoming a major iron ore producer on an international scale, and thank our
partners for their steadfast support for this major Australian project," she said in a statement.
While Hancock Prospecting has a half share in the Rio Tinto-operated Hope Downs iron ore mine,
Roy Hill will be its first majority owned and operated mine, a dream Mrs Rinehart's father Lang
Hancock originally aspired to.
Korea's Posco, Japan's Marubeni and Taiwan's China Steel Corporation have 30 per cent equity in
Roy Hill.
The US$7.2 billion debt package includes substantial support from Japan Bank for International
Cooperation, Korea Eximbank, Korea Trade Insurance Corporation, Nippon Export and Investment
Insurance and Export-Import Bank of the United States.

The Australian commercial banks involved are National Australia Bank, ANZ Banking Group,
Commonwealth Bank of Australia and Westpac.

Roy Hill's financial advisers were BNP Paribas and NAB. Latham and Watkins and Herbert Smith
Freehills provided legal counsel.
The finance deal comes as iron ore prices slump and follows numerous media coverage about
delays and feasibility concerns of attracting the debt.

It also marks more than a decade since the tenements for Roy Hill were acquired.

Western Australian Premier Colin Barnett welcomed the finance announcement and congratulatied
the parties involved.

Page262of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."Roy Hill's continued pursuit of this project represents a substantial vote of confidence in the future
of WA's resources sector," Mr Barnett said.
"This is great news for workers in mining and construction and shows there are still opportunities
out there despite recent reports of a slowing of growth."
Major subcontractor to Roy Hill, Samsung C&T has awarded more than $3.5 billion in contracts in
seven engineering, procurement and construction contracts and two design contracts.
Roy Hill has directly awarded more than $1.1 billion in contracts for airport, mine camp
accommodation and works at the mine.

hkpros : Hancock Prospecting Pty. Ltd.
i81402 : Commercial Banking | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i22 : Primary
Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i814 : Banking | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | ibnk :
Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | imet : Mining/Quarrying
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Business News Pty Ltd
Document WABN000020140321ea3l0002t

CO
IN

RE
PUB
AN

Page263of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.