APN to flex cash muscle in M &A

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
APN to flex cash muscle in M&A

Darren Davidson, Results
432 words
21 August 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
19
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

APN News & Media plans to pursue merger and acquisition opportunities in the media sector after
strengthening its balance sheet. It is confident revenues would continue to grow despite soft conditions
in the advertising market.
Chief executive Michael Miller revealed that the publishing, radio and outdoor advertising firm had the
flexibility to buy companies after it pushed back significant debt maturities until January 2018.

The company also refinanced debt facilities due to mature next year and 2016 with a new facility of
$630 million.
“We’re always open to M&A, not just divestments but also acquisitions,” Mr Miller told The Australian
after a busy year in which he restructured the company and took full control of its radio operations,
Hong Kong outdoor business and sold its half share in APN Outdoor.

“We anticipate there are a number of trade sales and IPO considerations in the market at the moment
and while we are not having discussions with any of them I think we will keep a close eye and see
whether there are opportunities for us.” APN lifted its half-year profit 77 per cent to $22.6m, with the
performance boosted by strong revenue from radio acquisitions.
The company bought full control of its Australian Radio Network and New Zealand’s The Radio
Network in February.

The ARN business achieved strong second quarter revenue growth after it improved audience share
following investments in KIIS 1065 and the Classic Hits Pure Gold network. High-rating breakfast duo
Kyle and Jackie O defected to KIIS from rival Southern Cross Austereo in January.
APN’s revenue from continued operations for the six months to June 30 was up 3 per cent to $405.9m.
Shares in APN fell 2.58 per cent, or 20 cents, to 76c, as investors remained bearish on publishing
assets.

Revenues in regional publishing declined 8 per cent to $99m, but Mr Miller said the operational
performance was stabilising. He added that the local advertising market response had recovered, with
national advertising demand the only missing piece in the puzzle. “What’s really encouraging is that
revenues from local advertisers are only down 2 per cent year-on- year so in terms of the local markets
it’s hitting the mark.”APN recently announced a printing facility sharing arrangement with Fairfax Media
and Mr Miller said he was having talks about similar deals with Fairfax and News Corp Australia. “We’re
having positive discussions on opportunities together on both sides of the Tasman,” he said.

CO
IN

prvnew : APN News & Media Ltd
i475 : Printing/Publishing | i4751 : Newspaper Publishing | imed : Media/Entertainment | ipubl :
Publishing

Page93of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE
PUB
AN

c18 : Ownership Changes | cacqu : Acquisitions | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140820ea8l0004j

Page94of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.