Dog, TV snatched

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Dog, TV snatched

Sarah Drake
503 words
22 April 2014
North West Star
FNWEST
4
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

Dog, TV snatched

on first date

A US woman has been reunited with her yorkshire terrier and flat- screen TV that were snatched
during her first date with a man she met online. The woman called New Jersey police early on
Saturday to say her dog, Violet, had been tied by its leash

to the TV, and both were left in the front yard of her Dover home, the Daily Record of Parsippany
reported. Violet appeared to be in good health. Authorities say the pair met on a dating site and went
out for the first time Thursday night. After

returning home, the woman said she became occupied in another room, leaving the man alone. When
she returned, he was gone - and so were her dog, valued at $US4000 ($4280), and her TV, worth
about $US3000.

Pain threshold

'decided by genes'

FOUR genes may help decide a person's pain threshold, research has shown. Scientists studied the
genes COMT, DRD2, DRD1, and OPRK1, in 2721 people diagnosed with chronic pain. Participants
rated their perception of pain as "low", "moderate" or

"high" on a scale from one to 10. One gene, DRD1, was 33 per cent more prevalent in the low pain
group than in the high pain group, the researchers found. DRD2 was 25 per cent more common
among those with high pain than those with moderate

pain."Our study is quite significant because it provides an objective way to understand pain and why
different individuals have different pain tolerance levels," said study leader Dr Tobore Onojjighofia,
from the US pain management company Proove

Biosciences. "Identifying whether a person has these four genes could help doctors better understand
a patient's perception of pain."

Cuba sells condoms

after expiration date
HOPING to resolve a shortage of condoms that has sparked complaints across Cuba, the island's
public health system has approved the sale of more than one million prophylactics with apparently
expired dates. Pharmacy sales personnel must explain

to the buyers that the condoms are good and simply have the wrong expiration dates, said a report on
Saturday in Vanguardia, the newspaper of the Communist Party in the central province of Villa Clara. A
Vanguardia report on April 3 said that the

Page94of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.government agency in charge of certifying medical items in 2012 had noticed erroneous expiration
dates on the 'Moments' prophylactics imported from China.

Teen survives

stowaway flight

THE FBI says a 16-year-old boy stowed away in the wheel well of a flight from California to Hawaii,
surviving the trip halfway across the Pacific Ocean unharmed despite frigid temperatures at 38,000 feet
and a lack of oxygen. An FBI spokesman

said the boy was questioned by the FBI after being discovered on the tarmac at the Maui airport with
no identification. He said the child had run away from his family. He said the boy would not be charged
and was referred to child protective

services.

RE
PUB
AN

queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FNWEST0020140421ea4m00006

Page95of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.