Data collection delays Coalition's farm register

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Data collection delays Coalition's farm register

Fleur Anderson
549 words
23 April 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
14
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The Abbott government's farm land register has been delayed because of technical difficulties in
collecting the information and concerns about the register's potential to fan anti-foreign investment
sentiment during sensitive trade talks with China.

The Coalition promised in the 2013 election to introduce a register of foreign ownership of rural land,
along with lower thresholds for Foreign Investment Review Board scrutiny of foreign acquisitions of
farm land and agribusinesses.

Government sources expect the new regulations setting out the Coalition's $15 million Foreign
Investment Review Board approval threshold for agricultural land purchases, and $53 million for
agribusiness could be announced within weeks, as early as the end of the financial year.

But the land register, first proposed by former prime minister Julia Gillard in 2012 and championed by
the National Farmer' Federation and rural Coalition MPs, has proved problematic.

A spokesperson for Treasurer Joe Hockey said: "We are working on the detail to establish an
agricultural land register and there will be an announcement in due course".

Treasury is still grappling with how to define a "foreign person", because the Foreign Investment
Review Board definition of foreign person is so broad that even businesses, or trusts, that are majority
Australian owned could be classed as a foreign person.

Foreign investment experts familiar with Treasury's deliberations said there was the risk that making
the definition too broad, giving a misleading impression of foreign ownership in Australia, could
encourage a xenophobic reaction in some sections of the community.
The government is also cognisant that, amid controversy over Chinese investors buying up
residential properties in the metropolitan cities, there is also a government inquiry into foreign
investment in residential property due to report at the end of the year. One option is to have the
register administered by the Department of Trade and Foreign Affairs, under Trade minister Andrew
Robb, instead of the Australian Bureau of Statistics which currently collects patchy and irregular
surveys of foreign investment.

The register will not be entirely transparent; the database is unlikely to be "searchable" by individual
investors to preserve commercial confidentiality and individual privacy.

There will be disclosure by country of origin, but it is likely to be an annual or semi-annual ranking,
rather than a week-by-week update of land sales.

The most recent Australian Bureau of Statistics figures showed 89 per cent of agricultural land as
entirely Australian owned, a further 5.5 per cent at least 50 per cent Australian owned.

Page41of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Complicating matters, Queensland already has its own foreign-owned agricultural land register and the
Treasury is struggling to merge the data from Queensland and the other state and territory land titles
offices into a single coherent database.

An Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics and Sciences' report in 2012 found
1 per cent of agricultural businesses by number, 11.3 per cent of farmland and 9 per cent of water
entitlements have some foreign ownership. That report found foreigners own 50 per cent of wheat
exporters; 50 per cent of milk processing; 60 per cent of raw sugar milling; and 40 per cent of beef
production. It said Australia was 10th most restrictive for foreign direct investment in agriculture out of
34 OECD members.

CO
RE
PUB
AN

aubos : Australian Bureau of Statistics
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140422ea4n0000i

Page42of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.