Media Release: The Executive Centre

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Media Release: The Executive Centre

697 words
5 June 2014
AAP MediaNet Press Releases
AAPMPR
English
© 2014 Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

AAPMEDIA RELEASE PR56963 The Executive Centre Opens New Centre in Gurgaon at One Horizon
Center

GURGAON, India, Jun, 5, 2014 /PRNewswire-AsiaNet/ --

The Executive Centre, Asia Pacific's leading premium serviced office provider, is pleased to announce
the opening of its new centre on Level 18, One Horizon Center in DLF Phase V, Gurgaon. The flagship
centre is a deserving addition to The Executive Centre's extensive network in 20 cities across 10
countries.

The Executive Centre -- renowned for its premium fit-outs, client-oriented services and state-of-the-art
infrastructure -- has been operating a stellar serviced office centre at DLF Cyber City in Gurgaon since
2011. Witnessing the robust market demand, The Executive Centre has decided to launch its second
centre in this rapidly growing city.
Rising majestically 25 stories above the 11-acre site across the Arnold Palmer-designed DLF Golf &
Country Club, One Horizon Center is surrounded by everything a business desires. Fortune 500
headquarters, fashionable residences, sleek shopping malls, stylish restaurants, and luxury hotels are all
within walking distance. Developed by international real estate firm Hines and India's DLF Ltd, its
architecture is both grand and elegant. The infrastructure and safety systems are up to international
standard. Sustainable elements, like dual-pane high-performance glass, CO2 sensors, and external
AHUs with UV filtration have been incorporated into every design detail. One Horizon Centre is destined
to become the centre of gravity for business.

Inheriting The Executive Centre's tradition of providing premium and professional working environment,
the opulent office space is graced with state-of-the-art technology and refined office fit-outs. Professional
and dedicated on-site management teams are ready to offer immediate assistance to meet clients'
workplace needs. The open-plan offices can be malleably adjusted to maximise versatility for businesses
in different sizes and scales. The centre also provides virtual offices, meeting rooms, video conferencing
facilities and a wide range of business concierge services.
According to the recent market report released, Gurgaon saw stable office leasing transaction activity
during the first quarter of 2014. Fuelled by persistent demand from IT/ITeS firms, rental values in DLF
Cyber City appreciated by around 3-4% in selected IT developments. In addition, rental values also
increased by around 5-6% for commercial developments along Golf Course Road on a q-o-q basis.[1]

"With an astounding response both from the market and partners in Gurgaon, our new location at One
Horizon Center Gurgaon is set to have a steadfast and promising start. The Executive Centre is
committed to managing and exceeding client's expectation and looks forward to cementing its positioning
as the premium serviced office provider in the region as well," commented Rajat Kapur, City Head of
Gurgaon, The Executive Centre.

"The Executive Centre is optimistic in its business growth in India. In the first half of 2014, we have
confirmed the launch of One Horizon Center in Gurgaon and Tamarai Tech Park in Chennai. Projects in
Pune and Hyderabad are also on the way. Gurgaon has witnessed major net absorption of nearly 1
million sq ft pre-committed in the first quarter of 2014 already by IT-ITeS (Information technology enabled
services) and BFSI (banking, financial services and insurance) occupiers. We are confident that our new

Page201of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Gurgaon centre can benefit from the boom of the office market," commented Nidhi Marwah, Country
Head of India, The Executive Centre.

About The Executive Centre

The Executive Centre is the leading premium serviced office provider in Asia Pacific with 61 offices in 20
cities. Founded in 1994, it operates in Hong Kong, Beijing, Chengdu, Guangzhou, Shanghai, Shenzhen,
Tianjin, Macau, Bangalore, Chennai, Gurgaon, Mumbai, Jakarta, Tokyo, Seoul, Singapore, Taipei,
Brisbane, Perth and Sydney. The Executive Centre provides serviced offices, virtual office representation
services, meeting and conference facilities, and business concierge services to multinational
corporations, small and medium enterprises, and start-ups locally, regionally and internationally. Please
visit our Web site at http://www.executivecentre.com/

[1] India Office Market Review Q1 2014, CBRE

CONTACT:

Gigi Liu

Communications Director

The Executive Centre

T: +852-2297-2483

E: gigi_liu@executivecentre.com

SOURCE: The Executive Centre

IN

NS

RE

i8500021 : Office Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icireal : Commercial/Industrial Real
Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest : Real Estate
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | npress : Press Releases | cprdop : Facility Openings | c24 :
Capacity/Facilities | ncat : Content Types
india : India | austr : Australia | harya : Haryana | tamil : Tamil Nadu | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | indsubz : Indian Subcontinent | sasiaz : Southern Asia

PUB Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd
AN

Document AAPMPR0020140605ea65000jh

Page202of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.