Rinehart moves into baby-food market

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Rinehart moves into baby-food market

David Stringer and Stephen Engle
872 words
15 November 2014
The New Zealand Herald
NZHLD
B015
English
(c) 2014 The New Zealand Herald

Mining billionaire aims to have 16,000 cows producing formula for China’s infants
Gina Rinehart, the Australian billionaire who built her fortune on iron ore, is planning a A$500
million ($553 million) investment to supply infant formula to a Chinese market forecast to almost
double over three years.

Hope Dairies, controlled by Rinehart’s closely held Hancock Prospecting, is seeking to acquire
about 5000 ha of farmland in Queensland, and is aiming to start production in the second half of
2016, according to co-investor and director Dave Garcia.
Other Australian miners, including Fortescue Metals Group’s founder, have been expand into food
production to tap rising demand from Asia’s middle classes.

The move positions Rinehart, the richest woman in Asia, to compete in an infant formula market in
China forecast to swell after the world’s most populous nation loosened its one-child policy last year.
“There’s another 50 million mouths probably coming online,” Garcia said.

Hope Dairies, named after Rinehart’s mother, is seeking pasture in Queensland’s South Burnett
region and a processing facility in Mary Valley. The dairy farm, planned to be among Australia’s
biggest, may produce as much as 30,000 tonnes of formula a year, Garcia said. It will also supply
UHT milk.
All the output is intended to be exported to China and the company will have investment partners
including a Chinese entity, said Jason Morrison, a spokesman for Rinehart’s Hancock Prospecting.

Morrison said Hope Dairies would be 70 per cent owned by Rinehart, but declined to name the
Chinese partner before an official announcement scheduled for today.
A free-trade deal with China, expected to boost dairy exports, may be signed next week, Australia’s
Prime Minister Tony Abbott said this week.

“There is an enormous opportunity for the processors here,” said Michael Harvey, a Melbourne
analyst at Rabobank International. “Overseas markets for infant formula are growing rapidly and
China is the standout because of the size of the population and the birthrate they have.”
The market in China for infant formula could grow to $33 billion by 2017 from about $18 billion
now, according to Fonterra Co-operative Group, the world’s biggest dairy exporter.

Rinehart’s planned operation would employ about 400 people and produce about 70 to 75 per cent
of its own milk from a herd of about 16,000 Holstein cattle, Garcia said.
In May, China tightened standards on imported formula after concerns over contamination. Fonterra
had exports of two products suspended for 15 months from August last year after a botulism scare
that was later proved to be a false alarm. In 2008, Chinese-made milk powder contaminated with
the chemical melamine killed at least six infants in China.

Page105of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Rinehart’s dairy will seek to use labelling that would enable customers to check the specific animals
that produced milk used to create each package of powder, Garcia said.
Demand in China could rise further as the birthrate increases by two million a year because of the
easing of the one-child policy, according to the country’s National Health and Family Planning
Commission.

Urbanisation could also bolster demand for formula, as the World Health Organisation says mothers
in towns and cities are less likely to breastfeed than women in rural areas.
Australia’s Trade Minister, Andrew Robb, told a dairy conference in September that the country had
to seize on a chance to feed Asia’s expanding middle class.

“The opportunities are immense and they are once in a lifetime, almost once in a millennium,” Robb
said. “We have to position ourselves.”

Rinehart, Hancock Prospecting’s chairman, has long ties to agriculture and spent part of her
childhood on the Mulga Downs station in Western Australia.

Her father Lang Hancock’s discoveries of iron ore in the state from the 1950s spurred the nation to
become the world’s biggest exporter of the steelmaking ingredient and helped make his daughter the
country’s richest person.

In July, she bought a 50 per cent share in two cattle ranches in Western Australia’s West Kimberley.
Andrew Forrest, the billionaire founder of iron ore producer Fortescue Metals in May acquired
Harvey Beef, Western Australia’s only licensed beef exporter to China.
Rio Tinto Group, Rinehart’s partner in the Hope Downs iron ore mine, is one of Australia’s biggest
cattle ranchers.
Milk producers are also expanding exports. Norco Co-operative is to more than double fresh milk
sales to China and Bega Cheese has struck a distribution deal to supply UHT milk.
Expansion by domestic infant formula producers in China risks moving the market into oversupply,
UBS analysts led by Christine Peng wrote in a June note.
Total consumption in China could peak in 2018, Macquarie Group has forecast.
But exports of whole milk powder, which includes infant formula, from Australia to China almost
tripled to 17,592 tonnes in the 12 months to July last year compared to the previous year, according
to industry researcher Dairy Australia.
Australia is the world’s third-largest whole milk powder exporter, and produces at least 70,000
tonnes of formula a year.

Bloomberg

RF
CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Rinehart15
ambol : Fortescue Metals Group Ltd | hkpros : Hancock Prospecting Pty. Ltd.
i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 :
Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i413 : Dairy
Products | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
c21 : Output/Production | reqrfb : Suggested Reading Food/Beverages/Tobacco | reqrmm :
Suggested Reading Metals/Mining | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | redit : Selection of Top
Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | china : China | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
W & H Newspapers Limited
Document NZHLD00020141114eabf0002d

Page106of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.