Payment to chief a Hong Kong twist; $6.4 million from firm involved with city raises new questions for Leung

SE
HD

BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

news
Payment to chief a Hong Kong twist; $6.4 million from firm involved with city raises new
questions for Leung
By MICHAEL FORSYTHE
1,036 words
11 October 2014
International New York Times
INHT
3
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.

An Australian engineering company that paid Hong Kong’s leader millions of dollars holds a long-term
contract with the city’s subway system, raising questions of whether the payment represented a conflict
of interest for the embattled politician.
The contract held by the Australian company, UGL, to maintain the city’s trains, is one element of the
extensive connections between UGL and MTR Corporation, the company majority-owned by the
government that runs the subways, according to corporate records and public statements by the
companies and an interview with an MTR official.

Those connections raise further questions about Hong Kong’s chief executive, Leung Chun-ying, who
is already facing street demonstrations demanding his ouster over his support for Beijing-mandated
election rules, which protesters say will allow China’s Communist Party to control elections for chief
executive.
UGL paid Mr. Leung $6.4 million as part of its purchase of a company where Mr. Leung was an
executive before he was named to lead the Hong Kong government. The money was paid over two
years while Mr. Leung was in office.

Since the payments were reported by a Sydney, Australia, newspaper this past week, Mr. Leung’s
political opponents have demanded his impeachment, accusing him of official misconduct for accepting
the money and failing to disclose it.

Mr. Leung, who has denied wrongdoing in connection with the payments, did not reply to an emailed list
of questions on Friday about his relationship with UGL and the subway company.
UGL has a longstanding contract, worth approximately $41.9 million, to provide maintenance services
for 120 of MTR’s train cars.

The city government appoints the chairman and two other members of the 14-member MTR board.
May Wong, a spokeswoman for MTR, said that the company had not awarded any new contracts for
UGL since Mr. Leung took office on July 1, 2012. She said the Hong Kong government has no say over
the company’s awarding of contracts, which are evaluated by the board without its knowing the names
of the bidders.

‘‘We run very independently,’’ she said. ‘‘We look at every business individually, on their merits.’’
Informed about UGL’s subway contract, Albert Ho, a lawyer and the former chairman of Hong Kong’s
Democratic Party, said it was a clear conflict of interest for Mr. Leung, whom he referred to by the initials
of his given name.

‘‘There is every reason for UGL to give favor to C.Y. in return for his facilitating business connections,’’
Mr. Ho said. ‘‘His way of doing things has created lots of perception problems, conflicts of interests, that

Page155of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.he has double loyalties — to the people of Hong Kong whom he is supposed to serve, and to a
corporation that has active business in Hong Kong.’’

In addition to the payments, the connections among UGL, the subway agency and Mr. Leung may come
under scrutiny.

The chairman of MTR is Raymond Ch’ien, who is also a board member at UGL.

Mr. Leung’s government reappointed Mr. Ch’ien in October 2012 for his fourth three-year term as MTR’s
chairman, a month after he became a director at UGL. He has been MTR’s chairman since 2003.

Ms. Wong said that said MTR requires its officers to disclose conflicts of interest. But, she said, Mr.
Chi’en has not signed off on any contracts with UGL since he became a director there.

The documents reviewed and experts consulted for this article did not suggest that Mr. Leung or Mr.
Chi’en had violated any laws.
However, David Webb, an expert on corporate governance in Hong Kong, said that Mr. Chi’en’s
relationships with MTR and UGL, as well as the government’s reappointment of him to head MTR while
he was on the UGL board, were improper.

‘‘It’s highly inappropriate for the government-appointed chairman of the MTR to also be sitting on the
board of one of its suppliers and joint venture partners,’’ he said. ‘‘It certainly can’t be unhelpful to UGL
to have one of their directors reappointed as chairman of MTR given their extensive business
relationships.’’

Mr. Ch’ien, who is to step down from UGL’s board at the end of this month, served with Mr. Leung from
1997 to 2002 on Hong Kong’s executive council, a body of advisers to the chief executive.

In addition to his administration’s appointment of Mr. Chi’en, Mr. Leung named two other directors to
MTR, a company 77 percent owned by Hong Kong’s government.

MTR and UGL also do other business together. The two companies jointly run Melbourne’s train system
along with another Australian investor. MTR and UGL also entered into a joint venture this year to build
tunnels, trains and signaling systems for a rail project in Sydney.
Mr. Leung’s failure to disclose the payments from UGL has been referred to Hong Kong’s
anticorruption agency for investigation.

Richard Leupen, UGL’s chief executive, did not return a call made to his mobile phone after normal
working hours on Friday. The company’s spokesman also did not return repeated calls requesting
comment.

The accusations over the UGL payment come as Mr. Leung has grappled with the city’s deepest
political crisis since Britain returned it to Chinese rule in 1997.

Tens of thousands of protesters have taken over parts of the city and disrupted life here for two weeks
to oppose rules set by China to elect the chief executive. Mr. Leung’s support for those rules, which
protesters see as favoring the wishes of Beijing over the rights of Hong Kong’s citizens, has made him
a target of the protests.

On Thursday, Mr. Leung addressed the UGL payments first in a statement to the Sydney Morning
Herald, saying that the payments were agreed on before he was elected and that there was no
requirement for him to disclose them.

In a second statement, his office described the payments as part of ‘‘a standard non-poach,
noncompete arrangement.’’

CO
IN

NS
RE

mtrc : MTR Corporation Ltd
i721 : Urban/Commuter Transit | i72101 : Urban Mass Transit Systems | irailtr : Road/Rail Transport |
itsp : Transportation/Shipping
gpol : Domestic Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations
hkong : Hong Kong | china : China | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New
South Wales

Page156of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

International Herald Tribune
Document INHT000020141010eaab0006p

Page157of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.