Trade mark protection in China : Key considerations for Australian businesses

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Trade mark protection in China: Key considerations for Australian businesses

Stuart Green
813 words
24 January 2014
Mondaq Business Briefing
BBPUB
English
(c) 2014 Mondaq Ltd

Brand protection in the People's Republic of
China forAustralian businesses Services:
Commercial, Intellectual Property & Technology
Industry Focus:
Energy, Resources & Infrastructure, Financial Services, Medical &
Pharmaceutical, Property, Insurance

As Australia's largest trading partner, the importance of the People's Republic of China to the Australian
economy is beyond dispute. Yet despite this clear reality and an eagerness on the part of Australian
business to engage with China, many Australian businesses fail to take the basic and essential steps
required to protect their trade mark rights in China.

This article identifies the key branding considerations for Australian companies engaged, or intending to
engage, in business with China.

Know your limits

One of the more frequent mistakes made by Australian trade mark owners is to assume that their
Australian trade mark registration provides a monopoly to use of that trade mark around the world.

Registration of a trade mark in Australia only grants the owner of a trade mark a monopoly to use that
trade mark in relation to the goods and services listed in the trade mark specification in Australia.
Accordingly, if goods are manufactured or sold, or services provided, under a trade mark applied in
China, Australian businesses should seek trade mark protection in China.

Act early
China is a first to register jurisdiction so seek registration as early as possible.
Given that it can take years to obtain a trade mark registration in China, it is crucial that Australian
businesses that manufacture or sell goods in China, apply to register their trade marks in China at the
earliest possible opportunity - ideally, prior to commencing trade.

Beyond English

As some of the world's most well-known brands have discovered, the consequences of failing to attain
Chinese trade mark protection can be significant and costly. Not only could a business' entire
manufacturing and supply chain be disrupted, but a business could be prevented from using its trade
mark in China.
Should a third party obtain registration of the trade mark in China, the owner of the Chinese trade mark
registration could request that Chinese customs authorities seize and detain branded goods that infringe
their trade mark, preventing their import or export.
Australian businesses should also consider seeking trade mark registration in Chinese characters. Many
Australian businesses assume that the trade marks that should be protected in China should be the
same (being in English) as those marks protected in Australia.

Page242of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.While in some cases seeking protection in English will be the logical way to proceed if the business is
manufacturing in China and importing goods back to Australia, if the intention is to sell to Chinese
consumers, then seeking protection for a badge of origin directed towards a Chinese audience is likely
to be more productive than seeking protection in English.
Although there are a number of different approaches to formulating a trade mark in Chinese characters,
the most common methods include:
transcribing the Chinese characters according to the English pronunciation of the relevant trade mark

translating the meaning of the relevant trade mark or providing a favourable meaning that consumers will
ascribe to the goods/services provided by the Australian business, or

combining the two methods to develop a wholly unique identity.
Experience has established that if the owner of a product or service does not provide a Chinese name
for the trade mark, Chinese consumers and the Chinese market will allocate a name to the goods. If this
is allowed to occur, a business may lose control over the allocated name given it did not formulate it.
To avoid missing out on the significant growth and emerging spending power of the Chinese middle
classes, Australian businesses should also consider whether products, marketing and advertising
literature is appropriately labelled so as to be understood by Chinese consumers.
For instance, the quality of Australian wine is especially well-regarded in China which has led to many
Australian wine producers targeting Chinese consumers by including dual English/Chinese labelling on
the wines exported to China.
With the advent of China's revised Trade Mark Law scheduled to come into force in May 2014, if your
company is already engaged or is soon to be engaged with China and has yet to seek protection in the
People's Republic, 2014 is the year to consider protecting your trade marks in China.

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice
should be sought about your specific circumstances.

Mr Stuart Green

DibbsBarker

Level 8 Angel Place

123 Pitt Street

Sydney

2000

AUSTRALIA

Tel: 282339500

Fax: 282339555

E-mail: dora.antoniou@dibbsbarker.com
URL: www.dibbsbarker.com/site/Home/Industry_Focus.aspx

Click Here for related articles

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2014 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com

IN
NS

ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cbrand : Branding | cgymtr : Intellectual Property | cinprp : Industrial
Property Rights (Patents/Trademarks) | ctmark : Trademarks | csmlbs : Small Business/Entrepreneurs |
reqrbc : Suggested Reading Banking/Credit | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c31 : Marketing | ncat
: Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News

Page243of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Finance and Banking

IPD
PUB Mondaq Limited
AN

Document BBPUB00020140124ea1o00031

Page244of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.