News Highlights: Top M &A Stories Of The Day

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

News Highlights: Top M&A Stories Of The Day

1,350 words
10 March 2014
20:40
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

Malaysia's IHH Mulls Bid for Australia's
Healthscope

Malaysia's IHH Healthcare Bhd. is considering a bid for Australia's Healthscope, a hospital and
pathology company put on the block by private-equity owners TPG Capital and Carlyle Group LP in a
deal that could be worth $5 billion, people familiar with the matter said.

Deal Gives Safeway Scope to Think Big, Act Locally
Safeway Inc.'s $9.4 billion sale to the owner of rival supermarket operator Albertsons means that, after
years of shrinking, it will be part of something much bigger. But the merger's success will hinge partly
on whether Safeway can operate more like a local grocer.
Hochtief Bids A$1.16 Billion for Bigger Leighton Stake
Germany's Hochtief AG (HOT.XE) moved to tighten its grip on Leighton Holdings Ltd. (LEI.AU) on
Monday, saying it will offer 1.16 billion Australian dollars (US$1.05 billion) to increase its controlling
stake in Australia's biggest construction company.

Fruit Companies Fyffes, Chiquita Agree to $1.07B Merger
Fruit companies Fyffes PLC (FFY.DB) and Chiquita Brands International Inc. (CQB.LN) said Monday
they have agreed to combine in an all-stock transaction worth about $1.07 billion.
Unilever Invests in Chinese Water-Purification With Buy of Majority Stake in
Qinyuan Group
Unilever PLC bought a majority stake in Chinese water-purification company Qinyuan Group Co.,
marking its first acquisition in China in a decade and a strategic move into a market with high demand
for clean water.

Iliad-
Bouygues Deal Could Speed Up Antitrust Review -Report
Bouygues SA (EN.FR) selling much of its mobile-network infrastructure and radio spectrum Iliad SA
(ILD.FR) could make for a speedier and simpler antitrust review of Bouygues's bid to buy rival SFR, the
head of France' competition authority said in an interview Monday.
Imerys Drops From Bidding Race for AMCOL
France's Imerys (NK.FR) has given up bidding for U.S. minerals and materials company AMCOL
(ACO), refusing to raise its offer after rival Minerals Technologies (MTX) made a higher offer on Friday.
11 Mar 2014 06:39 EDT News Highlights: Top M&A Stories Of The Day

Page96of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Sprint Chairman Says He Wants to Buy T-Mobile
Sprint Corp. Chairman Masayoshi Son said in a television interview Monday that he would like to buy
smaller rival T-Mobile US Inc., confirming his interest in a deal that would combine the country's No. 3
and No. 4 wireless companies and likely face heavy scrutiny from regulators.

Chiquita, Fyffes Agree to $1.07
Billion Merger Deal -- 5th Update
Chiquita Brands International Inc. agreed to merge with Irish tropical-fruit companyFyffes PLC to
create the world's largest banana company, catapulting it past Dole Food Co.

BHP Seeking to Sell West Africa
Iron-Ore Assets
BHP Billiton Ltd., the world's third-biggest iron-ore producer by volume, is continuing efforts to sell its
West African iron-ore exploration assets, a company executive said Tuesday.

Swatch Sells Oscilloquartz Unit To
ADVA Optical Networking

Swatch Group AG (UHR.VX) Tuesday said it was selling an electronics unit to a German
telecommunications company for an undisclosed sum.

Chobani Considering
Sale of Roughly 20% Stake -Reuters
Chobani Inc. is considering selling a roughly 20% stake in a transaction that could value the yogurt
company at about $2.5 billion, Reuters reported Monday, citing people familiar with the matter.

US Defends Settlement In Air Deal
The Justice Department offered a lengthy defense of its antitrust settlement allowing the merger of
AMR Corp. and US Airways Group Inc., calling the agreement a "major victory for American
consumers."
11 Mar 2014 09:45 EDT News Highlights: Top M&A Stories Of The Day

Sprint Chairman Says He Wants to Buy T-Mobile
Sprint Corp. Chairman Masayoshi Son said in a television interview Monday that he would like to buy
smaller rival T-Mobile US Inc., confirming his interest in a deal that would combine the country's No. 3
and No. 4 wireless companies and likely face heavy scrutiny from regulators.

Chiquita, Fyffes Agree to $1.07
Billion Merger Deal -- 5th Update
Chiquita Brands International Inc. agreed to merge with Irish tropical-fruit companyFyffes PLC to
create the world's largest banana company, catapulting it past Dole Food Co.

Alibaba to Spend $805
Million for 60% Stake in ChinaVision Media
China's Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. has agreed to spend HK$6.24 billion (US$805 million) to buy a
60% stake in ChinaVision Media Group Ltd., a television and film production firm, as the e-commerce
giant keeps up its acquisition spree amid fierce competition from rival Internet firms.

Page97of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.BHP Seeking to Sell West Africa
Iron-Ore Assets
BHP Billiton Ltd., the world's third-biggest iron-ore producer by volume, is continuing efforts to sell its
West African iron-ore exploration assets, a company executive said Tuesday.

Swatch Sells Oscilloquartz Unit To
ADVA Optical Networking

Swatch Group AG (UHR.VX) Tuesday said it was selling an electronics unit to a German
telecommunications company for an undisclosed sum.

Chobani Considering
Sale of Roughly 20% Stake -Reuters
Chobani Inc. is considering selling a roughly 20% stake in a transaction that could value the yogurt
company at about $2.5 billion, Reuters reported Monday, citing people familiar with the matter.

US Defends Settlement In Air Deal
The Justice Department offered a lengthy defense of its antitrust settlement allowing the merger of
AMR Corp. and US Airways Group Inc., calling the agreement a "major victory for American
consumers."
12 Mar 2014 06:10 EDT News Highlights: Top M&A Stories Of The Day

French Govt Sells 2.5% in Valeo for EUR200M, Keeps 3.3%
Stake
The French government Wednesday said it sold a 2.5% stake in the French auto part maker Valeo
(FR.FR) for 200 million euros ($276 million) as part of its plan to raise cash from minority stakes it
holds in listed companies to invest in projects boosting economic growth.
12 Mar 2014 09:37 EDT News Highlights: Top M&A Stories Of The Day

French Govt Sells 2.5% in Valeo for EUR200M, Keeps 3.3%
Stake
The French government Wednesday said it sold a 2.5% stake in the French auto part maker Valeo
(FR.FR) for 200 million euros ($276 million) as part of its plan to raise cash from minority stakes it
holds in listed companies to invest in projects boosting economic growth.

Norwegian Air May Buy Another Carrier If Denied U.S. Permit
Norwegian Air Shuttle ASA Chief Executive Bjorn Kjos said the budget-minded airline will buy another
European carrier with a U.S. foreign-carrier permit to secure its trans-Atlantic expansion plans if its own
request for such a permit is rejected.
Campari Acquires Canadian Whisky Maker for C$185.6 Mln
Davide Campari-Milano S.p.A. Wednesday agreed to acquire Forty Creek Distillery Ltd. for 185.6
million Canadian dollars ($167.2 million) to take advantage of the growing popularity of Canadian
whisky.
13 Mar 2014 06:12 EDT News Highlights: Top M&A Stories Of The Day

Shell Sets Plan to Boost Returns
Royal Dutch Shell PLC said Thursday it would separate some of its Americas downstream businesses
and sell non-strategic positions, as well as cut spending in its Americas upstream business by 20% this
year, in a bid to improve returns.

Page98of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Hochtief Resisted Pressure to Bid for All of Leighton
As talks to decide the fate of Leighton Holdings Ltd. on Wednesday ran past midnight, Germany's
Hochtief AG came under pressure to bid for all of Australia's biggest construction company and end
years of boardroom infighting.
Bouygues Raises Bid for Vivendi's SFR Unit
Bouygues SA (EN.FR) has raised its bid for Vivendi SA's (VIV.FR) telecom unit SFR, a spokesman for
the company said Thursday, confirming several earlier press reports.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

March 13, 2014 06:12 ET (10:12 GMT)

CO

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

crlylg : The Carlyle Group | hesco : Healthscope Ltd | ihhbhd : Integrated Healthcare Holdings Sdn Bhd
| sfwfs : Safeway Inc | tpgpar : TPG, Inc. | bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC | khzinv :
Khazanah Nasional Berhad
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i641 : Food Retailing | i6411 : Supermarkets/Grocery
Stores | i654 : Specialty Stores | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150203 : Private Equity |
i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences | i95107 : Hospital Care | ialtinv : Alternative Investments | ibasicm :
Basic Materials/Resources | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | imet :
Mining/Quarrying | iphhp : Healthcare Provision | iretail : Retail
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c34 : Anti-Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial
News | ncdig : Corporate Digests | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset
Class News | nhhour : Headlines of the Hour | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions |
ncat : Content Types | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter | ntop : Top Wire News | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis
austr : Australia | malay : Malaysia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document DJDN000020140310ea3a000yj

Page99of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.