‘Neighbourhood’ vision for city tower

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CommercialProperty
‘Neighbourhood’ vision for city tower

GREG BROWN, APARTMENTS
460 words
8 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
38
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

CHINESE-backed developer Vision Investment Group is eyeing a billion-dollar-plus luxury
apartment and hotel project with Richard Gu’s AXF Group after agreeing to buy a Sydney CBD
office tower for $156 million.
VIG yesterday entered into an agreement with GDI Property Group to buy 233 Castlereagh Street,
which has long been flagged as a residential and hotel conversion. The deal is expected to settle in
September next year.

It is likely to be part of an overhaul of the entire block bounded by Castlereagh, Pitt, Bathurst and
Liverpool streets.
In a separate deal, an entity associated with China Investment Options is circling 338 Pitt Street for
about $105m with apartment and hotel development plans.
VIG chief executive Michael Guo said the group aimed to build apartments, a hotel and retail space
on the 233 Castlereagh Street site. “We would like to bring an exciting and innovative product to the
people of Sydney,” Mr Guo said.

“We want to build a standard of apartments that have never been seen or experienced (in Sydney)
before. (Sydneysiders) may have seen it or admired it in other global cities and hopefully with this
(project) it will put Sydney on the very top of the ladder.” He confirmed that the group was in
discussions with AXF Group to jointly develop a larger site in Castlereagh Street.
AXF Group bought the adjoining building, at 241 Castlereagh Street, from Sydney lawyer John
Landerer in June. AXF is also running the ruler over the adjacent Anzac House building, at 245
Castlereagh Street, which houses the NSW branch of the Returned Services League Australia,
although Mr Guo and Mr Gu would not comment on this.
The site spanning the three office buildings is about 3500sq m. It is thought that the developers aim
to build a residential tower taller than the 235m-high Greenland Centre on Bathurst Street.
Mr Guo would not be drawn on specific plans but emphasised that it would be luxurious. The group
will aim to include ample shopping and restaurant choices in the project.

“It will be like a neighbourhood that enriches people’s lifestyle and gives people enjoyment, and puts
a smile on their face,” Mr Guo said.
The 233 Castlereagh Street sale was brokered by Knight Frank senior director John Bowie Wilson in
an off-market transaction.
“We are seeing continuing demand from offshore Asian groups to buy office buildings with
residential development potential,” Mr Bowie Wilson said.

Page40of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“The southern end of the CBD presents some of the better opportunities given the height limit and
floor space ratio opportunities.”GDI managing director Steve Gillard said the group would use the
funds from the sale to hunt for another office building.

gdpgpl : GDI Property Group Ltd.
i5010022 : Residential Building Construction | i501 : Building Construction | iconst : Construction | icre
: Real Estate/Construction | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150206 : Investment
Trusts/Funds | i815020602 : Real Estate Investment Trusts | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv :
Investing/Securities | ireest : Real Estate
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141107eab80005m

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

Page41of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.