Big miners offer safest bet

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Smart Money
Big miners offer safest bet

Michael Hobbs
525 words
3 January 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
22
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Lingering uncertainty about demand weighed down resources for most of 2013 and, despite
sentiment swinging the other way in the latter half, experts are still warning investors to be wary and
target large diversified operators over smaller, single-commodity companies.
A refreshed political regime in China unsettled equity markets last year as analysts queried whether
the ambitious growth plans of the previous leaders would be sustained. This was coupled with big
write-downs across the market as commodity prices in gold, thermal and metallurgical coal and
resources stocks were highly volatile for most of 2013.

A stronger than expected iron ore price and successful efforts to trim debt and costs by all resources
companies, saw sentiment turn towards the end of the year.

The short-term outlook, according to the two largest resources companies in the world, BHP Billiton
and Rio Tinto, is volatile but the long-term fundamentals – ongoing emerging market growth fuelling
demand for commodities – remain intact.

Deutsche Bank equities strategist Tim Baker says the group is overweight resources and
underweight the big banks based on valuations.
Deutsche prefers the large-scale stocks including BHP and Rio, given their lower-cost operations
and diversification, he says.
"They are cheaper than they appear if the iron ore price continues to hold up a bit better. So I think
there's too much nervousness out there."Index falls along with gold price
The S&P/ASX 300 Metals & Mining Index fell from slightly over 3500 to below 2700 between the
start of the year and June as the gold price fell.
But the index, which includes Sandfire Resources, Bluescope Steel, Alacer Gold and PanAust as
well as the larger companies, rebounded from its June low by 16 per cent in mid-December last year.

Equities researcher Morningstar recommends larger, more diversified operators such as BHP, Rio
and Woodside Petroleum for value.

"Commodity prices can be extremely volatile so investors should focus portfolios on miners with
sustainable competitive advantages [such as] low-cost and long-life [assets] and the ability to
generate good returns in almost any metal price environment," Morningstar sector head of basic
materials and energy Mathew Hodge says.
"This is particularly relevant for miners most leveraged to the Chinese fixed-asset investment boom
such as those which produce iron ore and metallurgical coal," he adds.

Page74of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.This comes after a flurry of downgrades, senior executive changes and stringent cost and debt
cutting.
Rio Tinto jolted the market last January with a shocking $US14 billion write-down on its aluminium
and Mozambique coal assets and, as a result, announced the departure of then-chief executive Tom
Albanese.

A month later, BHP Billiton announced Andrew Mackenzie would succeed Marius Kloppers as chief
executive.

There would be a greater focus on working assets harder and selling non-core assets.

Hodge says this ongoing focus on cost-cutting and capital control has been positive for restricting
supply and maximising returns from existing assets.

"There is room for optimism with miners de-emphasising the unhealthy growth fetish and increasing
the focus on returning cash to shareholders."

Michael Hobbs

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i22472 : Precious Metals | i22 : Primary Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying
gpersf : Personal Finance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | givcm : Personal Investments in
Commodities | gcat : Political/General News | gpersi : Personal Investments
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140102ea130001o

Page75of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.