Rollins, Inc. Rollins, Inc. Signs To Acquire Australian Based Allpest

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Rollins, Inc. Rollins, Inc. Signs To Acquire Australian Based Allpest

446 words
4 February 2014
China Weekly News
CHWKNW
196
English
© Copyright 2014 Chemicals & Chemistry via NewsRx.com

2014 FEB 4 (VerticalNews) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at China Weekly News -- Rollins,
Inc. (NYSE: ROL), a premier global consumer and commercial services company, announced that it has
signed a definitive purchase agreement to acquire the assets and operations of Allpest WA, the leading
independent pest control provider in Western Australia. The acquisition is expected to close in February,
and this is Rollins' first business venture in Australia.

Established in 1959 and headquartered in Perth, Australia, Allpest recorded revenues of approximately
US $25 million for 2013. Allpest has been recognized as Western Australia's Pest Manager of the Year
for the past two consecutive years. The company has strong brand recognition and is well positioned for
organic growth and expansion into Asia-Pacific and other growth areas. In addition to traditional
residential, commercial and termite service offerings, Allpest provides consulting services around the
globe on pre-border protection of Australia's biosecurity and provides specialized offerings to Australia's
mining and oil and gas sectors.
Gary W. Rollins, Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Rollins stated, "The acquisition of Allpest
is a very important milestone for our Company and firmly establishes our global presence as a leader in
international pest control management. Allpest has an outstanding management team, and brings to our
family of pest control brands many of the shared values within our Company, including a culture of
continuous improvement, ongoing investment in training and professional employee development
programs. We look forward to working with them and their talented employees, while sharing each
other's best practices."
Rollins, Inc. is a premier global consumer and commercial services company. Through its wholly owned
subsidiaries, Orkin LLC., HomeTeam Pest Defense, Western Pest Services, Orkin Canada, The
Industrial Fumigant Company, Waltham Services LLC., Crane Pest Control and Trutech LLC., the
company provides essential pest control services and protection against termite damage, rodents and
insects to more than 2 million customers in the United States, Canada, Central America, South America,
the Caribbean, the Middle East, Asia, the Mediterranean, Europe, Africa and Mexico from more than 500
locations. You can learn more about our subsidiaries by visiting our web sites at www.orkin.com,
www.pestdefense.com, www.westernpest.com, www.orkincanada.ca, www.indfumco.com,
www.walthamservices.com, www.cranepestcontrol.com, www.trutechinc.com and www.rollins.com. You
can also find this and other news releases at www.rollins.com by accessing the news releases button.
Keywords for this news article include: Asia, China, Rollins Inc.

Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world. Copyright 2014,
NewsRx LLC

CO
IN

NS

rolinc : Rollins Inc
i923 : Services to Facilities/Buildings | i9231 : Exterminating/Pest Control Services | ibcs :
Business/Consumer Services | iewm : Environment/Waste Management
c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | cbrand :
Branding | c31 : Marketing | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter

Page215of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Expanded Reporting

RE
IPD
PUB NewsRx.com
AN

Document CHWKNW0020140131ea2400049

Page216of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.