Global partners follow CBH lead to take on GrainCorp

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Global partners follow CBH lead to take on GrainCorp

Brad Thompson
351 words
28 March 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
Second
75
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

Global grain heavyweights and a Chinese conglomerate look set to follow CBH’s lead in putting the
squeeze on embattled GrainCorp on the east coast.
Logistics company Qube and Hong Kong-based Noble have formed a joint venture, trading as
Quattro Grain, to develop a multi-user terminal at Port Kembla with annual capacity of 1.3 million
tonnes.

Port Kembla is 200km south of the site CBH is considering for a major investment in storage and
rail assets to supply its Newcastle Agri-Terminal.
Chinese conglomerate COFCO — fresh from buying a 51 per cent stake in Dutch grain trader
Nidera for $US1.3 billion ($1.4 billion) — is understood to be in talks with Noble about buying into
its agribusiness arm.

The Quattro venture may face Foreign Investment Review Board scrutiny if State-owned COFCO
becomes involved.

Industry insiders said COFCO’s involvement would test the Federal Government’s willingness to
accept foreign investment in the grains industry in the wake of its decision to block US-based
Archer Daniels Midland’s $3.4 billion takeover of GrainCorp in December.

GrainCorp, weighed down with ageing storage and handling infrastructure, faces increased
competition at its port facilities in Newcastle and Port Kembla.

Qube and Noble have granted call options to Sumitomo-owned Emerald and Cargill that allow each
of them to take 20 per cent stakes in Quattro.
Emerald managing director John Murray said the company’s receival sites in the Riverina and
central west NSW would feed grain into the terminal.

Mr Murray said Emerald had extended its lease of Qube locomotives and wagons as part of the
Quattro agreement. Qube is also entering take-or-pay rail haulage contracts with Noble and Cargill.
Qube will invest about $50 million in the terminal and rail at Port Kembla. It has spent $40 million
in the past two months acquiring Walmsley Bulk Haulage and Queensland-based Beaumont
Transport.
Qube plans to raise $200 million via an underwritten placement of ordinary shares to institutional
investors to cover the Quattro investment.

CO
IN

grncrp : GrainCorp Ltd
i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming

Page190of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS
RE
PUB
AN

ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140327ea3s00034

Page191of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.