Chinese princeling rebuilds one of Sydney's icons

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Chinese princeling rebuilds one of Sydney's icons

Samantha Hutchinson
356 words
16 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
3
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Zeng Wei and wife Jiang Mei spent $32.4 million on their dream home six years ago. This week they
started knocking it down.

Demolition works began on Tuesday at Craig-y-Mor, the iconic mansion in Sydney's Point Piper the
Chinese princeling and his wife bought in 2008. By Thursday, the roof had gone and its interiors
designed by professor Leslie Wilkinson were all but gutted.

Next week workers will load a four-tonne excavator onto the site on Wolseley Road to begin a tunnel
linking a gym and pool with lower levels, according to men at the site.

In the next months, a striking contemporary home in a sandy grey will emerge in place of the elegant
coral-coloured residence with great views of the city, that for a period, was the most expensive home in
Australia. Former Patrick stevedores chief executive Chris Corrigan was once an owner, as was late
stockbroker Rene Rivkin, who sold the home in 2004 to Sydney businessman, and confidante to
James Packer, Ben Tilley for $16.15 million. It proved to be an exceptional investment, doubling in
value in the four years Tilley held it.

"It's a very nicely proportioned, classic family home," Sotheby's International agent Michael Pallier said.
"But these owners really bought it for the position, not the home."

"People with the antique furniture to furnish it might have chosen to keep it the way it was, but some
people want just want something contemporary."
Mr Wei, who is the son of former vice-president of China, Zeng Qinghong, has enlisted prominent
Sydney architecture firm Gergely and Pinter to design the new house.

Woollahra Council rejected the plans three times before the Land and Environment Court issued the
green light on Christmas Eve in 2010.

It is not architect Stephen Gergely's first project in the street nicknamed Millionaires' Row. Gergely has
also designed a home for the Lederer family of Primo Smallgoods, which sits across the road, and
another six-bedroom waterfront property for sale at 130 Wolseley Road.

Samantha Hutchinson

IN
RE

PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
austr : Australia | china : China | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140515ea5g0000u

Page54of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Page55of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.