Trade and investment with Australia; Are you being served?

HD
WC 527 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Trade and investment with Australia; Are you being served?

4 December 2014
News Analysis from Economist.com
ECOCOM
English
(c) The Economist Newspaper Limited, London 2014. All rights reserved

TD

An ambitious trade deal with Australia has Chinese businessmen aflutter
ZHU Xinli has gone from prey to predator. The firm he runs, China Huiyuan, is the country';s largest
privately owned juice firm. In 2008 Coca Cola, the largest drinks firm in the world, tried to buy his
company but was prevented from doing so by Chinese regulators. Today, Mr Zhu is on the prowl for big
acquisitions of his own—down under.

China';s juice king joined nearly two dozen of China's leading private businessmen on a recent visit to
Australia. The group, which calls itself the China Entrepreneur Club, wanted to investigate new
opportunities created by an ambitious free trade agreement (FTA) that was agreed in principle by
President Xi Jinping of China and Australia';s prime minister, Tony Abbott, on the sidelines of a recent
G20 summit in Brisbane. Such is the importance Australia attaches to this deal that on December 1st Mr
Abbott himself met the visiting fat cats.

One important aspect of the FTA, which is to be formalised in a few months, is that it makes life easier for
private Chinese firms. In the past state-owned firms looking for big energy or mining deals dominated
southerly investment flows—and, in the process, provoked wails of a takeover by China of Australia's
crown jewels (Australia's natural resources are in huge demand in China: see chart).
Such talk was always absurd. Chinese direct investment pales in comparison to flows from America—and
in any case has long been subject to prior approval by a government review board. But a recent study by
KPMG, a consultancy, and the University of Sydney found that investment is shifting toward smaller deals
and private investors.
Under the new trade deal, if an acquisition by such a private firm is smaller than about a billion dollars,
prior approval is no longer needed. Mr Zhu has had a team of eight people scouring the country for
possible targets in the agricultural sector. New Hope Group, whose boss is also a member of the business
club, plans to spend some $500m on deals in the farming, animal husbandry and food sectors.
Another important aspect of this FTA is that it represents the biggest opening of China';s services sector
to foreigners. Chinese leaders are keen to transform the economy, from the world's sweatshop to one that
is focused on domestic consumption and services. These range from nursing homes and express delivery
companies to firms providing financial advice or legal services.
What explains this apparent zeal for opening? Some in China see Australia as a good place to
experiment. The country is the most urbanised of the advanced economies, and as such has a highly
sophisticated consumer base and innovative service-companies. By giving such businesses greater
access to China's market, Chinese officials are hoping to inject competition that will force lazy
incumbents and oligopolists to shape up. But because Australia is much smaller than America or Europe,
local firms are unlikely to be overwhelmed by such an inflow. Shock therapy is not the Chinese way.

NS
RE

nanl : Analyses | ncat : Content Types
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

PUB The Economist Newspaper Limited (The Economist)
AN

Document ECOCOM0020141205eac40000d

Page162of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.