Barnett keen for talks to hasten Anketell Port work

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

IN

NS

RE
IPD
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCNEW0020140407ea4700070

Barnett keen for talks to hasten Anketell Port work

232 words
7 April 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) News
ABCNEW
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

Western Australian Premier Colin Barnett says he will speak to the potential financial backers of a
proposed port in the Pilbara this week, to try and bring the project forward.

The State Government is pushing for the multi-user Anketell Port to be built about 30 kilometres east of
Karratha, to alleviate pressure on the region's existing ports.

The Premier will meet executives of steel company Baosteel in China this week to discuss the project.
Baosteel plans to import iron ore through Anketell for use in a steel mill.
Mr Barnett also says the signing of an agreement with traditional owners for the acquisition of the land is
imminent.
"We have essentially reached an agreement with the Aboriginal people over the acquisition of the site by
the state and I expect that to be finalised very shortly," he said.

"I think the resolution of native title is imminent, all the issues are resolved there.
"To build a mine, a railway and a port is probably in the order of seven to eight billion dollars of
investment but I have been working hard, as have others, over the last six months to try and bring that
forward.
"I will be meeting with the chairman of Baosteel in Shanghai on Tuesday or Wednesday. I'm very hopeful
we will see the project move forward."

i5020017 : Harbor Construction | i502 : Heavy Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real
Estate/Construction
gpol : Domestic Politics | greg : Regional Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir :
Politics/International Relations
waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Pilbara

Page217of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.