Melbourne deals split

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Melbourne deals split

Larry Schlesinger
580 words
6 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
38
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Asian appetite for Melbourne development sites is far from insatiable, according to new analysis by
property services firm JLL.
While clearly on the rise, the figures show an almost even split between sites sold to local developers
and those sold to Chinese, Singaporean and Malaysian developers since February last year.

Of the 39 development sites sold in the central business district, Southbank, Docklands and inner
suburbs between February 2013 and April 2014, JLL found that local developers purchased almost half
of them(19) with 12 acquired by Chinese-based developers, six by Singaporeans and two by
Malaysians. Local buyers accounted for $514 million or 51 per cent of the $1 billion of site sales over
this period. Buyers included Grocon, CBus, Central Equity, Little Projects, Pace and Caydon.

All but one of the sites – 447 Collins Street acquired by Cbus for $91 million last December – are
earmarked for future residential development and represent about a decade's worth of projects with a
potential end value of around $10 billion. JLL director of sales and investments, James Kaufman, said
foreign developers preferred buying sites that came with a planning permit which made the assessment
process "significantly less complicated and removed uncertainty".

Local players, he said, had an advantage when bidding for sites without planning permits. "Domestic
developers have a much deeper understanding of the town-planning process and are more comfortable
with the risks associated with planning." Mr Kaufman said. This was demonstrated in the sale of 85
Spring Street to private developer Grocon last November for $46 million. It sold without a permit and
with very conservative bids from Asian developers. Grocon has since lodged a planning application for a
38-level, $30 million development including 370 apartments on the site. Mr Kaufman said in some
cases, local developers would acquire sites without a permit, obtain planning approval and then sell
them on to offshore developers. Asian buyers developing Melbourne sites include Aspial, UEM Sunrise,
Hiap Hoe, Far East Consortium, Mammoth and Chip Eng Seng.

Paul Fridman, director of Melbourne-based developer Fridcorp, said the JLL figures came as a surprise.
"It depends on what you look at. I think you would find that for high-density sites, Asian developers far
outweigh locals, while lower-density low-rise sites are more popular with the local developer market," Mr
Fridman said.

He described the market as "incredibly competitive" with fewer sites now available, but with less
certainty about retail appetite for new apartments given current levels of supply.

Mr Fridman, who has just completed the 16-level Avenue apartments in South Yarra, took a swing at the
major banks, accusing them of making life harder for local developers by creating "two sets of rules".

"Banks require that local developers sell no more than 20 per cent of units in a development offshore to
secure funding. But offshore developers don't require funding from local banks and can sell 100 per cent

Page186of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.of units in their developments offshore," he said. "Local developers are selling in just one market, where
supply is an issue, but offshore developers can sell across a number of markets." 
Mr Kaufman said not all site acquisitions would proceed to development in the short or medium-term.

"Some developers may land-bank these sites with a longer term view and to extend their pipeline of
projects. Some sites still have lease agreements in place over the existing buildings, which prevent their
development."

CO
IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

lasp : JLL
ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i85 : Real Estate Transactions
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | malay : Malaysia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140505ea5600017

Page187of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.