Westpac Banking Corp in Financial Cards and Payments (Australia)

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Westpac Banking Corp in Financial Cards and Payments (Australia)

1,068 words
29 October 2014
Euromonitor Local Company Profiles
EULOCOP
English
Copyright 2014 Euromonitor International Ltd

STRATEGIC DIRECTION

With technology becoming the new battleground for the four largest banks, Westpac focused on
enhancing its technology infrastructure with the company reporting advances in digitalisation and new
products oriented to meet customers’ changing needs. The new strategy aims to deliver stronger
margins and improve its position in the increasingly competitive domestic landscape, while becoming a
more customer-centric organisation.

KEY FACTS

Summary 1 Westpac Banking Corp: Operational Indicators
2013

Net sales
billion
Net profit
Number of employees

A$17.6 billion

2012
A$16.9
A$4.0 billion
42,412

A$5.4 billion
42,548

Source: Euromonitor International from company reports, company research
COMPANY BACKGROUND

Publicly traded on both the Australian and New Zealand Stock Exchanges, Westpac is one of
Australia’s Big Four banks and ranked first in 2012 in card payment transactions. It has a particularly
strong presence in New Zealand. The group operates the largest regional bank network in Australia
through its various brands.

Westpac owns a wide range of financial services brands: RAMS, Bank SA, BT Financial Group and
Asgard and, since December 2008, St George Bank, a bank with a particular strength in personal
banking. As the fifth largest bank in Australia, St George Bank was considered a safe option, whilst also
being an alternative to the Big Four.
By 2011, Westpac had virtually completed merging St George Bank’s operations with the overall
Westpac businesses and it was beginning to exploit the resulting efficiencies.

Prior to 2004, Westpac in Victoria was branded Bank of Melbourne, having decided to keep the Bank of
Melbourne name after its acquisition in 1997. In August 2011, Westpac announced a re-launch of the
Bank of Melbourne brand; it converted all St George Bank outlets in Victoria into Bank of Melbourne
outlets, as well as tripling the number of outlets and ATMs to a level suitable for a major state-based
bank.

COMPETITIVE POSITIONING

The group has a strong position in institutional banking due to its capabilities in foreign exchange and
trade finance. Westpac will be able to leverage this competitive advantage as it pushes into Asia with a
stronger presence in cross country trading and multi-currency transactions.

Westpac is the only major bank to follow a multi-brand strategy and sees it as a competitive advantage.
It leverages the local brand equity that these brands hold to better serve various regions: the St George

Page41of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.brand is used in New South Wales, Queensland and WA, Bank of Melbourne in Victoria and Bank SA in
South Australia. This strategy allows synergies across the group in terms of IT and back-end
operations, as well as the benefits of a national ATM network while still offering regional appeal. All
brands are used to refer consumers to higher margin products such as wealth management and
superannuation products through its BT asset management brand.

Westpac’s St George brand is positioned as the number one alternative bank to the major banks. In
Victoria, the newly re-launched Bank of Melbourne is positioned as a truly local offering, with many
Westpac ATMs and branches and all St George properties being rebranded as Bank of Melbourne
across 2011-13. Bank SA already has a strong position in South Australia, with approximately a 25%
share in deposit value terms.

Westpac has a large sustainability commitment in terms of both environmental concerns as well as
responding to the demographic shift in Australia as the majority of the population continues to age. The
sustainability strategy was outlined in 2013 and involved in funding new environmentally-sound
technology and energy sources as well as improving the retirement prospects of Australia’s ageing
population.

In 2014, the initiative was acknowledged with the award of Socially Responsible Bank of the Year at
Money’s 2014 Consumer Finance Awards. The award highlighted the diversity of the banks socially
responsible initiatives, which were reflected in innovative lending and investment products that
encourage positive change in communities and the environment.
The group is also prioritising its operations away from traditional forms of lending such as credit cards
into higher-value products such as wealth management, agribusiness and small business sectors. This
is likely to result in a greater suite of products in commercial credit cards and commercial charge cards.
Whilst the group held 26% share in number of commercial credit cards in circulation, its position in
commercial charge cards is considerably weaker and as the category attracts little competitive activity
there are considerable gains to be made here.
In April 2014, the bank announced that it had entered into an agreement for Westpac to accept China
UnionPay cards in Australia via ATMs, merchant terminals and online payment facilities. The agreement
will allow UnionPay cardholders to use their cards at more than 150,000 new card acceptance points,
including Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne and BankSA terminals and ATMs. Westpac will
benefit from an increasing number of Chinese students studying in Australia and the large number of
migrants and tourists from China coming every year, which are likely to increase its transaction volume
and value, and potentially the banks customer base.

In June 2014, following Commonwealth Bank’s release of the smartphone ATM access, Westpac
launched the Emergency Cash feature, a cashless card product, which enables customers to access
their cash with just one phone call. According to the bank, approximately 2 million ATM cards are
reported lost or stolen each year and an average of 4 million Australians are stranded without cash. In
this sense, the Emergency Cash feature was developed to help customers obtain cash when they need
it without the need of a card. The bank began to roll out the service in June 2014 and it is expecting to
have a mobile application to complement the service in September 2014.

Westpac’s overall value share in card payment transactions was 22% in 2013, making it the leading
local issuer. In the two major categories, credit card and debit card transactions, Westpac’s share was
23% and 25%, positioning it first and second respectively in 2013.

Summary 2 Westpac Banking Corp: Competitive Position 2014
Product type
Commercial credit card transactions
Personal credit card transactions
Debit transactions
Commercial charge card transactions

Value share
26.1%
22.3
24.8
0.1%

Rank
2
1
2
6

Source: Euromonitor International from company reports, company research, trade press

CO
IN
NS

wstpac : Westpac Banking Corporation Limited
i81402 : Commercial Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
cbrand : Branding | c01 : Profiles of Companies | c22 : New Products/Services | c31 :
Marketing/Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter

Page42of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Euromonitor International Ltd
Document EULOCOP020150309eaat002ca

Page43of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.