Super fund possible Bluewater buyer

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Super fund possible Bluewater buyer

Mercedes Ruehl
426 words
30 April 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
39
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Major property players are circling Lend Lease's £550-600 million ($1 billion) stake in Bluewater
shopping centre in the UK.
Retail landlords such as Simon Property Group as well as the likes of AustralianSuper have been
linked to the Kent asset, one of the UK's largest shopping centres, newspapers have reported.

AustralianSuper has appointed managers to help expand its international property portfolio so its
potential interest in the stake would make sense.
Lend Lease has told the The Australian Financial Review the group is open to selling the
management rights as well if the price is right, which could make the stake more valuable.
The group has not commented on price but market expectations are for as high as £600 million and
in some cases even higher.

Bank of America Merrill Lynch this month told clients "given the compression in cap rates in trophy
assets, we apply a 5.5 per cent cap rate for Bluewater."
The London commercial property market is booming and investor appetite, especially from
offshore, is growing fast.
HSBC's global headquarters, the city's biggest office building is up for sale and is expected to fetch
a record price of more than £1.1 billion.A host of would-be buyers

Other groups to have expressed an interest in Lend Lease's Bluewater stake, according to reports,
are Hammerson, M&G Real Estate, Intu Properties, China's Gingko Tree Investments and US
group Hines. Lend Lease drafted in investment bank Morgan Stanley earlier this year to start a
formal sales process.
It began following the resolution of a long-running legal battle with M&G Real Estate over
pre-emption rights to the shopping centre.
In addition to Lend Lease's stake, the group manages a 25 per cent stake owned by funds via the
Lend Lease Retail Partnership. Co-owners also include M&G and GIC, which have 17.5 per cent
stakes, while Hermes owns 10 per cent.

The centre was developed by Lend Lease in the 1990s and comprises more than 150,000 square
metres.
Citi expects the sale of Bluewater, as well as the sale of other developments and other project
awards will drive Lend Lease's share price even further than its current highs.

Page93of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Key points AustralianSuper a possible buyer of Lend Lease's $1b stake in the Bluewater shopping
centre in the UK. Though Lend Lease is not discussing price, the Bluewater stake is tipped to sell for
up to $1.1b

arefnd : AustralianSuper Pty Ltd
ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles |
i8150214 : Private Pension Funds | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | ipension :
Pension Funds
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | uk : United Kingdom | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | eecz :
European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140429ea4u0003q

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

Page94of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.