Who dares to lead will struggle to win

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Due Diligence
Who dares to lead will struggle to win

David Ramli
1,623 words
13 January 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
40
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

For the past 2 ½ years, Vodafone Australia has been a basket case as its market share and revenue
collapse. Its customer base has shrunk from 7.5 million in 2010 to just over 5 million in 2013. By
comparison, Telstra has grown to 15.3 million mobile subscribers, and SingTel-Optus has about
9.5 million accounts.
One option for its parent companies Vodafone Group and Hong Kong-based Hutchison Whampoa is to
chip away and do nothing while hoping its reputation will gradually recover.

But many in the market are of the opinion that over the next 18 months both companies will need to
decide whether to go big by buying a local internet provider or go home by selling out their Australian
joint venture, Vodafone Hutchison Australia (VHA).

In 2012, both parent companies decided to attempt a salvage of their Australian operation. Experienced
turnaround strategist executive Bill Morrow was appointed chief executive, with a mandate to make
sweeping changes as part of a three-year plan and $1.7 billion at his disposal. By November 2013 –
halfway through the turnaround plan – Vodafone Hutchison Australia was officially on the mend, with
profit margins improving and operating expenses going down.
The company had finished a cull of inactive mobile accounts and was meant to start regaining
customers in the first half of 2014, which would act as a litmus test for the company's viability. But in
December Morrow shocked many of his Vodafone Australia team when he announced he was quitting
to become the CEO of NBN Co, leaving Vodafone Australia to an uncertain future.

The question for Vodafone Group and Hutchison Whampoa now is whether the setback of losing
Morrow at a critical point makes cutting their losses and selling their assets a more attractive option.A
lemon in a mature market

Vodafone Australia is also faced with having to diversify its product offering to include things like
fixed-line internet services to remain relevant against Telstra and Optus – both of which are launching
bundled offerings to attract customers and keep them loyal to their brands – or face a slow death as
customers leach away.

Over the past decade, Hutchison Telecommunications Australia (HTA) and its successor VHA have
bled cash like a ruptured artery, with cumulative underlying losses of over $4.25 billion. The company
enjoyed a brief period of success in financial year 2010, with 7.5 million mobile subscribers and
$155.3 million in net profit. However, it has since made an underlying loss for every other year – the
worst being an $817.6 million hit in 2012. Though it technically made a $587 million profit in financial
year 2009, this was skewed by the merger between HTA and Vodafone Australia.
"The net loss before gain on merger was $119.6 million," Hutchison Whampoa boss Canning Fok told
shareholders in the company's 2009 annual report.

Page71of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.On the other side of the partnership, Vodafone Group CEO Vittorio Colao has also been very open
about his preference for having total control of his operations around the world and is concentrating on
growth markets such as Europe.

By comparison, Vodafone Australia has been a lemon in a mature market, with few prospects for
substantial growth. Sources with an intimate understanding of Vodafone Australia say one of the main
things keeping Vodafone Australia alive in its current form is the stubborn refusal of Hutchison
Whampoa to sell an asset at a loss. But it is also understood Hutchison Whampoa is not particularly
attached to the Australian operation and would walk away if a buyer offered an adequate bid, as would
Vodafone Group. Over the next six months there will be two key points potential buyers will want to
keep an eye on: who the new CEO is and whether Vodafone Australia can report a return to subscriber
growth by June 2014.Executive talent difficult to lure

While both parent companies have a say in the CEO selection process, it is understood Vodafone gets
the final say. The company has several high-quality executives with experience in helping damaged
brands bounce back. However, it would be hard for either company to persuade high-quality talent to
take the CEO role. Vodafone Australia is struggling to gain traction against its rivals and the company's
listed component, HTA, is a barely-traded shell that can't be given to would-be executives as an
incentive.

One option touted within the industry is Vodafone's Africa, Middle East and Asia-Pacific region chief
executive, Serpil Timuray. She was instrumental in turning around the company's Turkish operations
and making it into one of the country's strongest brands.

But picking another turnaround CEO would be problematic because Morrow's reformation of the
company is incomplete. Forcing Vodafone Australia to go through another series of structural changes
would cause significant problems and delay the company's turnaround by 12 months as they learnt the
ropes.

The most likely scenario is the selection of a CEO who will be tasked with completing Morrow's plan
with minimal disruption.

This is because Vodafone Australia is not a total dud despite its plummeting revenue and customer
numbers. Its earnings margins have been greatly improved by Morrow's cost cuttings and are as good
as they were before Vodafone began experiencing its well-publicised network problems. Its
earnings-to-revenue ratio was 20.8 per cent in the first half of 2010 but fell to 10.8 per cent in the first
half of 2012 and has since recovered to 21.7 per cent in the first half of 2013.Asian telcos potential
buyers

If the bounce-back in subscriber numbers occurs within the next six months, as Morrow has previously
planned, then both parent companies can begin shopping around for potential buyers.

Japan's NTT Docomo has been mooted as a potential buyer of Vodafone Australia. It has significant
cash reserves, has long been interested in ramping up its investments in the country and has a track
record of partnering up in telecommunications joint ventures with Hutchison Whampoa from Hong
Kong to Britain – albeit with mixed results.
Other Asian telecommunications companies like China Mobile could also consider buying into the
Australian market while using their massive scale to offer cheaper products and services.
The other option on the table is the purchase of a local fixed-line internet service provider such as TPG
Telecom or Perth-based iiNet. While it might seem mad at first, market sources indicate Vodafone
Australia has reviewed the move twice – once under previous CEO Nigel Dews and once more under
outgoing CEO Bill Morrow.

Vodafone Australia's initial plan in 2010 was to resell services made possible by the national broadband
network (NBN), which was meant to connect all Australians to a ubiquitous wholesale telco network.

But significant delays to the rollout have meant that only a fraction of the population has access to the
NBN, which in turn has made it impractical for Vodafone Australia to get on board. The company
flagged an interest in buying Telecom New Zealand's service provider AAPT earlier this year but pulled
out after reviewing the books.Sweeping consolidation a problem
Buying a local telco would finally allow it to offer millions of customers a complete package of
communications services. The more products a user has with a single company, the less likely they are
to leave – a fact that has driven Telstra to create and sell bundled pay TV, mobile phone and fixed-line
internet services to millions of customers.

Page72of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.But the Australian telco sector has experienced sweeping consolidation, making the survivors both large
and expensive. Where iiNet would have been worth about $500 million in 2012, its market
capitalisation today is about $1 billion. TPG Telecom has also become a $4.365 billion giant with a
share price which has more than doubled over the past 12 months.
Vodafone Group has the money required thanks to the September 2013 sale of its Verizon
Wirelessstake in the United States for $US130 billion. The company promised that 71 per cent of this
would be returned to shareholders and created a £6 billion fund named Project Spring to pump money
into operations around the world. But the major hurdle for any purchase and cash injection is the fact
that it must be funded by both parties. Sources indicate Hutchison Whampoa is reluctant to make any
more large contributions before Vodafone Australia proves it is a sustainable business.

The other option for Vodafone is to become one of Australia's biggest fixed-line internet resellers by
working with Telstra and/or Optus. This would reduce the capital investment it needs to make and allow
it to win customers in preparation for the NBN.

Such a move is certainly possible but it faces the challenge of Vodafone's damaged brand being
unattractive to potential customers and thin reseller margins reducing its profitability. In any case,
Vodafone Australia's every move will have a major impact on the local telecommunications market and
on millions of customers. If the company invests in Australia and buys out a telco, Telstra and Optus
will need to increase the attractiveness of their products by lowering prices and profitability.

But Vodafone Australia pulling up stumps could ironically be the worse outcome for the market leader.
Telstra has largely escaped heavy-handed intervention by competition regulators thanks to the
presence of three sizable players in the mobile network. By comparison, a duopoly in the mobile telco
space will likely lead to a much higher regulatory burden for Telstra just as the company attempts to
pump billions of dollars into pressing its advantage.

CO

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

hutwam : Hutchison Whampoa Limited | ratel : Vodafone Group PLC | vhapty : Vodafone Hutchison
Australia Pty Limited | huttel : Hutchison Telecommunications (Australia) Ltd
i7902 : Telecommunications | i79022 : Wireless Telecommunications Services | i8396 : Diversified
Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140112ea1d00008

Page73of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.