Blackstone’s Asia PE head relocates to US

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Blackstone’s Asia PE head relocates to US

442 words
7 April 2014
Private Equity International
PRION
English
Copyright 2014. PEI Media Ltd. All rights reserved.

"As Michael Chae returns to New York, Asia responsibilities are reassigned.
The Blackstone Group’s head of international private equityMichael Chae is leaving Asia to return to
New York after building the firm’s business in Asia for the last three years, a spokeswoman for the firm
has confirmed.

From New York, Chae will continue to oversee Blackstone’s private equity activities in Asia-Pacific and
be responsible for media and communications sector investments. He will also help oversee the
investment process for Tactical Opportunities division, working closely with the group's deal teams.

In December 2010, Chae was appointed to his current position in Asia in order to develop Blackstone's
business in the region. He coordinated firm-wide relationships with Blackstone’s most important
regional LPs, was responsible for several senior hires and oversaw the opening of a 30-person
Singapore office.
Yi Luo, formerly with the Carlyle Group in China, and Ed Huang, previously with Morgan Stanley
Private Equity Asia in Hong Kong, will now leadBlackstone’s China investments. They both joined the
firm in 2012.
Jan Nielsen, Hong Kong-based senior managing director in the private equity group, will oversee the
rest of Asia, according to an internal memo published in the media.

In the last 15 months, Blackstone has had several senior personnel transitions in Asia, which Private
Equity International reported on.

In January, James Carnegie was appointed as senior managing director and head of Australian
operations. Carnegie had been serving as Blackstone's senior advisor for Australia since September
2012. 

In December, Paul Costello, non-executive chairman of Blackstone Australia and New Zealand
operations, resigned after only two years in the role, according to local reports. Costello joined the firm
from Australian superannuation fund Future Fund in October 2011 to help grow Blackstone’s business
in the Australasian region.
In the closing months of 2013, the firm announced Akhil Gupta, chairman and senior managing director
of Blackstone in India, was leaving his position. 
Prior to that, Antony Leung, Blackstone's Greater China chairman and senior managing director,
resigned from the firm after seven years of service.

In January 2013, Gautam Banerjee, the former executive chairman of PricewaterhouseCoopers
Singapore, was appointed chairman of Blackstone’s Singapore office, which formally opened in October
and serves as a regional hub for Southeast Asia.
The firm was also involved in the second largest deal in China last year. In October, Blackstone led a
consortium that intends to privatise NASDAQ-listed Pactera Technology, a global IT consulting firm
headquartered in China, in a deal valued at $625 million, PEI reported earlier. 

Page176of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

mgspve : Morgan Stanley Private Equity | blgrou : The Blackstone Group LP | dwitd : Morgan Stanley
i8150203 : Private Equity | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | ialtinv : Alternative Investments |
ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
c411 : Management Moves | c41 : Management Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | asiaz : Asia | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America
PEI Media Ltd
Document PRION00020140407ea4700001

Page177of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.