Asia indices lift on Chinese trade moves

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Market Wrap
Asia indices lift on Chinese trade moves

Vesna Poljak
742 words
10 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
27
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Australian shares are poised to open higher on Tuesday after better than expected US jobs data
lifted optimism in the world's biggest economy and China's improved trade surplus allayed fears of a
hard landing.
Regional equities rose on Monday across Asia, boosted by the Chinese import and export figures as
well as evidence of faster growth by the Japanese economy in the first quarter.

Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index was up 0.7 per cent and Japan's Nikkei 225 advanced 0.4 per cent.

The Australian dollar inched higher to US93.50¢ in the mid-afternoon after finishing at US93.39¢ in
the final session of last week. The S&P/ASX 200 Index was closed, but futures indicated a 0.3 per
cent upswing when trading resumes on Tuesday from its last close of 5464.03 points.

The S&P 500 Index achieved a fresh record on Friday to 1949.44 points after the US economy
added 217,000 jobs in May, more than economists expected, and the unemployment rate held firm
at 6.3 per cent.

Critically, US employment gains have totalled more than 200,000 for four months in a row. S&P 500
futures were unchanged on Monday.
China's trade surplus widened to a five-year high of $US35.9 billion ($42.1 billion) last month after
a sharp drop in imports, official figures released on the weekend showed. Export growth was 7 per
cent year-on-year and imports went into negative territory, falling 1.6 per cent.
It comes as the Chinese currency rallied on the back of a higher fix against the US dollar on
Monday. The People's Bank of China (PBoC) sets a daily reference rate for the currency,
establishing a 2 per cent trading band above or below that figure.

RBS foreign exchange strategist Greg Gibbs said: "Definitely the risk-on mood has continued since
the [European Central Bank] has cut rates and the Aussie's performance in that light is not that
special," referring to the Australian dollar's 0.2 per cent gain.

Mr Gibbs said the movement in the yuan could represent some kind of realignment in the foreign
exchange rate, but it was unclear for what reason.

The PBoC had engineered a depreciation in the yuan earlier this year.NZ rate hike on the cards

Australian unemployment data for May is due on Thursday. The unemployment rate stands at
5.8 per cent; a weaker outcome would lend support to the view that the Reserve Bank of Australia is
on hold for the rest of this year. The RBA reaffirmed its expectation for stability in interest rates at its
June meeting last week.

Page19of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Meanwhile, the Reserve Bank of New Zealand meets on Thursday when it is tipped to increase
interest rates by 0.25 percentage points after becoming the first developed economy to kick off
a rate-hike cycle. The NZ cash rate is at 3 per cent following two rate increases beginning in March.

First NZ Capital economist Chris Green, who has removed a July rate rise from his forecasts, said it
appeared the RBNZ was seeing less of a need for the aggressive tightening it initially signalled as
dairy auction prices declined.

The drop has failed to put a significant dent in the value of the Kiwi currency, which has a tightening
effect on the economy. "You've seen it with Australia as well where you've got this divergence with
where the iron ore price is going and what the currency is doing," Mr Green said.
The iron ore price has plunged to the lowest level since 2012 but the Australian dollar has shrugged
off the drag. Spot iron ore is fetching $US94.50 a tonne.

The RBNZ's outlook means NZ yields are attractive to overseas investors, a theme that firmed with
the European Central Bank's rescue package last week. This means government bonds issued by
high-yield economies such as Australia and NZ are more desirable to foreign investors but create a
currency headache for those central banks.

"You've got a lower global interest rate setting which means even if you're unchanged, you have a
higher interest rate setting relatively," Mr Green explained. Australian 10-year bonds are yielding
3.77 per cent compared with 4.34 per cent for NZ.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140609ea6a0000k

Page20of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.