Qantas beats free trade rush to China

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Qantas beats free trade rush to China

Elizabeth Knight
768 words
18 November 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
21
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Qantas on Monday became the first cab off the rank to capitalise on all that free trade goodwill
flowing between China and Australia. The flying kangaroo is looking to expand its relationship with
code-share partner China Eastern to what it calls a "joint agreement".

The five-year joint agreement will involve co-ordinating the two airlines' schedules, flights and pricing,
a move that will require the approval of competition authorities in both countries.

Given the ribbon-cutting ceremony on the deal was attended by the Chinese President Xi Jinping one
would expect the airline partnership may not find too much pushback from China's anti-trust
regulators. And the Australian regulator, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission, has
plenty of form in letting these airline partnerships proceed.

The ACCC has previously given the green light to Virgin and its foreign partners as well as allowing
Qantas to do deals with American Airlines and Emirates.

Qantas now runs only one service to Shanghai using its own aircraft and there is no suggestion that
its financially troubled international mainline operation will be looking to add much more capacity in
the near future. There could be some additional flights down the track out of Perth or Brisbane but
customers will not necessarily be flying on Qantas metal.

Indeed, neither airline needed a free trade agreement to undertake this new partnership. In a sense
the timing was as much opportunistic and symbolic as anything else.

But the deal represents Qantas finding a deeper relationship in the Asian region. It has been
considered a hole in the Qantas network since the airline moved its European route through the
Middle East rather than Asia.

Arguably Qantas is still shy a proper dance partner in other parts of Asia, especially when compared
with its Australian competitor, Virgin, which has very strong ties with Singapore Airlines.
However, China is a market that is only now becoming more important as the pace of Chinese
tourists and Australian business travellers between the two countries is growing quickly.
(Australia Post also cashed in on the China wave, announcing it had joined with UnionPay
International and Bank of China to launch Australia's first UnionPay multi-currency travel card to
support Australians travelling to China for business and leisure.)

The free trade agreement signed on Monday won't provide an overnight rush but it will grow over time
as tariffs roll off many goods and services.
But it's the flip side to the China Eastern/Qantas relationship that will set some pulses racing. As
Qantas moves ever closer to splitting its international and domestic divisions it opens the way for
allowing Qantas to sell up to 49 per cent of its stock to a foreign player. Emirates has consistently

Page146of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.held it does not want an equity tie-up with Qantas but China Eastern's appetite for an equity tie
could be different.
While China Eastern is a state-owned enterprise and is not subject to an easing of the direct
investment restrictions contained in the FTA, it is not precluded from buying into Qantas down the
track, as long as it receives approval from Australia's Foreign Investment Review Board.
Meanwhile the China/Australia FTA has been lauded as significant boon for Australian agricultural
and services industries opening up Chinese markets and reducing tariffs.
As expected the agreement removes the tariffs on dairy products over four to 11 years and on beef
within nine years and sheep meat within eight years.
Tariffs on Australian wine exports to China are also set to fall to zero over the next four years. Other
goods, including barley, seafood, skins, leather and horticultural products are to see tariffs eliminated
over coming years

The effects on the broader Australian economy of these and other agricultural and processed food
initiatives are forecast to benefit the Australian economy by $18 billion over 10 years as about 95 per
cent of exports to China will become tariff free.

Australia's services industry is also set to become a major beneficiary of the FTA with banks and
financial services companies, insurance, funds management, securities, securitisation and financial
futures all now set to get greater access to the Chinese market.
Equally important has been the declaration of an official Chinese RMB clearing bank in Sydney
allowing Australian trading in the currency.

There is plenty of meat in the FTA and while there will be some disappointments around the phasing
out of trade barriers, the agreement is generally more extensive than most had hoped for.

CO
IN

RE

PUB
AN

chea : China Eastern Airlines Corp Ltd | qntas : Qantas Airways Ltd
i75 : Airlines | iairtr : Air Transport | itsp : Transportation/Shipping | i7501 : Scheduled Passenger
Airlines
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020141117eabi0002x

Page147of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.