Qantas sets scene for sale

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Qantas sets scene for sale

Jamie Freed
585 words
29 August 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
12
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Qantas Airways is setting up a new holding company for its international division – a change that
could allow it to sell up to 49 per cent of the business to an outside investor.
The move was made possible by changes to the Qantas Sale Act that removed restrictions on a
single airline owning more than 25 per cent or a group of airlines owning more than 35 per cent of the
company.

Chief executive Alan Joyce said the split increased the potential for investment, but cautioned it could
take time to find an investor interested in the business, which is unprofitable.

"To be clear, this a long-term option value for the group," he said. "There is not going to be anything
happening in the short term on this."
Mr Joyce said the focus for now was on cutting $2 billion of costs over three years, of which up to
$1 billion will come from the international division.

He said the division would benefit from the airline's reduction in employees, closure of a maintenance
base at Avalon in Victoria and reduction in fuel consumption by changes such as using lightweight
catering containers, carrying fewer magazines on aircraft and making better use of ground power
units.More flights planned

Qantas also intends to increase the utilisation of its international fleet by 6 per cent by adding flights
that will lead its A380s and 747s to spend more time in the air and less on the ground. "The benefits
we get out of the increase in utilisation reduces costs, but the way that comes through to the
business is the improvement in revenue on it," Mr Joyce said.

As it prepares to hive off the international division, Qantas is looking again at whether to pursue a
split of the Air Operator's Certificates, or licences to fly, so that the domestic and international
business each have their own. That plan was put on ice in February.

The decision to split out the international business triggered the need for the airline to make
$2.6 billion of write-downs on its international fleet of A380s, 747s and A330s.

The impairments could, however, help the international business return to profitability, because future
depreciation costs will be reduced by $200 million a year.Shareholders pleased

Mr Joyce would not be drawn on when he expected the international business to stop losing money.
"I'm not going to speculate when that is going to occur, but this [international split] is aimed at
allowing us to seek further investment around the international business," he said.

Page72of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Qantas has previously said it will not exercise options or purchase rights over 50 Boeing 787-9s until
its international business stops losing money. On Thursday, it pushed back the timing of the first
options to be exercised to 2017 from 2016.

The decision to split out the international business rather than the domestic business pleased
shareholders, who were concerned the airline could sell a stake in the profitable domestic arm and
dilute their exposure to it.

Potential investors in the international business could include codeshare partners like Emirates,
China Southern and China Eastern .

However, Saj Ahmad, the London-based chief analyst of StrategicAero Research, said he doubted
other airlines would be interested in buying a stake while the business was losing money. "I honestly
cannot see anyone lining up to take a stake here – it would be like pouring money down the drain,"
he said.

CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

qntas : Qantas Airways Ltd
i7501 : Passenger Airlines | i75 : Airlines | iairtr : Air Transport | itsp : Transportation/Logistics
ceffic : Corporate Restructuring | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c11 : Plans/Strategy
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140828ea8t00031

Page73of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.