Media Release: Quantum Materials Corporation

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Media Release: Quantum Materials Corporation

884 words
22 August 2014
AAP MediaNet Press Releases
AAPMPR
English
© 2014 Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

AAPMEDIA RELEASE PR57619 Quantum Materials Acquires Bayer Technology Services Quantum Dot
Manufacturing and Quantum Dot Solar Cell Patents

SAN MARCOS, Texas, Aug. 22, 2014 /PRNewswire-AsiaNet/ --

Bayer Patent Families Expand Quantum Materials' Advanced Material
Offerings, Reinforce Intellectual Property Protection of Automated
Quantum Dot Manufacturing Processes and Enhance Quantum Dot Solar

Cell IP to Drive Future Development, Partnerships and Revenue
Quantum Materials Corporation (OTCQB:QTMM) today announced the purchase of five diverse sets of
patent families from Bayer Technology Services GmbH, the global technological backbone and major
innovation driver for Bayer AG of Leverkusen, Germany.

Logo - http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20140619/119488
The patents acquired provide broad intellectual property protection for advances Quantum Materials
(http://www.qmcdots.com) has achieved in economical high-volume quantum dot (QD) manufacturing. In
addition, the Bayer patents cover volume production technology for heavy metal-free (HMF) quantum
dots and nano-particles; increasing quantum yields for HMF quantum dots; and hybrid organic quantum
dot solar cell (http://www.qmcdots.com/products/products-solar.php ) (QDSC) production as well as a
surface modification process for increased efficiency of high performance solar cells and printed
electronics. The patent families were acquired through a cash purchase agreement and financial details
will remain private.

"We acquired these patents to not only expand our technology portfolio in heavy metal-free and QDSC
production, but also to protect the advances we have made to date in the volume manufacturing of
nanoparticles, including quantum dots," said Stephen Squires, Quantum Materials CEO and president.
"Bayer is a research pioneer in the nanotech and QD fields and these early filings were awarded with
broad claims. It will be very difficult for competitors to produce materials in volume similar to ours without
breaching our patents."

"Bayer Technology Services has been successfully working in the field of nanotechnology for more than
30 years . We are very happy that Quantum Materials is also using our patents to invest into new markets
Bayer is not focusing on," adds Dr. Guenter Bachlechner, Head of Technology Development and Senior
Vice President of Bayer Technology Services GmbH.

The quantum dot-related patents extend Quantum Materials' ability to synthesize numerous heavy
metal-free organic periodic table groups in addition to its own inorganic Group II-VI composites. The
company intends to incorporate each patent into its advanced production processes, including high yield
InP/ZnS nanocrystals, a heavily researched QD in high demand in optoelectronics.
The solar-related patents describe the fundamental design of quantum dot solar cells and processes for
optimizing quantum dots for solar and other printed electronics applications. The solar patents enhance
Quantum Material's licensed patent on printing OLED and QD solar cells and other printed electronic
devices by gravure or high-speed roll-to-roll.

Page343of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.David Doderer, Quantum Materials VP of Research and Development, added, "The heavy metal-free
organic nanomaterials expand our high performance product offerings, and the automated processes will
bring down their cost so manufacturers can begin planning adoption into real products at price points that
expand market penetration of quantum dot technologies significantly. Combining the solar patents with
our automated volume QD production process opens the door for us to establish joint ventures for
Quantum Dot Solar Cell (QDSC) pilot plants worldwide."

About Bayer Technology Services

Bayer Technology Services offers fully-integrated solutions along the life cycle of
chemical/pharmaceutical plants from development through engineering and construction to process
optimization for existing plants. The Bayer subsidiary employs nearly 2,300 people worldwide at its
headquarters in Leverkusen and other German locations, as well as in regional offices in Belgium, Brazil,
Canada, India, Mexico, the People's Republic of China, Russia, Singapore and the United States. 2013
sales totaled approximately EUR 470 million. Additional information about Bayer Technology Services is
available at www.bayertechnology.com.

About Quantum Materials Corp.

Quantum Materials Corp. develops and manufactures Tetrapod Quantum Dots for use in medical,
display, solar energy and lighting applications through its patent-pending volume production process.
QMC's volume manufacturing methods enable consistent quality and scalable cost reductions to drive
innovative discovery to commercial success. (www.qmcdots.com). Wholly-owned subsidiary Solterra
Renewable Technologies develops sustainable solar technology by replacing silicon wafer-based solar
cells with high-production, low-cost, efficient and flexible thin-film quantum dot solar cells.
(http://solterrarenewable.com)

Safe Harbor statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995

This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties concerning
business, products, and financial results. Actual results may differ materially from the results predicted.
More information about potential risk factors that could affect our business, products, and financial results
are included in our annual report and in reports subsequently filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission ("SEC"). All documents are available through the SEC's EDGAR System at
http://www.sec.gov/ or www.QMCdots.com. We hereby disclaim any obligation to publicly update the
information provided above, including forward-looking statements, to reflect subsequent events or
circumstances.

Contact:

Art Lamstein

Director of Marketing

Quantum Materials Corp.

+1.415.609.4969

artlamstein@QMCdots.com

Media:

Rich Schineller

+1.941.780.8100

rich@prmgt.com

Dr. Arnold Rajathurai

Head of Corporate Communications

Bayer Technology Services GmbH

arnold.rajathurai@bayer.com

SOURCE: Quantum Materials Corporation

CO

byer : Bayer AG | hguekp : Quantum Materials Corp.

Page344of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS

i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | i34531 : Semiconductors | i951 :
Health Care/Life Sciences | ielec : Consumer Electronics | iindele : Industrial Electronics | iindstrls :
Industrial Goods | itech : Technology
c133 : Patents | c182 : Asset Transactions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | npress : Press Releases |
c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | cgymtr : Intellectual Property | cinprp : Industrial
Property Rights (Patents/Trademarks) | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E
Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd
AN

Document AAPMPR0020140822ea8m0005l

Page345of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.