Mining downturn: Bowen Basin communities face tough times but industry talks up coal 's future

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Mining downturn: Bowen Basin communities face tough times but industry talks up coal's future

By Marlina Whop
819 words
3 October 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) News
ABCNEW
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

As central Queensland mining towns struggle, some still voice optimism in the future of coal.
All too often the heady days of a mining boom end with a bust but few could have predicted hard times
would last so long in central Queensland’s resources sector.

"This has been some of the toughest times for the coal industry in about 20 years," said Queensland
Resources Council CEO Michael Roche.
He also expressed a firm belief in the future of coal and the State Government, saying it was working to
ensure jobs were created by the approval of new mines further west in the Galilee Basin.

But falling prices resulting from global overproduction mean it could be a tough few years before things
turn around in the coal sector.
For families at the coal face of the Bowen Basin mining region, recent announcements of job cuts have
cast a grey cloud over the immediate future.

The BHP Mitsubishi Alliance (BMA) continues to talk with workers after announcing last month it would
cut 700 jobs across its seven coal mines in the Bowen Basin.

BMA is the region’s largest employer, with more than 10,000 staff and contractors.

In January, another 300 jobs are set to disappear from the Isaac Plains mine, east of Moranbah, when
Sumitomo Corporation shuts down operations.

'Entire state will be affected'

Trehan Stenton from Moranbah Traders Association said the loss of so many jobs at once was worrying.

"We need something on the ground now to help us transition during this period," he said.
"It's the entire state that will be affected from Cairns right through down to the Gold Coast.

"The cyclical nature of the business is the problem that we have – we need to diversify and look at
different ways in which we can manage our resources sector and support services.

"Look at ways and industries we need to bring into the area that will allow us to ride the peaks and flows."
The mining slowdown will have a much economic broader impact.
In Rockhampton, mining-related businesses are already feeling the pinch of the downturn.
Kent Haggarty runs the mining exploration supply company, ABC Products.

"We have had to retrench a couple of staff members, we have had to get rid of a few vehicles and lower
our stock levels," he said.

Page245of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Haggarty said the company had about $6 million worth of stock but there was far less demand
compared with the boom a few years ago.

"When it is not moving we are probably carrying only 30 percent of what we were in peak times," he said.
His company has branches in Brisbane and recently went in search of gold in Mount Isa to help buffer
the bleak returns related to coal exploration.
"The Mt Isa branch is ... for hard rock minerals, so that is your gold, your copper, your zinc and it is
basically keeping the wolf from the door for us," he said.

'Our eyes are on the future'

Rockhampton Mayor Margaret Strelow said she remained optimistic despite the downturn.

"From our economy's point of view it is less of a blow than say it might be in Mackay," she said.

"There's an impact, but our eyes are very much on the future."

In communities closer to the mines, the strain of the slowdown is more evident.

There are hundreds of empty houses in Moranbah, Dysart and Blackwater.
In 2011, "sold" signs were a common feature in front yards, but more recently "for lease" and "for sale"
placards have taken their place.

Mr Stenton acknowledged one benefit of this was that homes had become more affordable for families
who had not been in a position to pay rents of up to $1,000 a week for a basic house.

"When it was booming, the whole market was overheated and unsustainable - housing prices were high
and trying to get labour was difficult," he said.

Michael Roche from the Queensland Resources Council said the slowdown was a global issue due to the
oversupply of coal.
"It is really the double whammy - a collapse in coal prices and a legacy of high cost structures from the
heady days of the boom," he said.

Mr Roche said during the boom many companies took their eye off the ball on costs.

"What we are seeing with the industry right now overall is record levels of production but that's being
produced with fewer people," he said.

"This is about ensuring the industry is viable long term and that's why we had to reset costs downwards."
Mr Roche says the cycle would turn because there was still strong demand for coal and markets were
performing well in Asia, Japan, Korea, China and India.
"We are very confident of the future of coal."

gcom : Society/Community/Work | gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
coal

NS
RE
IPD
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCNEW0020141003eaa3000bu

Page246of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.