Zombie economics: the notion China is to blame for Australia's property bubble refuses to die

James Laurenceson, Deputy Director and Professor, Australia-China Relations Institute (ACRI) at
University of Technology, Sydney

Zombie economics: the notion China is to blame for Australia's property bubble refuses to die

HD
BY

WC 1,109 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

13 October 2014
The Conversation
CONVAU
English
Copyright 2014. The Conservation Media Group.

Despite valiant efforts by commentators such as Bernard Keane and Michael Pascoe to slay claims that
Chinese buyers are making it harder for ordinary Australians to enter the housing market, the notion
refuses to die. It is the “zombie idea” afflicting the Australia-China economic relationship.

TD

And there is a danger the zombies will multiply. Last week the Australian Financial Review reported that
China recently eased restrictions on outbound investment. The implication being “a fresh wave of capital
[is] expected to make its way into the Australian property market”.

The Sydney Morning Herald continued with the same theme listing several recent examples of
Chinese-funded projects with values reaching into the billions.

But all these reports lack one critical factor: context.
Even if Chinese investment is rising, it is still a small proportion of the market
All foreign investment in Australian real estate requires approval from the Foreign Investment Review
Board (FIRB).
According to FIRB, over the period 2009-10 to 2012-13, approvals for Chinese investment in Australian
real estate totalled $16.6 billion.

At first blush this seems an impressively large figure. But it is actually less than 10% of the total value of
foreign investment approvals in the sector.
Approvals to Chinese investors have lagged behind those from the United States. They have also not
been much more than those from the United Kingdom, which has an economy around one quarter the size
of China’s and less than 5% of the population.
The scale of Chinese investment seems again smaller when viewed against the size of the market. In a
report earlier this year, the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) observed that total foreign investment
approvals in residential real estate have historically only been around 5-10% of the value of home sales.
Chinese approvals are just a proportion of this percentage.
It is also important to keep in mind we are talking about approvals here, not purchases. This means FIRB
data overstate the true value of foreign investment.
For example, a property developer in Australia can apply to the FIRB for approval to sell all new dwellings
in a large scale real estate project to foreign buyers. In their submission to the Inquiry into Foreign
Investment in Residential Real Estate, the Commonwealth Treasury noted that based on past experience
only around 35%, on average, of such dwellings end up in the hands of foreigners.

Also don’t forget that FIRB data is gross, not net. In any given year some foreign investors will seek FIRB
approval for new purchases. Meanwhile others will sell down their existing portfolios. As a result, simply
adding the value of FIRB approvals from year to year exaggerates the size of the stock of Australian real
estate assets held by foreigners.
What all this means is that Chinese investment can grow strongly and still not come close to flooding the
market. Citing preliminary FIRB data from the first three quarters of 2013-2014, the Commonwealth
Treasury noted a sharp jump in foreign investment approvals over the previous year, particularly from

Page29of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.China. But as the RBA shows, this still only takes the value of total foreign investment approvals to
around 12-13% of total sales.
Chinese investment actually increases housing supply
Issues of scale aside, Chinese investment has the effect of increasing housing supply. This acts to
restrain price growth.
Regulations also limit Chinese investors to buying new properties. Exceptions are few. For example, a
Chinese student may purchase an established property to live in while studying in Australia. But it must
be sold once they return home. Building new housing requires a lot of capital. A report earlier this year by
the Australian Housing and Urban Research Institute found a leading cause of the undersupply of housing
in Australia is the availability of finance. Banks are the first port of call for most developers. Yet banks
generally demand pre-sales, or sales of dwellings before their construction even begins, of between
50-100% of the value of the loan being sort.

Michael Pascoe put it like this, “Without the stimulus of investors to get the country building now, we’ll face
demand-induced price pressure all of our own soon enough”.

With a small population and a limited domestic savings pool, Australia has a long tradition of accepting
and benefiting from foreign investment in capital-intensive sectors of the economy. The real estate sector
is no different: a dollar of Australian savings tied up in housing is a dollar that cannot be productively
invested elsewhere.
Other benefits of Chinese investment include the very real jobs created in Australia’s construction industry
and associated sectors such as housing appliances.

Are foreign investors breaking the rules?
Recent allegations that some foreign investors have skirted FIRB rules to purchase established housing
have attracted much media attention. This claim does nothing to undercut the benefits brought by foreign
investment. Rather, it is a complaint about existing rules not being enforced.

The intensity of enforcement is entirely at the discretion of Australian authorities. The FIRB reviews
around 2.5% of housing transactions to verify compliance. Simple economics says that scrutinising every
one of the 600,000 housing transactions each year would not be an efficient use of resources. The FIRB
employs the same risk management approach that Australian Customs uses when screening imports for
contraband and counterfeit products.
Another factor that troubles commentators about Chinese investment is that some of this money finds its
way to Australia via the “grey economy” or the “shadow banking system”.
But there is nothing sinister about it. China has a prominent informal financial system because its formal
banking sector functions so poorly. It regularly offers savers negative real returns and supplies a dearth of
credit to dynamic private sector firms.
Without an informal financial system to overcome these deficiencies, China’s growth would have been
much slower than it has been and Australia would be worse off as a result. Similarly, the flow of Chinese
capital to Australia would have been reduced and so too would the benefits received – there would be less
housing supply and fewer construction jobs.
Knee-jerk arguments blaming Chinese investors for high Aussie house prices may be refuted with hard
evidence. Unfortunately zombie ideas in economics have a habit of rising again.
James Laurenceson does not work for, consult to, own shares in or receive funding from any company or
organisation that would benefit from this article, and has no relevant affiliations.

NS

RE

c182 : Asset Transactions | ereal : Real Estate Markets | gmurd : Murder/Manslaughter | c18 : Ownership
Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic
Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gcrim : Crime/Courts |
ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

PUB The Conversation Media Group Limited
AN

Document CONVAU0020141014eaad00008

Page30of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.