Cover Story: Australia report 2014 - Rinehart's ore -some ambition

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Cover Story: Australia report 2014 - Rinehart's ore-some ambition

By Cherie Marriott
2,842 words
1 September 2014
Finance Asia
MEDFIN
4
English
Copyright 2014. Haymarket Media Limited. All rights reserved.

At Roy Hill in Australia's vast northwest Gina Rinehart is on the cusp of fulfilling a 20-year dream of
owning and operating an iron ore mine

Most of the passengers on the pre-dawn charter flight from Perth to Australia's remote Pilbara region are
fly-in fly-out construction workers dressed in high-visibility shirts. They doze behind dark sunglasses,
savouring memories of home leave and preparing for 14 straight days of 12-hour shifts.

In the front row sits Barry Fitzgerald, chief executive of Roy Hill Holdings and the man in charge of the
only major greenfield iron ore mine under development in Australia.

Around him are a couple of Roy Hill employees, three conservative senators, bankers from BNP Paribas
and National Australia Bank, a South Korean lawyer, a handful of journalists from Asian media outlets,
and two well-dressed women who even in this offbeat group seem a little out of place. They are later
introduced as the long-serving personal assistants of Gina Rinehart - chairperson of Hancock
Prospecting and Australia's richest person with a fortune of Adollars 20 billion (dollars 18.5 billion).
It is late-July 2014 and we have been invited on a tour of Roy Hill's Adollars 10 billion mine, the biggest
construction project underway in the country. Rinehart owns 70% of Roy Hill and our tour has been
timed to celebrate an important milestone - the first blast in a pit called Delta 2 where Rinehart will cut
her first iron ore and thus fulfil a 20-year dream of being an owner-operator.

Rinehart has been working towards this day since 1992 when she took over Hancock Prospecting from
her late father Lang Hancock and pegged out the Pilbara leases. The early years were spent channelling
her energies towards another tenement at Hope Downs but after several unsuccessful attempts at
finding a minority partner, Rinehart reluctantly signed a deal with Rio Tinto, giving Rio 50% of the asset
and operational control.

Royalties flowing from Hope Downs have funded Rinehart's pursuit of Roy Hill and in 2009 she hired
South Korean steelmaker Posco and fellow Korean investors STX Corp to conduct a Adollars 330
million feasibility study on the deposit. In 2012 - just after the global iron ore price peaked at dollars
181 a tonne - she sold 30% of the project to equity investors Marubeni Corp of Japan (which owns
15%), Posco (12.5%) and China Steel Corp of Taiwan (2.5%). The trio paid Adollars 3.2 billion for the
stake and secured rights to 28.75 million tonnes of annual iron ore offtake.
Finally, in March this year Rinehart closed a dollars 7.2 billion loan facility backed by five export credit
agencies and a consortium of 19 commercial banks from Australia, Japan, Europe, China, Korea and
Singapore.

'This is emotional. (My father) dedicated much of his adult life to what I've also been trying to do,'
Rinehart says, addressing members of our tour at a celebration dinner in the mine's camp later that day.
'You have to take some giant risks when you do a project like this and this is a project Australia can be
proud of.'

Vast resources

Page83of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Pilbara is a sparse, prehistoric plain covering 400,000 square kilometres in the middle of Western
Australia, about 1,200km northeast of Perth. With an average yearly rainfall of just 250mm the red earth
is quickly whipped up by the wind, covering everything in a fine film of crimson dust. Venomous snakes
bake in the searing sun, easily outnumbering the kangaroos and wild horses that forage in the brittle
spinifex.
Roy Hill sits on an ore body 34km long and 7km wide, or about twice the size of Hong Kong Island. At
the northern end of the tenement, at the site of Rinehart's new Delta pit, the ore body rises to the
surface and is visible underfoot. It then slopes away underground, below the water table. The deposit
contains an estimated 1 billion tonnes of high-grade material and 1.3 billion tonnes of low-grade
material, giving the mine a total lifespan of 20 years. At peak production it will produce 55 million tonnes
of iron ore a year, most of it is destined for Asia's steel mills.

'We will be shipping lump and fines product,' explains Fitzgerald as he marks out the boundaries of the
lease on a map. 'To prove the size and quality of the deposit we have completed 960,000 meters of core
drilling which is far beyond a project of comparable size.' The extensive drilling programme was needed
to convince financiers to back the venture.

A typical Pilbara blend is 62% grade, said Fitzgerald. 'Our product grades are around 61%, making us a
direct replacement for the major Pilbara producers such as Rio or BHP, and considerably above the
grades of other producers.'

Fitzgerald knows the numbers well having spent more than 30 years in the industry, including stints at
BHP and Citic Pacific's Sino Iron project near Karratha, elsewhere in the Pilbara. He has an easy-going
manner with his staff, talking amiably while kicking the dirt and welcoming feedback on his initiatives.
To prepare its ore for shipment, Roy Hill is building two enormous crushers, a water processing plant, a
power station, a heavy vehicle maintenance workshop, a giant tailings dam, and a train loader, all at
various stages of completion. The ore will be hauled from the pits to the crushers by a fleet of 80 giant
mining trucks, each worth Adollars 4 million and each fitted with six tyres at Adollars 40,000 apiece.
The fly-in fly-out miners will sleep in air-conditioned metal huts arranged in a ring-shaped camp on the
edges of the lease. The camp accommodates 2,000 people.
To get its ore to market, Roy Hill is building a 344km railway track to Port Hedland in the north. At peak
production, five trains a day will ply the route, each 2.5km long with capacity for 32,000 tonnes spread
across 234 wagons. At Port Hedland, work is underway on a huge stockyard, a railcar dumper and a
14km conveyer belt that will carry the ore to ships berthed at two purpose-built jetties. So far a total of
5.6 million cubic metres of mud has been dredged from the harbour floor to make it deep enough for the
tankers to manoeuvre.
Iron lady

It is easy to get carried away by the immense scale of the Roy Hill project and the sheer determination of
its mastermind, Gina Rinehart.
Rinehart lives and breathes mining and clearly has a nose for the business. It could be said she eats
risk for breakfast - making daily decisions that would leave the average person nauseous with anxiety.

Rinehart is an intensely private person and it is rare for journalists to be invited into her realm. We are
told she won't answer direct questions, nor will she discuss the ongoing court case with two of her four
children over control of the family trust.

Known as a tough negotiator, Rinehart isn't afraid to use her considerable wealth to exert political
influence. She has strong views about Australia's mining industry and believes it is critical for creating
jobs and generating income to pay back the country's debt. She is a staunch opponent of a government
tax on excess mining profits and has written columns and made online videos criticising the lazy attitude
of average Australians and promoting her idea of creating a dedicated economic zone in the north where
there would be fewer regulations and taxes.

Maybe it is Rinehart's brash style and her ability to play in a mainly male industry that has brought her to
the point where she can finally call herself an owner-miner. After all, it is one thing to inherit mining
leases with the promise of great wealth, and another thing to realise that wealth by staying the course
and convincing others to come along for the ride.
The road has had its bumps. Before Roy Hill secured its equity partners, the port authority at Port
Hedland handed two of Rinehart's four proposed berths to Fortescue and ordered her to begin dredging
works on the harbour or risk losing the berths altogether. There were also protracted negotiations over

Page84of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.access to existing rail facilities owned by BHP, until the discussions failed and Rinehart was forced to
borrow more debt to cover the cost of building a separate rail link.

On our visit to the mine she travels with a bodyguard and a small entourage of trusted advisors. One of
those is Tad Watroba, a mining engineer hired by Hancock more than 25 years ago and now an
executive director of the company and Rinehart's right-hand man. Another is Sydney-based Jason
Morrison, a former radio shock-jock who is said to be working with Rinehart on her recent attempts to
gain control of Fairfax Media, a publisher of influential newspapers in Australia. Hancock Prospecting
currently owns just under 15% of Fairfax.

Morrison is a fairly recent recruit and thinks Rinehart is fundamentally a nationalist, deeply committed to
developing Australia's resources and promoting ties with Asia. She has a particular interest in the
country's far north and in July this year purchased a Adollars 40 million stake in two vast cattle stations
in the Kimberley that sell processed beef and live cattle to overseas markets.

In her dinner speech Rinehart calls on the government to make Australia a more competitive place to do
business, starting with the repeal of the mining profits tax. 'It's not about making Gina richer, or anything
short-sighted like that. It's about making our country sustainable in world markets,' she says.

Rinehart tells us she is particularly delighted to have her daughter Ginia on the trip. The 27-year-old is
tipped as Rinehart's most likely successor and is being schooled in the business of mining. 'I'm thrilled
to bits Ginia is here,' she says. 'It's lovely because one, she's my daughter and two, the next generation.
These are the types of projects the next generation needs and this project, so long as we keep costs
down and get our act together, will be around for decades.'

Ginia films the speech on her iPhone and as her mother sits down, the pair exchange kisses.

Bank support
The five export credit agencies and 19 commercial banks behind Roy Hill's financing package
committed to the loan back in December 2013 but took another four months to iron out the detail. While
they share Rinehart's vision, they are also hedging their bets by setting construction targets and
imposing strict funding management controls.
The export credit agencies from Korea, Japan and the US have also insisted Roy Hillbuy equipment
from their various local companies such as Caterpillar trucks, Hitachi excavators, Nippon Steel rail
tracks, and Posco-supplied workers' huts.

Early negotiations with lenders also specified a preference for a full-liability end-to-end engineering and
construction contract to be awarded a third-party builder. Both Posco E&C and Samsung C&T bid for the
Adollars 5.6 billion contract and in March last year Samsung won, putting it in charge of delivering the
mine as well as the railway and port infrastructure. The fixed-priced nature of the contract means
Samsung has to swallow any cost overruns.
The first shipment of ore is due to leave Roy Hill in September next year and, after that, the loan calls for
a 30-month ramp-up to full production. 'We're hoping we can do it quicker than that,' said Fitzgerald. 'If
we are ahead of schedule we get revenue sooner and we reduce our holding and operating costs.'

Beyond construction, Roy Hill's ability to meet interest payments will be determined by the price it
receives for its iron ore and its efforts to keep a lid on production costs. Sources close to the funding
package say there is 'plenty of slack' between current iron ore prices at dollars 92 a tonne and Roy Hill's
all-in cash costs. While these numbers have been revealed to FinanceAsia, they are not public.
Fitzgerald won't be drawn on the topic, confirming only that independent assessments place Roy Hill at
the 'lower quartile of production costs'.

A Melbourne-based project finance source said there is a 'sufficient cashflow buffer before the banks
start to get nervous', adding the buffer is larger than the one negotiated in Fortescue's loan facility and
'Fortescue is producing a lower-grade product than Roy Hill'.

'The biggest variable in the cost structure is diesel,' said the source. 'Mines use a lot of diesel in their
heavy vehicle and rail operations.'

The other large variable is labour but here too Roy Hill is benefiting from a sector-wide reduction in pay
scales and a series of retrenchments at BHP and Rio. Fitzgerald said when Roy Hill recently advertised
for a geologist it received hundreds of applications - a scenario that would have been unheard of three
years ago when mine operators were paying twice the average national salary to attract truck drivers.

Page85of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Still, Roy Hill is by no means a low-risk venture. Commodity markets are fickle and the iron ore price is
tracking lower. According to a survey of 60 mining executives conducted by Newport Consulting in July,
sentiment is at a five-year low with 93% of executives indicating they are not optimistic about growth
prospects for the next 12 months.
Those hardest hit by the cyclical downturn are the junior miners with lower-grade ore deposits and
higher shipping costs. Big miners like BHP and Rio have been compensating by cutting costs and
driving for higher production volumes. Both have reported double-digit increases in their Western
Australian output in the past year.

Fortescue's average price per tonne in the June quarter was dollars 82, a 20% discount on the
benchmark price, and there are rumours it is currently negotiating with contractors to rewrite agreements
that were made at the top of the cycle.

With new mines starting up in countries from Brazil to the Republic of Congo, Roy Hill will be selling its
product into a saturated market. Some commentators predict global iron ore demand will be lower than
global supply for the next five years. 'There is room in the market for Roy Hill, but only from 2019
onwards,' said Paul Gray, an analyst with consultancy Wood Mackenzie, in an interview with Dow Jones
in March.

Low cost producer

Unable to control market forces, Roy Hill is focused on costs and Fitzgerald talks about what is being
done to save time and money. The company will process its ore through a wet plant rather than a
less-reliable dry plant, and conveyer belts are being installed to ferry ore around the processing yards so
fewer trucks are needed. To ensure the consistency of its product, and therefore lift its average sale
price, Roy Hill will take care when blending its shipments. 'Our port access limits our annual output to 55
million tonnes a year so we can spend time blending the ore to maximise our price per tonne and
extend the life of our reserves,' Fitzgerald said.

To boost worker productivity Rinehart has built her own airport to lessen the time it takes for fly-in
workers to be on the job and has introduced a new 14-day roster system in place of the 10-day system
used by other operators. There are also reports workers have been offered a 'no strike' bonus to
discourage industrial action.

If Rinehart's careful planning pays off, the revenue from Roy Hill will flow thick and fast, adding to her
already enormous wealth.

As we prepare to leave the mine, a worker serving coffee at the airport wants to know if one day he will
be able to buy shares in the business. He is taken by the scale of the project and believes in 'getting in
at the ground floor' on opportunities like these.

I put this question about a possible initial public offering to one of Rinehart's entourage. 'I can't see it
happening,' he says. 'Not while Gina is still alive, and probably not under Ginia's reign either.'

- Five trains a day will leave the mine, each 2.5km long with capacity for 32,000 tonnes spread across
234 wagons
Dollars 92 - Current per tonne price of iron ore versus peak of dollars 181
20 Years - Roy Hill has 2.3 billion tonnes of ore and a lifespan of 20 years

--------------------

Did you find this article useful? Why not subscribe to the magazine? Please call 08451 55 73 55 for
more information or visit www.haysubs.com

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

pohn : Posco Co
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | isteel : Steel Production
npag : Page-One Stories | ncat : Content Types
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Haymarket Media Limited
Document MEDFIN0020140916ea9100002

Page86of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.