Manors made for boom state

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

RealEstate
Manors made for boom state

614 words
4 May 2014
The Sunday Times (Perth)
SUNTIP
SundayTimesRE
11
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Rustic estates on Perth’s outer rim have hit the market and are attracting the business elite from
around the world. CLAIRE BICKERS reports .

A STRING of luxury country homes have hit the property market in the past few months, following the
sale of embattled billionaire Ric Stowe’s sprawling Bullsbrook mansion late last year.

Featuring 20 rooms, eight bathrooms, two pools, two helicopter pads and a polo field, the majestic
Devereaux Farm, once valued at nearly $70 million, sold to mining services business owner Luke
Herbert for $21.35 million in October.

A dozen or so of Perth’s stately semi-rural homes, with land of more than 200ha in some cases and
features such as indoor lap pools, libraries and expansive wine cellars, are currently up for sale.

Garland International principal John Garland said more had been listed in the past three months than
was usual for this time of year.

Sellers would normally wait until the season had broken and all the paddocks were green before putting
their homes on the market, Mr Garland said.

But more were listing because of WA’s transitioning economy and the desire to downsize.

Increased confidence from big sales, such as Devereaux Farm, and the addition of more buyers to the
market were also key, Mr Garland said.
“There are people who are relocating due to the mining downturn, and there are more properties on
the market,” Mr Garland said. “But on the flip side of that with the oil and gas interest looking to be big
or bigger than the mining interest, there are people looking to shift here for that.” Other buyers who
required “something above the norm” were businessmen who had found success in WA’s mining boom
and overseas buyers.
Buyers from South-East Asia, India, China, Europe, South Africa, and some from Canada and the
USA, were looking to WA’s big estates for space, lifestyle and future capital growth, Mr Garland said.
“Buyers are looking at places from 30 minutes from the city to an hour from the city,” he said. “They
don’t need to be traditionally located in the western suburbs.” Elders Real Estate agent Ian Henry said
Perth’s big estates weren’t “running out the door”, but prices were down on the height of the boom. Mr
Henry said the homes were often used by Perth’s business elite as second homes or holiday
getaways as an alternative to a long drive “down south”.

For buyers seeking a big semi-rural property without the hefty price tag, there are nearly 100 homes of
2ha or more on the market for less than $1 million.

But the blocks were not for aspiring developers.

Page74of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Chair of the Urban Development Institute of Australia’s planning committee Jane Bennett said in most
cases just one home could be put on a block, regardless of size.

“Sometimes an ancillary dwelling can be built,” Ms Bennett said. “In a rural setting that might be a
cottage separate to the main house.” Ms Bennett said anyone hoping to subdivide and develop should
talk to their council or look up its town planning scheme, as regulations were different in almost every
location.

Other policies which could affect planning were lot size, where amenities such sewage and water were
located and bushfire provisions.

Ms Bennett said the recent gazetting of Mundaring’s town planning scheme indicated a shift towards
standardising the rules, but nothing had been articulated by the Department of Planning.

Properties of 2ha or more within an hour of Perth:Under $1m - about 90$1m - $2m - about 130$2m -
$3m - about 20$3m+ - about 10

NS

RE

PUB
AN

ereal : Real Estate Markets | greest : Real Estate/Property | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators |
ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | perth : Perth | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document SUNTIP0020140506ea54000e2

Page75of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.