Asian developers seek piece of the action

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PrimeSpace
Asian developers seek piece of the action

Rosanne Barrett, DEVELOPMENT
304 words
17 July 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian3
27
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

INTERNATIONAL developers with multi-billion-dollar backing have scoped southeast Queensland sites
on a trade delegation ahead of the G20 leaders’ forum.
Representatives from Chinese development giants Country Garden, Royal Duke, the Fullshare Group,
the Yihe Group and MTR Corporation toured three southeast Queensland projects along with
delegates from Japanese Daikyo group and Jetro, the Australia-based Taiwan-backed Shayher Group,
and Korean Hyundai Steel.

Country Garden is investigating major development sites of 100ha, mainly around the Gold Coast.

Q20 member Chris Freeman, who is chairman of Watpac, said the delegates appreciated the tour of the
master-planned community at Greater Springfield, urban renewal projects in Newstead and Tenerife
and the recreation precinct at Southbank.

“They saw a lot of relevance particularly in terms of the master plan at Springfield and urban renewal,”
Mr Freeman said.
“The group was interested in all forms of residential. Some are already doing work in other states and
certainly they are keen to look at Queensland.” He said follow-up meetings had already been arranged.

Q20 was formed to promote Queensland business ahead of the G20 leaders’ forum in Brisbane in
November.

Springfield managing director Raynuha Sinnathamby said: “The delegates were interested in everything
going on here from low to high-level residential, hotels and the health area, including our plans for
aged care.” China’s Fullshare Group is undertaking the redevelopment of Port Douglas’ Mirage resort
— built by Christopher Skase — and owns a tourism site near Airlie Beach. Another Chinese
company Royal Duke has already bought the Cherrabah Hotel near Warwick with plans for a
redevelopment of the country tourism venture.Country Garden, which last month sold $186m in
presales for its Sydney North Ryde high-rise project, is also scouting for Queensland sites

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

inste : Hyundai Steel Company | mtrc : MTR Corporation Ltd
i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i721 : Urban/Commuter Transit | i72101 : Urban
Mass Transit Systems | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | irailtr : Road/Rail Transport | isteel : Steel
Production | itsp : Transportation/Shipping
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140717ea7h00007

Page176of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.