Abbott, Xi finalise free-trade deal

Abbott, Xi finalise free-trade deal

The Australian

HD
CR
WC 1,100 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

17 November 2014
13:20
theAustralian.com.au
NLAUSW
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

TD

TONY Abbott and Xi Jinping have officially concluded negotiations over a historic free-trade pact.
Trade Minister Andrew Robb and his Chinese counterpart, Gao Hucheng, will this afternoon sign a
“declaration of intent” on the deal which will dramatically increase market access for Australian farmers,
services and manufacturers.

Mr Xi will address parliament this afternoon ahead of visiting Tasmania to inspect agricultural operations
expected to receive a significant boost in Chinese investment as part of the agreement.
Under the deal, 85 per cent of all Australian exports will enter China tariff-free.

This is expected to rise to 93 per cent within four years and 95 per cent when the deal is fully in force in
more than a decade.
The deal has put to one side any changes to contentious issues, such as the requirement that all Chinese
state-owned enterprise investments in Australia are subject to Foreign Investment Review Board
approval, and increased access to the Chinese market for Australian rice, sugar, wheat and cotton.

These issues will be revisited in three years when the deal is reviewed by both governments.

The deal will ease the concerns of some coalminers; the newly imposed 3 per cent tariff on coking coal
exports worth $6bn will be abolished as soon as the agreement takes effect. But surprisingly, the 6 per
cent tariff on thermal and other coal will be phased out over two years instead of immediately.

Mr Abbott this morning said: “As a result of my meeting with His Excellency Xi Jinping, President of the
People’s Republic of China, in Canberra this morning, I am pleased to announce the completion of
negotiations for a China-Australia Free Trade Agreement.
“Trade and Investment Minister Andrew Robb and Chinese Commerce Minister Gao Hucheng will sign a
Declaration of Intent this afternoon, undertaking to prepare the legal texts in both languages for signature.

“I look forward to making further announcements on this landmark agreement later today.”
Mr Abbott earlier played down fears about Chinese state-owned companies buying every stage of the
supply chain for agricultural goods.

“I do understand that people are always anxious at what is being referred to as selling off the farm, but …
no one can buy land unless the person who currently owns the land wants to sell, and presumably you
only want to sell to an overseas buyer because the overseas buyer is offering a better price,” the Prime
Minister said, under pressure from 2GB’s Alan Jones.

“Many voters disagree with many things that many governments do but this free trade agreement with
China has been on the go since about 2004.

“It’s going to be signed but it won’t actually come into force until firstly it goes to the parliamentary
committee on treaties, been tabled in the parliament and almost certainly legislation for some aspects of it
will have to be passed.

Page31of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“This is very good for Australian agriculture. It’s at least as good for our agriculture as New Zealand got
about six or seven years ago, and their dairy exports to China have gone up from under $500 million to
over $3 billion.”
Asked if an Australian could buy land in China, Mr Abbott said: “I’m no expert on land ownership
arrangements in China, but China is still run by the Communist Party; I’m not sure that anyone is that
able to own land in China on an individual basis.”

As revealed by The Australian, the deal, negotiated by Trade Minister Andrew Robb after agreements with
Japan and South Korea, provides new opportunities for Australian services and phases down tariffs on
metals, resources exports and agricultural products.
Beef and dairy producers are set to win a phase-down in Chinese tariffs, with dairy exports moving to a
similar tariff reduction schedule as New Zealand.

The wool quota will be increased and tariffs will be phased down over four years on a range of
horticultural exports from mangoes to nuts and potatoes.
The Australian understands beef exports to China are set to gain a multi-billion-dollar boost.
The deal will allow direct investment in China by hotel and tourism operations in Chinese hotels and
restaurants. Australian health and aged-care providers will be allowed to own Chinese hospitals and
aged-care facilities.

Australia held the line on its requirement that all investments by state-owned enterprises be examined by
the FIRB, despite China’s request for an exemption. In turn China has held firm against increased
access for Australian rice, sugar, wheat and cotton.
However, Australia has lifted the threshold for FIRB review of investment by privately held Chinese firms
from $248 million to $1.087bn in line with concessions in other such deals. The agreement with China
allows room for Australia to impose a $15m FIRB threshold for agricultural land and a $53m threshold for
agribusiness.

The deal will include some relaxing of the threshold for the size of projects that will be able to import
Chinese labour.
But in line with existing regulations, Chinese companies conducting major projects in Australia will have
to prove there is a skills shortage and will be required to give imported Chinese workers Australian wages
and conditions.
Today’s deal comes after 10 years of negotiations with China and gives the government a trifecta of trade
agreements this year, after the deals with Japan and South Korea.
It will cement China’s relationship as Australia’s biggest trading partner, with two-way trade worth more
than $150bn a year.
Initial feasibility studies for an agreement with China indicated a deal would increase the size of the
Australian economy by $18bn over a decade. However, this figure is now seen as “conservative’’.

The deal will dramatically expand opportunities for bankers, insurance companies and legal firms. Banks
will gain increased transparency and streamlining in financial services licence applications, including
reduced approval times for firms wanting to trade in the Chinese currency.
Legal firms will be able to establish commercial operations in the Shanghai free-trade zone that will be
allowed to service the whole of China.

Architectural and urban planning professionals will gain reciprocal recognition of their qualifications.
Educational institutions and training providers will win increased promotion from the Chinese government.
The number of educational providers that will be promoted by the Chinese government will be increased
from 77 to 105 under the agreement.

The Australian understands that the deal will eliminate tariffs on 99.9 per cent of resources exports to
China when it is fully implemented.

NS

c312 : External Markets | gtrade : Tariffs/Trade Barriers | e512 : Physical Trade | c31 : Marketing/Markets
| ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News | gcat :

Page32of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

Political/General News | gdip : International Relations | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document NLAUSW0020141117eabh00007

Page33of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.