Neal is rapidly running out of cover

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Neal is rapidly running out of cover

John Durie
1,212 words
30 July 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
19
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

QBE chief executive John Neal QBE boss John Neal knows yesterday was it in terms of self-inflicted
profit downgrades, but his credibility is not yet shot after averaging a downgrade every 4.8 months in
his nearly two years at the company.

No one thinks he is trying to be anything but conservative or he is trying to hide things from the
market, but in this case he was caught being too sure the problems were fixed when plainly they were
not.

“I don’t think we can afford any more downgrades,” he confided, after handing down his fifth in 23
months.

At the same time, he said the market was not appreciating the fact his key books in Australia, the US
and Europe had turned the corner. But the trouble is, with his track record, the market will take some
time to take anything the company says too seriously.

He was hit with a perfect storm when he took the job back in 2012, and the long hoped for
macro-economic boost via higher interest rates is still at least a year off if US Federal Reserve
chairwoman Janet Yellen is right in her forecasts.

So Neal is confronted with chronically weak economies, low bond yields and the wrong side of the
insurance cycle.
It will turn, but having confided revenue as measured by gross written premiums at $8.5 billion will fall
short of market and his own estimates, there will be downgrades this year and next. Since taking the
helm at the one-time market darling, Neal has presided over a massive 58 per cent underperformance
in his stock price.

Just what has gone wrong is a combination of bad luck, catastrophe claims such as the European
floods and what would seem to be basic management error.

This time Latin America is in the firing line and in particular Argentinian workers’ compensation claims,
which will cost $170 million.

Stuff happens, but it’s the rapidity of the downgrades that is starting to raise doubts, when you
consider that just last December the company reviewed its books and reportedly covered all the
problem spots.

That was the last downgrade before today.

Argentinian inflation and changes to the workers’ compensation laws are not exactly out of the
ordinary.

Neal has made management changes, with Asian boss David Fried to assume responsibility for Latin
America, which means, hopefully, he has someone who can keep a closer eye on the business.

Page50of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In insurance terms, a combined operating ratio of 100 is break even and the market was expecting
QBE to come in at 93, which means a profit margin of more than 7 per cent. Now the operating ratio
will be closer to 97 and the margin at 7 per cent against consensus at 10 per cent.

Net profit for the half will be closer to $US390m ($415m) against the $US520m the market was looking
for.

The rugby-loving Neal keeps saying he hopes this will be the last downgrade, and he is right to hope
because on the next one like this he will be gone.

At some point, enough will be enough.

Come October, when the US Fed stops injecting liquidity into the US economy, volatility will increase
and by the middle of next year, when US rates are tipped to rise, then at least the macro picture will be
better for Neal.

He certainly needs something to fall his way.

Market threat COMPLACENCY is the biggest threat to the global market, according to Mike Trudel,
the strategist at BlackRock’s $US100 billion Global Allocation fund.

The fund is managed from a textbook allocation of 60 per cent global stocks and 40 per cent fixed
income, with roughly 60 per cent of each asset class invested in the US and the rest offshore.

Right now the fund is underweight the US and overweight Japan and Europe, in part because the US
Fed is ahead of both markets in terms of stepping out of the market and closer to raising rates again.

Come October, when the Fed tapering program is due to end, Trudel expects volatility will increase
heading into the middle of next year when the Fed is expected to start raising rates again.

The massive injections in liquidity from the Fed, Bank of Japan and the European Central Bank have
helped create a market extraordinarily free of volatility, but this starts to change when the Fed
completes its program in three months.

Just how the Fed handles any threat of inflation will set the tone for the market.

Trudel cautions inflation may represent a danger and says, even though wage inflation has been
nonexistent, there are signs that some companies are finding it hard to get staff.

The risk is the Fed has overshot in being too accommodative, he says. The BlackRock fund is
underweight the US because he can see better value offshore.

The relative positions of central banks is one factor but the US stockmarket is trading at 16 times
forecast earnings, which is not cheap, and when you look at some alternative views such as the
cyclical ratio of Yale’s Robert Shiller the multiple is more like 26 times.

The ratio is based on inflation- adjusted earnings over the past 10 years. Trudel’s fund is based in
New Jersey with 45 people managing more than 500 stocks in 40 countries, working on a bottom-up
basis but with a heavy overlay of macroeconomics to adjust company expectations.

The fund is bullish on materials, including the likes of BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto, based on the fact the
market has overemphasised the slowdown in China, energy and healthcare.

Australian banks are considered relatively expensive.

Amcor’s dilemma ONE question facing Amcor boss Ken MacKenzie is whether he should chase
growth in Asia, where he is considered underweight, or Europe, where he’s already strong so any deal
reaps significant synergy benefits.
Private equity controlled, Austrian-based Constantia Flexibles, which pulled a proposed $US1.1bn
float late last year, is one long rumoured candidate.

Woodside vote THE debate over Woodside’s decision to direct over 30 per cent of its franking credits
to Shell via a selective buyback will be decided on Friday and votes are now presumably locked in. It
should be said the company has done precisely the right thing by buying back the shares, subject to
shareholder agreement, with the deal poised to leave Shell with just 4.5 per cent of the stock.
Shell was a known seller of its 23 per cent stake and the issue was just who wanted it off the register
faster: shareholders fearing an overhang or management wanting to clean up loose ends. Arguably

Page51of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.the latter has more to gain but the franking credits are worth something to all shareholders. ACSI
argues, rightly, that Shell is being treated differently from other shareholders and by definition this is
bad corporate governance unless shown otherwise.

Surprisingly the Australian Shareholders Association has backed this deal when history would suggest
it might push for an open buyback.Friday will see if the board was successful in convincing
shareholders of the commercial merits of an in-principle bad deal.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

fed : Federal Reserve Board | auspam : Amcor Ltd | qbeibp : QBE Insurance Group Ltd
i82 : Insurance | i82001 : Full-line Insurance | ifinal : Financial Services | iindstrls : Industrial Goods |
ipap : Packaging
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140729ea7u0000q

Page52of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.