Treasury is ripe for the picking

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Treasury is ripe for the picking

Michael Smith
1,376 words
21 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
32
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Michael Smith
The performance of Treasury Wine Estates (TWE) over the past year has had more than a few
shareholders reaching for the bottle so it should not be a huge surprise that an opportunistic private
equity firm has as come knocking.

The winemaker, which produces Penfolds and Lindeman's, dropped a bombshell on Tuesday with
news that it had knocked back a $3.1 billion takeover offer from Kohlberg Kravis Roberts (KKR).

The sudden decision to reveal an approach made more than a month ago is even more intriguing given
the company has spent the past week denying reports it had received approaches from Constellation
Capital and others for its struggling US operations.

The trigger was KKR's decision to talk a number of TWE's shareholders about the approach, which
chief executive Michael Clarke describes as a "leak" which obligated the company to inform the
market.

TWE has been a constant subject of takeover speculation since the day it was spun out of Foster's in
2011 but there is a sense of inevitability it will be taken out this time round.
KKR is the latest in a string of private equity and potential trade buyers linked to a company which
has lost the confidence of investors following a string of profit downgrades, a pricing stuff-up over
Christmas and a messy management transition under chairman Paul Raynor.
Another private equity firm, Cerberus, offered Foster's $2.3 billion to $2.7 billion for the wine
business when it was still owned by Foster's in 2010. TPG, which made a packet selling Beringer to
Foster's in 2000, and TPG have also reportedly looked at the company.
More recently, the talk has focused TWE's troubled US operations. TWE last week played down
reports Constellation Brands and premium beverage groupPernod Ricard were looking at its North
American business. At the time, TWE did not see the need to mention the fact that KKR had made an
offer for the entire business.
That approach was rejected, but the company looks riper than ever for a takeover bid. This is reflected
by an 18 per cent jump in the company's share price which closed at $4.80 on Tuesday following
news that KKR had come knocking.
Comparisons will be made to bread maker Goodman Fielder which last week bowed to a modest
takeover offer from two Asian investors who took advantage of the company's weak share price. A
string of earnings downgrades and lack of confidence in the future meant key Goodman Fielder
investors were willing to sell their stakes even though the premium was not as high as they would have
liked.

Page92of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The difference with a suitor such as KKR is that the private equity firm does not have a track record
of engaging in hostile takeover bids. It prefers to avoid bad blood and negotiate on good terms with a
target board, although talking to shareholders has had the opposite affect.
KKR made a non-binding and indicative $4.70 cash bid for the company, one that would imply a value
of $3.05 billion. That was rejected by TWE on April 16 when the stock was trading a $3.70, which
meant the offer represented a 27 per cent premium at the time.

While both sides agreed to keep the engagement confidential, TWE spat the dummy after KKR spoke
to a number of its investors about the offer. Both sides have different opinions about whether the cone
of silence has been breached or not.

TWE chief executive Clarke says by doing so KKR broke the terms of that confidentiality and it decided
to announce the approach to ensure the market was informed. In a conference call late on Tuesday he
said TWE did engage with KKR and suggested there would have been continued dialogue if there had
not been a "leak".

KKR disputes this, saying there was never a formal non-disclosure agreement with TWE in the first
place. Second, talks between its advisers and the shareholders were on a confidential basis and would
not have been made public anyway.

Whatever the motive was for going public, the process highlights the minefield companies face when it
comes to disclosure obligations. While it was not technically obligated to disclose the approach, the
company selectively left out the fact it had been sitting on a $3 billion offer while denying talk
Constellation was looking at the US operations.

A hastily issued press release, which initially said the proposal was received in 2016, highlights how
quickly things moved from being an amicable discussion to a dispute over confidentiality.
The key now is TWE's shareholders who can pressure Raynor to engage with the private equity firm,
hopefully to agitate for a higher offer. Clarke appeared to be leaving the door open for further talks.
There are several schools of thought. The company could take the money and run, sell of the
US operations or pursue Clarke's promise to turn things around.

The decision to disclose the KKR approach also forced Clarke to fast-forward an announcement
around cost cutting and plans to ramp up its consumer market spending. It is targeting $35 million in
cost savings in financial 2015, which will involve cutting 5 per cent of its 3500-plus workforce. The
company has not exactly issued an earnings downgrade but it may as well have given the downbeat
tone of Clarke's commentary, which avoided committing to the numbers either way.
The next six weeks of trading are crucial for the company's outlook, but at the same time Clarke wants
investors to take a longer-term approach when judging the company's potential value. UBS is
forecasting 2014 earning of $182 million compared with TWE's guidance of $190 million to
$210 million.
Clarke's strategy rests on investing in the company's luxury brands and has identified spending
priorities for 20 of its 83 brands. He still views the US business as a growth platform.

It is still early days for Clarke, who has only been in the top job for seven weeks and Tuesday's
conference call with investors will do little to resurrect confidence in the company. He says there are
still some other structural changes he is working on but not ready to announce yet, while trading in
Australia is challenging.

The strategic rationale behind KKR's interest is TWE's strong luxury brands with Penfolds the absolute
jewel in the crown. The private equity firm does not view the company as an Australian-specific
acquisition but likes TWE for the ability to sell its brands more effectively into Asia and China in
particular. A break-up is inevitable under private equity ownership and there appears to be no
shortage of buyers for the US operations.
There is clearly scope for KKR to go higher. Morgan Stanley analysts note that wine assets tend to
trade on high multiples given their strategic value. The median of the past 24 wine transactions is
13.2x trailing EBITDA, which imply $5.18 a share for TWE.The bid will put the spotlight back on to
Raynor-installed director Warwick Every-Burns as an interim chief executive after sacking former chief
David Dearie in mid-2013. This followed an embarrassing $160 million write-down on the
US business where six million bottles of low-priced wine were destroyed.
Goldman Sachs is advising Treasury Wine, while Nomura is advising KKR.

Page93of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Unable to afford to take out Duet Group in a takeover bid, Spark Infrastructure is positioning itself for
next round of consolidation in the energy space by buying a strategic stake in its rival.
Spark boss Rick Francis has been keen to do a big deal since he came on board in 2012. After losing
out on the NSW desalination plant sale and passing on the Moomba-Adelaide gas line deal, Francis
has been scouting the market for deals.

While some analysts question Spark's motives, the deal looks like it gives them a seat at the table if
there is another round of consolidation.

michael.smith@afr.com.au Twitter @MikeSmithAFR

Matthew Stevens is on leave

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

kkr : KKR & Co. L.P. | trzwn : Treasury Wine Estates Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i426 : Wine | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150203 :
Private Equity | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ialtinv : Alternative Investments | ibevrge :
Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c18 : Ownership Changes |
cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140520ea5l00008

Page94of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.