Report: Fortescue management undergoing restructuring

Report: Fortescue management undergoing restructuring

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
VOL Issue: 83267
LA
CY
LP

Angela Kean
327 words
4 December 2014
SNL Metals & Mining Daily: East Edition
SNLMMDE

English
Copyright 2014. SNL Financial LC

Australian iron ore producer Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. has reduced its management team by three
not long after announcing cuts to its 2015 financial year CapEx, according to a Dec. 3 report by The West
Australian.

Peter Meurs is reportedly taking a two-month break from his role as development director, while shared
services director Peter Thomas and health, safety, environment and security director Isak Buitendag will
step down from their respective roles.

According to The West Australian, it is not known what role Meurs, who vacated his position as managing
director of WorleyParsons in 2010 to head Fortescue's expansion and development projects, will return to
following his leave.

A spokesman confirmed the departures to the publication, saying it was "part of the normal evolution of
our business and not a reaction to the market environment or performance related."

"We made the decision to restructure the senior levels of the organization in a way that will allow us to be
even more flexible and adaptive moving forward," he said.

Fortescue revealed in late November that it lowered its capital expenditure expectations for the 2015
financial year to US$650 million, from US$1.3 billion previously.
The company maintained its production guidance at 155 million tonnes to 160 million tonnes shipped
with a continued focus on maximizing production through its existing mines and infrastructure.

Fortescue is set to further reduce its headcount, with CEO Neville Power reportedly confirming more jobs
will go in the coming months.
"I'm not sure exactly of the numbers, and that will happen progressively over a couple of months because
we'll … shut down that work at sensible places to stop it," he was quoted as saying by The West
Australian.
Fortescue also wants to bolster its balance sheet with the sale of some of the ore carriers ordered from a
Chinese shipyard at a cost of about US$275 million earlier in 2014.

ambol : Fortescue Metals Group Ltd | woraus : Worleyparsons Limited
i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i1 : Energy |
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c411 : Management Moves | c41 : Management | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types |
nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

TD

CO
IN

NS

RE
IPD Management
PUB SNL Financial LC
AN

Document SNLMMDE020141209eac40000o

Page158of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.