New road rules ahead

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
New road rules ahead

Mark Ludlow
1,273 words
1 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
52
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Infrastructure A new funding deal will give states an extra incentive to sell public assets but will it spur
on NSW and Queensland to sell, writes Mark Ludlow.

When state premiers gather in Canberra on Friday to sign off on an infrastructure deal at the Council of
Australian Governments meeting, all eyes will be on the NSW and Queensland governments.

The funding deal engineered by federal Treasurer Joe Hockey will give states an extra incentive to sell
their public assets – with a 15 per cent top-up in Commonwealth funding if the proceeds of privatisation
are tipped into much-needed infrastructure projects. But whether the new funding deal will be the
catalyst to kick-start for the Queensland and NSW governments to finally embrace privatisation of
state-owned companies remains to be seen.

Newly-appointed NSW Premier Mike Baird – who drove the concept of rewarding states for privatisting
assets, jumped the gun on his interstate counterparts on Wednesday by announcing the $1.75 billion
sale of the Port of Newcastle. Unlike his predecessor, Baird appears more ready to embrace the need
for asset sales as a way to repair state government balance sheet, or more importantly, to free-up
funds to be used on new infrastructure investment.

After the Port of Newcastle, the state's electricity network companies, which could reap the state
government up to $47 billion according to analysts, are expected to be next cab off the rank. But a
spokesman for the Premier says no decision has been made.

Under the Hockey deal, states will have a two-year window to earmark assets to be sold with the
proceeds to be used to invest in new infrastructure projects. The 15 per cent top-up would be in
addition to what the Commonwealth would already contribute to the project.
With the mining investment tapering off in the next few years, especially the big gas projects in
Gladstone, public infrastructure spending will need to be ramped up to pick up the slack. Most other
states have already sold the bulk of their state-owned assets, with Victoria engaging in a $30 billion
sell-off of its electricity, gas and transport assets under the Kennett conservative government in the
mid-1990s.

The politics of assets sales has partly been responsible for NSW and Queensland for baulking at
pushing through privatisation. Former NSW premier Morris Iemma was rolled as leader by the ALP's
right after he attempted a sell-off of the state's poles and wires network in 2008. In Queensland, former
premier Anna Bligh bit the bullet and launched a $15 billion privatisation program in 2009. Assets
including the partial-privatisation of Queensland Rail, the Port of Brisbane and the state forestry
plantations.

Bligh may have had the courage to push through the reforms, but the asset sales were seen as partly
responsible for her government's demise in 2012, given the privatisation was sprung on voters just after
the 2009 election. This has shaped Queensland Premier Campbell Newman's cautious approach to

Page4of6©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.asset sales in his Liberal National Party government's first term in office. He has already flatly ruled out
the sale of the state-owned energy companies, Energex, Ergon Energy and Powerlink , even though
they would deliver between $30 billion to $40 billion to pay off debt or re-direct funds to build new
infrastructure.
It has forced Queensland Treasurer Tim Nicholls to come up with the idea of private equity injections
for the state-owned electricity network companies – an idea which has been panned by analysts as an
unattractive option for investors.

But Hockey's plans to reward states for using the proceeds of asset sales towards new capital works
programs could be the catalyst the states need to push through much-needed reforms, according to
Infrastructure Partnerships Australia executive director Brendan Lyon.

"These things are always a momentum gain," he says. "If you look at big asset reforms done in the
1990 s and 2000s, it was the use of competition payments that incentivised the states to do it.

"It [the plan] makes sense . It recognises the funding challenge states are in and it reward states for
doing something hard."

Victorian Treasurer Michael O'Brien recently bemoaned the fact the incentives could not be applied
retrospectively for a states like Victoria and South Australia which have already done the hard yards on
reform. But $1 billion of new federal funding for the second stage of Melbourne's East West Link
announced on Tuesday will help ease some of Victoria's pain. The sale of the Port of Melbourne, one
of the few prized assets in public ownership, could also help them put their hands up for the new
infrastructure incentive.

But there will be some short-term financial pain under the scheme, including the loss of dividends and
tax-equivalent payments from government-owned corporations – a revenue stream which state
governments had become increasingly reliant on over the past few years.

The Abbott government has yet to announce the final details of the infrastructure plan, but it is
expected to announce the new funding will be excluded from existing formulas used by the
Commonwealth Grants Commission to allocate revenue to the states. One of the problems of the
former federal Labor government's Building Australia Fund was states were penalised for receiving
funding for big projects, through the loss tax and equivalent payments.

A letter from Hockey to the Commonwealth Grants Commission to exclude the new funding from their
carve-up of GST funding would help insure states aren't penalised for building new infrastructure. It
may not cover the full loss of tax equivalent payments but it's a move in the right direction and will
encourage states to reallocate money to key capital works programs. Lyon says the tough budgetary
position of states was making privatisation a more attractive option for voters, as opposed to tax
increases or cuts to government services.
He cites the muted opposition to the Port of Newcastle sale as evidence of the shifting tides. "What this
shows is that the community has moved on this issue," he says.

"The mild discomfort at the reform of public assets has been replaced by mounting frustration at the
journey times when community and the cost of infrastructure services like electricity."

Former NSW premier and privatisation advocate Nick Greiner says the Hockey plan was a significant
incentive, saying state government needed incentives more than ever to undertake tough reform. "I
think Paul Keating's line about not standing between premiers and a bucket of money is more true now
than when he said it because the position of states has deteriorated," he says. "They all know the
longer they hold the assets the more the value will erode."

More importantly, says Greiner, is the need for politicians to sell the benefits of the new infrastructure
spending.

"I think what the politicians have realised is it's not about asset sales, but what Mike Baird calls asset
recycling," he says. "The truth is if you say you're undertaking micro-economic reform and enhancing
productivity they [the public] will be unimpressed.
Baird says the sale of the Port of Newcastle to Hastings Fund Management and Chinese corporation
Chinese Merchants showed not only was there was a strong appetite for infrastructure assets, but that
it could be palatable if governments showed the proceeds would be well-spent.

"I think this transaction shows it's very important if you bring the right assets and the right time with the
right process you can achieve an incredible result," he says..

Page5of6©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

i16101 : Electric Power Generation | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | ieutil : Electric Utilities | iutil : Utilities
c183 : Privatizations/Nationalization | gpol : Domestic Politics | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir :
Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | auscap : Australian Capital Territory | nswals : New South Wales | queensl :
Queensland | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140430ea510000p

Page6of6©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.