Golden Horse in $175m city gallop

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PrimeSpace
Golden Horse in $175m city gallop

ROSANNE BARRETT
409 words
23 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
29
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

HONG Kong developer Golden Horse Nine Dragon Lake Holdings has entered the Australian
residential property market, planning a $175 million development in inner Brisbane for 251
apartments.
GH Properties, a local arm of the Hong Kong-based private company, yesterday revealed its plans
for the 20-storey twin tower Icon Milton, on a site at Walsh Street, Milton.

It is the first high-rise apartment tower in Australia for the group, which bought the Noosa Springs
Golf Resort and housing development site in January. Last December it bought a site on the Gold
Coast’s Hope Island with a view to building a 400-room hotel, and a majority shareholding in Hope
Island Golf Links Resort. The project value is about $72.5m.

GH Properties director Feng Di said the decision to enter Milton was underscored by growth in
demand for Brisbane apartments, and a move away from investor stock. “We are keen to meet
demand for luxury apartments in the inner suburbs of Brisbane as the city’s real estate market
continues to strengthen,” Mr Feng said.
“There has never been a better time for us to expand our workbook with an Australian residential
project than now.” The “blue-chip location” 2km from the city centre, and the city’s growing
infrastructure had cemented its position on the global map, he said.
RP Data lists the Milton site as being owned by a private investor. A development application was in
place. No sale price was given.
Golden Horse is registered in Hong Kong and owned by Mr Feng, who owns a PGA-competition
54-hole golf resort in Guangzhou in southern China. The Golden Horse group owns 20 other
properties and developed three million square metres across mainland China, its website says.
In April last year a Queensland government trade mission to China met with Golden Horse Nine
Dragon Lake Holdings representatives.

The move comes as the 72-hole Greg Norman-designed Sunshine Coast Pelican Waters Golf Club
has been put on the market by its owners, the BCI Group.
The 160ha site includes 20ha of future residential land for 250 dwellings. American-Australian golf
great Greg Norman said the course was his first on the Sunshine Coast and “a shining star in my
Australian design portfolio”.The land is being marketed by Christian Sandstrom and Peter Harper of
JLL and Mr Norman’s company Great White Shark Enterprises.

NS
RE

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | china : China | brisbn : Brisbane | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

Page183of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141022eaan0003y

Page184of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.