DEFENCE MINISTER JOHNSTON DISCUSSES ABUSE CLAIMS IN DEFENCE AND OTHER ISSUES

HD DEFENCE MINISTER JOHNSTON DISCUSSES ABUSE CLAIMS IN DEFENCE AND OTHER ISSUES
WC 662 words
PD 9 June 2014
SN Australian Government News
SC HTAUGN
LA
CY Copyright 2014. HT Media Limited. All rights reserved.
LP

English

Australia, June 9 -- Minister for Defence David Johnston issued the following transcript:

MARK COLVIN: The Defence Minister, David Johnston, will have lunch on a Japanese submarine this
week as he visits the country for security talks.

TD

Senator Johnston is a fan of Japanese submarine technology and the two countries are edging closer to a
deal, even though that might spark a reaction from China.

Japan's restrictive constitution limits its ability to sell its military technology to Australia, so the Minister
doesn't want to be seen to be pushing his Japanese counterpart too hard.

But while he's away new concerns are being raised about the process for dealing with abuse claims in the
military.

Tonight's Four Corners program includes victims expressing concerns that the perpetrators are not being
dealt with.

Louise Yaxley's interview with the Minister begins with his talks with the Japanese.
DAVID JOHNSTON: We're simply working out together what we can do. But as I say I'm respectful that
the pace is rather more set by the Japanese because of their constitutional situation.
LOUISE YAXLEY: How do you balance any deal that you potentially do with Japan with China's feelings?
DAVID JOHNSTON: Well you see I'm from Western Australia, you know, China is a very substantial
contemporary investor into Western Australia, we're producing iron ore for them, we're producing LNG,
Liquid Natural Gas. They're actually taking equity in a lot of our mining companies here in Western
Australia. And so I don't see the relationship as mutually exclusive.
LOUISE YAXLEY: Is China's view a factor in deciding whether or not we go ahead with this or not
though?
DAVID JOHNSTON: No, no, no, definitely not. We have a separate relationship with China. It's strong,
very economically based.
LOUISE YAXLEY: So even if China sent a signal that it was really concerned about this it wouldn't
matter?

DAVID JOHNSTON: Well we're - certainly we're conscious of the neighbourhood and what the
neighbourhood thinks. And we would be certainly conscious and respectful of what China thought.
But this is our business, this is Australian sovereign domain. Our relationship with China is strong, it's very
positive, and I think very friendly. And I think we can explain our disposition as to who we engage with and
how we engage in, particularly East Asia, from a position of strength and very confidently.

LOUISE YAXLEY: While you're overseas in Japan there's further fallout from the allegations of rape and
abuse in the military, with the Four Corners program. And insiders that have spoken to that program say a
royal commission is the only way to get to the bottom of abuse at ADFA (Australia Defence Force
Academy) in the early 1990s. What's your response?

Page33of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.DAVID JOHNSTON: Well firstly let me underline that the Government takes these allegations very, very
seriously. But we are concerned about as a first priority is the victims. We don't want to drag the victims
through some sort of process that makes them revisit the trauma that they've been through.
Now we've set up the DART, 2,400 claimants have come forward, more than $20 million in reparation
have been paid, 63 matters referred to civil police.

LOUISE YAXLEY: But how can you be confident as minister that the perpetrators are being dealt with?

DAVID JOHNSTON: You listen to what General Hurley has been saying, he is very interested in ensuring
that the perpetrators are dealt with, are followed up, discovered. Very...

LOUISE YAXLEY: But what's the process for that?

*Rest of the document can be viewed at
(http://www.minister.defence.gov.au/2014/06/09/minister-for-defence-interview-with-abc-pm-program/)

CT

NS
RE

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com
gpol : Domestic Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations
china : China | austr : Australia | jap : Japan | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz :
Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

PUB HT Media Limited
AN Document HTAUGN0020140611ea690001f

Page34of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.