Alumina spike has traders looking twice

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Market Wrap - Street Talk
Alumina spike has traders looking twice

Edited by Sarah Thompson, Anthony Macdonald and Gretchen Friemann
391 words
25 July 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
14
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Hedge funds and trading desks are scurrying for reasons why perennial takeover target Alumina's
shares have jumped to near three-year highs this week, on much higher than normal trading
volumes.
Sure, Alumina is pulling dividends out of its sole investment, the Alcoa World Alumina & Chemicals
(AWAC) joint venture, again. And its net debt seems to be under control. And some analysts are
hopeful that 2015 is shaping up to be a strong year.

But the sudden spike in Alumina's share price is causing them to look a bit further. And they are
coming up with some interesting theories.

Its AWAC joint venture partner, US-listed Alcoa, has seen a large re-rating in its share price, with the
stock up some 60 per cent in the past six months and the company is now capped at $20 billion.
That run is about double the increase in Alumina and would give Alcoa some leverage were it to put
forward a scrip bid for the $4.4  billion Australian company.
A mop-up of Alumina and the AWAC joint venture has long been talked about. But perhaps now it
makes more sense.

There is also some overlap between the funds that own the two companies. They both attract the
same deep-value crowd, who would likely see the benefits of putting the two together.
That probably wouldn't sit well with Alumina's largest shareholder, China's CITIC Group Corporation,
which bought a 13 per cent stake in February 2013. At the time, the deal saved Alumina from a
dilutive raising or the mercy of its banks, and came after some seven months of talks between the
parties. Melbourne's Flagstaff Partners stitched up the deal.
CITIC would not like to see Alumina mopped up by Alcoa. CITIC markets bauxite to Chinese
aluminium companies, and sees Alumina as a strategic investment. Sources said it could always
team up with China's Hongqiao, which is looking for bauxite and alumina outside of China. The
AWAC joint venture is the world's largest bauxite and alumina producer.

There are plenty of dots, and the recent share price rise has some watchers wondering if there may
be some action sooner rather than later.

CO
IN

NS

RE

almam : ALCOA Inc
i22 : Primary Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | i2245 : Aluminum | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources
c184 : Joint Ventures | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

Page297of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140724ea7p0001d

Page298of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.