Business duo team up in new venture

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Lifestyle
Business duo team up in new venture

GIUSEPPE TAURIELLO
461 words
15 April 2014
The Advertiser
ADVTSR
Advertiser
36
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

PROPERTY Council SA president Ben Yates has joined forces with car parts manufacturer Matthew
Fitch to establish a new Adelaide-focused property development firm.

Development and Advisory will fund and develop its own projects across all sectors as well as offer
advice to other developers.

Mr Yates, who spent 10 years heading Aspen Group’s City Central office development, said the pair
were already fielding inquiries from developers looking for advice.
“We’re doing a bit of work on residential at the moment – there’s a site we’re working on which has the
capacity for a major development, we’re looking at some other retail opportunities too and some
industrial stuff at the moment as well,” he said.

“On the advisory side, we’re getting people we’re dealing with who need advice as to how to get their
projects to market, feasibility advice, joint venture advice, funding and design advice “We have the
ability to continue as a consultant for those types of people or alternatively we have the ability to joint
venture their project with them and help them to see that come to fruition.

“And then there are those projects we’ll do in our own right, where the equity and the horsepower is
from within.” Along with identical twin David, Mr Fitch runs his family’s business interests which include
Beverley-based press metal manufacturer Precision Components.
The family has been a long-time investor in the state’s property market, headlined by its $100 million
acquisition of the Golden Grove Village shopping centre in 2009.
The sub-regional centre is currently being marketed for sale by Adelaide-based corporate finance firm
Fortis Ago.

After close to 10 years heading Precision, Mr Fitch said the time was right to diversify his business
interests.

“It has got to the point where I can take a lot of the principles and processes in manufacturing and
apply that to the building and construction industry,” he said.

“Also, I’ve got the private equity and probably strong international business experience, especially with
joint venture arrangements in China and Korea. We do things here in South Australia that not a lot of
people can do – the IP we create here, the different manufacturing companies that can be international
– that provides a lot of opportunities and focus for SA and Adelaide.

“I think there are heaps of opportunities for continued foreign investment and focus in South Australia
“But from my experience it’s about joint venturing with companies overseas – that provides them with
stability and provides local companies here in South Australia with stability as well.”Former Aspen

Page199of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Group project manager Lachy Hogarth has joined Development and Advisory as a development
manager.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
adelai : Adelaide | saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr :
Australia
News Ltd.
Document ADVTSR0020140414ea4f0008o

Page200of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.