Deutsche Bank on road to reform

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Financial Services
Deutsche Bank on road to reform

James Eyers and Anne Hyland
1,943 words
7 January 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
11
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Deutsche Bank's head of corporate banking and securities, Robert Rankin, has warned that
investment banks will rack up more fines and penalties this year for misconduct, but claims the
industry has curbed the behaviour that led to the global financial crisis after engaging in a long
process of cultural reform.

Mr Rankin, one of the most senior Australians in global banking, described the past 18 months as
"certainly the most challenging of my career" as Europe's largest investment bank re-focused its
business mix and dealt with investigations and litigation relating to the subprime crisis.

In December, Deutsche announced it was withdrawing from its commodities business, which had
become less profitable under new global regulatory rules, and also paid US regulators $US1.9 billion
(about $2.1 billion) to settle claims it defrauded US government-controlled Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac in the sale of mortgage-backed securities.

Mr Rankin said it was right that investment banks are held to account for misdeeds, given the
significant value destruction the GFC caused for shareholders. Implementing cultural reform to
prevent a repeat of these incidents was the issue that Deutsche's senior management team had spent
the most time on over the past year, he said.

"We as an industry have had to go on a big cultural reform agenda and in some ways that's been the
hardest [management task]," Mr Rankin said in an exclusive interview with The Australian Financial
Review during his recent visit to Australia.

"As an industry, we lost connectivity with the societies in which we operate and with our clients. There
was a disconnection there and a breakdown of trust that needed to be rebuilt as an industry. The big
investment banks were a core part of that and that was felt more acutely in the US, Europe and
particularly the United Kingdom, where the impact of the financial crisis on society was significant.

"We've been rightly held to a high level of account and the industry's shareholders have paid a lot for
that. We've had to go on a very consistent and long journey of cultural reform, which I personally have
been very committed to."

In a global research report on the outlook for global banks in 2014 published last month, UBS said
litigation risk was "a theme that will persist in the coming quarters and  . . . for several years".

"While related provisioning costs and ongoing uncertainty have been an overhang, we think there
could be more settlements in cases such as Libor and mortgage issues in the coming quarters," Mr
Rankin said.

In two significant areas – Libor and US mortgages – very significant costs have been incurred by the
industry. Litigation will continue to be an ongoing material cost for the investment banking industry and
we don't make forecasts around that," he said.  litigation reserves of €4.1 billion

Page240of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.At its 3Q results for 2013, released on October 29, Deutsche reported an additional provision in its
litigation reserves of €1.2 billion ($1.8 billion) in the quarter, taking its litigation reserves to
€4.1 billion.
Following the $US1.9 billion December settlement, Deutsche last week settled a separate suit in the
US after shareholders accused it of misrepresenting its ability to handle risks associated with
mortgage debt prior to the 2008 financial crisis (Deutsche has exited the mortgage businesses that
gave rise to the claims).

The bank has also been among the global banks accused of manipulating the benchmark Libor
interest rate and its European sister benchmark, Euribor. According to an article published on Sunday
in German magazine Der Spiegel, the German banking watchdog, BaFin, has been critical of
Deutsche management for the way it responded to a probe into the manipulation of Libor.

The bank denies any current or former member of the management board had any inappropriate
involvement in Libor rigging.

Much of the misconduct exposed by the various legal cases and investigations against a range of
investment banks has provided global regulators with added motivation to impose more stringent
regulation on the sector, including capital requirements and leverage ratios.

Regulatory uncertainty would persist for at least another six months, Mr Rankin said, adding the
warning that divergent regulatory schemes in Europe and the United States would add complexity and
costs.

The comments preceded a report in The Financial Times on Monday which said the European
Commission was considering a more narrowly defined version of the US Volcker rule, which bans
proprietary trading, and that Europe may not force banks to automatically split their lending and risky
trading operations.

"What would be bad for us is a lack of symmetry, or material asymmetry, across the Atlantic between
the US and Europe," Mr Rankin said.

"We've continued to push the view that it's not in anyone's interest to have a nationalistic led
regulatory asymmetry between the US and Europe. Everything we've seen so far would lead us to be
confident that's not the case.

"By the [European] summer of 2014, I think we will know what the new norm looks like." leverage
ratios a key regulatory theme in 2014

During the course of last year, the regulatory debate moved from capital to leverage, or the extent to
which financial institutions should be allowed to borrow relative to their total balance sheets. In its
report, UBS said leverage ratios will remain a key regulatory theme in 2014, and "in Europe, higher
leveraging requirements will likely be a bottleneck for many banks' growth ambitions and dividend
payouts". 

Mr Rankin acknowledged that Deutsche had more work to do on the leverage ratio.

"We've got an external target of reducing Capital Requirements Directive 4 [which implements Basel
III capital accords in Europe] assets by €250 billion by December 2015. The capital and leverage
journey continues and we feel really comfortable and confident with the progress we've made."

Deutsche's underlying cost income ratio for the investment bank is running broadly in line with its
65 per cent target from an underlying perspective. The new regulatory landscape is also forcing global
investment banks to make bold decisions about their mix of businesses.

In December, Deutsche said it would cut 200 jobs worldwide as it abandoned most of its commodities
trading business. "Most of the investment banks have pulled back from commodities trading during the
course of the year. This was driven in part by the Volcker rule considerations," Mr Rankin said.

Tighter regulation has also forced investment banks, including UBS, to largely withdraw from fixed
income operations.

Mr Rankin said Deutsche had been a beneficiary of this consolidation but that fixed income,
currencies and commodities (FICC) was no longer as profitable given the new capital requirements.

"The top five or six globally systemic players in fixed income have undoubtedly taken market share
during this period," he said. "It's increased market share of a smaller pie. That's offset by more capital

Page241of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.that we've got to have supporting the business and the increased cost of regulation and complexity as
well."

Deutsche Bank analysts have estimated European investment banking fees fell 6 per cent in 2013,
with fixed income, currencies and commodities desks shouldering most of the decline.equities the star

At its 3Q results for 2013, the corporate banking and securities division reported income before tax of
€345 million, with revenue down 26 per cent year-on-year. Mr Rankin said fixed income had had a
tougher second half in 2013, but this had been offset by equities, which he described as the "star
performing business" last year.
Equity capital markets work across the bank was up close to 40 per cent off a low base year-on-year.

Debt origination business, both investment grade and high yield, also performed strongly.

Mr Rankin said US markets remained buoyant; they would account for in excess of 50 per cent of
Deutsche's fee pool this year for the first time in a decade.

"We're cautiously optimistic about fixed income, particularly the work we've done on cost, capital and
leverage. We're optimistic on the outlook for equities. We believe corporates have got more
courageous."
Mergers and acquisitions was down across the bank year-on-year, but Mr Rankin said the M&A
pipeline had "not looked as good as it has in the last six months for many years".

"It's not back to boom times but there's been a steady pick-up."
In Australia, Deutsche ranked No. 7 in Dealogic's completed M&A rankings for the full 2013 year –
Deutsche Bank advised Rio Tinto on the sale of its $1 billion stake in Clermont thermal coalmine to
Glencore-Xstrata; Transpacific Industries Group on the sale of its New Zealand waste management
unit; and Dexus on its takeover bid for the Commonwealth Property Office Fund – and was outside the
top 10 in equity capital markets.

Fixed income work – including debt origination, fixed income and currency trading for clients –
accounts for around two-thirds of Deutsche's local revenue.

"We are the leading foreign player here in foreign exchange and rates and have brought huge
amounts of global capital into this market. The bank has had a very strong business here for a long
time, albeit in less visible parts of the business than the league table businesses that some of our
other competitors have been stronger at from time to time."

Deutsche, who will be led in Australia from next month by outgoing Goldman Sachs managing director
James McMurdo, was the lead arranger of Kangaroo bonds (those issued by offshore borrowers into
the Australian market) in 2013, overtaking TD Securities and Royal Bank of Canada.
In the year to December 19, Deutsche Bank had acted as sole or joint lead manager on 43 Kangaroo
transactions worth $8.93 billion.trading in the renminbi a huge priority

Deutsche Bank has been in the Asia Pacific region since 1872 (two years after it was founded), when
it opened an office in Shanghai. Today, it sources nearly one-fifth of its investment banking revenues
from the Asia-Pacific region.

Mr Rankin said capital markets in Asia would continue to deepen and that trading in the renminbi
(RMB) was "a huge priority for us".

"The history of Deutsche Bank is linked to the emergence of the euro. We think the RMB will be a
significant reserve-type currency for the world. This is a trend we want to be involved in and leverage
our platform into," Mr Rankin said.
"If you believe, as I do, that China will become the largest economy in the world some time in the next
20 years, and that as financial markets deepen and become more sophisticated alongside that, and
trade flow intra-regionally grows, this region will become increasingly important to banks like us.
"The core macro driver of a billion people-plus coming into the middle classes in Asia in the next 20
years is going to have a dramatic impact on capital flows, trade flows, wealth flows, intellectual capital
flows.
"A country of 24 million people uniquely positioned in that time zone has a very bright future. That's a
core belief."

Page242of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Before his appointment to the group executive committee in March 2012, Mr Rankin was Deutsche's
chief executive officer for the Asia-Pacific (excluding Japan), based in Hong Kong.

Prior to joining Deutsche, he was head of investment banking for Asia Pacific at UBS, where he was
also a member of the UBS Asia Pacific management committee and the UBS investment banking
board.

deut : Deutsche Bank AG
i831 : Financial Investments | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities | ifinal : Financial
Services | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking
reqrbc : Suggested Reading Banking/Credit | crbrea : Regulatory Breach | ccat : Corporate/Industrial
News | reqris : Suggested Reading Investing/Securities | c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal Action | c13 :
Regulation/Government Policy | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E
Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | redit : Selection of Top
Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140106ea170001m

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page243of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.