Rio's Walsh unsurprised by price slump

Rio's Walsh unsurprised by price slump

The Australian

HD
CR
WC 357 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

13 March 2014
09:58
theAustralian.com.au
NLAUSW
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Rio Tinto chief Sam Walsh says the market should not be surprised by factors that have sent coal and
iron ore prices sliding.
And the mining boss has sent a message to his Glencore counterpart, Ivan Glasenberg, that the Swiss
trader-miner will have to offer more to merge its Hunter Valley coal operations with that of Rio.

Speaking at the opening of a copper and coal processing centre of excellence in Brisbane this morning,
Mr Walsh said sliding copper and iron ore prices were being hit by Chinese steel capacity and credit
tightening flagged six months ago.

"Some people are surprised but it was signalled by the government," he said.
"They expected about 80 million tonnes of steel capacity would come off."
What was important was that Chinese growth would remain strong and that Rio's cash costs of $US20.70
per tonne were the lowest in the game, he said.
Iron ore prices, which hit a 12-month low of $US104.70 per tonne this week, rose 2.4 per cent to
$US107.40 overnight.
"We have seen a recovery in the past couple of days, with iron ore prices strengthening - where that
ends up the market will determine," Mr Walsh said.
Glencore's Mr Glasenberg last week talked up the potential for a merger of the NSW coal operations of
Rio and Glencore. He said negotiations between the pair had been going on for a while but it would take
time for each party to assess each other's operations.

But it appears any offer from Glencore is well below Rio's idea of where it should be.
"Our coal operations are long life, quality operations," Mr Walsh said.

"If somebody is interested in putting a worthwhile proposal to us, well that's exactly what they should do."
Mr Walsh said the looming end-of-March project finance deadline for the Oyu Tolgoi underground copper
and gold mine in Mongolia would not cause Rio to rush an investment framework through on the stalled
expansion.

"We are not about rushing to meet a deadline," he said.

rtz : Rio Tinto PLC | rtzcra : Rio Tinto Group | craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys |
ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

TD

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB News Ltd.

Page256of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document NLAUSW0020140313ea3c00008

Page257of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.