Shadow banks in the spotlight

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News - Opinion
Shadow banks in the spotlight

Matthew C Klein
386 words
21 January 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
39
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

A financial crisis occurs when people think something – Greek government bonds, US mortgage-backed
securities, Cypriot bank deposits – is safe and are wrong. This means there are two ways governments
can try to prevent crises: they can guarantee the nominal value of every asset believed to be "safe", or
they can try to set investors straight.
The Chinese government has traditionally preferred option one, going to great lengths to prevent
companies and lenders from failing, even if it means expropriating resources. Now it may be
experimenting with option two.

Bloomberg News reports that the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China may not protect investors
from losses on "Credit Equals Gold No. 1," a "trust product" it sold them that ended up financing an
insolvent coalmining company. This would be the first default on this type of high-yield asset. How would
the Chinese financial system handle the experience?
Until recently, the only way for Chinese households to protect their savings from confiscation by negative
interest rates was to buy property (hence all the empty apartment buildings) or involve themselves with
quasi-legal lenders that occupy a space somewhere between loan sharks and pawnbrokers. Innovation
avoids rules In the US, punitively low interest-rate ceilings on deposits during the great inflation of the
1970s were circumvented by the new money-market mutual funds, which offered many of the benefits of
traditional bank accounts but were allowed to pay fair market yields.Now Chinese financiers have
invented a variety of "wealth management products," the core of China's $US6 trillion ($6.8 trillion)
shadow-banking system. These instruments are often marketed and distributed to individual savers by
the big state-owned banks as alternatives to savings accounts. It's unclear what is supposed to happen if
the borrowers financed by WMPs can't repay the original investors.Many people who buy these
instruments are under the impression that the government stands behind them. Past defaults on WMPs
have led to protests by angry savers. They eventually got all their money back after the government
stepped in, which is good if you want to keep your citizens happy, but isn't a great way to convince
people that these products are distinctly riskier than bank deposits.Tougher line

Bloomberg

NS

RE

mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | m12 : Debt/Bond
Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News
Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

PUB Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
AN

Document AFNR000020140120ea1l0001f

Page129of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Page130of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.