ASX loopholes crush shareholders

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News - Opinion
ASX loopholes crush shareholders

Martin Lawrence
654 words
1 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
54
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Scrip takeovers Holes in the ASX listing rules, almost unknown anywhere else, allow management
teams to undertake expensive flights of fancy. Martin Lawrence
The "merger of equals" between oil and gas explorers and producers Roc Oil and Horizon Oil
illustrates the bizarre hole in the ASX listing rules that allows shareholders of bidders to be infinitely
diluted without protection. The risk of this regulatory oversight is now starkly apparent for Roc
shareholders, who have no say over the transaction, regardless of their view on its merits.

As pointed out by The Australian Financial Review columnist Trevor Sykes, among others over the
years, the current listing rules allow a company to "acquire" another company through a scrip
takeover offer with no bidder shareholder approval required – even if, as is the case with the
ROC-Horizon deal, Roc shareholders will hold only 42 per cent of the merged company.

The general rule is that shareholder approval is required when an issue (without pre-emptive rights)
would expand the capital base of an ASX-listed company by more than 15 per cent in any 12-month
period. Listing rule 7.2 explicitly exempts shareholder approval for an issue of securities that is
consideration for a takeover offer or which would fund one.

Lest shareholders think that this loophole is exploited only by smaller companies, it is the reason why
shareholders of Oxiana had no say in the ill-fated "merger of equals" with Zinifex. It was also exploited
by Alinta when it selected the structure for its audacious attempt to acquire AGL in 2006. That deal
would have diluted Alinta shareholders by 75 per cent without any Alinta shareholder approval
whatsoever.

The existence of the loophole in listing rule 7, combined with the reluctance of the ASX to apply listing
rule 11 to give shareholders veto rights over significant transactions, puts Australia at odds with most
comparable jurisdictions. Few other wealthy countries give so much latitude to boards to dilute
shareholders in the context of a takeover offer.Inconsistency in rules

Shareholders of UK companies can veto very large transactions; an opportunity that Rio Tinto
shareholders now wish they had taken up when reflecting on their endorsement of the $40 billion
acquisition of Alcan in 2007. Even the normally oppressed shareholders in US companies have the
right to approve dilutive takeovers above a certain threshold, as do shareholders investing in Hong
Kong- and Singapore-listed entities. Even in South Africa, shareholders of Woolworths, now bidding
for David Jones, will have an opportunity to veto the deal.

The glaring inconsistency in the ASX rules, which allows bidder shareholder private property rights to
be trampled on by the transaction industry, cries out for intervention. The Council of Financial
Regulators reform agenda put forward late last year would empower ASIC (subject to ministerial
approval) to direct a market operator such as ASX to adopt a listing rule with specified content.

Page2of6©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The present regime allows management teams to embark on costly and risky flights of fancy without
shareholder limitation. Owners are left only with the imperfect remedies of a meeting to eject a board
while the transaction timetable is ticking, selling their shares or punishing management long after the
event. Worse, the discretionary application of listing rule 11 creates the worst kind of rule, enforced
only when those tasked with enforcement deem it expedient to do so.

The existence of these lax rules benefits nobody outside of the transaction industry. If the ASX wished
to demonstrate to investors that it had their best interests at heart, it would immediately remove the
inconsistency that requires shareholder approval for a placement representing 16 per cent of shares on
issue to fund the purchase of an asset but exempts from approval a share issue diluting shareholders
by 75 per cent to fund a takeover.

Martin Lawrence is head of research at institutional governance advisers Ownership Matters.

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

rocoil : Roc Oil Company Ltd
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial
News | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140430ea510002j

Page3of6©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.