Singapore: the new hub of international dispute resolution

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Singapore: the new hub of international dispute resolution

Jennifer Keane
672 words
19 October 2014
Mondaq Business Briefing
BBPUB
English
(c) 2014 Mondaq Ltd

SIMCSICCSingapore is fast becoming the Asia-Pacific region's one stop shop for international
commercial dispute resolution. Many multinational corporations base their Asia-Pacific operations in or
around Singapore, which makes it a logical choice for parties looking to deal with disputes close to the
source. In response to this growing trend, the Singapore International Mediation Centre () will open in
November 2014, and the Singapore International Commercial Court () is set to open in coming months.

SIMC

TD

The SIMC arises out of the Recommendations of the International Commercial Mediation Working
Group, formed by the Singapore Ministry of Law.

The key recommendations include:

"deal making service" where a mediator supports parties contemplating making a major deal, to avoid
potential issues which may lead to disputes;

"post-merger facilitation" where a mediator is engaged to maximise cooperation and mutual benefit for
mergers;

a "dispute process design service", to assist users to develop processes to manage disputes;

online dispute resolution services; and

establishing a professional body to certify mediators, enforce ethics, and oversee continuing professional
development.

SIACThe SIMC will be housed at Maxwell Chambers, together with the Singapore International
Arbitration Centre (). Mediation using the SIMC may be used as an alternative to a SIAC arbitration. The
existing Singapore Mediation Centre will remain associated with the Singapore courts.
The Working Group recommends mediation for disputes in industries including construction, mining, oil
& gas, manufacturing, shipping, aerospace, intellectual property, and financial services.
The target markets for promoting mediation include international markets such as the Middle East, China,
India, Japan, Indonesia, and South Korea, and emerging regional markets such as the Pacific Islands,
Sri Lanka, Vietnam, Laos, Philippines, Brunei, and Cambodia.

SICC

The SICC is set to open in early 2015, after legislative changes were tabled in Parliament in October
2014. The SICC will target cases such as cross-border commercial transactions which are governed
by foreign law.

The Court will be established as a division of the Singapore High Court, and part of the Supreme Court of
Singapore. Both Singapore lawyers and foreign lawyers will be licensed to appear in the court, and
disputes will be heard by Singapore judges and international judges.

Parties will be able to make submissions on any law, rather than solely Singapore law.

Page167of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Court will be available to parties who agree to use the SICC post-dispute, or where the parties have
agreed under a contract to give the SICC jurisdiction of any disputes arising out of the contract. The
Chief Justice of the Singapore High Court may also transfer cases to the SICC, without the parties'
consent. Within all three categories of cases, the SICC will be able to join third parties to proceedings,
with or without consent.

A decision of the SICC will be enforceable outside of Singapore under the international network of
treaties and through reciprocal enforcement provisions. SICC decisions would also be appealable to a
Court of Appeal, except for where parties have contractually excluded the right to do so.
The increase in commercial transactions in Asia has seen an increase in the number and complexity of
cross-border disputes. The SIMC and SICC will help to meet the growing need in the international
business community for neutral venues to efficiently handle disputes, and will add to the success of the
SIAC. The SIAC has increased its new cases by over 400% since 2003, with an active caseload of 619
cases in 2013. Singapore's geographical location sees it well positioned as a desirable choice for
international dispute resolution.

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice
should be sought about your specific circumstances.

Ms Jennifer Keane

Rockwell Olivier

Level 22 BT Tower

1 Market Street

Sydney

NSW

2000

AUSTRALIA

Tel: 28263 6600

Fax: 28263 6633

E-mail: vstorey@ro.com.au

URL: www.rockwellolivier.com.au

Click Here for related articles

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2014 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com

CO
NS

RE

sglaw : Singapore Ministry of Law
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal Action | cprdop : Facility Openings | c24 :
Capacity/Facilities | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter |
nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
singp : Singapore | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
seasiaz : Southeast Asia
IPD
International Law
PUB Mondaq Limited
AN

Document BBPUB00020141019eaaj00008

Page168of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.