China seeking high-tech future

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News - Opinion
China seeking high-tech future

910 words
29 October 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
2
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Jennifer Hewett
The Chinese talk confidently about moving from an economy that makes things to an economy that
creates things. The difference may sound subtle but it's huge in impact. And that transition will have an
ever-greater influence on the global economy.

The idea that China was merely trading off its ability to copy other people's ideas and then mass
manufacture them more cheaply actually lost most of its currency a while ago. Now the Chinese not
only constantly focus on improving innovation as a way of transforming the structure and vitality of their
economy. They are also doing it with rapidity and scale that is little understood. But that makes it even
more important for Australian companies seeking to do business or to find new business partners in
China to offer sophisticated expertise or specialised products and services.

Much of the lower-cost and lower-skill manufacturing capacity has moved to other, cheaper, countries
in the region anyway as part of the inevitable pressure to reduce costs. But that's certainly not
considered a problem within China.

Instead, it is determinedly increasing its spending on research and development but also releasing the
dynamism of its private sector and a more entrepreneurial and innovative culture as well as
modernising the traditional state-owned enterprises.

At a The Australian Financial Review and Macquarie lunch on the Asian Century on Tuesday, former
Australian ambassador and now board director and consultant Geoff Raby said the extraordinary
growth of the private sector in China was not sufficiently appreciated.

But he also pointed out that last year, for the first time, the services sector became the most important
in the Chinese economy, accounting for 46 per cent of the economy, outpacing manufacturing at
44 per cent.

The two other guest speakers, Nev Power from Fortescue Metals, and Andy Penn from Telstra, also
reflected on the degree of technological innovation driving every industry in China – resources to
communications to financial services.
Power talked about the technological innovation in the Chinese steel industry as well as in the various
supplies of material for Fortescue mining – even in something as seemingly basic as truck tyres.

Penn is not only Telstra's chief financial officer. He is now also head of Telstra's international
operations and a former chief executive of Axa Asia Pacific – a rare and early success story in
expanding Australian financial services throughout the region, now sold.Australians too cautious

That experience has helped persuade Penn that too many Australian companies remain too cautious
and conservative in their approach to expansion offshore – even if it can take a long time to build the
necessary relationships and projects.

Page101of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.He does concede that the level of foreign restrictions in areas like telecommunications and financial
services can be daunting, but that the opportunities are greater than ever – thanks to the pace of
technological change. Smart phone usage has doubled in the past few years in China, for example, as
people increasingly look to the internet for everything – largely on mobile.

"If you are going to invest in the mobile market it would be 20 years ago or today," he says. "Part of this
is because of the digital transformation."
Geoff Raby recalls introducing Wesfarmers directors to a group of Chinese internet entrepreneurs,
most of them under 35 with American accents, and all forming part of the new form of economic
revolution under way in China.
He also says that he recently spoke to China's third-largest dairy company, which was keen to invest
in the Australian dairy industry but wanted majority control to institute changes in the backward local
industry.
Not that Raby discounts the traditional momentum of the Chinese economy that is built on investment
and heavy industry and mass urbanisation. For all the consumption on show and the range of designer
shops in the cities, China is still the 84th poorest country in the world.

Its steel consumption per capita is on a par with the US in the 1950s so there is still a lot of growth to
come from the old model of investment, he says. And much of that will continue to be based on
coal-fired generation, which still meets close to 70 per cent of China's energy needs.
But Raby has seen first hand China's ability to adapt over a long period, calling himself one of the
Pamplona crowd, because he's been running with the bulls for 30 years.

Neither Power nor Penn disagree with what remains an essentially optimistic view of the major forces
driving the Chinese economy.

That is different from the cyclical ups and downs currently most obvious in the property market where
high vacancy rates combined with the dizzying rate of apartment building are making all the China
bears extremely pessimistic.
Yet with another 300 million people – roughly the population of the US – due to move from the rural
areas to the cities over the next several years, the panel doesn't doubt the demand for housing in
Chinese cities will continue to grow.

Along with the demand for just about everything else.
What is changing is the way that Chinese innovation and technology are increasingly used over time to
deal with the many problems that accompany rapid development – ranging from too much pollution to
too little infrastructure. Australian business has a chance to be part of that. But it won't come easy.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive
News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141028eaat00034

Page102of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.