Improving Australian Agricultural Competitiveness

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Improving Australian Agricultural Competitiveness

Clive Cachia
1,356 words
6 December 2014
Mondaq Business Briefing
BBPUB
English
(c) 2014 Mondaq Ltd

The Commonwealth Government has released its Green Paper exploring a range of policy options to
expand the competitiveness of the Australian agriculture sector and its share of the global market. See
the paper here.

The Green Paper serves to progress the Government's long-held ambition to take advantage of the
changing food demand profile of the rapidly expanding middle class in Asia. The Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) has predicted that Asia could account for 66% of the
world's middle class by 2030 up from about 30% today. As the Green Paper notes, "the Government has
prioritised agriculture as one of the five pillars of the economy for good reason". The 700 submissions
received from industry stakeholders earlier this year also demonstrate the enthusiasm for the
opportunities that exist in these markets.

The Green Paper discusses policy ideas under 11 separate categories. Set out in the table below is a
summary of:

the key objectives of such policies

select legal and regulatory reforms the Government has done, or is doing, to pursue these objectives

certain policy ideas which have been proposed by stakeholders in the submission process.
Policy objectives
recent and current legal / regulatory reforms

Select

Infrastructure

Further proposed reforms
A.

negotiate in good faith with wheat exporters for access to port

terminal services
port terminal
services. Implementing the new Port Terminal (Bulk Wheat) Code of
Conduct (effective from September 2014) obliging port terminal
operators to:

disclose information regarding available

Not discriminate or hinder access to port terminal
services. Commencement of the Heavy Vehicle National Law aimed at
improving productivity and safety through regulatory
harmonisation.Improving regulation (eg coastal shipping regulations) to

Page75of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.reduce costs faced by producers.  Building new transport infrastructure
(including all weather
access rural roads and promoting air freight hubs in regional
Australia) to reduce transport times to markets.
Building efficient and cost-effective transport andcommunications
infrastructure for supply chain enhancements,opening new markets and
innovations in agricultural production.
B.
Federation
Reform of the Federation -
due to report in 2015.
the Council of Australian
Governments. (COAG)
vegetation and work health and
safety laws and improve efficiency of native title
systems. Implement the Co-operatives National Law to make it easier to
run a co-operative across different states and to issue hybrid
securities to attract external capital.
Remove duplication in regulation between States and Territories andthe
Commonwealth to improve agricultural competiveness.C.
Competition and Regulation

Consider deregulation in native

Preparation of White Paper on
Reducing red and green tape through

'Root and branch' review of the Competition and

Considering whether to

Consumer Act 2010 (Harper Review). This is due to report to
Government by March 2015.Extending unfair contract term protections to small
business.
prescribe the Food and Grocery Code as a
regulation under the Competition and Consumer Act
2010.Improving market competition by increasing price transparency
throughout the domestic supply chain and restoring balance of power
to the producer.Strengthening competition laws to make it easier to prove
misuse of market power and to remove barriers to consolidating
agribusiness companies - designed to facilitate 'national
champions' of Australian agribusiness.Facilitate greater use of co-operative
structures to increase
farmers' bargaining power.
Ensure fairness and transparency in the supply chain(notably between farmers
and wholesalers/retailers) and amendregulation to create least possible costs
for agricultureparticipants.D.
Finance, business structures and taxation
Finance Concessional Loans
Scheme.
Tax System by end of
2015 (Tax White Paper).
crowd-sourced equity
funding.
investment in agriculture (eg
superannuation products for potential equity in farms or special
concessionally-taxed Government bonds to encourage agricultural
investment).A range of tax concessions to be explored in the Tax White
Paper (eg income tax averaging, zone tax offsets and tax loss
trading for farmers).
Improving access to financial, business information and advice andensuring
the tax system encourages investment.E.
Foreign investment

White Paper on Reform of Australia's
Regulatory developments to encourage
Encourage greater institutional

Concessional loans through Farm

Register of foreign ownership of agricultural land.

appointing an agriculture
lowering thresholds for FIRB
Reforming FIRB scrutiny of

industry executive to the FIRB
board
security of private foreign
purchases of agribusinesses.
agricultural investment proposals
including:

Page76of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Improving transparency by expanding the coverage of the

register of foreign ownership of agricultural land to water and
agribusiness enterprises.
Continue to encourage foreign investment to build newproduction capacity and
ensuring the regulatory framework takesaccount of the needs of the
agriculture sector.F.
Education, skills and training, and labour Vocational, Education and Training
(VET) reforms.
Work (Skilled) visas (subclass 457)

Temporary

Working Holiday Maker visas (subclass 417).

Enhanced visa availability including:

Financial support for

regional education.
Further liberalisation of visa availability including
streamlining application processes and providing clearer pathways
for residency for such visa holders.
Expanding the pool of labour servicing agribusinesses by increasingeducation,
providing geographic and seasonal flexibility andattracting new entrants.G.
Drought
measures including concessional
loans, tax concessions to manage income variability and
environmental resilience.increasing accelerated depreciation for water/fodder
infrastructure 
improve access to insurance.
Promote drought preparedness by:

Various government support

grants and concessions to

Continue to promote drought resilience and risk managementcapabilities.
H. Water
and natural resource management
approvals.
new water infrastructure projects.

One-stop shop for environmental

Identify

Reviewing the Water Act 2007.

Providing a 50% p.a. deduction over

three years for on-farm
water reticulation infrastructure investment.Improve functioning and
flexibility of water trading
markets.
Identifying and building necessary water infrastructure andensuring
sustainable and productive use of natural resources.I.
Research, development and extension
Development Corporations (RDCs)
(eg Australian Grape and Wine Authority and Meat & Livestock
Australia).Providing R&D Tax Incentives.
research functions to

Decentralising Government agricultural

Investment in various Research

Page77of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.regional areas.
costs of RDCs.
Improve productivity by increasing strategic and co-ordinatedresearch and
development.
Biosecurity

Increase transparency and reduction in

J.

Updating the Quarantine Act 1908 with a new

Pressing for

Biosecurity Act.
transparent and science-based approaches to
biosecurity in all countries to facilitate market access.Expand legislative
improvements to Export Control Act 1982
and the Australian Meat & Livestock Industry Act
1997.Enhance onshore monitoring including by developing reporting
tools and establishing a public Biosecurity Information System to
share information.
Protecting current animal and plant health status tomaintain productivity and
access to export markets.K.
Accessing international markets

Concluded Free Trade Agreements with Korea and Japan and

Declaration of Intent with China.
in the Middle East and
Asia.
training
increasing
engagement in bilateral and multilateral forums to
promote use of international standards in food regulation.Improving overseas
marketing efforts by, for example:

Re-opened markets for live exports
providing more exporter readiness

Assist exporters to capture high-value markets byaddressing technical
barriers and ensuring trade negotiationsdeliver real commercial benefits for
the sector.

Submissions on this Green Paper are due by 12 December 2014.

A more deliberative White Paper on Agricultural Competitiveness in 2015 will build on past and current
policies and the proposals generated by this Green Paper. It will set out the Government's long-term
strategic direction to maintain and increase agricultural production while securing farm-gate profitability
and ongoing investment and jobs in the agricultural sector.

We encourage all participants likely to be impacted by some or all of the proposed policy developments,
or indeed who have any interest in Australia's agriculture future, to make submissions or otherwise
engage with the process. If you have any questions, or would like assistance with any submissions,
please contact us. We will update you once the White Paper is released.

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice
should be sought about your specific circumstances.

Click Here for related articles

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2014 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com

K&L Gates has been awarded a 2012 EOWA Employer of Choice for Women citation acknowledging our
commitment to workplace diversity.

Mr Clive Cachia

K&L Gates

Level 25, Rialto South Tower

Page78of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.525 Collins Street

Melbourne

Victoria 3000

AUSTRALIA

Tel: 39205 2000

Fax: 39205 2055

E-mail: jeremy.hyman@klgates.com

URL: www.klgates.com

CO
NS

oecode : Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c34 : Anti-Competition Issues | gpol : Domestic Politics | gcat :
Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Anti-trust/Competition Law

RE
IPD
PUB Mondaq Limited
AN

Document BBPUB00020141206eac600001

Page79of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.