Resources ills talk for the birds

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Resources ills talk for the birds

Tim Treadgold
1,065 words
28 January 2014
WA Business News
WABN
English
© Copyright 2014 Business News Pty Ltd.

The commodities boom might be over but the resources boom is not.

If that sounds contradictory it's because the game has changed - from one where rising commodity
prices meant anyone could make money, to a situation where skill is required to control costs and
improve productivity.

Multiple indications of this transition to a new phase in Western Australia's economy can be measured,
including:

o the latest CommSec report on the 'State-of-the-States';
o sharply higher Perth property prices;

o revived interest in the mining sector by international investors;

o a rebound in a forgotten industry, alumina; and

o a quicker-than-expected recovery by mine-service contractors.

Before considering those points, and a few others, it's important to look at what's happening in WA's
three most important buyers of our resources - China, Japan and South Korea.
While China is the big one, the other two should not be overlooked because of their status as both
buyers of raw materials and investors in resource projects, such as the Gina Rinehart-led Roy Hill iron
ore mine and the DeGrussa copper mine of Sandfire Resources.
China, which some critics see as an economy heading for a sustained slowdown, will remain WA's
most important customer and will buy more (not less) because even a slower growth rate is off a
spectacularly bigger base.
The current debate about whether China is growing at an annual 7.8 per cent or 7.7 per cent is
farcical, given that the rate of growth was always going to slow as the country's economy got bigger.
To put it another way, a larger Chinese economy growing at a slower rate contributes more to global
growth than a smaller China growing faster.

Last week's CommSec report provides evidence that WA is adapting to a new and (hopefully) more
productive phase of development not dependent solely on the easy pickings of rising commodity
prices.

Given that the popular view of WA, especially in eastern Australia, is of a state that has fallen off an
economic cliff since the commodities boom ended, it was amusing to see that WA remains the
country's top-performing region by most measures, pipped only by the Northern Territory, a pretend
state with a tiny population.

What's driving WA is a combination of residual capital investment and the era of big cash flows from
the capital investment of the past decade, with Fortescue Metals Group a case study in cash with its
easy ability to painlessly retire a few billion dollars in excess debt.

Page115of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It is the inward flow of cash from goods sold to China, and the permanent jobs it is creating (rather
than short-term construction jobs) that underpinned WA's 9.9 per cent rise in residential property
prices last year - a time when popular opinion said the boom was over.

Reviving interesting in mining by international investors can be seen in a number of recent reports,
including a Credit Suisse report on commodity prices titled 'Light at the end of the tunnel', and a report
by a rival investment bank, Citigroup, which included the comment that it has flipped from being a
mining 'bear' into a mining 'bull', but not because of commodity prices but more because of the
recovery in profits and improved industry productivity.

Alumina, the product of bauxite mining and precursor to aluminium, is a recovery story happening on
Perth's doorstep - with four of world's biggest alumina refineries starting to enjoy the benefits of an
improving price and demand outlook.

After several years in the doldrums, the alumina price is expected to rise from around $US330 a tonne
to $US340/t this year and then up to $US350/t next year, with the added boost of an even higher price
on conversion to Australia's lower-value currency - perhaps the biggest single factor in WA's
brighter-than-expected outlook.

Recovery in the resources-services sector is another surprise, mainly because it is coming faster than
anyone imagined as last year's downturn becomes a distant memory and investment banks dust off
their assessments of the major contractors.
Worley Parsons, Downer EDI and Mineral Resources have all returned to the 'buy' lists of major
banks, for two reasons. Firstly, because they were sold down so heavily last year and secondly
because they are on the mend, employing fewer people but in much stronger financial shape.

The process through which WA is passing, or might already have passed, is exactly what a leading
banker predicted just before Christmas.

Vaughan Wickins from South Africa's Standard Bank told a conference in London that the global
resources boom could be compared with a famous sketch from the Monty Python comedy show about
a dead parrot in which John Cleese says the parrot is not dead, it's "merely resting".

His presentation drew a few laughs, but he wasn't joking, and we're starting to see why.

Power failure

AT risk of annoying the green brigade, it's getting rather tiresome hearing their excuses as to why solar
and wind power are not proving to be the miracle cure for Australia's economic ills.

Last week's heat wave in eastern Australia, perhaps caused by global warming, was a test that solar
and wind flunked alarmingly.

Despite billions of dollars invested in solar panels and wind turbines, neither made a useful contribution
to power demand; and while it might be unfair to take a single week as a case study in failure, there is
an absolutely critical question to ask.

What happens if Australia becomes even more dependent on solar and wind power and the reliability
of the electricity grid declines? Do we simply close factories and apologise to customers?

Saving the planet from global warming is an admirable objective but at some point Australian
governments need to ask 'at what price'?

Dollar dazzler

COLD comfort it might be for anyone craving a return to a high exchange rate, but the Australian dollar
is not alone in suffering from decline against the US currency.

The dollar in resources-exposed Canada has just hit a four-year low against the $US, triggering
celebration in the frozen north which one government minister hailing the fall as a "remarkable
opportunity" for the country's exports.

Ditto Australia.

IN

ialomin : Aluminum Ore Mining | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying

Page116of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

PUB
AN

china : China | austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Business News Pty Ltd
Document WABN000020140127ea1s00001

Page117of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.