Baosteel fumes over MinRes moves in Aquila battle

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Baosteel fumes over MinRes moves in Aquila battle

Amanda Saunders
458 words
16 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
17
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

China's Baosteel is furious over Perth firm Mineral Resources' manoeuvring in the $1.4 billion
takeover fight for iron ore hopeful Aquila Resources, sources close to the steel giant say.

Baosteel and rail major Aurizon upped the ante on Friday when they said their joint all-cash
$3.40 a share offer for Aquila was "best and final".

The move came the day after Mineral Resources chief executive and rich-lister Chris Ellison
confirmed the group had paid $197 million in an on-market raid for almost 13 per cent of Aquila's
register. MinRes's move to buy a blocking stake blindsided the market and drew the ire of Baosteel
executives, who were not consulted and felt it was an attempt to back them into a corner.
At the heart of the jousting for Aquila is the junior's majority stake in the greenfield $7.4 billion West
Pilbara iron ore project. MinRes, a mining services and processing firm, is angling to strike a deal
with Baosteel for the development of the project. It is looking to pitch a plan to deliver the project for
much less than its $7.4 billion capital price tag.

Baosteel sources said the MinRes strategy was at odds with how business was usually done in
China, where consultation was key.

"The approach is very unusual," an industry source said. "They are pressuring an SOE and it's a
status issue – they would have the same problem if they had tried this on BHP or Rio."

MinRes, which has a good reputation in the sector, wants to design, build and, in part, operate the
West Pilbara project. It has been working on a plan for at least six months that it will pitch as superior
to anything traditional infrastructure providers could deliver.
MinRes bought its 12.78 per cent stake last week at $3.75 a share, a premium to the $3.40 all-cash
bid on the table. But Baosteel is playing hardball and trying to force MinRes to sell into the bid at a
loss, after which it could look to negotiate with the group on project work, The Australian Financial
Review understands.

Baosteel said on Friday it would abandon the West Pilbara project if the bid failed, but included a
caveat, "based on the current facts known to us at the date of this announcement". It could also look
to dump its 19.8 per cent shareholding in Aquila if the bid fell over.

The hard line, coupled with the bidders declaring their offer was "best and final", shaved 12.4 per cent
from Aquila's share price.

The stock last closed at $3.10.

CO

aqures : Aquila Resources Ltd. | baois : Shanghai Baosteel Group Corp

Page199of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary
Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | isteel : Steel Production
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140615ea6g0000d

Page200of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.