Chinese investor beefs up portfolio

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

WestReg
Chinese investor beefs up portfolio

Brad Thompson
687 words
11 December 2014
The Countryman
CTM
First
35
English
(c) 2014 West Australian Newspapers Limited.

A Chinese ball bearing magnate has snapped up vast tracts of prime cattle country in the Pilbara as
he continues his love affair with WA agriculture.

Xingfa Ma is the new owner of Balfour Downs and the associated Wandanya pastoral lease covering
about 639,500ha adjoining Hancock Prospecting’s Roy Hill mining operations.

Mr Ma already owns the Ferngrove Wine Group based in the Great Southern and Emu Downs farm,
which covers about 8000ha near Cervantes.
He is targeting demand for prime beef in China after setting up a supply and distribution network for
quality WA wines.
It is understood Mr Ma paid about $18 million for the Balfour Downs operations through the
Australian arm of his Tianma Bearing Group in a deal approved by the WA Cabinet.

Veteran pastoralist Don Hoar developed Balfour into one of WA’s top cattle properties over the past
16 years.

It boasts a herd of mainly Red Brahman with about 13,000 breeding females, state-of-the-art cattle
yards and a network of 35 dams and 55 bores, including one with 27km of pipe.

Ferngrove managing director Anthony Wilkes said the herd and infrastructure was outstanding.
Mr Wilkes said Tianma was weighing up options for supplying beef to China, including live exports
and processing in WA.

The Balfour management team will remain in place in the short- term and cattle will continue to be
moved south to Emu Downs for finishing under the operating model.

Mr Wilkes said while Mr Ma was happy to showcase WA’s premium wines, steak, lamb, prawns and
rock lobster, as well as its relatively untouched environment, he preferred to keep a low profile on his
frequent visits.
More than 100 Chinese food and wine distributors and restaurant owners have visited WA as Mr
Ma’s guests over the past 12 months.
The latest group cruised on the Swan River last week after dining on the finest WA produce at
Ferngrove’s headquarters near Frankland River.
Mr Ma has invested about $20 million in Ferngrove since 2011 and built a distribution network
covering more than 60 retail outlets throughout China.

Page157of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Wilkes said Mr Ma was in WA agriculture for the long haul and appreciated the need to invest
“patient capital”.
“Mr Ma sees red wine and beef from WA and Australia as having significant opportunity with the
emerging middle-class in China, but securing the right high-quality, premium supply that is
consistent will be increasingly important,” he said.
Meanwhile, a Hong Kong-based investor has joined the stampede to secure prime cattle country in
WA’s north in a deal which includes an 80km stretch of coast between Port Hedland and Broome.
Sources close to the deal said a company backed by Bruce Chong was set to finalise the purchase
of Pardoo Station and its extensive cattle and tourism operations early in 2015.

The station covers almost 200,000ha and carries about 7500 head of Santa Gertudis and Brahman
cattle.

Pardoo sits on top of huge water reserves in the Canning Basin and has a 145-bay caravan park,
store, restaurant and pool.
It had been on the market with an asking price of about $27 million.

Much of the valuation was based on the water assets and an irrigation system described as “almost
beyond parallel”.

The irrigation system is supplied through a 2.5-gigalitre a year licence with moves to add 5.5GL a
year to the licence under consideration.

Pardoo has been a stopover point for thousands of cattle from Liveringa and Nerrima stations on
their journey to farms in the south where they are fattened up for live export or processing.

Liveringa and Nerrima stations are owned by Gina Rinehart.
Ms Rinehart is finalising the purchase of four cattle stations covering more than one million hectares
of the Kimberley in a deal believed to be worth about $65 million.
It is understood companies associated with Mr Chong have global investments in the wine and
tobacco industries.
Pardoo owner Graeme Rogers refused to comment on the sale.

CO
IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

hkpros : Hancock Prospecting Pty. Ltd.
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
mcattl : Beef/Dairy Cattle Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m141 : Agricultural Commodity
Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mlvstk : Livestock/Meat Markets | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter
china : China | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document CTM0000020141210eacb0000v

Page158of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.