Chinese eye property plays

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Chinese eye property plays

Dan Wilkie
626 words
27 October 2014
Business News
WABN
English
© Copyright 2014 Business News Pty Ltd.

A western suburbs real estate agency has set up a dedicated China marketing arm, as growing
numbers of Chinese developers eye Perth's burgeoning apartment market for large project
opportunities.
Acton Dalkeith agent David Eyers said the firm had teamed with Acton Cottesloe to promote Perth as
a preferred destination for Chinese investment capital.

The agencies have jointly aligned with three real estate offices in China to provide opportunities for
Chinese buyers to not only identify potential property purchases, but also sign sales contracts.
Mr Eyers said Australia was second to the US in popularity for Chinese property investors, but
historically the majority of offshore funds had been funnelled into the Melbourne and Sydney markets.
Acton Dalkeith sold more than $36 million worth of homes during the past two months, with 20 to 30
per cent of inquiries coming from Chinese buyers, Mr Eyers said.
He said the biggest draw for Chinese buyers was Western Australia's highly regarded universities.
"It makes it easier if they're buying property if they are coming here for school reasons," Mr Eyers told
Business News.

"Investment return is also good; generally they get a good return on those investments in capital
growth over time as well."
Colliers Internationalresidential director Jo Anne Chin said local apartment developers were also
starting to sharpen their focus on attracting Asian capital, particularly from China.

Business News reported earlier this year that Perth-based developer Devwest had established
extensive links to China that spanned back more than a decade, sourcing about 50 per cent of its
development capital from that country.
However, Ms Chin told Business News that most apartment development firms in Sydney and
Melbourne were well ahead of Perth in creating strong marketing links in Asia.

"We haven't had that here, so our buyer market has been a really good mix of investors,
owner-occupiers, downsizers and the local Asian market," Ms Chin said.

"To go over to the Asian market, it has to be the right product, and it's only recently that our local
developers have started to explore that."
Momentum Wealth managing director Damian Collins said Chinese development firms with a
substantial amount of capital were starting to take an interest in Perth's booming apartment
construction sector.

"They're talking 100 to 200 units as their bare minimum, that's the sort of projects that they are looking
at," Mr Collins told Business News.

Page206of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.One such project is the $100 million, two-tower mixed-use development, Pinnacle in South Perth, put
forward by Chinese group Zone Q Investments.

Zone Q is planning to build 102 luxury apartments in a 20-storey tower, as well as a 12-storey
commercial office building, at a site on the corner of Charles Street and Labouchere Road.
Another Chinese developer, the identity of which has not been disclosed, bought the old Matilda Bay
Brewery development site in North Fremantle for $36 million in August.
The prospect of a large-scale apartment development at the former brewery has caused
consternation among Fremantle locals, after the City of Fremantle moved to allow construction of up
to 11 storeys at the site.
Mr Collins said large Chinese developers such as Zone Q, which is a subsidiary of the massive JiaHe
Jian Group, investing in Perth would give a significant boost to the offshore profile of Perth property.
But Mr Collins said there hadn't historically been a lot of Chinese buyers for finished apartment
products in Perth.

"Perth just doesn't yet seem to be on their radar," he said.

"We've been a strong market for Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore for a long time but the mainland
Chinese market is still very Sydney and Melbourne focused."

IN

RE

PUB
AN

i5010022 : Residential Building Construction | i501 : Building Construction | iconst : Construction | icre
: Real Estate/Construction
austr : Australia | china : China | melb : Melbourne | perth : Perth | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria
(Australia) | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales
Business News Pty Ltd
Document WABN000020141027eaar000xd

Page207of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.