PEP seals off first close at $1.1bn; Hoyts prepped for exit

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Market Wrap - Street Talk
PEP seals off first close at $1.1bn; Hoyts prepped for exit

Edited by Sarah Thompson, Anthony Macdonald and Gretchen Friemann
495 words
23 April 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
16
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Australia's largest private equity firm, Pacific Equity Partners, will be back on the acquisition trail
after reaching a first close for its fifth fund, industry sources said.
It is understood PEP notified investors of the $1.1 billion first close after receiving chunky
commitments from offshore limited partners speculated to be the Abu Dhabi Investment Council
and a Hong Kong-based pension fund.

The first close comes after an 18-month fundraising effort, during which PEP lost a couple of key
deal makers but lined up a host of promising exits, and ahead of a final close for later this year.
It is understood PEP is targeting $2 billion for the core fund, with a hard cap at $2.5 billion. The
firm will also allow some existing investors to co-invest directly into new buyouts.

PEP's fundraising efforts have been helped along by recent portfolio exits, including Veda Group's
successful initial public offering, as well as a host of refinancings whereby PEP was able to take
equity out of its portfolio companies.
The firm is also close to listing Spotless Group as it prepares Link Market Services, joint venture
SCA Hygiene Australasia, Energy Developments, and Peters Ice Cream for the ASX boards or for
trade sales.

Separately, Street Talk can reveal PEP will appoint investment banks to sell Hoyts Group next
quarter with an exit pegged for early 2015.
It is understood investors in PEP's fourth fund, which involved a $4 billion raising in 2008, have
already received 40 per cent of their money back. The fund is said to be running at close to an
80 per cent internal rate of return.
PEP's fundraising experience speaks volumes about the local private equity environment.
Australian superannuation funds, which have historically piled money into local PE firms, are
rebalancing their portfolios and adding offshore exposure at the expense of domestic firms.

It means fundraising is more difficult and is taking longer for the likes of PEP and its smaller rivals.
(That said, Quadrant Private Equity and Archer Capital have quickly raised money in the past two
years.)
The first close means PEP's deal teams can start seriously lining up acquisition targets.
It is more than 18 months since PEP added a new portfolio company to its stable, focusing on
bolt-on deals and selling assets to assist the fundraising drive. It is understood the firm has already
identified a number of potential targets.

Page37of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The raising also means PEP's senior deal makers – founders Tim Sims, Rickard Gardell, Simon
Pillar and Paul McCullagh – are committed to the firm, along with the next generation of PEP stars
which include David Brown, Tony Duthie, Shannon Wolfers and Jake Haines.
Deal makers Anthony Kerwick and Rob Koczkar are expected to leave the firm by the end of June.

abudic : Abu Dhabi Investment Council | datadv : Veda Group Ltd | peprt : Pacific Equity Partners
i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities |
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150203 : Private Equity | i8395416 : Credit Rating Services |
ialtinv : Alternative Investments | ibnk : Banking/Credit
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140422ea4n0001k

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

Page38of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.