Cashed-up Woodside on hunt for assets after record profit

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

MarketWatch
Cashed-up Woodside on hunt for assets after record profit

Matt Chambers, Results
544 words
21 August 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
23
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

WOODSIDE Petroleum chief Peter Coleman, on the hunt for big acquisitions to provide much-needed
growth options, says he expects better opportunities as oil majors sell assets and China’s appetite for
new purchases dwindles.
While considering acquisitions of about $5 billion, Mr Coleman hinted at a buyback with cash that was
— until voted down by shareholders this month — earmarked for a buyback of most of Shell’s 13.5 per
cent stake in the company.

Woodside yesterday delivered a record first-half profit that sent shares to a fresh three-year high.

Net profit rose 27 per cent to $US1.1bn ($1.18bn), in line with expectations, as the Pluto LNG plant at
Karratha began delivering at close to full capacity and boosting cashflows.

Free cashflow of $US1.825bn was up 158 per cent on a year earlier, while net debt dropped to
$US623m, from $US2.25bn a year earlier.

Shares rose 33c to $43.38.
Mr Coleman said the company would continue to look at acquisitions worth up to $US5bn in the wake
of a decision this year to walk away from a deal to enter the Leviathan gas project in Israel.
“We have a view that M&A opportunities are coming on to the market and they are better priced than
what they were two years ago — we’re going to look long and hard at those opportunities,” he said.

Global majors like Shell have been cutting capital spending and selling assets as they focus on
cashflow and profit, while at the same time many global companies have been returning their focus to
North America to chase the shale boom. “You’ve seen a lot of talk about improving return on capital
employed — really the only way you can do that in the short term is to sell assets,” Mr Coleman said.
At the same time, national oil companies that were heavily into the market a couple of years ago as
they built resources have left.

“This in my view brings a more rational market,” he said. “Their need seems to have been satisfied for
the most part and in China and elsewhere they’ve been asked to account for the value of some of their
own acquisitions.” While there is concern in the market about Woodside’s lack of near-term growth
options, investors yesterday applauded the strong operational performance that has left the company
with one of the healthiest balance sheets in the business.

“The result shows they now have more capacity for a buyback because they had less debt than some
brokers expected and cashflow was above what a few people were expecting,” Plato Investment
Management managing director Don Hamson said. “They have a lot of cash and not much to do with
it, so I still think a buyback is a good idea.” Dr Hamson was one of the leading public voices against
the Shell buyback on the grounds all shareholders were not being given the same option.

Page86of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Woodside declared a record $US1.11 per share interim dividend, up 34 per cent.Mr Coleman said he
would talk to investors in coming weeks to inform the company’s decision on capital management.

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

wodpet : Woodside Petroleum Ltd | rnlp : Royal Dutch Shell PLC
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural
Gas/Oil Extraction
cacqu : Acquisitions | c151 : Earnings | c15 : Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 :
Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140820ea8l0005m

Page87of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.