The best of 2013

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

The best of 2013

4,779 words
1 January 2014
Campaign Asia Pacific
MEDIAM
46
English
Copyright 2014. Haymarket Media Limited. All rights reserved.

The highs and lows of the year in an industry that is always colourful, from top people and work to epic
failures.

TOP 5 CAMPAIGNS

1. Dumb ways to die McCann Worldgroup Melbourne

We seem to remember this winning a few awards.

2. Bridge of life Cheil Worldwide

Samsung Life Insurance's CSR campaign turned the Mapo Bridge, a notorious suicide spot in Seoul, into
a place of healing for those who encounter troubles in life. This was a good example of how otherwise
faceless corporations can do good for society while also building their brand.

3. Txtbks DDB DM9JaymeSyfu

Carrying an oversized bag full of textbooks is common to students in the Philippines, but most families in
the country can't afford e-learning through tablets, e-readers or even smartphones. Smart
Communications, a telco, worked with DM9 to devise an affordable solution. They used old analogue
mobile phones that most families own and collaborated with textbook authors and publishers to refine
official school texts into 160-character text messages, which were programmed into the inboxes of
thousands of inactive surplus SIM cards and repackaged into brand new 'txtbks'.

4. Driving dogs Draftfcb Auckland

Dogs can be smart, but no one expected them to be smart enough to drive a car. This campaign, created
by Draftfcb for Mini New Zealand and the Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, highlighted the
intelligence of rescue dogs to encourage adoption. The dogs won hearts as well as major awards. Oh,
and all the shelter's puppies found homes.

5. Small World Machines Leo Burnett Sydney
Coke is not a brand one usually associates with weighty political issues, so this campaign stood out for
trying something different while staying true to brand values. 'Small World Machines' built on the concept
of 'sharing happiness' by going some way - however small - to bridging the chasm between the
perpetually feuding India and Pakistan The work generated controversy at Cannes, with some judges
seeing it as an example of a brand making light of, or even taking advantage of, a major political
problem. Whatever the perception, it did achieve one very important thing: to get people talking.

TOP 5 HIRES

1. Mark Heap, CEO, MediaCom Asia-Pacific

MediaCom's performance in recent years has been impressive, and while Alex Crowther's exit as
regional head came as a surprise, Heap looks in every way a worthy successor. Still just 38, it's a big
step - he will oversee 1,400 staff across 15 markets - but we expect big things to match in 2014.

Page202of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.2. Cheuk Chiang, CEO, Omnicom Media Group Asia-Pacific
Just under five years after joining PHD when it was still decidedly a challenger brand, Chiang moved up
to even bigger things by taking over from Barry Cupples at Omnicom Media Group (OMG). Cupples,
who returned to London to take up a global trading, analytics and investment role, certainly left big shoes
to fill. But while Chiang cuts a different, somewhat less aggressive figure, the network is undoubtedly in
good hands. We also expect Susana Tsui to keep the momentum going at PHD.

3. Bob Pickard, CEO, Huntsworth Asia-Pacific

Many in the PR industry were surprised when Pickard left Burson-Marsteller at the end of 2012, but he
has always enjoyed the thrill of the startup. With a solid track record of building businesses - his own in
Canada, and later Edelman in Korea and Japan - he seems the ideal choice to get Huntsworth off the
ground in Asia. As CEO Peter Chadlington noted in June, 'one of Bob's greatest strengths is that he has
maintained an entrepreneurial view of life'.
4. Pratik Thakar, VP, Pacific Group creative and content excellence, Coca-Cola
Thakar has built up a reputation as one of the smartest planning brains in China, described by former
boss TH Peng as someone who manages to strike the perfect balance between strategy and creativity.
His appointment at Coca-Cola followed the departure of David Elsworth, who founded the Creative
Excellence function in Japan, which was initially unique to that market. Still based in Shanghai, Thakar
has an expanded brief to deliver 'excellence' across Greater China, Japan, Korea, South Asia, India,
Southeast Asia, Australia and New Zealand.

5. Ross Gearing, Director, global digital strategy, Infiniti
Having worked on the Infiniti brand thoughout his time at Tequila and later Rapp in China, Gearing was
a natural choice for the role on an automotive brand that currently has a low profile but is definitely going
places. The luxury car company recently established its global headquarters in Hong Kong and is
looking to aggressively step up activities in the rest of Asia. The role should afford Gearing plenty of room
to apply his expertise in brand building as well as data and analytics.

TOP 5 BREAKUPS

1. Steve Marcopoto and Turner

After 15 years at Turner International Asia-Pacific, one would have taken Steve Marcopoto to be a
fixture. The announcement of his exit was ironic considering Marcopoto was instrumental in Turner's
major revamp a month earlier, which included cutting as many as 900 jobs in the region. But in August,
the Asia head of the troubled broadcaster decided to step down. Marcopoto stays on as a senior adviser
to the company.

2. Damien Cummings and Samsung

Damien Cummings' departure garnered even more attention than his high-profile appointment as
Samsung's regional marketing director in 2012. At the time of his induction, Cummings was hailed as a
'digital powerhouse' who would transform the Korean electronics giant into a digital marketing leader. But
the rumours of a restructure began within a year and KK Park's appointment as Samsung's new regional
CEO sealed it.

3. Alex Crowther and MediaCom

Crowther's stint at MediaCom in Asia-Pacfic was short but productive. Somewhat aloof, he was not one
for self-promotion but quietly led the network to win a number of major accounts from the likes of
Coca-Cola, P&G, Dell and Fonterra. His departure was unexpected, but having returned to the US, he
recently resurfaced at Carat (as predicted) as global client president for its USdollars 3 billionGeneral
Motors (GM) account. Crowther first worked at Carat 19 years ago.

4. Phil Talbot and Zenith

Talbot ended a 19-year relationship with Publicis in May when he announced his resignation as regional
CEO of ZenithOptimedia. He began his career at Optimedia in the UK and moved to Hong Kong in 2004
to become ZenithOptimedia's first CEO in Asia-Pacific. He has left the agency in good shape, sitting
comfortably at the top of R3's New Business League. At his farewell announcement, Talbot talked of
getting actively involved in entrepreneurial opportunities in the region. Gerry Boyle, a Zenith veteran, took
on Talbot's role as the network's APAC president.

5. Vince Viola and Cathay Pacific

Page203of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In a surprise move, Vince Viola, managing director of McCann's Cathay Pacific Central Team,
announced his decision to return to Australia after 14 years in Hong Kong. Viola is relocating for
personal reasons and described the move as 'bitter sweet'. He began his career with the agency in
Sydney in 1993 when it pitched for and won the Cathay Pacificbusiness. He is to take up a post in
McCann's Melbourne office in February 2014.

TOP 5 COMEBACKS

1. Publicis Betterway gets back on its feet

In September 2013 Publicis Groupe moved forward with a rebuilt field-marketing agency Betterway after
a drawn-out corruption probe that began when internal Publicis auditors raided the agency's offices in
February 2012. Patti Sun, current CEO of Publicis Betterway China, was roped in from OgilvyAction to
revamp the organisation's operating and reporting structures, and won new Huawei business as the
agency made a slow 20-month turnaround.
2. McCann Health re-enters Hong Kong

The alliance with local health communications agency TT Healthcare to create TT McCann Health
marked McCann's re-entry into the healthcare market in Aug 2013 after it closed that particular arm in
August 2009. Rather than serve clients from Guangzhou or Shanghai and Beijing, the base was
established in Hong Kong as regulatory conditions are more relaxed in the city even though all
advertising for OTC products have to comply with the undesirable medical advertising ordinance
(UMAO).

3. JWT Shanghai re-appoints Bill Chan

Highly regarded as a creative, Hongkonger Bill Chan first joined JWT Shanghai in 2000, leading it to
become a top-ranked creative agency in 2004. He went on to win a host of awards, including Cannes
Lions. He returned to the agency in May after ECD stints at McCann Worldgroup and Ogilvy in Beijing,
replacing Elvis Chau as chief creative officer.

4. Martin Lever rejoins McCann Worldgroup

Martin Lever returned to McCann WorldGroup to take on the role as executive creative director of Cathay
Pacific's central team in August, replacing Thierry Halbroth, who relocated to Thailand. Lever last worked
on the same Cathay account when he was McCann Erickson's creative director and copywriter during the
period from 1996 to 1998, which he said is a brand 'dear to my heart, both professionally and
personally'.

5. Arvind Krishnan returns to India

Arvind Krishnan returned to BBH India in July 2013 as MD after he moved to BBH London in January
2012 as team director. Before his move to London, he was brand partner at BBH India. He was part of
the founding team of the agency's India operations. During his stint at the BBH London, Krishnan
handled brands such as Unilever and Diageo. He has also worked with Leo Burnett and Allsec
Technologies.

TOP 5 DEALS

1. Publicis-Omnicom

In a move that turned a quiet July weekend into a frenzy of Googling, Publicis and Omnicom signed a
deal that when finalised will form the world's largest advertising agency group with a combined market
cap of dollars 35 billion. While it's expected that the deal will take till 2014 to finalise, it already gained
the green light from US authorities in November where anti-trust laws were expected to be a sticking
point.

2. Dentsu-Aegis
Although proposed last year, the acquisition of Aegis for USdollars 4.9 billion was only finalised in
March this year after delays reportedly caused by China's slow approvals process. Since then, while
insisting on 'business as usual', the new entity has formed the Dentsu Aegis Network and has started to
merge its back office functions such as finance, IT, legal and compliance - where the biggest economies
of scale are to be found.

3. Blue Focus-Huntsworth

Page204of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In a move that surprised the rather Western-dominated PR industry, Chinese agency group Blue Focus
acquired nearly 20 per cent of the UK-based Huntsworth for about dollars 58 million. This deal is quite
the turnaround form seven years ago when Huntsworth, with owns agencies Grayling and Red
Consultancy, attempted to acquire Blue Focus. The deal has boosted Huntsworth' share price and
helped the European-dominated agency gain a foothold in Asia. Blue Focus meanwhile gains a platform
for its Chinese clients to grow abroad.

4. Bates-CHI & Partners
WPP's latest attempt to rescue Bates Asia was to merge it with CHI & Partners, which the group has a
stake in. The deal which was announced in December 2012 culminated in an official launch party of the
newly named Bates CHI & Partners this March. Oddly however, while all of Bates' 14 offices in Asia have
been rebranded, CHI & Partners remains untouched in its UK and US offices. 'What works best in terms
of awareness,' said executive chairman Johnny Hornby.

5. JWT-Mango Marketing

In April JWT signed an affiliation agreement with Myanmar agency Mango Marketing which gave JWT
the option to buy equity in the local agency. The deal marked JWT's entry into the market and cemented
WPP's footprint as it follows a deal between Ogilvy and Today Advertising a year earlier.

TOP 5 PITCHES

1. GSK

Global

The biggest pitch of the year reached its conculsion in September when GlaxoSmithKline bade goodbye
to incumbents Starcom and Carat and split its dollars 1.6 billion global media planning and buying duties
between OMG, GroupM and Dentsu. Sam Singh, GSK's VP and head of global media, later said that
Asia had been a deciding factor in the shift.

2. Mengniu
China

The milk giant was the brand behind what Campaign believes to be China's biggest pitch. Managed by
R3, the review kicked off in October, with billings estimated at around dollars 400 million.
The drama ended relatively undramatically with ZenithOptimedia's Optimedia defending the business
against Starcom and Carat. Mengniu is still working to rebuild its reputation after further controversy over
the safety of milk in China.

3. AB InBev
China

Thanks to Bertilla Teo, Starcom snatched AB InBev's dollars 180 million account from incumbent
MediaCom in September after a pitch that also included Havas and UM. AB InBev, which counts
Budweiser, Stella Artois, Harbin and Sedrin among its broad portfolio of brands, was apparently
impressed with Starcom's digital capabilities, proactive approach and insight into the market.

4. L'Oreal
China

The value of L'Oreal's accounts is often a bone of contention, but one thing all can agree on is that they
are sizeable. In October the brand consolidated its media with Mindshare in China, awarding the agency
the bulk of its online business in addition to everything else. Incumbent ZenithOptimedia did manage to
hold onto search and e-commerce duties though. A source described the account as 'massive' and one
requiring at least 100 staff. Digital spend is estimated at around dollars 100 million of a total dollars 800
million China ad spend.

5. SingTel

Singapore

The telco consolidated with Ogilvy in October after a lengthy process, managed by R3, that kicked off in
June. While there was speculation that procurement requirements drove the pitch, the hunt for a 'more

Page205of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.integrated creative and digital agency model' dealt a blow to BBDO, which eventually withdrew: SingTel
had been an anchor client for the agency for five years, although it also already worked with OgilvyOne
for part of its business. This narrowly trumped Petronas as the year's most important creative pitch.

TOP 5 CONTROVERSIES

1. F5's fraud allegations

In April, Campaign published claims by F5 Digital founder Gregory Birge that staff members had
defrauded the company. Police investigated; the situation remains unresolved. In October, Birge flamed
out with an announcement that he was leaving marketing altogether to pursue a career in music.

2. Recma dallying

Recma's initial ranking for media agency billings in Australia for 2012 had MediaCom in the top spot,
followed by OMD and Mitchells & Partners. In August, Recma issued a revision that put OMD and
Mitchells & Partners in the top slot and dropped MediaCom to third, citing overand under-estimation. In
October, after MediaCom complained, Recma released a final revision. The three agencies finished in a
third-decimal-place dead heat. We sincerely hope everyone is happy now.

3. Malaysian politics

Malaysia's racially/ethically/religiously charged election campaign drew Rapp Kuala Lumpur into the fray
in April. The agency, according to several sources, created ads for the Malaysian Chinese Association
that attracted criticism from many for inciting 'Islamophobia'.
4. Hong Kong TV licences

In October, the government sparked a public outcry when it awarded over-the-air TV broadcasting
licenses to i-Cable and PCCW's Now TV, dashing the hopes of Hong Kong Television Network. The
decision led to a series of sizable protests over cronyism. Media agency heads also expressed
bewilderment. For most of the protesters though, it was just a prime chance to don black T-shirts, adopt
serious-looking pouts and upload the pictures to Facebook.

5. Singapore online news regulations

A decree that major websites reporting on Singapore regularly (including the likes of Yahoo) had to
obtain licences from the Media Development Authority (MDA) sparked widespread fears of censorship.
One casualty was Breakfast Network, a news site that missed the application deadline and is now
banned from posting content on social media.

TOP 5 MEDIA LAUNCHES

1. Spotify's expansion
Streaming music service Spotify launched in Hong Kong, Singapore and Malaysia in April. Advertising
partners include Heineken, KFC, Maxis and Standard Chartered in Malaysia; CSL one2free and
McDonalds in Hong Kong and H&M and Subway in Singapore.

2. Taobao Southeast Asia
China's largest b2b shopping site expanded to Southeast Asia in September with a new website and
language translation feature. Before launch, Taobao already had more than 280,000 registered
Singaporean users.

3. Mediamath Korea
Demand-side platform MediaMath and Cheil Worlwide tied up to expand in Korea, China and Southeast
Asia. MediaMath co-founder Erich Wasserman said earlier this year that the agency is eyeing
Asia-Pacific expansion, especially in India, China, Indonesia aside from Korea.

4. Weber Shandwick's Mediaco

Weber Shandwick launched content creation and distribution unit Mediaco in Asia-Pacific in August.
Based in Hong Kong and with satellites in four other Asia-Pacific markets, this unit combines editorial,
planning, production and paid media dollars to support distribution and discovery of content. Mediaco is
led by head of digital, Asia-Pacific Jon Wade, who will drive the initiative with the support of a global
Weber Shandwick team.

Page206of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.5. Havas' Arena
Havas Media launched Arena Media quietly in Asia in July, with offices in Australia, China, Taiwan, India
and Southeast Asia. The move enabled Havas to take charge of LG's USdollars 400 million global
account, given that it currently handles Philips Electronics in selected markets. Arena is fully integrated
into Havas Media and without a regional lead. Nevertheless, it will pitch for business in its own right.

TOP 5 AGENCY HEADS

1. Paul Heath Chairman, Ogilvy & Mather Asia-Pacific

It's true that Paul Heath often makes an appearance on this list, and that is for a good reason. Ogilvy is
still the network to beat and, under Heath's guidance, shows no signs of slowing down. The agency's
stellar performance is down to a clear vision and delivery, and the way the agency has managed to
position itself for the future. The goal of putting digital at the heart of such a large network is not easy, but
one that Heath has achieved admirably.

2. Nick Waters, CEO Asia-Pacific, Aegis Media
Waters deserves special recognition for his impeccable handling of thedollars 4.9 billion Dentsu-Aegis
deal in Asia, which he managed personally. Of course, the full outcome of the acquisition has yet to be
felt, but it has certainly got off to a positive start. In contrast to the Publicis-Omnicom deal, a priority for
Waters was putting everyone at ease, from clients to staff.

3. Matthew Godfrey, President, Y&R Asia

Perennially one of Asia's most respected admen, Godfrey has had a challenge at Y&R, but there are
strong signs that all the hard work is now starting to pay off. Most of all, Godfrey is giving the network two
very important things: energy and identity, both of which have been particularly apparent over the past
year. Most recently, Y&R acquired im2.0, forming VML IM2.0 - a smart move in China and an example of
how the agency is thinking more like a digital start-up.

4. Charles Cadell, President, McCann Worldgroup APAC

For the first time in some years, McCann feels stable. Inspiring, even. The world-beating campaign for
Metro Trains aside, Cadell can take credit for having given new momentum to a network that seemed to
have lost its way. Notably, he has re-engineered the agency's once-stagnating operations in mainland
China - an ongoing and by no means straightforward task - and led it to win sizable new business such
as the global China Telecom account. Things might not be quite where he wants them to be yet, but they
are clearly on the way.

5. Scott Kronick, President and CEO, Ogilvy PR Asia-Pacific
Kronick is something of an unsung hero. A fixture at Ogilvy and on China's PR scene for the past quarter
of a century, he is preparing to take the reins at one of Asia's strongest networks. He has carved a niche
for himself as a China expert. But his contribution to North Asia as a whole has been consistently strong,
and it's good to see him at last step up to a regional role that is much deserved.

TOP 5 PR DISASTERS

1. JWT India's scam ads for Ford

When an illustrated print ad of bound women in the back of a Ford Figo driven by Italian premier Silvio
Berlusconi went viral, heads rolled, including that of chief creative officer Bobby Pawar. Ford denied all
knowledge, JWT India footed the blame and then turned around and fired those involved in a display of
outrage. Apologies were made all around and the outraged internet gleefully ran the tale for weeks. It
wasn't pretty.

2. Samsung's anti-HTC seeding
For an international brand, Samsung can sometimes think like a mean-spirited highschool kid. The
Korean electronics giant bribed college students to post comments praising Samsung and taking down
its rival HTC on Taiwanese forums. The smear tactic was caught and reported to Taiwan's Fair Trade
Commission, which investigated, found Samsung guilty and fined it USdollars 340,000.

3. Subway's Ah Lian

The sandwich chain's attempt at 'connecting' with Singaporeans by using (mocking?) the local accent
with a stereotypical bimbo character named Rose Wah Chin Swee did not go down well with the local

Page207of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.audience or its Malaysian neighbours. On YouTube the ad drew comments along the lines of 'I want to
slap her so bad!' and 'What were you thinking, Subway?'

4. Les Deux Garcons insulting customers on Facebook

If a mild critique on your customer service leads you to call a customer a bitch on Facebook, it might be
time to consider a change in career, perhaps to an under-bridge troll. The Malaysian patisserie made
headlines when its comment 'we have no time for bitches' went viral. A halfhearted apology failed to cool
the flames and the shop's Facebook page has since been taken down. For the better we believe.

5. Scoot's virtual flight catastrophe

Should your grand idea involve your customers staying up all night clicking a button, you'd better be
darned sure all goes according to plan. When the budget airline's 'virtual flight' app crashed multiple
times outraged and sleep-deprived participants took to the internet to express their outrage after realising
the airline wasn't responding to enquiries on Facebook. Scoot eventually apologised and re-held the
contest.

TOP 5 TURKEYS

1. Unilever's skin-whitening shame
Unilever's Citra brand in Thailand withdrew a commercial for its skin-whitening products that critics said
equated dark skin with a lack of intelligence. It's not the first time ads in this product category have
crossed the line, and we're certain it won't be the last.

2. AXA's pill-heads

AXA Life Insurance staged 'flash mobs' in Singapore to promote a counseling service for cancer patients.
However, a series of brief skits starring young actors inexplicably wearing giant plastic pills atop their
heads didn't quite strike the right tone for such a sensitive topic. (It's also not a flashmob, but that's
another rant.) We doubt anyone walked away understanding what just happened, let alone the product
benefits.

3. Behold 'Fukuppy'
This was the year that Fukushima Industries, a Japanese refrigeration company, created a winged,
egg-shaped fellow named 'Fukuppy'. That says it all, really.

4. Nikon shows how not to do a how-to

'A new way to selfie', a video perpetrated by Nikon Malaysia, cast three young women and attempted to
provide a tutorial on specific camera features. The execution was laughable, with horrendous sound
quality, scorn-worthy acting, and worst/best of all, the unique grammar and pronunciation of the lead
actress: 'Glay-mar' instead of 'glamour'; 'I'm going to show you a brand new camera that I has bought';
and 'Let's take a group photos'.

5. Water Wally

The Singapore authorities are masters when it comes to producing toe-curlingly bad public service music
videos (anyone remember the Media Development Authority's 2007 rap?), and did not disappoint this
year. Enter Water Wally, a giant droplet with the commendable aim of encouraging water conservation in
the city. Naturally, this involved the enforcement of a goofy dance. His joining a young boy in the shower
came in for particular criticism. 'The intention must have been for the greater good but the delivery reeks
of mind control and paedophilia,' wrote one blogger.

TOP 5 DIARY STORIES

1. Pugilistic Sevens
The Hong Kong Rugby Sevens are never without an amusing tale related to over-enthusiastic alcohol
consumption, but it's even better when that tale concerns someone well known to Campaign. News
reached us in March that a prominent industry figure (clue: not Cindy Gallop) became so enraged when
his team was knocked out of the tournament that he took to throwing windmill punches (in costume, of
course) in the corporate box. No matter how hard you swing, you are hard pressed to beat that.

2. Jimmy Lam's Kam Fan meltdown

Page208of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.An unusually hotheaded Lam raised a few eyebrows at the Kam Fan awards in Hong Kong at the end of
2012. Sensing the potential of an attractive female presenter for his own awards show (AdFest), he tried
to solicit her on stage. When her male counterpart (perhaps actually keen to work for AdFest?) tried to
introduce himself, Lam brushed him aside with a curt 'Piss off'. He also complained vociferously about
the sub-par digs laid on for him by the 4As.

3. Rob Campbell's reindeer romance

Campbell is the sort of person who spreads love wherever he goes. He certainly made an impression on
a North Pole reindeer anyway. We understand the attraction was mutual, but have not been able to verify
that.

4. Ken Mandel's starvation

Ken Mandel is someone who doesn't do things by half measures. After leaving Salesforce Marketing
Cloud, he went into full 'de-corporatisation' mode. Legend has it that the man sometimes referred to as
'the Beast of Bangkok', on a quest for inner peace, subsisted for several weeks on a diet of coconut
water and sunshine in Koh Samui. Thankfully he did eventually decide to return to the world, recently
resurfacing at HootSuite.

5. Matt Harty's 'Chopper Read' picture

This merits another airing because it is so true to life. We salute you again, Mr, er, Read.

SEPARATED AT BIRTH

James Parsons, Flamingo - Julian Assange

Nico Abbruzzese, Maxus - Girolamo Panzetta

Charles Brian-Boys, Alchemy Asia - Steve Buscemi

Stuart Clark, Havas - Odo

Alvin Lim, Draftfcb - Crayon Shin-chan

Marion McDonald, Ogilvy Public Relations - Sarah Brightman

CHATTER

'We call it 'horizontality', which has unfortunate connotations.' - Speaking at Media360 Asia, WPP's
Martin Sorrell notes the linguistic pitfalls of trying to get his staff to work closer together.

'Everyone loves Mark. From clients and creatives to suits, and most likely my wife. He makes me sick.' -
Wieden + Kennedy's Rob Campbell says Mark Heap is the man women want and men want to be like.

'It's a most unique challenge.' - Dentsu Asia's new chief creative officer Ted Lim diplomatically admits
that the agency needs to change how it is perceived.

'It was like dental proctology.' - Amar Urhekar of McCann Health recalls the fun he had trying to convince
IPG to make an acquisition in Japan last year.
'Ideally, a brand should use this kind of humour when it's feeling suicidal - when it wants to skip a
gradual decline and just wants a quick death.' - Y&R's Hari Ramanathan offers an explanation for
Subway's decision to position itself as the food of choice for glamorous 'ah lians' in Singapore.
'They think it's a very posh company; a food store exclusively for managers.' - Yumi Li, commercial
director of Pret A Manger in Hong Kong, says the subtleties of the French language are still lost on most
local customers.
'I remain a violent Chinese bull.' - Martin Sorrell gets a second airing for this gem.

--------------------

Did you find this article useful? Why not subscribe to the magazine? Please call 08451 55 73 55 for more
information or visit www.haysubs.com

CO

chlcom : Cheil Worldwide Inc. | dblif : Samsung Life Insurance Co., Ltd | mcerk : McCann-Erickson
WorldGroup | cphsro : The College of Physicians and Surgeons of Ontario | intpub : Interpublic Group of
Companies Inc.

Page209of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

i82 : Insurance | i82002 : Life Insurance | i838 : Advertising | iadv : Advertising/Marketing/Public Relations
| ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ifinal : Financial Services | imark : Marketing
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Haymarket Media Limited
AN

Document MEDIAM0020140108ea110001t

Search Summary

Text

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or entitys) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
01/01/2014 to 30/04/2014
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
2,564
29 August 2018 1:52

Page210of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.