Genting misses boat as Echo hits its straps

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business - Opinion & Analysis
Genting misses boat as Echo hits its straps

ELIZABETH KNIGHT
1,130 words
1 November 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
7
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Among the group of shareholders that descended on the Gold Coast Jupiters Casino to hear the
good news that their company, Echo Entertainment, was hitting its financial straps following years of
underperformance, there was a notable absence - that of its Malaysian-based and second-largest
shareholder Genting.

There is a mystery surrounding Genting's investment that becomes even more confounding as time
moves on. It is now almost 2½ years since Genting sought permission to increase its investment in
Echo from just under its current 10 per cent stake to its stated desire to move to 25 per cent. The
opportunity cost for Genting of missing out on a bigger slice of Echo's 74 per cent share price gain
since January is enormous.

Genting's investment in Echo is worth about $300 million. Had it been able to reach its 25 per cent
goal the value of its investment would be closer to $750 million - but one it would have acquired at a
fraction of today's value.

How it has come to pass that Genting has failed to satisfy the NSW Independent Liquor and Gaming
Authority of its credentials to take a bigger stake in Echo is a subject shrouded in secrecy. The
gaming authority is an organisation that is mostly impenetrable - it provides no meaningful running
commentary on how applications are moving and communicates publicly only when an application
has been approved or rejected.

Suggestions earlier this year by media that the authority was being tardy in its approval process and
the applicant was feeling frustrated by the process met with a rare response from the regulator, which
said, in effect, that it was Genting that was dragging the chain on supplying the information needed.

Its statement in August was pretty clear. "The Casino Control Act 1992 requires the authority to be
satisfied that GHK [Genting Hong Kong] its close and business associates and relevant office
holders, are suitable to become involved in the management and operation of the Sydney casino.

"This requirement necessarily involves GHK supplying extensive documentation to assist the
investigation. When the investigation began more than two years ago, the authority made clear what
documentation it required. GHK is fully aware of these requirements, which remain unfulfilled.

"For this reason the authority requested a meeting with K T Lim [from Genting] in Sydney last month.
Some further documentation has been provided, but still not all that was sought."

In response to queries from Fairfax Media this week, the regulator shed little light.
"The Independent Liquor and Gaming Authority continues to work with Genting Hong Kong in respect
of their application to be authorised to hold a major stake in Echo Entertainment Group Limited. The
matter remains under consideration and the authority will make an announcement as soon as it is in a
position to do so."

Page187of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.If it is Genting that is frustrating its own process, then it raises the question of why it should do so.

The history of Genting's probity applications demonstrates it has received approvals in other
jurisdictions without the time delays.

In New York, Genting received regulatory approvals in four to five months, in Nevada 14 months and
in Singapore a speedy two months. It took the NSW gaming authority 15 months to approve James
Packer's Crown Resorts application to increase its stake in Echo and fund manager Perpetual
received its tick after seven months.
The bottom line is that if or when Genting receives the green light to raise its stake in Echo the ball
game will change.

Echo's share price doesn't contain much, if any, value associated with potential corporate activity.
This would change if Genting received approval to move to 25 per cent.

Perhaps Genting is biding its time and waiting until the outcome of the Queensland government's
deliberations on whether it will be an Echo- or Crown-led consortium that wins the right to develop an
integrated casino operation at Queens Wharf in Brisbane.

One got a sense that 18 months ago Echo was engaged in a waiting game for the outcome of an
ownership chess game. Since then Packer sold his 10 per cent stake and Genting has gone quiet.

To Echo's credit its board has ignored these distractions, elevated chief financial officer Matt Bekier to
run the company and started to extract the returns from its previous investments in its properties -
particularly The Star in Sydney.

In doing so it demonstrated that working these assets smarter and harder could produce the
appropriate returns.
Indeed, the latest update from Echo this week paints a company that is taking ground from its
arch-competitor, Crown. In a trading update, Echo said that in the first 17 weeks of the financial year
gross revenue improved strongly in domestic and VIP revenues.

As a result, Echo anticipates earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation for the first
half of the 2015 financial year to come in within the range of $245 million to $260 million,
representing an increase of between 23 per cent and 31 per cent on the prior corresponding period.
To date this financial year it has clocked normalised gross revenues of $762 million (up 27 per cent)
primarily driven by the strong performance from The Star.

It has been a particularly good result from the VIP market, with gross revenue up 78 per cent on the
previous corresponding period.

It is these results rather than the spectre of corporate activity that are driving Echo's improving share
price.

Packer, who controls just over 50 per cent of Crown Resorts, told shareholders at the casino
operator's annual meeting a few weeks ago that trading in the first 15 weeks of the year had been
"mixed at best".

Mr Packer said consumer sentiment at the Melbourne and Perth properties had been soft. But
high-roller punters have had a lucky start to the year, with casino win rates at both properties
described by Mr Packer as "poor". "Our VIP businesses are almost $100 million below the theoretical
result less than four months into the financial year due to an adverse win rate or, put simply, bad
luck," he said. "The punters are killing us!"

Failing to meet the theoretical run rate is the result of bad luck rather than bad management.
However, the contrast in fortunes between Echo and Crown does suggest the former is taking VIP
market share.

And as such, it represents a change in fortunes for Echo, which has suffered dearly at the hands of
Packer who won the opportunity to compete with Echo in the Sydney market when the NSW
government granted a second casino licence to Crown.

CO
IN

ekoee : Echo Entertainment Group Ltd. | gnting : Genting Bhd
i97912 : Gambling Industries | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality

Page188of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE

PUB
AN

nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive
News Filter
austr : Australia | malay : Malaysia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020141031eab100057

Page189of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.