Young migrant with soaring ambition

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Young migrant with soaring ambition

Nigel Bowen
790 words
8 November 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
28
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

My Small Business
Clare Hu, 27, is a Chinese-Australian entrepreneur with big plans, writes Nigel Bowen.

At 17, Clare Hu left her native China, moved to Melbourne and undertook a bachelor of commerce
degree while working seven days a week at up to four part-time jobs at any one time. Now she's a
successful property developer and cafe owner with plans to expand her business in China.

After graduating, Hu worked as an accountant at an architectural practice during the day. Then she
began exporting Victorian red wine and dry goods to China. "I made about $300,000 over five years
doing that," she said.

With the encouragement of a manager at the architectural practice who had became a mentor, Hu
moved into property development. Combining her now significant savings with a bank loan plus loans
from friends and family, she bought land in the Melbourne suburb of Box Hill. Four years down the
track, the six townhouses she built have been sold for a total of $4.5 million.
"I attended property exhibitions in major China cities to work out what buyers wanted and worked with
a Chinese real estate agent to market the development," Ms Hu said. "I made sure all the townhouses
were good quality and would be a good long-term investment for the purchasers."
It's a smart move. Over the past seven years Chinese buyers have spent $24 billion in Australia's
housing market. Global bank Credit Suisse estimates they will splurge $44 billion buying local
residential property in the next seven years.

Not content with her ambitions to become a property mogul, Hu also has aspirations in the hospitality
market. After realising she was unlikely to start making much of a dent in her debts to loved ones on a
junior accountant's salary and part-time jobs, the long-time coffee lover borrowed some more money
and opened a cafe - The Resident, in Melbourne's Ashburton - while construction at Box Hill was in
progress. In 2013 The Age Good Cafe Guide gave The Resident its "Local Hero" award.

After the near overnight success of her first cafe, Hu is about to launch a second - Bluff Town in
Melbourne's Sandringham.
"As with my property development, I'm focusing on quality," she said. "My cafes are in the suburbs but
are to the standard you expect at inner-city establishments. Having won the Local Hero award with The
Resident, which is now turning over $1.5 million a year, my ambition is that Bluff Town will turn over a
similar amount, be the best cafe in Melbourne's bayside area and win The Age Good Cafe Guide 'Best
Food Cafe' award in 2015."
She has largely relied on word of mouth to build her cafe business. "Along with my barista I've
travelled to benchmark cafes and restaurants in Melbourne, Asia and the US to learn from the best,"

Page49of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.she said. "Plus, we get involved with the community, work with the local media and try to win awards,
which all helps spread the word among cafe aficionados."

Hu is completing a masters degree in risk management and finalising plans to open a cafe in Shanghai.
"The quality of Australian cafes and the food and coffee they serve is excellent and I believe that the
Chinese will be very open to enjoying that. I'm in a joint venture with a Shanghai partner and the end
result will be similar to The Resident and Bluff Town, though it will also have a cooking school and a
food store." She is also keen to get back into property development. "I've established a reputation for
being trustworthy and developing quality properties," she said. "Now I want to develop an
environmentally friendly brand by building green houses."

So how does 27-year-old Hu manage it all? "I set goals and make to-do lists every day," she said.
"And I'm passionate about my major goal of using the money from my businesses to set up a
philanthropic foundation."

As for the challenges she has had to overcome to realise her dreams, all Hu can think of is occasionally
being taken advantage of. "But I still tend to trust everyone to do the right thing and it works out well 99
per cent of the time. When I go into the cafe, I'm not checking on the staff because I trust them to do
their job. Not having to worry about looking over people's shoulders frees up a lot of time and energy."

Something that will stand her in good stead as she continues on her entrepreneurial path.

RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | china : China | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020141107eab80003e

Page50of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.