$A slides from Fed's bold leap

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Market Wrap
$A slides from Fed's bold leap

Vesna Poljak
1,023 words
19 September 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
13
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The United States Federal Reserve's faster than expected timeline for interest rate rises has sparked a
fresh US dollar rally and sent the Australian dollar to a six-month low in moves that will be greeted
enthusiastically by the Reserve Bank of Australia.

Foreign exchange markets responded to the Fed's more hawkish interest rate expectations with US
dollar buying and commodity currencies sliding.

The Australian dollar was at US89.69¢ late Thursday.

Emerging markets currencies were knocked lower by the outcome of the meeting in Washington.
Global bonds barely moved however, indicating markets are not at risk of a shock increase in the cost
of borrowing.
Meanwhile, China upped its accommodative policy settings for the second time this week. It has
lowered the repo rate, equivalent to the cost of borrowing, after on Wednesday injecting liquidity into
the financial system.

That was enough to reverse a slide in Australian stocks on Thursday, which closed up 8.5 points to
5415.8 points. Japan's Nikkei jumped above 16,000, its highest since January thanks to the yen falling
to a six-year low against the greenback.

The ructions out of the US are consistent with a bold leap higher for the greenback which has been
suppressed by years of monetary stimulus undertaken by the Fed. And all signs point to the latest
moves representing a sustained Australian dollar retreat to below US90¢ and lower.

"I think it would be very much aligned with what Glenn Stevens would have expected and I think the
RBA would be quite pleased," said Colonial First State head of economic and market research
Stephen Halmarick.Doveish rhetoric

He highlighted that in spite of a doveish rhetoric in the Fed's statement, members' forecasts –
represented by the 'dots' chart – signified the Fed was more advanced as a collective in its interest rate
expectations.

"The dots were quite hawkish in that the median of the Fed committee has raised where they think
interest will be at the end of next year," Mr Halmarick said, suggesting the equivalent of five interest
rate increases in 2015 on the new guidance.

"The timing is still open for discussion but the pace of tightening is faster."

He credited the Fed for appealing to both the hawks and doves and retaining the flexibility to slow its
path to raising the Fed funds rate from the 0 per cent bound. "I would describe it as the 'something for
everybody' Fed meeting. I think that was a deliberate strategy.

Page9of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."I think what it is, is Janet Yellen saying 'we know we're moving towards when rates are going to rise
but we want to get there gradually  . . . deliberately'. " "She doesn't want a big reaction in the market, [the
Fed] don't want bond yields to move higher. Let's stretch out the hawkishness."

JP Morgan currency strategist Sally Auld alluded to a compromise at the Fed considering the language
of the statement "wasn't particularly hawkish" and yet the progression of "the dots" indicated a more
hawkish tilt. "Yellen was at pains to emphasise in her press conference that if the data improves more
quickly than they expect, they will be faster to hike," she said. "She's really saying the whole story is
still very data dependent.

"She's putting the market on notice that 'considerable time' doesn't mean they just sit there and do
nothing."Traders getting a grip

Ms Auld was referring to the Fed's repeating of the wording "considerable time" which keeps the
central bank's options open with regard to how long it will wait after bond purchases are stopped before
the first rate rise.

Bond purchases will end next month after an uninterrupted winding back of quantitative easing.

However, it appears that just as traders are getting a grip on the direction for the Fed in 2015, the
world's second-biggest economy – China – is tweaking its policy settings in ways that will have equally
significant but opposing effects on the Australian market.
Twice this week, China's central bank moved to ease monetary policy in response to the latest
economic data that showed the output from the nation's factories fell to their lowest level since the
financial crisis. Economists said China's target growth rate of 7.5 per cent would not be met unless the
People's Bank of China eased policy. On Thursday, the central bank cut the 14-day repurchase rate by
20 basis points to 3.5 per cent which followed Wednesday's liquidity injection of Yuan 500 billion
($90 billion) into the banking system through short-term loans.
Illustrating the impact of Chinese stimulus, the Australian dollar, which is a proxy for Chinese growth
in the eyes of international investors, was trading as low as US89.38¢ 9am Sydney time but was as
high as US89.75¢ after midday as it became apparent The People's Bank of China (PBOC) was in the
market again.
Goldman Sachs said China's liquidity injection was equivalent in its impact on the banking system to
0.5 of a percentage point of interest rate cuts. "Given policymakers have shown a willingness to loosen
in the face of weaker data, we believe growth will rebound in the coming months and the government
will be able to reach the 'around 7.5 per cent' full-year [gross domestic product] growth target for 2014,"
Goldman said in a report.China crackdown

The Fed and the PBOC cap off a big week for Australian investors which started off on unsteady
footing as the iron ore price hovers at almost five-year lows. The plunge in the commodity price and
until now, high Australian dollar, have represented a double blow for the mining sector underscoring
the importance of a weaker local currency.
China also intensified its crackdown on low-grade coal imports in a blow to Australian exporters. And
the RBA, in its minutes from the September policy meeting, publicly aired its concerns around the risk
of asset bubbles forming in its low-rates environment.

CO
NS

RE

PUB
AN

fed : Federal Reserve Board | rbkaus : Reserve Bank of Australia
e1202 : Interest Rates | m132 : Foreign Exchange News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat :
Economic News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140918ea9j0000c

Page10of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.