Investors in denial

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Perspective
Investors in denial

Karen Maley
1,585 words
12 July 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
21
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Global economy Markets may be underestimating the impact of the end of quantitative easing, writes
Karen Maley.

It's a dangerous time in global financial markets as investors wait to see whether rampaging animal
spirits will wilt under the pressure of rising United States interest rates. Some fret that with soaring
prices for virtually every asset – from US shares to Spanish government bonds, from Manhattan
apartments to contemporary art – the mood is eerily reminiscent of the heady days of 2007, just before
the onset of the global financial markets. Meanwhile, the Vix index of US share price volatility – the
"fear index" – is plumbing seven-year lows, while volatility in foreign exchange and bond markets has
also evaporated.

A fortnight ago the Bank for International Settlements – the banker for central banks – sounded a major
alarm, warning that exuberant financial markets have been dancing "mainly to the tune of central bank
decisions". BIS warned of a "puzzling disconnect between the markets' buoyancy and underlying
economic developments".
Dom Giuliano, a portfolio manager at leading fund manager Magellan Financial Group, which has
delivered an impressive annual return of 9.4 per cent since inception, agrees that investors could be
underestimating the risks. "There does seem to be a fair degree of complacency. When you look at
volatility and valuation levels, it suggests that some of the significant risks that exist in the world today
are being ignored."

Even though BIS cautioned central banks not to fall into the trap of raising rates "too slowly and too
late", Janet Yellen, the powerful head of the US Federal Reserve, has signalled she intends to keep
short-term US interest rates low to avoid choking off the US economic recovery.

All the same, the US central bank has decided to end its controversial bond-buying program, known as
quantitative easing or QE, in October. The bond purchases were supposed to push long-term bond
yields lower, driving investors to buy riskier assets such as stocks and junk bonds.'The big money has
been made'

Kerr Neilson, the highly regarded founder of Platinum Asset Management, which has delivered
investors an astounding annual return of 13 per cent over 19 years, points out that the end of QE has
important implications for financial markets.

"It means people will be able to earn the yield they need without taking so much risk. Printing money is
just a tax on people who own cash deposits and government bonds.

"The fact that people don't have to chase so enthusiastically after risk to get some return on their
money really does suggest to me that the big money has been made in these Western markets."

Neilson argues that in the US "valuations on small caps – the Russell 2000 index – look very
expensive". The S&P's valuation, he says, "is probably justifiable" but this depends on US companies

Page184of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.boosting their earnings. "The earnings are key because everyone has built in an acceleration in
earnings in the second half."

As for Europe, he says, the latest problem with the Portuguese bank "just draws attention to the fact
that Europe is still much earlier in the recovery cycle and there are tensions with countries such as
France that need to make changes.

"So I see the Western hemisphere as being fairly fully priced."

But Neilson is enthusiastic about investment opportunities in Asia.
"What we're seeing in Asia is that countries are growing again. And even if China has slowed
somewhat, the stimulus measures introduced by Beijing are allowing the country to grow. Asian
markets are all pretty much out of favour. But the Chinese, South Korean and Japanese markets strike
me as being ready to go to the next level. All these three big Asian markets are under-owned and look
very good value."

By contrast, Giuliano says Magellan feels the US is on track for a sustainable economic recovery and is
significantly overweight the US market. The aim is to capture some of the tailwinds from rising interest
rates, improve consumer activity and increase e-commerce and more investment in technology by
corporates.

He says the outlook for all sectors of the US economy is improving.

"Households have deleveraged over the last five years, the unemployment rate is continuing to decline
to almost 6 per cent, the participation rate is improving and the rate of under-employment is
also improving."

In addition, he says, "households are benefiting from improving house prices which have risen 10 to
12 per cent over the last year. This helps the economy because as house prices rise, people feel
wealthier and tend to spend more. Also the number of people with negative equity in their mortgages is
falling."A boost from construction
The US economy is also getting a boost from a pick-up in residential construction. "There were around
400,000 new houses built in 2010-11 but this has now increased to about a million new houses per
annum, which represents a lot of extra economic activity. But there's still a way to run because
underlying demand is running at about 1.4 million new houses a year."

At the same time, he says, "The corporate sector is healthy, balance sheets are in good shape and
companies have a lot of cash which they're looking to invest. The US banks are among the best
capitalised in the world and are ready to lend.

"And the US government sector is on an improving trend. The US deficit has shrunk from around 9 per
cent of GDP to below 3 per cent at present."

As Giuliano sees it: "The risks are all around the end of quantitative easing. The US Federal Reserve
has signalled that it will stop buying government and mortgage-backed securities by around October
and so the question then becomes how does the balance sheet of the Fed unwind and will there be a
residual inflationary impact?"

So far, he says, the US bond market has appeared to take in its stride the imminent end of QE. But he
says there is still a major unknown: "Will we see a steady normalisation of interest rates or is there a
potential for a jolt in interest rates as the US economy strengthens and QE finishes?"

If US rates rise, he says, "arguably the rest of the world will suffer more than the United States,
particularly the emerging markets".

Higher US interest rates, he says, "will expose the vulnerable emerging markets even more, particularly
those that have borrowed heavily, have large current account deficits and government deficits – such
as Turkey, India and Indonesia".
As for China, Giuliano says Magellan sees rising risks from the excess supply of residential
construction in China and from the strong growth in credit over the past six years.
"If you think about China's building and construction over the last couple of years, there is a need for
1.25 billion square metres of new housing space each year as around 20 million people a year move
into urban areas. For the last few years, the amount of space built is closer to 2 billion square metres.
As a result, there's an estimated three years of excess housing supply in China."

Page185of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Given that construction makes up a significant slice of China's GDP, he argues a sharp decline in
construction activity could cut several percentage points off China's 7 to 7.5 per cent GDP growth rate.

"That could have significant impact on resource exporters such as Australia. But it could also affect
emerging markets such as Brazil that are already vulnerable as a result of rising interest
rates."Chinese credit another risk
Giuliano says the sharp growth in China's credit could also result in instability.

"Credit outstanding has gone from about 140 per cent of GDP in 2008 to around 200 per cent of GDP
at the end of last year. It's a huge jump. The increase in the dollar value of credit outstanding in China
in that period is equal to the entire US banking system." But he notes that "China's government does
have some levers to deal with these risks".
Platinum's Neilson agrees there are some concerns over Chinese economy.
"The Chinese residential property market is in a severe downturn and prices are dropping fast. The
desire of people to clamber into the market is reduced and there's not the same enthusiasm to load up
on property.
"There are an estimated 10 to 12 million apartments that are not sold – so that's a good chunk of real
estate. And that will have an impact on developers as they think about starting new projects."
But, he says, "the issue in China is that they need to find other avenues of growth and they'll do that as
the economy transitions from being an investment-led economy to a consumption-led economy".
Neilson points out that China's President Xi Jinping's clampdown on corruption is aimed at "bringing
radical change to China's state-owned enterprises which have concentrated economic power and
where senior management has been using their privileged position to strip assets and money from the
companies".

Xi, he says, "is trying to get rid of opposition to the whole notion of reform". "The clampdown is not just
about rectitude, it's about political determination."

Neilson is "quite optimistic" he can make good money in the Asian region and less money in the
Western hemisphere.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

e1202 : Interest Rates | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | nedc :
Commentaries/Opinions | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | m12 : Debt/Bond
Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News
Filter
usa : United States | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North
America
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140711ea7c00020

Page186of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.