Final results of the Initial Public Offering of Nexstim Plc

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Final results of the Initial Public Offering of Nexstim Plc

1,155 words
10 November 2014
21:15
Thomson Reuters ONE
HUGNEN
English
© 2014 All Rights Reserved. Thomson Reuters.

NOT FOR RELEASE, PUBLICATION OR DISTRIBUTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART, DIRECTLY OR
INDIRECTLY, IN THE USA, AUSTRALIA, CANADA, HONG KONG, JAPAN OR SOUTH AFRICA OR
ANY OTHER JURSIDICTION WHERE SUCH PUBLICATION OR DISTRIBUTION IS UNLAWFUL.

Final results of the Initial Public Offering of Nexstim Plc

Helsinki, 10 November 2014 at 1215 pm
Following the publication of the outcome of Nexstim Plc's ("Nexstim" or the "Company") initial public
offering (the "Offering") on 4 November 2014, the Company announces the final results of the Offering.

Within the subscription period investors subscribed for a total of 2,412,539 shares. The subscriptions
were approved by the board of directors on 3 November 2014 on the condition that the subscribed shares
are paid up in accordance with the offer terms, no later than on 7 November 2014. Subscriptions which
were not paid for in accordance with the offer terms and, therefore, declined, amount to 4,200 shares in
total.

In total, 2,408,339 shares were subscribed and paid for in accordance with the offer terms for the final
offer price of EUR 6.35 per share. Nexstim has raised approximately 15.3 million euro before costs
associated with the Offering and the total number of issued shares in the Company will increase to
7,130,758.

On 15 October 2014, Nexstim filed an application for admission of its shares to trading on Nasdaq First
North Finland with the ticker NXTMH and on Nasdaq First North Sweden with the ticker NXTMS. The
shares subscribed for in the Offering are expected to be registered with the Trade Register on or about
13 November 2014 and trading in the Company's shares is expected to commence on or about 14
November 2014.
Pareto Securities AB acted as Lead Financial Advisor and Joint Arranger and UB Securities Ltd acted as
Financial Co-Advisor and Joint Arranger. The Company's Certified Adviser under the First North rules is
UB Capital Ltd. Krogerus Attorneys Ltd and Advokatfirman Vinge KB acted as legal advisors to the
Company in the Offering.

For further information please visit www.nexstim.com or contact:

NexstimJanne Huhtala, Chief Executive Officer  

+358 40 8615046

janne.huhtala@nexstim.com

UB Capital Ltd  
Consilium Strategic CommunicationsMary-Jane ElliottAmber BieleckaIvar

+358 (9) 2538 0225

+44 (0)20 3709 5700 nexstim@consilium-comms.com

MilliganLaura Thornton
IMPORTANT NOTICE

This announcement is not a prospectus. The information contained herein does not constitute an offer to
sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of the securities referred to herein, in

Page255of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration, exemption
from registration or qualification under the securities laws of any jurisdiction. The Offering is made solely
on the basis of the prospectus approved by the Finnish Financial Supervisory Authority on 10 October
2014, as supplemented on 30 October 2014, and passported by way of notification to the Swedish
Financial Supervisory Authority.

This communication is not addressed to the public in any Member State of the European Economic Area
other than Finland and Sweden. With respect to each Member State of the European Economic Area
other than Finland and Sweden (each, a "Relevant Member State"), no action has been undertaken to
date to make an offer to the public of the securities requiring a publication of a prospectus in any
Relevant Member State. As a result, this communication is only addressed to and directed at qualified
investor in the Relevant Member States in circumstances not requiring the Company to publish a
prospectus for the purposes of Directive 2003/71/EC (together with any applicable implementing
measures in any Member State).
This announcement is not an offer for sale nor a solicitation of an offer to buy any securities in the United
States or outside the European Economic Area. The securities referred to in this announcement may not
be offered or sold in or into the United States of America absent registration or an exemption from
registration under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Nexstim has not registered and will not
register any part of its contemplated offering in the United States nor will it offer any securities to the
public in the United States.

This communication is only being distributed to and is directed only at (i) persons who are outside the
United Kingdom, or (ii) investment professionals falling within Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the "Order") and (iii) high net worth entities, and
other persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated, falling within Article 49(2) of the Order, and (iv)
other persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully be communicated (all such persons together being
referred to as "relevant persons"). Any investment or investment activity to which this communication
relates will only be available to and will only be engaged in with, relevant persons. Any person who is not
a relevant person should not act or rely on this document or any of its contents.
Securities in the Company have not been, and will not be, registered under the applicable securities laws
of Australia, Canada, Hong Kong, Japan or South Africa and may not be offered or sold within Australia,
Canada, Japan or South Africa or to, or for the account or benefit of, citizens or residents of Australia,
Canada, Hong Kong, Japan or South Africa except under circumstances which will result in full
compliance with the applicable laws and regulations promulgated by the relevant regulatory authorities in
effect at the relevant time.

This announcement contains forward looking statements. These forward looking statements include
statements that are not historical facts and statements concerning inter alia Nexstim's future revenues,
financial position, financial standing, prospects, growth, strategies and its plans, beliefs and current
expectations in relation to its field of business. By their very nature, forward looking statements involve
inherent risks and uncertainties, since they relate to events or result from circumstances that may or may
not occur in the future, and therefore they only describe the circumstances prevailing when the statement
is given. Nexstim cautions that forward looking statements or historical facts do not guarantee future
performance and that its true revenues, financial position and financial standing and the development of
the industry may significantly differ from the forward looking statements presented in this release. The
Company does not intend and does not assume any obligation to update any forward looking statement
contained herein.

Nexstim press release

This announcement is distributed by NASDAQ OMX Corporate Solutions on behalf of NASDAQ OMX
Corporate Solutions clients.

The issuer of this announcement warrants that they are solely responsible for the content, accuracy and
originality of the information contained therein.

Source: Nexstim Oyj via Globenewswire

HUG#1870132

CT
CO
IN

nexsto : Nexstim Oy
i372 : Medical Equipment/Supplies | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences

Page256of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE

c1711 : Initial Public Offerings | npress : Press Releases | c171 : Share Capital | c02 : Corporate
Changes | c14 : Stock Listings | c17 : Funding/Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
usa : United States | fin : Finland | austr : Australia | hkong : Hong Kong | jap : Japan | safr : South Africa |
africaz : Africa | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries |
china : China | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North
America | nordz : Nordic Countries | souafrz : Southern Africa
Healthcare

IPD
PUB Thomson Reuters (Markets) Norway AS
AN

Document HUGNEN0020141110eaba001jl

Page257of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.