Price slump just the ticket for Glasenberg

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

MarketWatch
Price slump just the ticket for Glasenberg

Matt Chambers, Comment
500 words
17 December 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
31
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

IRON ore prices have been unable to break free of 5½ year lows this month and are back trading
below $US70 a tonne.
But do not for a minute think this lessens the desire of Swiss trader-miner Glencore to buy the iron
ore-dominated Rio Tinto, even believing Glencore chief Ivan Glasenberg’s comments this month that
he is glad the company is not producing the steelmaking ingredient right now.

The slumping iron ore price is more likely just what Glasenberg, one of Australia’s richest citizens
through his $7 billion stake in Glencore, was hoping for. Iron ore prices are down nearly 30 per cent
from their average price in July, which was when Glasenberg called Rio chairman Jan du Plessis to
make an unsuccessful offer to merge the two companies.
Glasenberg told investors last week he was pleased Glencore did not produce iron ore. But the expert
trader and his management team, who own a combined 35 per cent of Glencore following its merger
last year with miner Xstrata, are understood to still be eager to make an iron ore purchase at the right
price.

Buying at the bottom of the cycle is where Glencore makes its best returns. So expect more talking
down of the iron ore business Rio earns most of its cash from as the April end approaches to a
six-month moratorium on Glencore commenting on the Rio bid.

And that is not all Glencore can do amid the moratorium that was triggered in October under London’s
“put up or shut up” rule, when Rio revealed it had knocked back Glasenberg’s approach.

Another area that Glencore can home in on without directly addressing Rio is what it feels has been a
smooth-as-can-be merger with Xstrata.

Rio chief Sam Walsh has referenced different cultures between Rio and Glencore, telling Fairfax Media
in London that Glencore was more of a trading company than a miner.

Rio, he said, was different, with a long-term focus on resource development and customer
relationships.

The Glencore counter is that the Xstrata miners and the Glencore traders have so far worked extremely
well together under a very simple model — the miners mine and then hand it over to the trading arm
without having to worry about inventory, logistics and price.

The traders saw a lot of fat at Xstrata and have cut out management layers. This means there is not
much between head office in Zug and its mines, which now have much more authority and
responsibility.But convincing Rio shareholders the Glencore model would improve Rio’s mines and
margins may not be the toughest thing Glasenberg needs to do for success in his plan to create the
world’s biggest miner. Equally as intriguing is how he plans to win over authorities, particularly in China
and Australia, with his calls for iron ore producers to withhold production to hold up prices.

Page42of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

march : Glencore PLC | rtz : Rio Tinto PLC | craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs :
Business/Consumer Services
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141216each0000d

Page43of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.