Fallen angels

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

intel
Fallen angels

James Frost
854 words
19 September 2014
Financial Review Smart Investor
FRSINV
First
6
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

SMART PEOPLE

Experienced and well connected, Ashok Jacob is harnessing market shocks for profit, writes James
Frost.

News Corporation's phone-hacking scandal. BP's Gulf of Mexico oil spill. Treasury Wine's repeat profit
downgrades. For most investors these events are the stuff of nightmares. For Ashok Jacob they are
opportunities. "I call them fallen angels. If you give yourself enough time to hold them through the cycle,
you will make money. It doesn't matter how much the market is going up or down."
Jacob is the chief investment officer of Ellerston Capital, a $3 billion fund manager 25 per cent-owned
by James Packer and named after the Hunter Valley estate established by the late Kerry Packer.
As he prepares to launch a new listed investment company, Ellerston Global Investments, Jacob
explains how bad news can create opportunities for cool-headed investors. He cites half a dozen global
examples where investors overreacted by selling down quality companies on a missed earnings
forecast, management change or threat of litigation.

The savaging BP received as the Deepwater Horizon scandal grew was a classic example. "When BP
was struck, the valuation changed by $US100 billion. The stock has since corrected by about
$US60 billion and it's still trading at twice the discount to the maximum payout it is liable for," he says.
"You just get these amazing buying opportunities. It was exactly the same with News Corporation."

The fund will hold a collection of well-known companies in various stages of rehabilitation and up to
50 per cent cash (although it will typically be around 85 per cent invested). What you won't find is the
new breed of US tech stocks Facebook, Twitter or Netflix.

"If you look at the 1999-2000 tech bubble, stocks were trading at around five times revenue. This time
they are trading around 10 times. With these types of stocks you can't pick the low," Jacob says.

"You have got to have discipline. You have got to do your homework. You have got to make sure that
this is not a falling knife."

The fund will charge a management fee of 75 basis points and an outperformance fee of 15 per cent for
returns above the MSCI World Index or in line with fees charged by other successful managers. But
don't confuse the strategy with other deep value offerings. "For us, the most important thing is not
outperforming the benchmark but providing a positive return. All our funds are focused on providing an
absolutely positive return over the medium to long term."Money manager for Pratt and Packer

The absolute return focus is a likely product of a career that has seen Jacob manage money and
businesses for the late billionairesRichard Pratt and Kerry Packer, neither of whom were known to
enjoy losing money.

Page270of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Like many investment experts, he believes that Australian investors are overexposed to the domestic
equity market and those who do not adjust their holdings are at risk of underperforming. "We've had
lightning strike us three times," he says. "Investors have had a fantastic run in Australian equities
thanks to compulsory super, bank dividends and the China boom.

"Over the next five to 10 years I suspect overseas markets will outperform or the Australian dollar will
underperform, and you only need one of these to go your way to be very happy with your decision to
diversify offshore."
The fund is seeking to raise between $50 million and $100 million initially. Those who secure an
allocation will be given a loyalty bonus of a free one-for-two option if they hold for more than six
months. "I don't want this to be sold as a get rich quick scheme. This is a long-term journey," he says.
"If you sell it hard you may find half the register thinks it's a get rich quick scheme and that's an almost
unpleasant experience."

The targeted size of the fund and the investment horizon addresses a previous foray on the ASX by
Ellerston Capital, which fared poorly and was delisted in 2008. Jacob is confident that this time, he has
the right formula. "The 25 best ideas in your typical portfolio have nothing to do with mispriced assets,"
he says. "That's why we are different.

"What we ask is if the fall is overdone, has the market overreacted? What do we think the stock is
worth? Then we ask if the stock is worth at least 50 per cent more than the current price."
For investors prepared to buy overseas shares directly and with the appetite for turnaround risk, he
shares the following tip.
"Another good example taking place right now in the US is with a company called Whole Foods Market.
It missed earnings and has fallen from $US70 to $US39. On a global level there is a stock undergoing
that process every other week."

PROFILE

Name

Ashok Jacob
Company

Ellerston Capital

Title

Chairman

CV

Thorney Holdings CIO, 1991-1998;

Consolidated Press Holdings CEO, 1998-2011
Board member Visy and Crown Resorts

NS

RE
PUB
AN

c152 : Earnings Projections | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FRSINV0020140918ea9j0000c

Search Summary

Text

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or entitys) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or

Page271of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
01/09/2014 to 31/12/2014
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
2,847
28 August 2018 23:36

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

Page272of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.