CHINA : Fonterra, Beingmate launch infant formula JV.

News

SE
HD CHINA: Fonterra, Beingmate launch infant formula JV.
BY
Katy Askew
WC 1,335 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY © 2014 Aroq Limited. All rights reserved
LP

29 August 2014
Just-Food
JUFOO
English

TD

New Zealand dairy group Fonterra and Chinese infant food business Beingmate have established a
"global partnership" to capitalise on growing Chinese demand for infant formula.

The companies will work together to create a "fully integrated global supply chain" that will utilise
Fonterra's milk pools and manufacturing sites in New Zealand, Australia and Europe to bring product
"from the farm gate direct to China's consumers".

As part of the agreement, Fonterra will take a stake of "up to" 20% in Beingmate. Following regulatory
clearance, Fonterra and Beingmate will then establish a joint venture to buy Fonterra's Darnum plant in
Australia. The venture will also establish a distribution agreement to sell Fonterra's Anmum brand in
China.
Fonterra CEO Theo Spierings said the link-up with Beingmate - a leading Chinese formula brand - will be
a "game changer" for the world's largest dairy exporter, which is pursuing a strategy to add value to milk
by producing high-value ingredients for the infant formula sector, as well as driving branded growth.
Spierings added the deal will promote quality and safety standards in the Chinese infant formula sector,
which has been dogged by safety scares including the 2008 melamine scandal that killed six babies and
sickened around 300,000 more.

"Our partnership with Beingmate will show the benefits of an integrated and secure supply chain, starting
in New Zealand - our number one milk pool - where we are fast-tracking investment in milk processing
capacity to meet global demand," he said.

Spierings said Fonterra and Beingmate have a "shared commitment to international best practice quality
standards and are committed to stringent processes and controls" around procurement of raw materials,
fresh milk collection, production process testing, the addition of nutrients, pre-delivery inspection and
tracking and tracing of manufactured product.

Beingmate chairman Wang Zhentai concurred. "Working together with Fonterra, we will create globally
competitive, safe and secure supply chains to deliver high quality, advanced dairy nutrition to meet the
needs of China's growing population as well global consumers,"Zhentaisaid.

Zhentai added the partnership will also enable Beingmate to take a "significant step forward" in its
globalisation ambitions.
Fonterra was itself caught up in a safety scare in China last year, when it recalled whey powder
concentrate over concerns that it was contaminated with a bacteria that can cause botulism. Although the
recall turned out to be a false alarm, Fonterra's image was tarnished.
Check back for our analysis of the tie-up and the JV's prospects in the Chinese infant formula category.

press release follows:
FONTERRA AND BEINGMATE INITIATE GLOBAL PARTNERSHIP IN CHINA'S HIGH-VALUE INFANT
FORMULA MARKET Key points• New Zealand dairy co-operative Fonterra Co-operative Group Limited

Page74of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.and a leading Chinese infant food manufacturer Beingmate intend to form a global partnership that will
help meet China's growing demand for infant formula.• The partnership will create a fully integrated global
supply chain from the farm gate direct to China's consumers, using Fonterra's milk pools and
manufacturing sites in New Zealand, Australia, and Europe.• The partnership is intended to increase the
volume and value of Fonterra's ingredients and branded products exported to China.• It will be achieved in
two phases:Fonterra will shortly start the process to issue a partial tender offer to gain up to a 20 per cent
stake in BeingmateAfter gaining regulatory approvals and Fonterra satisfactorily completing the partial
tender offer, Fonterra and Beingmate will set up a joint venture to purchase Fonterra's Darnum plant in
Australia and will establish a distribution agreement to sell Fonterra's AnmumTMbrand in China.Fonterra
strategy in actionFonterra Chief Executive Theo Spierings said the partnership between two leading dairy
nutrition companies will be a game changer that will provide a direct line into the infant formula market in
China, which is the biggest growth story in paediatric nutrition in the world. The partnership will also play a
part in promoting leading product quality and safety standards in the infant formula market in China,
participating in the ongoing development of the Chinese dairy industry, and supporting the development
of Beingmate's business."By working together with Beingmate, we will strengthen our infant formula
brand presence in China and link China to high quality ingredients from New Zealand, high value
paediatric products made at Darnum in Australia, and whey specialty ingredients manufactured at our new
plant in Heerenveen in the Netherlands and in alliance with Dairy Crest in the United Kingdom," said Mr
Spierings. "We will also work with Beingmate to evaluate mutual investments in dairy farms in China."This
will be another milestone in our strategy to create additional demand for ingredients and high-value
paediatric and maternal nutrition products made from our New Zealand milk, complemented by milk
drawn from our other international milk pools."China is our number one market and the proposal to join
forces with Beingmate will be an important building block in Fonterra driving volume and value, and taking
a step forward in terms of being a globally relevant co-operative."Our partnership with Beingmate will show
the benefits of an integrated and secure supply chain, starting in New Zealand - our number one milk pool
- where we are fast-tracking investment in milk processing capacity to meet global demand."Beingmate
Chairman Mr. Wang Zhentai said, "Working together with Fonterra, we will create globally competitive,
safe and secure supply chains to deliver high quality, advanced dairy nutrition to meet the needs of
China's growing population as well global consumers. The partnership will see our business take a
significant step forward in its globalisation ambitions."The China dairy industry and infant nutrition
marketFonterra Chairman John Wilson said Fonterra has been committed to being a part of China's dairy
industry and contributing to its development for many years."Fonterra is already playing its part in the
creation of a vibrant, local dairy industry through our farms investment, sharing technical expertise,
providing high-quality imported ingredients to local food manufacturers and innovative dairy solutions to
the foodservice sector," said Mr Wilson."We are looking for this global partnership to take our relationship
with China and its consumers to a whole new level. It will benefit Fonterra, Beingmate and all our
stakeholders and is part of our drive to increase returns to our farmer shareholders."Mr. Wang from
Beingmate said, "The proposed partnership is well-aligned with the Chinese government's desire to see a
strengthened focus on quality and consumer safety in the local dairy industry. We believe this global
partnership will play a constructive role in the development of China's and the global dairy industry as
both parties work together to drive a two-way flow of capital, technology, supply and distribution."Mr
Spierings said by working alongside Beingmate, the partnership will participate in growth in a category
where there is huge demand."The infant formula market in China is worth about NZ$18 billion today and
is expected to be worth NZ$33 billion by 2017. This growth is driven by increasing urbanisation, higher
disposable incomes, a preference for premium brands, and relaxation of the one child policy," he said.Mr
Spierings said Fonterra and Beingmate have a shared commitment to international best practice quality
standards and are committed to stringent processes and controls around procurement of raw materials,
fresh milk collection, production process testing, the addition of nutrients, pre-delivery inspection and
tracking and tracing of manufactured product."In addition, Beingmate has an extensive distribution network
and local knowledge that complements Fonterra's commitment to food safety and quality."What Fonterra
brings to the table is world-leading expertise in dairy, particularly in the areas of farm management, milk
production, dairy processing, quality control, tracking and tracing, dairy nutrition and innovation," said Mr
Spierings.

original source: Fonterra

This article was originally published on just-food.com on 27 August 2014. For authoritative and timely food
business information visit http://www.just-food.com .

CO foncop : Fonterra Co-operative Group Limited
IN

i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming
| i0100105 : Cattle Farming | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy Products | icnp : Consumer
Goods | ifood : Food Products | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming

Page75of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE

c184 : Joint Ventures | c26 : Product Safety | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | nz : New Zealand | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

IPD Fonterra
PUB Aroq Limited
AN Document JUFOO00020140829ea8t000dx

Page76of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.