Event Brief of Q4 2013 Peabody Energy Corp. Earnings Conference Call - Final

HD Event Brief of Q4 2013 Peabody Energy Corp. Earnings Conference Call - Final
WC 8,955 words
PD 30 January 2014
SN CQ FD Disclosure
SC FNDW
LA English
CY © 2014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.
LP

CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
. Vic Svec - Peabody Energy Corporation,SVP, IR and Corporate Relations

TD

. Mike Crews - Peabody Energy Corporation ,EVP and CFO
. Greg Boyce - Peabody Energy Corporation ,Chairman and CEO

CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS

. Michael Dudas - Sterne, Agee & Leach, Inc.,Analyst

. Paul Forward - Stifel Nicolaus,Analyst

. Evan Kurtz - Morgan Stanley,Analyst

. Jeremy Sussman - Clarkson Capital Markets,Analyst

. David Gagliano - Barclays Capital,Analyst

. Meredith Bandy - BMO Capital Markets,Analyst

. Timna Tanners - BofA Merrill Lynch,Analyst

. Brian Yu - Citigroup,Analyst

. Justine Fisher - Goldman Sachs,Analyst

. John Bridges - JPMorgan Chase & Co.,Analyst
. Caleb Dorfman - Simmons & Company,Analyst

. Mitesh Thakkar - FBR & Co.,Analyst

OVERVIEW
BTU reported 2013 revenues of $7b, diluted loss per share from continuing operations of $1.12 and
adjusted diluted EPS of $0.34. Expects 1Q14 adjusted diluted EPS from loss of $0.10 to earnings of $0.14.

FINANCIAL DATA

1. 2013 revenues = $7b.
2. 2013 diluted loss per share from continuing operations = $1.12.

3. 2013 adjusted diluted EPS = $0.34.

4. 2013-end cash = $444m.

5. 2013-end liquidity = $2.1b.

6. Expects 1Q14 adjusted diluted EPS from loss $0.10 to earnings of $0.14.

Page256of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PRESENTATION SUMMARY -
2013 Financials (M.C.)

1. Highlights:

1. Achieved many objectives outlined at beginning of year.

1. Significantly reduced cost.

2. Lowered CapEx.

3. Maximized cash flow that allowed to continue deleveraging plan.

2. Success of aforementioned improvements helped to partially offset effects of challenging markets, along
with some specific items that affected 4Q13.

2. Income Statement:

1. Revenues $7b.

1. Lower realized pricing in:

1. US.

2. Australia.

2. Shipments rose to 252m tons as higher Australian and trading and brokerage volumes offset planned
reduction in US shipments.

3. Adjusted EBITDA:

1. $1.05b vs. $1.84b in 2012.

1. While reduced by nearly $800m from lower prices, was partly offset by $340m in savings from cost
initiatives.
2. US mining operations declined $1.12b, primarily due to lower volumes and realizations.

3. Australian contributions of $317m impacted by approx. $700m from lower pricing.

1. 4Q13 volumes and cost affected by $100m related to longwall commissioning delays at North Goonyella
and now resolved labor action at Metropolitan Mine, which increased cost approx. $5 per ton.

2. While equipment issues at North Goonyella have taken longer to remedy than originally expected,
identified technical issues and plans to be at full production capacity in 2Q.

4. Incurred $507m in pretax charges for asset impairments in 4Q13 and recorded $31m pretax charge
related to global settlement with Patriot Coal and United Mine Workers of America.

1. More than 80% of impairment charge relates to:
1. Change in contractor cost structure and expected coal quality at shorter-lived Australian Mine.

2. Adjustment of MDL 162 resource tenement towards estimated recoverable value.
3. Write-off of valuable reserves associated with closure of small US contract mining operation that
supported Atlantic export strategy.

5. Income Taxes:

1. Total benefit of $448m driven by:

1. Remeasurement of foreign tax accounts.

2. $124m tax benefit from impairments and settlement charges.

3. Normal tax benefits that was larger-than-expected due to reduced earnings.
6. Diluted loss per share from continuing operations $1.12.

Page257of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.1. Includes $1.63 per share relating to impairment and settlement charges.

7. Adjusted diluted EPS $0.34.

8. US:

1. Volume and revenue per ton down 4%.

2. Aggressive cost containment initiatives and higher productivity led to 3% decline in unit cost for Midwest
and West regions.

3. Increased labor productivity nearly 9% by:
1. Improving mining methods.

2. Reducing work force by 12%.

4. Aforementioned helped mitigate cost impact of lower volumes.

9. Australia:

1. Volumes increased to 34.9m tons on higher metallurgical shipments related to increased productivity at
PCI mines.
2. Revenues per ton declined 22% in 2013 on lower realizations for metallurgical and export thermal coal.
3. Shipped 15.9m tons of met coal at avg. price of $117 per short ton.
4. Sold 11.4m tons of seaborne thermal coal at avg. price of $79 per short ton.

5. Cost per ton down 4% from prior-year; lowest since 2010.

1. Made structural cost reductions by converting four mines and two preparation plants to owner-operator
status.

2. Advanced productivity improvements at PCI mines.

6. Aforementioned improvements and 20% reduction in Australian work force resulted in total productivity
gains of 27%.

10. Trading & Brokerage:

1. Results continued to be impacted by:

1. Low volatility and pricing in seaborne market that led to decline in mark-to-market earnings and reduced
export margins.
2. Lower US brokerage volumes and margins primarily related to Patriot Coal.

3. Compressed margins on US and Asian exports.

2. Expects results to remain constrained at approx. 5% of adjusted EBITDA until market conditions
improve and volatility returns.

3. Other Metrics:

1. Operating cash flow $722m.

2. Reduced CapEx by over $650m vs. 2012 levels.

1. Allowed to reduce debt by over $200m.

2. Expected to total $275-325m in 2014.

1. Investments focused on maintaining production levels.

3. Liquidity $2.1b.

4. Cash $444m.

Page258of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.5. 3Q13 credit facility refinancing allowed to increase liquidity, extend maturities and gain financial
flexibility with significant covenant headroom.

4. Outlook:

1. 1Q14:

1. Adjusted EBITDA $170-230m.

2. Adjusted diluted EPS from loss $0.10 to earnings of $0.14.

3. Ranges reflect:

1. Lower pricing in Australia and US.

2. Several large contract reopeners in US at lower prices, primarily in Midwest.
3. Ongoing longwall commissioning activities of top coal caving system at North Goonyella.

4. Longwall moves in Colorado and Australia.

2. With operational improvements to be completed in 1Q14, expects improved results in 2H14 on:

1. Increasing volumes.

2. Lower cost per ton.

3. Expectations of improving markets.

3. 2014:

1. US volumes 185-195m tons with increased Western shipments offsetting slightly lower Midwest
volumes.

2. Australia sales 35-37m tons including:

1. Higher metallurgical volumes of 16-17m tons.

2. Export thermal volumes of 11-12m tons.

3. Remainder from domestic contracts.

3. Revenue per ton to decline 5-8% in US.

4. Lower US cost per ton 1-3% vs. 2013 due mainly to cost improvements in west.

5. Australian cost targeted to be low-to-mid $70 per ton range as further cost reduction efforts are partly
offset by increasing mix of higher cost metallurgical coal.
2013 Business Review (G.B.)
1. Global Coal Markets:

1. Demand reached new highs.
1. China and India drove record imports.
2. Germany and Japan added new coal generation.
3. Higher natural gas prices in US resulted in utilities switching back to coal.

2. Strong supply.

3. Seaborne prices declined as shipments outpaced demand.

4. Producers responded by reducing CapEx and closing high-cost mines leading to improved market
conditions in 2014 as supply demand balance improves.
5. Metallurgical Coal:

1. Seaborne supplies increased nearly 30m tons led by Australia.

Page259of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.2. New projects, take-or-pay agreements, lack of weather disruptions and lower Australian dollar resulted
in growth in exports.
1. Australia widened lead over other competitors.
3. Chinese imports increased over 40%.

1. Overtaken Japan as largest importer.
2. Imported only 10% of metallurgical coal needs and rising cost, declining domestic quality and
transportation advantages continued to support additional imports.

3. Near-term markets likely to improve once Co. moves past temporary demand barriers like near-term
cyclical lows from Chinese New Year and new trend of reducing industrial production in winter as
seasonal conditions reduction strategy.
4. Sees improving metallurgical coal fundamentals as 2014 progresses with demand growth that exceeds
increases to supply.

6. Seaborne Thermal Markets:
1. New coal generation in number of key countries supporting import demand.
2. Chinese coal generation increased 7%, while domestic coal production increased only 1% leading to
record thermal coal imports of nearly 250m tons.
1. China targeting build out of 100 gigawatts of coal-fueled generation by 2016 and more than 20
coal-to-gas plants by 2020.
3. India's coal generation rose 8% driving 25m ton increase in thermal coal imports to new record 135m
tons.

1. Imports have tripled over last four years as domestic production continues to lag demand.
4. Japanese coal use increased every month in 2013 over prior year as new coal generation was added
to replace nuclear capacity.
1. Advanced coal plant has been slated to be built at site of former Fukushima nuclear plant.
5. European coal generation remains strong as utilities closed 12% of their gas plants in 2013 due to high
natural gas prices.
1. Germany bringing on 6 gigawatts of new coal generation resulting in country's highest coal usage since
1990.
6. South Korea, Indonesia, and other Asian countries have added new coal generation and IEA now
forecasts that coal use will continue to grow and overtake natural gas as Southeast Asia's main fuel for
power generation.
7. BTU expects that some 70 gigawatts of new coal generation will come online in 2014 and looks for
30-40m ton increase in seaborne thermal demand this year with China and India accounting for two-thirds
of growth.
7. China:
1. Taking path to improve emission to maintain energy security.
2. All analysis suggest that China will continue to increase coal use for electricity generation and
coal-to-gas applications more than offsetting reduction in direct uncontrolled use of coal in residences and
small businesses.
3. Nation will continue to build out advanced coal generation and placed emissions control equipment on
existing plants.
4. Net result will be that China will use far more coal, but more cleanly than today.

1. Same model that US used from 1950-2010.
8. Longer-term global coal demand will rise as urbanization and industrialization trends in Asia continue
leading to:

Page260of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.1. Steel production growth.
2. New coal generation being built.
3. Coal being converted into synthetic natural gas.

4. Amid high international natural gas prices and nuclear usage declines, growing pushback against
carbon policies and high-cost renewables.
9. For all aforementioned reasons, IEA and other observers project that coal will surpass oil as world's
largest energy source in coming years.

2. Supply:

1. Looks for production growth to moderate with:

1. Significant slowdown in new developments.

2. Closure of mines at high-end of cost curve.
2. US thermal coal exports are likely to continue to pullback as export declines accelerated in Dec. to
lowest levels of 2013.
3. China projecting coal production to only modestly increase this year as larger new mines in west offset
closure of hundreds of smaller operations in east.
4. Large number of projects that have been canceled in past six quarters could lead to significant supply
shortage over time as demand continues to increase and existing production capacity begins to decline.

3. US:

1. Seeing strong market indicators, particularly in Powder River Basin after working through stockpile
overhang that have prevailed for last two years.
2. Coal demand increased 5% as utilities switched back to coal.

1. Natural gas generation declined 11% on rising gas prices.
3. Coal shipments dipped 3% and more than 200 mines have closed over last two years.

1. Many of these mines are in east where Central Appalachia down some 13% last year.

4. Combination of increased demand and lower production removed stockpile overhang in PRB.

1. Customer inventories fell at fastest rate in more than a decade.

5. 2014 starting off with below-normal temperatures resulting in record natural gas withdrawal and heating
degree days more than 10% above avg. in coal-heavy regions.
6. Benchmark gas prices exceeded $5 per million Btu in recent days and far higher than that in some
regions.
7. Customer interest in spot coal supplies has increased in recent weeks.

8. PRB inventories currently at 52 days of supply.

1. 27 day improvement from 2012-end.

2. Prices up nearly 40% from lows of last year.
9. PRB and Illinois Basin best-positioned coal regions over longer-term with projected demand growth of
some 100m tons by 2016 related to basin switching and increased capacity utilization.
10. Coals fueled 40% of US electricity in 2013 and will be a major part of US energy mix for decades to
come.

4. Other Details:

1. Plans to expand on 2013 successes in areas of:

1. Safety.

Page261of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.2. Operational excellence.

3. Cost reduction.

4. Capital discipline.

2. Six steps to continue to create shareholder value:

1. Will continue to drive strong operational performance building on safety and productivity gains.
1. Includes capturing benefits of North Goonyella longwall top coal caving system as it begins to operate
at designed levels.

2. Will target additional cost improvements as Co. fully realizes value of recent owner-operator
conversions.

1. After Co. completes converting Moorvale Mine in Queensland in 2Q, more than 90% of Australian
production will be owner-operated.

3. Will continue tight CapEx program as Co. benefits from investments made in recent years.
4. Will continue to explore sale of non-strategic assets as part of long-standing role as portfolio managers.

5. Will position Co. for growth using leading reserve position, Asian business development opportunities
and global coal trading network.
1. Looking forward to work with Shenhua on Asian coal trading as Co. implements new JV.
6. Will advance major new global advocacy initiative and pursue improved energy policies around world.

3. Launching comprehensive global campaign to build awareness and support to:
1. Eliminate energy poverty.

2. Increase access to low-cost .

3. Improve emissions through advanced technologies.

1. Initiative aimed at advancing public policy framework and investment climate for Co. and industry.
2. Actions occur as challenges to coal exist in some key markets, but also as desire for low-cost energy
growth.

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Michael Dudas with Sterne, Agee.

MICHAEL DUDAS, ANALYST, STERNE, AGEE & LEACH, INC.: First question for Greg, as you
characterized the global markets for thermal and met, which market do you think is going to be quicker to
correct the oversupply condition and begin to drive more meaningful or visible pricing?
GREG BOYCE, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, PEABODY ENERGY CORPORATION: Well, I think you're going
to see a number of markets change. I think our view is that US exports are going to continue to decelerate
and come down during the course of 2014. But also more importantly our view is that the supply growth
that we've been seeing out of Australia this year is going to be significantly tempered through 2014. What
we saw was a number of projects that were sanctioned and started during the heady days of seaborne
pricing were completed, came into the market, and were brought online, and we don't see new projects of
substance through 2014. So certainly the level of growth that we saw out of Australia will be tapered and
tempered, and we see reductions, continued reductions in US exports.

MICHAEL DUDAS: My follow-up on the met side, looking at the Australian cost curve, can you
guesstimate -- not speak to your position, but relative to other producers, is there an element of production
that's loss making at current or near current high-quality coking coal prices? And are we going to see
some of that wash itself off if prices stay low through the first half of the year during 2014?

GREG BOYCE: Yes, I would have to say that is our view that at today's current pricing there is still
production coming out from both the US and Australia that is not sustainable. And we should see those
rationalizations continue to unfold during the course of 2014.

Page262of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.We've always maintained that in order to in order to be able to attract investments in the met coal sector
that pricing was going to have to be say $200 a ton for new capital and greenfield projects. So at some
point here through 2014 and into 2015 we are going to have demand exceeding supply and we are going
to have a period of time where we are going to have a supply short in the marketplace until new capital is
sanctioned and new projects are built. Our view is that's not going to happen until people's views,
everyone's views is that pricing is going to be at a higher level for a longer period of time.

MICHAEL DUDAS: Thank you Greg

OPERATOR: Paul Forward with Stifel.

PAUL FORWARD, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: I wanted to ask about the 5% to 8% price decline you
are anticipating in the US, can you talk about how much of that is going to be mix shift back toward the
PRB, and how much of that is -- you mentioned in the press release the lower contract prices in the Illinois
Basin, but can you break it down a little bit for us mix versus the contracts?
MIKE CREWS, EVP AND CFO, PEABODY ENERGY CORPORATION: Sure, this is Mike, there's a
combination of two and I think you've hit on both. We referenced in the remarks we do have some large
reopeners that come in and that's just a function of contract timing and when those contracts reopen, so
we have some of that coming in this year that primarily impacts the Midwest but there's also some impact
on the West. But then also within the West, we are projecting higher volume so you are going to have a
higher mix of PRB coal, so you are going to get some lower realization per ton from a mix basis as well in
the West.
PAUL FORWARD: All right, and shifting over to the met coal market, just appreciate the comments, Greg
on Australia, I was just wondering also Peabody's view that kind of negative thesis on met coal pricing is
partly based on the idea that over the next couple of years China will be able to grow domestic supply.
What's your view on China's internal met coal supply growth potential?
GREG BOYCE: Well, we have a more tempered view than others I believe in terms of what China will do
with their met coal growth. I mean met coal is quote, a strategic commodity in China. They have been
growing their imports.

When you look at the location of their new steel production capacity, it is designed to handle a much
greater level of imports, and then you have got to look at the quality components of Chinese met coal
versus what they can access in the international markets. As they continue to work on their emissions
profiles from their industrial base our view is they will continue to use imports to help balance the quality
parameters of what they have internally, so you know we see steel demand in China continuing to grow.
We think a good portion of that met coal demand growth will come from international supply. It's not to say
that they won't provide some growth internally, but it will not in our view be able to sustain and meet their
total demand growth.

PAUL FORWARD: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Evan Kurtz with Morgan Stanley.

EVAN KURTZ, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: My question is just on Australian costs, I kind of think
about all the positives out there, there's a lot on the list, you have carbon tax repeal, a weaker Aussie
dollar, the full year benefits from a lot of the owner operator conversions you did, the absence of
Metropolitan, and correct me if I'm wrong, but maybe a fading headwind from Goonyella given the $5 a ton
hit in the fourth quarter. Do you think that your guidance for kind of low to mid-$70s next year in 2014 is
perhaps a little bit on the conservative side, maybe you can just walk me through some of those pieces
and how you're thinking about all those?

MIKE CREWS: Sure Evan, this is Mike. When you think about, let's start with some of the things that may
impact costs going up. First off, you're always going to have higher stripping ratios from year-to-year so
you're going to have higher overburden removal costs. You're also going to have just your normal
escalations or inflation around labor, services, input costs, and things like that.
We do have a higher mix of higher costs to produce metallurgical coal that's going to raise costs on an
average basis overall. Now, what offsets that? Some of the issues that you mentioned, our cost reduction
initiatives, our productivity improvements, are all going to be going in the other direction. To the extent the
carbon tax is repealed, that is a benefit, which we've said previously is a $1 to $2 per ton, that has not
happened yet.

We think the range that we have provided is reflective of the pluses and minuses, but I think once we get a
little further into the year, we also have the potential for lower exchange rates. We have got about 25% of

Page263of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.the book open right now so every $0.05 change in exchange rates is about $35 million. So based upon
our hedge book and the current forward strip on the Australian dollar we'd estimate that foreign-exchange
benefits us some $0.75 to $1 per ton but the bias on the Australian dollar is to weakness, so there could
be some potential benefit there.

And then finally why we look at we and we've talked about our cost reduction initiatives, we still think we
have more room to run and continued optimization around owner operator. And we will continue to try and
drive to the lower end of the range of the guidance we've provided.

EVAN KURTZ: Great, that's helpful. And maybe just as a follow-up, is it possible for you to break out the
difference of the $5 per ton that hit you took from North Goonyella and Metropolitan between the two, and
do you view North Goonyella as being a year-on-year improvement or net neutral or a headwind in 2014?

MIKE CREWS: Well, for the impact, the split between North Goonyella and Metropolitan, about 80% of the
fourth quarter impact related to North Goonyella and we've indicated we are still going to have some
ongoing commissioning into the first quarter so there will be a full-year impact just from what happens the
first quarter.

EVAN KURTZ: Great, thanks so much
GREG BOYCE: I would just reemphasize if we didn't have a mix change to more metallurgical coal in
2014, the Australian dollar or the Australian cost guidance for 2014 would be lower. We are still getting
cost improvement benefits from our owner operator conversions from our productivity improvements. But
they get masked once you start adding a higher component of metallurgical coal in the mix, our
metallurgical coal mines are by nature higher costs than our thermal coal mines.

OPERATOR: Jerry Sussman with Clarkson's

JEREMY SUSSMAN, ANALYST, CLARKSON CAPITAL MARKETS: Greg, I just wanted to follow-up
quickly on the Aussie dollar question, so just to clarify if we stay at the current level of say $0.87 on the $1,
would you guys see an additional benefit this year relative to what you have given? And then next year I
presume you're less hedged so maybe talk about the potential impact on that as well?

MIKE CREWS: So based upon the hedge position we have on right now there's about 25% open, and we
assume an all-in effective rate that is actually going to be better than 2013. And that's at that $087 forward,
so based upon that we would project within our cost guidance that we would benefit from lower exchange
rates by $0.75 to $1 per ton. To the extent the dollar weakens further we could have some additional
benefit.

JEREMY SUSSMAN: And then for next year?

MIKE CREWS: Yes, in 2015, we are in the mid-50% hedged so all in, an all-in effective rate based upon
the 2015 forward would be somewhat consistent with 2014.

JEREMY SUSSMAN: Okay. Much appreciated, and then just maybe shifting gears to the PRB, Greg you
mentioned that you've seen an increased amount of requests I guess for spot business, if I heard correctly,
can you maybe elaborate a bit in terms of what you've seen maybe over the past month. And then at 52
days worth of inventory, which is likely falling I would suspect, can you just talk about your general
expectation for pricing throughout the year?

GREG BOYCE: Well, we turned over the year with about 10% to 15% open position and that's a little
higher than we normally would, and we do that, as we've talked in the past because of our expectations of
where prices may go during the course of a year. Obviously we don't have a price number to talk about,
but suffice it to say, our view is, prices have come up from their lows in 2013 and we see positive pressure
because of where inventories are at, where the weather continues to be, where gas prices are now above
that $5 level. And we've talked about it before, we don't believe that there are significant amounts of latent
capacity in the Powder River Basin, and so we see that market strengthening considerably based on its
current trend rates, particularly in stockpiles.

EVAN KURTZ: Excellent. Very much appreciated.

OPERATOR: David Gagliano with Barclays.

DAVID GAGLIANO, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: I just wanted to see if we can try and get some
numbers around some of the commentary. First of all, on the met side, at what Pacific Basin benchmark
price would cause you to cut your 2014 met coal volume targets? That's my first question.

Page264of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.GREG BOYCE: Well suffice it to say we manage our portfolio to make money in market conditions, and
currently the market conditions we have, but I wouldn't be in a position to signal what our curtailment
numbers are in the marketplace. I think we've shown that we made decisions to curtail operations when
they're not profitable to continue to operate and so we have been active portfolio and operating managers
and we would continue to do so.

DAVID GAGLIANO: If prices stay where they are in the spot market, the spot market indices that we see,
will you continue to run at the 16 million to 17 million ton target run rate?

GREG BOYCE: Our current plans are to maintain our production where we are at today through these
market conditions.

DAVID GAGLIANO: Okay. And then my follow-up, on the US side, what were the prices of the 15 I think it
was roughly 15 million tons that you sold for 2014 delivery, and 10 million tons for 2015 delivery, what
with the prices for those tons, if you could break it out by region that would be very helpful. Thanks.

MIKE CREWS: I appreciate that Dave as well as the consistency of that question quarter in and quarter
out, but as you know we don't disclose the prices at which we are contracting on that. We do give
obviously the breakout in terms of what the realized prices are when those occur. But as we did say, we
are contracting at levels nicely above where we were contracting in 2013 at the depths of that spot price.

OPERATOR: Meredith Bandy with BMO.

MEREDITH BANDY, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: I just wanted to ask, first of all, you
mentioned Greg that you don't believe there's significant latent capacity in the PRB, where do you think is
Peabody's capacity, especially in the US, given where your CapEx budget is, assuming you didn't really
change any CapEx?
GREG BOYCE: Well we've got similar capacity to others in our operations. We can kick up over time and
run our existing equipment a bit harder. And that would be the first activity that you would see us do in
order to increase tons. We've got a few operations in the Midwest that are not operating on a seven-day
schedule, so we could add those. And we've already increased our guidance for the PRB for this year
versus last year.

So I think the immediate issues would be over time in the PRB, over time and maybe another day of
operations at some of our Midwest operations. Once you get beyond that, we like others, will have to
begin to source equipment to have any significant increase in production.

MEREDITH BANDY: Okay so would you say it's fair to say 5% to 10% above where you are operating
today would be doable with that CapEx?

GREG BOYCE: Yes, I think that's a fair range, 5% to 10%.

MEREDITH BANDY: Okay, all right, thanks very much

OPERATOR: Timna Tanners with Bank of America.

TIMNA TANNERS, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: So I want to shift back to Australia. Two
questions there. We haven't heard from you since the Wilkie Creek decision, so I just wondered if you
could please elaborate on what you're thinking there in light of that decision to shut the mine, and what it
says about your operations in Australia more broadly. And then I have a follow-up.
MIKE CREWS: Sure Timna, this is Mike. As you know we've had an ongoing sale process for quite some
time. We spent a lot of time with a tremendous amount of buyer interest, but given where the market
conditions are, the profit outlook based upon the current market pricing in the forward strip, and some of
the all-in costs of that mine around some of the logistical costs there, we've not generated sufficient buyer
interest for us to act on that. So what we've done today is we have proceeded to close the mine. I think
when you look at that, I would not draw broader conclusions around the rest of the portfolio. As we
discussed when we put the mine up for sale, it's really non core to us, down in Queensland it's the only
thermal mine separated, it goes out of the port of Brisbane, so it's not really within the core strategy that
we have for Queensland and the rest of the met and thermal portfolio.

TIMNA TANNERS: Okay, that's helpful. Just wanted to know in addition, easy one, it's just if you could
remind us on the Aussie dollar hedge position if you have one and how much. And then further to
Australia, just thinking about the lower CapEx number, it doesn't apply much growth obviously from
Macarthur, so just thinking, how do you think about the Macarthur growth, what would that take, what
would you need to see there to maybe get that back into expansion mode?

Page265of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.MIKE CREWS: On a hedge basis for calendar 2014 we are hedged at about three quarters of our
requirements, so 25% of that's open at an average age rate in the low 90s. And then beyond that, as I
mentioned previously, the hedge position is in the upper 50s for 2015. With a little bit higher exchange
rate, hedge rate versus 2014.

GREG BOYCE: Yes, this is Greg. Maybe I'll talk a bit about Australian growth and what we've been
focused on. Obviously in these market conditions what we've been most focused on with the Macarthur
asset base was obviously at Coppabella and Moorvale and recently at Middlemount is getting those
operations up to their full capacity and optimizing the value of those assets in the existing market. Beyond
that, we've been spending considerable amount of time and some resources doing additional drilling and
engineering work on the reserve base that we bought.

As I said in our last call, I mean what we are seeing in that reserve base is a much stronger reserve in
terms of quality and quantity than we had originally anticipated. If you remember, we put on hold the
development of the Codrilla Mine, we still have that in the portfolio as an option when we think that the
markets are ready for new volumes. But in addition we've identified a number of other opportunities that
we are continuing to advance as well. We have not forestalled growth activities in terms of we are
continuing to develop the engineering and the reserve base and the technical database so we maintain our
optionality when we think the time is right to begin to allocate larger amounts of capital into that platform.

OPERATOR: Brian Yu with Citi.

BRIAN YU, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: My question is a follow up on some that were asked previously, can
you give us a breakdown with West and Midwest, how that 5% to 8% decline in average prices is going to
work, just within those two regions?

MIKE CREWS: We would just say that the greater percent of that would be in the Midwest. You do have a
bit of a weighting issue going on but the primary area there relates to those longer lived contracts that are
now rolling up for reopeners.

BRIAN YU: Okay, and the second one is on CapEx, it was a positive surprise for 2014. We are getting to a
$0.70 to $0.80 per ton CapEx, and I remember in the past you've said that number should be $1.25 maybe
to $1.50. Is this sizable delta sustainable? Is this the new normal going forward? Or if not, how long do you
think you can keep CapEx down at these levels?

GREG BOYCE: In terms of our CapEx, we've talked in the past, we think we can keep these CapEx levels
low for the next several years. And let me just take a minute and explain why. If you look at our capital
spend over the last five years, we started out in the US by recapitalizing our major operations in the
Powder River Basin, north shale specifically. We implemented a trunks category five years ago that placed
new equipment, upsized equipment, both in terms of trucks and large loading shovels into the Powder
River Basin.

We then went in the Southwest and built El Segundo, brand-new equipment to build that mine. In the
Midwest you'll know that we built Bear Run, again with brand-new equipment. Now the average loading
shovel has got a 20 to 25 year life, trucks have a 10 year life, and so the replacement -- what we did is we
significantly renewed our mining equipment platform in the US, so that our replacement cycle has been
put on a hiatus because we are early in the lives of all of that equipment.
Then you roll forward to Australia and we converted all of our operations or a significant portion of them to
owner operated during 2013 and now finishing up with Moorvale in 2014, again, all of that is new
equipment. So when you look at sustaining capital, the biggest component of that is replacement capital
for mobile mining equipment. And we've got now a number of years where we are in the early life of that
equipment.

As you get 4 years out we will start to see some of that sustaining capital spend begin to come back in as
we manage the replacement of our mobile fleet and our equipment fleet so that we are not looking at 10
years from now and having to do it all at once. So that's the biggest reason why we've got this great
window of low capital spend for the sustaining platform, and it's very fortuitous to us because we've got
these couple of years left of paying for these leases in the Powder River Basin. We don't see significant
increase in sustaining capital until we get beyond that LDA payment schedule.

BRIAN YU: Okay, Thanks for all the detail.

OPERATOR: Justine Fisher with Goldman Sachs.

JUSTINE FISHER, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: The first question I have is on PRB production and I
know that you guys had said that you could probably increase production by 5% to 10% without spending
a lot more capital, and based on your guidance if you did around 185 million tons last year and it could go

Page266of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.up by as much to as 10 million tons this year, it seems like you are producing into some of the higher
demand that you said you're seeing in the PRB. If you guys do that, and if we hear from other PRB
producers that they do the same, what will prevent that from putting a cap on some of the pricing that you
realize on kind of utility seed producers bringing on tonnage almost immediately into a better pricing
environment?

GREG BOYCE: Well, I can't speak for others, I mean obviously we're not going to begin to spend over
time and work extra hard unless we are getting significantly higher pricing for our product. And so we will
just have to see how the current low inventories, high demand translates during the course of the
remainder of the year.
JUSTINE FISHER: Okay, and then my second question is on the met coal market. You had said before
that you expect US met coal production cuts, and frankly, that's something that we've been looking for as
well, and I wanted to ask you because you are a US producer, but you don't have US met operations,
what do you think is going to drive eventually the cuts that we need to see in the US? Because we also
think that there's a lot of production that's not making money right now, but again, it's still being sold, and I
know you cited reasons in Australia, the production has increased and the exports have increased, but in
the US, we are finding it a little bit confusing. And some reasons I can think of are maybe again, producers
have a lot of liquidity so maybe they're just selling money losing tons because they can afford to, that
maybe they don't want to give up market share, so I can think of some reasons why, but what do you think
will be the catalyst for getting the production cuts that we need to see out of the US?

GREG BOYCE: I think a couple of things. I think there was a view that if they could wait out the price
horizon in international met coal that they could continue to run and produce tons into the international
market. To a certain degree they were supported by reductions in terms of rail cost to the ports.

Our view is, if you listen to the calls from the railroads, I think they have done what they can, so there's no
more to be added there. And in fact, prices have come down, so we are starting to see shipments come
down. We think you can only have that strategy of losing money and waiting and sitting for so long. That's
a perception from outside the East, I'll let you ask that question to the other folks on their call.

JUSTINE FISHER: I will try to. Thank you very much

GREG BOYCE: Thanks

OPERATOR: John Bridges of JPMorgan. John Bridges, your line is open, possibly take yourself off mute

JOHN BRIDGES, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Hello?

GREG BOYCE: John are you there?

JOHN BRIDGES: I am, I am, sorry I got called off another call. Yes, I just wanted to ask you a big picture
question with respect to US, with this amazing weather we've been suffering from, we hear stories that
some of these coal-fired power plants which are supposed to be taken off-line in a year or two are running,
and given the long lead times for new gas pipelines and things for the alternative power sources, just
wanted to know your view on the practicality of some of these plants?

GREG BOYCE: That's a great question John. I guess it's our view that we are going to see some serious
review of previous decisions as to the exact timeframe that some of these plants are going to be retired,
because you are right, they are being run today, and we are seeing more and more evidence that people
are concerned about the ability to supply power, particularly in swing periods, whether it be the summer or
the winter. I mean comments from even the FRC commissioners around grid instability, we are seeing
some folks begin to say well maybe we shouldn't target shutting down by 2017, we need to run these
plants for a couple more years. And I guess as we see what's unfolding this winter, I think we are hearing
more and more conversations around that and likely will see some decisions turned into a little bit longer
run timeframe before they are actually shuttered. Now obviously some of those closures are -- have been
negotiated settlements, I don't know what flexibility they have with those, but certainly the ones that were
more voluntary in nature we think folks will take a closer look at.

JOHN BRIDGES: Okay, great, and just a follow-up. I just wondered what the problem was with Goonyella
and the top caving, what problems have you been having?

GREG BOYCE: Thanks for that question John, because I know there's been a lot of interest around what's
happening in North Goonyella and maybe I'll just take a minute to give a bit of a background and where we
stand today. First in terms of the technology that we are using, this long wall, top coal caving technology.
Historically at North Goonyella we have been mining about 4 meters of a 6.5 meter seam using
conventional long wall technology, which means you've got a set of shields and you've got the shear that
runs in front of those shields and so you're getting single side recovery of the coal that you're cutting. And

Page267of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.we've always struggled with the size of the equipment to be able to support the roof conditions at North
Goonyella, complex geology and you all have lived through some of the ups and downs of geologic
impacts in North Goonyella.
So what we did is, we looked at this technology called long wall top coal caving and what it did is, first of
all it significantly larger, stronger gear. The shields, the shear, everything is sized much larger so that it
has the capacity to withstand the geologic conditions in the roof. Second of all what it does is when you
install it, you reduce the height of the thickness of the coal that you actually cut on the front side with the
shear and the backside of the shields now have a conveyor on them where you allow the coal that you
leave when you cut to cave down onto the conveyor, so you're in essence recovering both sides of the
long wall. And that allows us then to go from only mining 4 meters of a 6.5 meter seam to getting the
entire 6.5 meter seam.

Now this equipment is Caterpillar equipment so we are working with the largest equipment manufacturer of
its type in the world. This Caterpillar equipment is a result of their acquisition of Bucyrus and a company
called DBT which was a German company that designed and built these long walls for years in this
industry, in fact we have a DBT long wall at Twenty Mile, which is one of the most productive long walls in
the US.
So we have done this in cooperation with Yang Coal. Yang Coal was the first company to install one of
these systems at their Austar Mine in Australia in 2006. So they had the operating experience and the
benefit of that knowledge.

I'd also note that BHP Billiton has installed one of these long walls at their Broadmeadow Mine in
Queensland as well. So the people that are involved in this, the technology that we are using is
well-known. Like with any of these systems, when you introduce big gear and new systems, which are to a
certain degree specially engineered for each application, you have issues.

Now, we would normally have a startup curve during commissioning that may last 60 days. But in the case
of North Goonyella, this particular installation I would say two things, one, the installation of the equipment
itself was delayed from when we originally thought it was going to take place. A lot of that was things that
we did not plan as effectively as I would've liked in terms of our roads. As you can imagine when you bring
extra heavy equipment underground you have got to have very good roads to bring it in on. We did a lot of
work, but we also struggled.

But more importantly, we have had an unusual amount of what I would call significant equipment related
issues. The rear conveyor that I talked about is having alignment problems that kept us from running it, the
shear that cuts the coal on the front of the long wall has a control module on it, it's like the control module
in your vehicle that you drive, we were losing those every 24 hours for some unknown reason.
I talked about the shields have to support the weight of the roof of the coal mine, and they have relief
valves in them when the pressure gets too high because the last thing you want to do is catastrophically
fail a shear. Well those hydraulic valves were -- have had issues in manufacturing. And then there's a
monorail system that all the hoses and all of the other equipment moves back and forth across in the top of
this shield system so that the shear can move back and forth and we've had issues with that. So unusual
things to occur.

Now, where do we stand today? Good news is, the rear conveyor and the control system and the hydraulic
valves, we have all -- we have got engineering fixes for those, we've got temporary fixes that we are
operating under right now. And Caterpillar has designed and is sourcing and will be supplying during this
quarter the replacement gear for those. The monorail system has got some additional engineering work to
do, but again, we are putting on some temporary closures to that.

So all of that is on track. I've had a number of conversations with my counterpart at Caterpillar. There's no
question that we have got the focus and the alignment between our organizations to continue to make this
work. Once we get all of those things repaired then we will be back on to what I would call a normal
commissioning cycle, and by that I mean, okay now we are mining at very high rates, what do we need to
do to balance our underground gas flows and to maintain our maintain our production.

I will tell you that everything we see when this system runs we are even more excited than we originally
envisioned it because of the size, it's supporting the geologic conditions that we had hoped it would, and
also when it produces coal, it produces coal at a higher rate than we originally envisioned. So we've got
full confidence that we're going to get this thing up and running. None of us -- we're all disappointed in the
time that is taking, including Caterpillar, but it is a long-term solution to North Goonyella and it is going to
increase the reserve base, increase the recovery, and ultimately lower costs as it's finally up and running.
So I hope for everybody that bit of color helps understand what we have been going through at North
Goonyella.

Page268of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.JOHN BRIDGES: Best of luck Greg, and thanks for the answer.
OPERATOR: Caleb Dorfman with Simmons and Company.
CALEB DORFMAN, ANALYST, SIMMONS & COMPANY: Greg, you talked about 20 million to 30 million
tons of additional coal consumption basically in 2014. With gas prices about $5 right now brings me to the
thought, what is your gas price assumption for that gain and what type of additional upside could we
possibly see to that 20 million to 30 million that year?
GREG BOYCE: The 20 million to 30 million tons would've been relating to the seaborne market. We
expect the US demand to be up a similar amount. So if you netted it across everything we are looking at a
40 million to 60 million across the globe, but I guess just to be sure everybody understands we see 20
million to 30 million up in the US and we see the seaborne thermal market up 20 million to 30 million as
well.

MIKE CREWS: In terms of the gas price, that would've actually assumed probably a lower gas price than
what we are seeing right now in the spot market, something consistent with the forward strip, or maybe
even a little bit below what the very current forward strip is given the upward movement that has occurred
in the last week or two there.

GREG BOYCE: Saying it another way I guess is if gas prices stay where they're at today, we will see more
US demand than what we are currently forecasting.

OPERATOR: Mitesh Thakkar with FBR.

MITESH THAKKAR, ANALYST, FBR & CO.: Greg, color on the PRB and Illinois Basin market, just one
follow-up question on that. When you think about the inventory levels going forward, (technical difficulty)
and stuff like that, how do you think about a normalized inventory level for PRB and Illinois Basin and
where we are?

GREG BOYCE: Well, if we focused on the PRB for a minute, normalized, everybody's got a bit of a
different view, but we think getting down to, we've always said getting down into the low 50s was a great
target. Normalized is probably closer that 50, right at that 50 number, people would say yes, that's
historically what a normalized number would've looked like. The Illinois Basin, it's a bit of a moving target,
and the reason I say that is we went through such a long period of time where the Illinois Basin was more
constrained, we've obviously seen demand growth pick up in the Illinois Basin, it's at a higher level, at least
the last set of numbers we see, it's probably at 70 days supply. Probably historical -- I would've thought
historical for the Illinois Basin might've been somewhere in that 55 to 60 day range.

MITESH THAKKAR: Great, and how much increase in production do we expect in the PRB this year?
GREG BOYCE: If you look at our forecast of 20 million to 30 million increase in demand in the US, a fair
share of that is going to come from the Powder River Basin.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that brings us to the top of the hour. I'll turn it over to Mr. Boyce for
any closing comments.

GREG BOYCE: Well thank you operator, and thank you everyone for your interest in BTU. I want to really
extend my appreciation to the entire Peabody team for the hard work, their accomplishments, for the
delivering of value in what has been difficult markets and I thank all of you for your continued interest. We
are going to continue to execute on our key priorities. And we look forward to keeping you apprised of our
progress in our upcoming calls. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude your conference for today. Thank you for your
participation. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this
web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Briefs are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon
current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those
stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more
specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and
believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the
assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results
contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

Page269of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT BRIEFS REFLECTS THOMSON FINANCIAL'S
SUBJECTIVE CONDENSED PARAPHRASE OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL
AND THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING
OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR
THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER
DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY
EVENT BRIEF. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE
CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY
INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

CO pbdy : Peabody Energy Corp | lehbro : Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc
IN
NS

i1 : Energy | i111 : Coal Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin
: FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
austr : Australia | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North
America

RE

PUB CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
AN Document FNDW000020140201ea1u000pk

Page270of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.