Scott mulls funding for acquisitions

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Scott mulls funding for acquisitions

By SIMON HARTLEY
555 words
5 December 2014
Otago Daily Times
OTGO
English
© Copyright 2014 Allied Press Limited. All Rights Reserved.

{In China, the thirst for automation is driving a rapid increase in robot sales . . . We intend to be
part of that growth|
_Chris Hopkins DUNEDIN'S listed Scott Technology has bought an Australian robotics company
for $A13 million ($NZ14 million), and is considering a capital raising from shareholders early next
year.

At Scott's annual shareholders' meeting in Christchurch yesterday, chief executive Chris Hopkins
outlined three acquisitions, the trading year and robotic growth opportunities in China.

Following other recent acquisitions, of RobotWorx in the US and Melbourne-based Applied Sorting
Technologies, Mr Hopkins said a purchase agreement had been made with Machinery, Automation
and Robotics (MAR) of Australia, to settle on January 31.
"MAR is an established and very successful Australian automation and robotics company that is
closely aligned to Scott, with products and markets that are complementary to Scott," Mr Hopkins
said.

MAR is expected to contribute immediately to Scott's bottom line result, while RobotWorx' annual
sales are about $9 million.

By necessity, Scott deals globally in US dollars and its balance sheet is often adversely affected.
Mr Hopkins highlighted the strength of the kiwi had stripped $2 million from revenues, meaning
before-tax profit could have been more than $6 million, a lot closer to the previous year's result.

Mr Hopkins said a key strategy for the year ahead was the focus of its robotics division, noting
China was a "stand-out performer" of robotic use.
"In China, the thirst for automation is driving a rapid increase in robot sales ... We intend to be part
of that growth," Mr Hopkins said.
Scott's mainstay manufacturing for decades has been assembly line systems for international sale,
and during the year it shipped seven lines, with total sales of $29 million.

However, in recent years it has diversified into robotic meat machinery, niche-market machinery for
the mining sector, specialist superconductor motors and is preparing to go commercial into the
dairy sector, with auto-milking machines.

Mr Hopkins said aside from MAR's work in the mining and meat sector, it was also involved in food
production and packaging.

He noted that although mining sector sales were down about 50% on a year ago, that was offset by
the increased appliance assembly line sales.

MAR offered a complete product design, manufacture and project management through to 24-hour
product support services.

Page132of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."MAR's strengths in electrical, programming and controls, complements Scott's strengths in
mechanical design and vision," Mr Hopkins said.
The MAR purchase was being initially funded by bank debt, and Scott's board is to consider a
capital raising in 2015, to reduce the increased company debt from the RobotWorx and MAR
acquisitions. Scott last raised $9.5 million in a rights issue in 2011.

Craigs Investment Partners broker, Peter McIntyre, said a capital raising would "test shareholder
confidence".

For its financial year to August, Scott reported flat trading revenue and a 40% decline in after-tax
profit, down from $5.14 million to $3.02 million, and was at the time carrying $7.7 million debt.
Revenue for the year was up slightly, from $60 million to $60.3 million, while earnings before
interest and tax were down from $7.14 million to $4.23 million.

simon.hartley@odt.co.nz

NS
RE
PUB
AN

grobo : Robotics | gcat : Political/General News | gsci : Sciences/Technologies
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Allied Press Limited
Document OTGO000020141204eac50000o

Page133of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.