Fortescue bolsters iron ore reserves

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Fortescue bolsters iron ore reserves

ANDREW BURRELL, RESOURCES
486 words
21 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
22
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

FORTESCUE Metals Group has breathed life into its wilting share price by unveiling a 77 per cent
boost in the amount of iron ore it estimates at its Greater Solomon deposit in the Pilbara.
The Perth-based company, the world’s fourth-biggest iron ore miner, reported a 1.16 billion tonne
addition to the Greater Solomon mineral resource, taking the total resource to 2.66 billion tonnes.

The resource for the company’s Solomon hub, which includes the Firetail and Kings Valley mines,
has also grown to more than 4.5 billion tonnes, underlining the success of Fortescue’s exploration
program since it was founded in 2003. Fortescue shares defied the market’s gloomy sentiment
towards iron ore by leaping 3.9 per cent to $4.54.
On Monday the stock plunged 4.6 per cent to an eight-month low as the iron ore price fell below its
psychological floor of $US100 per tonne for the first time in two years amid uncertainty over Chinese
steel output and an increase in supply.

In a note to clients yesterday, Credit Suisse research analyst Matthew Hope said Fortescue was
trading as a proxy for the iron ore price, but he said investors might be attracted to the stock, which
has fallen more than 20 per cent this year.

“We believe value investors are eyeing FMG now, but are likely to remain on the sidelines until the
iron ore price stabilises,” Mr Hope said.
He said Fortescue represented “excellent value” if the iron ore price held above $US90 a tonne but
might also be seen as a “trap” if investors believed the price was headed to $US70 or less.

Another negative for Fortescue is the potential strike by tugboat workers at Port Hedland, which
Credit Suisse estimated could cut 10 million tonnes from the miner’s shipments this year and slice
free cash generation by 10 per cent.
In its resource update, Fortescue also revealed it had rid itself of the Pilbara iron ore deposit that its
founder, Andrew Forrest, had originally planned would enrich shareholders.
When Mr Forrest took over a minnow called Allied Mining and Prospecting in 2003, he told
shareholders that he would use the company’s Mt Nicholas deposit to meet what he described as
China’s rising demand for iron ore.

But Mr Forrest’s geologists quickly discovered that Mt Nicholas was riddled with impurities and would
never be economic to mine, forcing Fortescue — as Allied was renamed — to extend its exploration
campaign in other parts of the Pilbara.

Fortescue said yesterday the Mt Nicholas deposit had been removed from its inventory as it did not
meet cut-off grades.Mr Forrest has shown his faith in Fortescue in recent months by continuing to
buy shares, taking his personal stake above 33 per cent. He recently bought $9.7 million worth of
shares.

Page95of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140520ea5l0005w

Page96of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.