Kingswood country

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Hunter Live
Kingswood country

Kate Tarala
844 words
10 July 2014
The Newcastle Herald
NEHR
First
19
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

MUSIC

KINGSWOOD fans are being treated this winter. Not only is the debut album from the Melbourne
four-piece finally being unleashed, but a national tour has been announced.

The rock outfit first made waves in 2009 and have since gained fans for their all-out rock sound, with
songs like She's My Baby, Suckerpunch, Yeah Go Die and Ohio.

In the years since they've toured with the likes of The Living End, British India and The Saints and
chalked up numerous festival appearances, including Splendour In The Grass, Queenscliff Music
Festival and Pyramid Rock.

Their debut album - from which we've already heard singles Suckerpunch and the most recent and
more chilled I Can Feel That You Don't Love Me - was recorded at the renowned Blackbird Studios in
Nashville. Called Microscopic Wars, the album was recorded with big-name producer Vance Powell
(Jack White, Arctic Monkeys, Kings Of Leon) and will be released on August 22.
Catch Kingswood at The Cambridge Hotel on September 18. Tickets at bigtix.com.au.

Steeped in traditional blues

BLUES-ROOTS troubadour Ash Grunwald's career is a lesson in diversity.

His music is founded in traditional blues but over the course of his career he's also explored far and
beyond. He's worked with hip-hop names t.z.u, Funk Oars and Urthboy, Spiderbait's Kram, played
alongside acoustic singer songwriter Pete Murray and the much-loved Joe Camilleri of Black Sorrows
fame.

More recently he teamed up with Scott Owen and Andy Strachan of The Living End on their
collaborative album Gargantua.

But now Grunwald has come full circle, back to his solo blues roots and back to touring Australia. Catch
him at The Cambridge Hotel on October 2. Tickets at yourcambridge.com and bigtix.com.au.

Finnegan gig for rapper
US rapper Chingy - who had hits with One Call Away and Right Thurr - plays Finnegan's Hotel next
week.
The first release of tickets for the July 17 gig sold out, but the second release is still available as well
as VIP tickets, which include the chance to mingle with the rapper after the gig and have a photo taken.

Visit finneganshotel.com.au.

Page337of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Aussie legends hit festival
GET ready for a road trip with the Crooked Mountain Concert at Warrumbungle National Park near
Coonabarabran in November.

The festival on November 8 will feature Aussie legends Dragon (April Sun In Cuba, Are You Old
Enough, Rain, Speak No Evil and Young Years), The Capulets, The O Trio and Smith and Jones.

The festival is BYO picnic rug, chairs, food and alcohol, but locally-produced food and non-alcoholic
drinks will be available on site. Music and kids' activities kick off from 5pm.
Festivalgoers can stay for the weekend and explore the beautiful Warrumbungle National Park, with
powered and unpowered campsites available in the park. If camping isn't your thing, there is
accommodation in Coonabarabran, Tooraweenah and Coonamble. Those travelling from
Coonabarabran can pre-book the concert bus for $12 return.
Tickets on sale now on 13000 PARKS on 1300 072 757 or visit nationalparks.nsw.gov.au.

The Owls own the streets

NEWY'S own The Owls will launch their third EP Own The Streets with a national tour and hometown
show at The Cambridge Hotel in October.

Their first EP, Swamp Love, was released in 2012, followed by Ocean and Own The Streets, which was
released last week. In between the three EPs, the boys chalked up plenty of gigs including supporting
the likes of The Cribs, Wolfmother and DZ Deathrays.

Catch the four-piece at The Cambridge on October 11.

Visit facebook.com/theowlsonline. Tickets at bigtix.com.au.

Meet Camilleri at Glendale

JOE Camilleri this year celebrates 50 years in the music business. And with 45 albums under his belt,
he is showing no signs of slowing down. The writer of milestone Australian songs such as Harley and
Rose, Chained To The Wheel and Never Let Me Go is the frontman of The Black Sorrows and Jo Jo
Zep and The Falcons.

Album number 17 from the Sorrows, Certified Blue, is being released as a CD and as a limited edition,
coloured 12-inch vinyl LP. The songs draw upon the diverse palette of Camilleri's musical tastes and
influences - blues, jazz, country, roots, r'n'b, and Americana. Fans have the opportunity to meet
Camilleri and hear him perform tracks from Certified Blue at JB hi Fi, Glendale, at 1pm on Saturday.

Fab Four heading here

HOT on the heels of fellow Beatles act Bootleg Beatles' show at Wests in June, The Fabulous Beatle
Boys are coming to Newcastle.
The group's visit marks the 50th anniversary of The Beatles' one and only tour of Australia in 1964,
with The Fabulous Beatle Boys recreating the '64 tour, right down to the song set, the outfits, the
instruments and even the atmosphere.

The Fabulous Beatle Boys play at City Hall on November 14. Tickets at Ticketek.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gmusic : Music | gcat : Political/General News | gent : Arts/Entertainment
austr : Australia | namz : North America | nswals : New South Wales | usa : United States | apacz : Asia
Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document NEHR000020140710ea7a0001j

Page338of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.