Australian property

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY

LP

TD

LEX COLUMN
Australian property

306 words
5 June 2014
Financial Times
FTFT
London Ed1
16
English
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and
redistribute by email or post to the web.

Winter may be coming down under, but Australian property is hot. Look no further than recent
residential launches: top-end Sydney flats are selling within hours of release. Buyers have chased
prices in the city up 16 per cent in the past year. And it is not just the locals.
Foreigners are snapping up individual units and development sites. According to Credit Suisse, Chinese
buyers alone acquired $5bn of private residential property last year - 12 per cent of new supply.

Australand, then, is smoking. Yesterday Singapore-listed Frasers Centrepoint began due diligence on
the property developer, which is already under offer from Stockland Corp, an Aussie compatriot. The
all-cash counter-bid prices Australand at A$4.61 per share. Frasers Centrepoint calls this a
"transformational transaction": it aims to expand its Australian business . Even so, the company is
tight-lipped on numbers until it has raked through Australand's books.

But the price for a short-cut to geographical diversification is hard to quantify. Frasers Centrepoint's
higher offer values Australand at $2.7bn, which implies a premium of $400m to the company's market
capitalisation before the Stockland bid. It also ascribes $600m extra in value to Australand's $2.1bn in
net tangible assets at the end of 2013. Stockland's scrip bid is $2.5bn. Estimated annual cost savings of
$25m do not fill the gap.

Frasers Centrepoint's owner Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi earned a reputation last year for chutzpah in
the battle over Tiger Beer . That resulted in a takeover of Fraser and Neave. In his first international
foray since then, the risk is Frasers Centrepoint will overpay in a hot market. Shareholders have voted by
sending the stock down 4 per cent while Stockland bounced 2 per cent.

Stick with Frasers Centrepoint, and you may get burnt.

CO
IN
NS

RE

IPD
IPC
PUB
AN

stocor : Stockland Corporation Ltd
i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | c22 : New Products/Services | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
Company News
CN
The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)
Document FTFT000020140605ea650000n

Page176of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.