Class action poses threat to Roc Oil sale

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Class action poses threat to Roc Oilsale

Angela Macdonald-Smith and Sarah Thompson
613 words
4 October 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
4
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Takeovers - $474m Fosun deal up in air
The $474 million cash takeover of Roc Oil by China's Fosun International has been placed in doubt
by a potential class action against the Australian oil and gas company.

Slater and Gordon has contacted institutional shareholders in Roc that may support a claim for losses
because the company allegedly knowingly failed to inform the market of a reserve downgrade at an oil
and gas field in Victoria as soon as it became apparent.
The claim would seek to recover losses suffered by investors resulting from the purchase of Roc Oil
shares between May 21, 2009, and February 2, 2010.

The move for a potential class action several years later is being seen as opportunistic by some
investors because it has apparently been timed to get in before Roc ends its days as a publicly listed
company and is taken over by the Chinese player.

Slater and Gordon said institutional investors were notified of the proposed class action on August 4. It
said the fact Fosun made its offer for Roc on the same day was "entirely coincidental".

But should the action go ahead, it could trigger a material adverse change (MAC) condition in the
Fosun-Roc transaction, which involves any event resulting in a $US15 million ($17 million) reduction
in asset value or earnings.

The initial deadline for the registration of claims for the class action is October 17, the same day Fosun
could declare its offer unconditional.

Fosun's offer, which has so far gained 29 per cent acceptances, closes on October 15 and can be
declared unconditional two days after reaching the 50 per cent minimum condition.

"The question really is whether Slater and Gordon bring the action against Roc before the offer is
declared unconditional, and whether the quantum of the claim is sufficient to trigger the MAC clause,"
one broker said.

Roc, which is being advised in the takeover by JB North & Co, described the attempt to garner
shareholder support for a potential claim as "purely speculative and highly opportunistic".
The company said it would "vigorously defend its position and does not consider this matter to be
material in relation to the Fosun takeover".

Slater and Gordon senior class action lawyer Ben Phi said the takeover was irrelevant to the proposed
class action, which he said should not be material to the takeover.

Page139of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.He said all information the company was aware of that was material to the Fosun deal had been
disclosed in the target's statement. Roc shares fell 0.5¢ to 68¢ on Friday, 1¢ shy of Fosun's cash offer.

The potential class action is the latest hurdle to arise in the takeover of Roc, after an earlier $800
million proposal by the mid-cap player to merge with Horizon Oil was knocked off course by the
Fosun cash offer.
Controversy also surrounded the Roc-Horizon merger proposal because it was structured so Roc Oil
shareholders did not get an opportunity to vote on the transaction.

The claim relates to an 80 per cent downgrade in reserves at the Basker-Manta-Gummy venture by
Roc in February 2010, which drove a 31 per cent slump in the share price.

It alleges Roc knew, or ought to have known, of the issues driving the cut in reserves no later than May
21, 2009, causing losses to shareholders who bought stock in the intervening period.

The claim alleges Roc was therefore in breach of the Corporations Act and engaged in misleading and
deceptive conduct, breaching its obligations of continuous disclosure.

rocoil : Roc Oil Company Ltd
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | cclass : Class Action/Settlements | c12 :
Corporate Crime/Legal Action | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive
News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020141003eaa40003r

CO
IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page140of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.