Chicken farms prices are far from paltry these days

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Chicken farms prices are far from paltry these days

GREG BROWN, agribusiness
463 words
29 July 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
18
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

FARMland values are expected to improve on the back of increased agricultural production over the
next year with demand for poultry leading the way, according to a research paper by Colliers
International.

The paper said the Australian agricultural property market, which has struggled since the global
financial crisis, had bottomed and would have an improved year to June 2015, largely on the back of
increasing food demand from Asia. And the best-performing part of the agricultural industry will be
poultry, with the growth in production to increase by 1.1 million tonnes, a 3 per cent increase from last
year.

Global investors are picking up on the theme, with private equity giant TPG on track to reap a record
haul from the sale of the Inghams Enterprises property portfolio for more than $600 million. A deal on
the group’s poultry and industrial portfolio is expected to close next month with US real estate
investment trust WP Carey in the mix for parts of that portfolio.

While many of Australia’s agricultural products are set to benefit from the expanding Asian middle
class, 95 per cent of chicken is consumed by the domestic audience as it is cheaper than beef, pork
and lamb.

“The poultry sector is arguably the best financially performing agribusiness enterprise in Australia,
currently based on the projections which show that chicken meat is to remain Australia’s most
consumed meat in the medium term,” Colliers International’s director of rural and agribusiness, Tim
Altschwager, said.
“This demand is creating passive investment opportunities for acquisition of assets on sale and
leaseback models for long terms of 10 to 20 years with double-digit yields,” he said.

“Syndicates of private investors are developing and owning the new-age broiler farms producing
millions of chickens per annum.” The cotton, beef and wine sectors are also expected to improve, but
on the back of increased demand from Asia.

Over the past two years the cotton industry has experienced record production and a number of
property transactions have occurred in the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area in the Riverina, according to
the Colliers research.
“China is stockpiling cotton for future production, increasing the demand for cotton textiles which in
turn makes them the largest importer of Australian cotton, accounting for 68 per cent of our total
production,” Mr Altschwager said.

As for the beef sector, Colliers International’s director of research, Mark Courtney, said the market was
affected by the drought, which caused a lot of properties to be placed in receivership.“It is important to
note that gains have been made in the first half of 2014,” Mr Coutney said, adding that a lot of the
receiver stock was selling.

Page133of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

crydvf : W.P. Carey Inc. | inent : Inghams Enterprises Pty Ltd | tpgpar : TPG, Inc.
i4123 : Poultry Processing | i0100121 : Poultry Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i41 :
Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i412 : Animal Slaughtering/Processing | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood :
Food Products | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150206 :
Investment Trusts/Funds | i815020602 : Real Estate Investment Trusts | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | ireest : Real Estate
c182 : Asset Transactions | c21 : Output/Production | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate
Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E
Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140728ea7t0004k

Page134of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.