Cardia Bioplastics Announces Proposed Merger with Stellar Films Group

HD Cardia Bioplastics Announces Proposed Merger with Stellar Films Group
WC 770 words
PD 26 November 2014
SN Emerging Markets Business Information News
SC EMBIN
LA
English
CY © 2014 EMBIN (Emerging Markets Business Information News). All Rights Reserved. Provided by

Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company

LP

TD

Cardia Bioplastics Limited is pleased to announce that it has signed a terms sheet with privately held
Stellar Films Group (Stellar Films) under which it is proposed to merge the businesses of the two groups.
The merger, should it proceed, is intended to create a leader in sustainable packaging. The proposed
merger is subject to completion of satisfactory due diligence by both parties, execution of a sale
agreement, Shareholder and regulatory approval and other customary closing conditions. Under the terms
of the proposed merger, Cardia Bioplastics will acquire all of the shares and units issued in Stellar Films
and issue ordinary shares in Cardia Bioplastics to the owners of Stellar Films. Following completion of the
proposed merger, it is currently anticipated that Cardia shareholders will own 42% of the merged group
and the owners of Stellar Films will own 58% of the merged group.

An Extraordinary General Meeting of Cardia Bioplastics shareholders is expected to be held in early 2015.
A notice of meeting setting out all relevant information for shareholders, including an Independent Expert's
Report, would be circulated to Cardia Bioplastics shareholders prior to the meeting. The terms sheet
provides for an exclusivity period of 4 months from 21 November 2014. During the exclusivity period the
parties will undertake due diligence enquiries and act in good faith to agree the commercial terms of the
proposed merger, and enter into a sale agreement. Cardia, Stellar and the owners of Stellar have agreed
to no shop, no talk and no due diligence restrictions for the duration of the exclusivity period. The no talk
and no due diligence restriction will not apply where not responding to a competing proposal would be
likely to result in a party breaching its fiduciary obligations. Background to Proposed Merger Cardia
Bioplastics and Stellar Films originally partnered to produce environmentally friendly, high quality and cost
competitive Biohybrid films tailored for the global personal care and hygiene products industry. The
Biohybrid film produced on Stellar Films proprietary cast film process, exhibits a high performance
property profile. It is differentiated through its unique soft touch and warm feel that is ideal for personal
care product applications such as nappies/diapers, feminine or incontinence products. The close and
efficient cooperation between the companies over the last three years has clearly drawn out the strategic
fit of the two businesses and the major benefits of a merger, including scale and geographic footprint of
combined operations, market access and reach, production and operational savings, complementary
intellectual property positions, resources to deliver business strategy and high quality management
teams. Stellar Films is an Australian privately owned company that manufactures and globally markets
high quality cast films to the personal care, hygiene and medical product industries. The company is
headquartered in Melbourne and operates manufacturing facilities in Melbourne and Port Klang, Malaysia.
Over the last fifteen years, Stellar Films Group with average sales over the last three years of over $21
million has developed partnerships with customers in over twenty-seven countries throughout North
America, Asia, Africa, the Middle East and Australia/New Zealand. In addition, Stellar holds an interest of
50.8% in Akronn Industries. Akronn manufactures silicone-coated paper and film products at their Nilai,
Malaysia operation supplying the global hygiene and medical packaging markets as well as the
sustainable energy sector. Cardia Bioplastics develops, manufactures and markets its patented
renewable resource-based materials and finished products, derived from Cardia's proprietary technology
for the global packaging and plastic products industries. The company holds a strong patent portfolio and
its growth is fuelled by the global trend towards sustainable packaging. Established in Australia in 2002,
the company Headquarters and Global Application Development Centre is in Melbourne. Cardia
Bioplastics' Product Development Centre and resins manufacturing plant is in Nanjing, China. Cardia's
manufacturing plants for film and bag products are in Nanjing, China and S£o Paulo, Brazil with further
offices in Australia, China, USA, Brazil and Malaysia, and a network of leading distributors across the
Americas, Asia and Europe. Cardia Bioplastics Chairman, Richard Tegoni, stated The Cardia Bioplastics
Board is excited about the intended merger with Stellar Films Group, a business that will complement and
strengthen our Cardia Bioplastics business in its product offering, market position and global reach. The
combined business has the scale and resources to deliver the successful implementation of our profitable
business growth strategy in our carrier bags, films & packaging, and waste management target market

Page191of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.segments. We look forward to working with the Stellar Group Board and management to bring the merger
transaction to a successful conclusion.

NS

RE

CO cardmn : Cardia Bioplastics Limited | stfilm : Stellar Films Group Pty Ltd
IN

i25 : Chemicals | i2514 : Resin/Synthetic Rubber | i483 : Plastics Products | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | iindstrls : Industrial Goods
cmerg : Mergers | cdued : Due Diligence | gmovie : Movies | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers |
gsust : Sustainable Development | c18 : Ownership Changes | cacqu : Acquisitions | cactio : Corporate
Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gent : Arts/Entertainment | genv
: Environmental News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gplan : Urban Planning/Development | gpol :
Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
IPD Paper & Packaging
PUB Info-Prod Research (Middle East) Limited
AN Document EMBIN00020141126eabq000jw

Page192of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.