Chinese buyers come knocking

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Chinese buyers come knocking

Nathan MAWBY
502 words
22 November 2014
Geelong Advertiser
GEEADV
Geelong
4
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

GEELONG properties are attracting more interest from Chinese investors than ever before.
A surge in interest in the region’s real estate has been revealed by China’s biggest website listing
Australian property.

Figures from Juwai.com, a site that attracts about 1.7 million wealthy Chinese investors a month,
show Geelong has the fifth fastest growing number of inquiries of any city or region in Australia.

Co-chief executive of Juwai.com, Simon Henry, told the Geelong Advertiser the trend was following a
rise in the cost of housing in Australia’s other capital cities.

“We are starting to see a migration of interest from the main metro cities to the second tier areas,” Mr
Henry said. “Foreign investment in NSW has been dropping over the last few quarters and it’s being
picked up by Victoria and it’s spilling over from Melbourne to Geelong now.” The rest of the top five
cities are Melbourne, Perth, Darwin and Mandurah (in Western Australia).

Education and investment are considered the likely motivations, according to Mr Henry.

He said he expected interest to continue rising in the next 12 months and new development may
come with it.
Foreign investment regulations limit Chinese investors to purchasing newly built property, or sites to
build new property on, and some of Geelong’s most influential groups believe this could spark new
developments.
Bob Gartland, principal of Gartland Real Estate, has seen rises in all forms of Chinese property
investment from residential to commercial property in the past 12 months — particularly around
student accommodation in the CBD. “We have fielded a lot of interest from Chinese investors and
certainly we are seeing that interest increase in the past 12 months,” Mr Gartland said.
“When they arrive here they can’t believe the bay we have here — the last Chinese client I had here
called it ‘the bay of diamonds’, because of the sun glinting off the water.

“I expect that over the next 12 months to two years we will see an increase in developments getting
out of the ground, particularly in the waterfront district.” Russell Walker from Enterprise Geelong, a
branch of Geelong’s council, said the group had been building a foothold for the city in China over the
past 12 months.

“My goal is to have major development happen in Geelong which wouldn’t otherwise happen without
the access to foreign investors,” Mr Walker said.

Page215of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.LJ Hooker is another Geelong real estate agency promoting properties in China, with a dedicated
team based in Beijing working with Australian sales agents including Craig Campbell from their
Belmont office who is handling the sale of 78 High St, Belmont.
The 1930s-built, two-bedroom house is being marketed on the Juwai.com site.“It’s another string to
the bow,” Mr Campbell said.Deakin University real estate professor Richard Reed said Geelong’s key
attributes in the eyes of international and particularly Asian investors included its airport links and
affordability.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

ereal : Real Estate Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | china : China | victor : Victoria (Australia) | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia
Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document GEEADV0020141122eabm0000o

Page216of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.