KPMG adds technical services

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Professional Services
KPMG adds technical services

Michael Bleby
473 words
27 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
41
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Professional services giant KPMG has acquired SGA Property Consultancy in an effort to provide
end-to-end services in property transactions as demand grows from Asian and other offshore
investors.

Under the deal that completes on Friday, SGA's 65 staff – predominantly chartered building
surveyors, building certifiers, engineers and environmental scientists – will become part of the
consultancy and the business will be known as KPMG SGA. Terms of the deal were not disclosed.

The deal follows other acquisitions KPMG has made to broaden its service offering.
Property-related revenue currently accounts for about $60 million of the firm's total $1.12 billion last
year and the consulting firm wants that to grow significantly in coming years, chief executive Gary
Wingrove said.

The market is expanding on the back of growing demand from overseas investors – particularly from
China – as well as from pension and sovereign wealth funds, multi-national corporates and private
equity, Mr Wingrove said. "We do see a lot of opportunity in the real estate and property markets,"
he told The Australian Financial Review.

"What we would traditionally have done is if a client appoints us to do the financial aspects of a due
diligence piece of work, the client would separately contract a firm such as SGA to provide the
technical advice.

"Now we can provide a total end-to-end service to clients." SGA, founded by Stephen Allan in 2003,
offers the widest one-stop shop of technical property consulting services in Australia, and was well
placed to serve the needs of the growing market, SGA managing partner David Myers said.B-grade
office conversions
"What I can see is a significant upturn in transaction-based work and a lot of that is coming from
inbound funds from Asia, as well as Europe."
Part of the surge in demand has come from investors wanting to buy B-grade office stock that they
could convert into residential property, Mr Myers said.

"We saw that probably about 12 months ago and we've been pretty strong with that work ever since,"
he said.

SGA, which occupies seven offices – in Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Canberra, Auckland
and Singapore – will be relocating to KPMG offices. Physical integration was important to ensure
integration of the businesses, Mr Wingrove said.

Page125of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.KPMG's SGA acquisition follows the announcement last week of a five-year deal with venture
capitalist firm Artesian Venture Partners to funnel up to $50 million worth of corporate investment
into the start-up sector.

In July, KPMG said it acquired boutique mining services consultancy Momentum Partners and in
February, it said it bought social media risk management consultancy SR7.

Key points The SGA merger is aimed at ensuring KPMG has an end-to-end service. Inbound funds
from Asia provide significant transaction-based work.

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

ptmwm : KPMG International
i836 : Accounting | iacc : Accounting/Consulting | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
ereal : Real Estate Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic
Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141126eabr0000n

Page126of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.