Elders reaps rewards

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Elders reaps rewards

AAP
356 words
20 May 2014
The Cairns Post
CAIRPO
Cairns
18
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

AGRIBUSINESS Elders has narrowed its half year loss to $10.2 million and expects continued
improvement over the full year.

Elders is starting to reap the benefits of extensive “non-core” asset sales, restructuring and
management changes as it nears its aim of becoming a “pure” rural services provider.

Its result for the six months to March 31 was an improvement on a $303 million loss in the same
period a year earlier.
The latest loss included one-off items totalling $16.8 million linked to businesses that the company
no longer operates and the value of assets it is looking to sell.
The first-half loss of 2013 contained $280 million in impairments and writedowns, including a $167
million impairment charge on Elders’ Futuris Automotive car interiors business which the group has
since sold.
Excluding one-off items, Elders’ underlying profit of $6.7 million was up from an underlying loss of
$23.7 million in the prior corresponding period. Managing director Mark Allison said Elders was on
the way to generating value for its shareholders, after posting a $30.4 million turnaround in
underlying performance.
Every part of the business delivered improved results in spite of variable seasonal conditions, which
included drought in much of north eastern Australia.

“We see this as the start of the ‘pure play’ agribusiness journey and a sound outcome for the first six
months ... ” Mr Allison said.
Elders had cut costs and debt, improved margins, and lifted cash flow. The company’s traditional
operations – livestock, wool, real estate and grain – had made the biggest contribution to improved
margins.

Elders said seasonal and market conditions were encouraging. Cattle prices were recovering, sheep
prices were strong, and demand from Indonesia, Vietnam, China and eastern Europe for live cattle
was healthy.

There was strong demand for Australian cattle, particularly from Indonesia. Demand for breeding
cattle remained strong, particularly dairy heifers from Australia and New Zealand for Chinese milk
production.

“The second half outlook is positive ... and we expect ongoing improvement against last year,” Mr
Allison said.Shares in Elders were 0.5 cents higher at 12 cents.

CO

futris : Elders Limited

Page148of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document CAIRPO0020140519ea5k0000v

Page149of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.