*AYI: SORGHUM - A MULTI PURPOSE CROP FOR SUGAR, BIO FUEL, GRAIN AND ANIMAL FEED - EXPECTED TO BE OF INCREASING IMPORTANCE IN AUSTRALIA - AYI...

HD *AYI: SORGHUM - A MULTI PURPOSE CROP FOR SUGAR, BIO FUEL, GRAIN AND ANIMAL FEED -
EXPECTED TO BE OF INCREASING IMPORTANCE IN AUSTRALIA - AYI IS A LISTED OPPORTUNITY

BY Jenny Prabhu
WC 2,812 words
PD 27 March 2014
SN OzEquities News Bites
SC NBOZEN
LA English
CY Copyright 2014 News Bites Pty Ltd. All rights reserved.
LP

AUSTRALIAN COMPANY NEWS BITES

OZEQUITIES NEWS BITES

TD

(Please note: This is a background report only on AY1 from published material, The company is to seek
shareholder approval on March 31 for its change in direction, plus other regulatory matters. The focus of
this report is on Sorghum)
A1 Investments & Resources Ltd, is a change of name for China Century Capital Ltd, which took over the
China Century investment portfolio of both resource and industrial companies in 2011 and while continuing
to advance the projects in its portfolio, it has - so far as we can see - been virtually dormant for the last
three years.
Then on March 3 this year the company announced an agreement to acquire all the shares in Marvel
Seeds, a Singapore based private company, and the distributor worldwide of Super Sorghum seeds (an
improved hybrid variety) via a sales agreement with SOL Holdings Corp in Japan.
The company said, "The board of AY1 has been seeking new directions and a sustainable and growth
focused business plan for some time. The Board determined that a natural resource focus was too
limiting in the near and medium term and sought to examine and analyse various opportunities particularly
in food and agriculture".
*On March 24 AI Investments announced it has entered into a heads of agreement to acquire the
exclusive distribution rights for SuperSorghum seeds in Australia from Sol Holdings in Japan, and entered
into a mutual termination agreement with Marvel Investments.

*AY1 also announced a capital raising and CN issue to investors in Singapore to fund the deal.
The company has now to work through various processes, including seeking shareholder approval for the
deal with Sol Holdings and the capital raisings - shareholder meeting to be held on Monday 31.

AY1 is headed by Charlie Nakamura, a banker formerly with Tokai Bank in Japan from 1991 to 2002
(Tokai merged to become the current Bank of Tokyo-Misubishi) - leaving the bank to at first establish a
mortgage finance company in Sydney and later starting Jinji Resources Pty Ltd which was acquired by
China Century, now AY1.
The top 20 shareholders of AY1 hold 72% of the company.

The need for adaptation and change
*On March 17 the ABC reported a new study on the impacts of climate change shows warming will lead to
heavier losses in global crop yields than previously believed.

The study compiled by researchers from Australia, Colombia, the United States and the United Kingdom
looks at global crop yields under projected levels of climate change. Co-author Mark Howden from the
CSIRO says it shows wheat, maize and rice crop yields decline by around 5 per cent for every degree of
warming.

Page284of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."Reductions in yields tended to increase as the temperature went up and up," he said.

Yields also go down more rapidly in tropical environments than they do in temperate environments, the
study says.

Dr Howden says the result is worse than previous forecasts.

"Looking back a few years we thought maybe we could get away with a bit more warming before we went
negative, but this is actually showing the spike will happen sooner than later," he said.

Dr Howden says the agriculture sector will need to adapt to avoid global food shortages.

"There's a lot of things you can do like management changes, changes in varieties and potentially changes
in location as well," he said.

*On Monday the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) official document will be published,
spelling out in detail the changes that lie ahead, if we fail to stop global warming increasing.

THE SORGHUM OPPORTUNITY

Sorghum is the fifth most abundant grain crop in the world, following wheat, oats, corn and barley and is
already widely grown in tropical and arid regions around the world. It is grown in Queensland, with around
2 million tonnes produced annually, mostly used for cattle feed, with a little exported to Japan.

Sorghum is fast growing, high yielding, produces both sugars and bioethanol, is tolerant of both drought
and humidity stresses - and can be grown on marginal soils.

*The grain, hard and red when dry, is usually used as flour. Like tofu, sorghum absorbs flavors well.

It is also a staple for rural populations of Asia including India where it is known as Jowar as well as Africa
and Central America.

*It is also used around the world to brew beers.

*All sorghum varieties are gluten free, a valuable alternative to other cereals for the gluten intolerant.

*Molasses and sugar content from sorghum is equivalent to that obtained from sugarcane - and sorghum
can be grown over a vastly greater region.

The "Super Sorghum" seed from Japan is said to grow taller and have higher sugar content than other
varieties (it is not genetically modified).

SORGHUM IN AUSTRALIA

Currently grain sorghum is the main summer grain crop in most regions in Queensland. It plays a key role
in providing feed grains to the beef, dairy, pig and poultry industries. It is a good rotation crop that
tolerates heat and moisture stress, and performs better than maize on soils with marginal potassium
levels.

Approximately 60% of the Australian crop is grown in Queensland and the remainder in northern New
South Wales.

The area of sorghum planted for grain in Queensland is normally 600,000-700,000 ha. Average farm yields
vary at around 2 t/ha and reflects the severity of constraints, as water stress during grain filling is the
common production environment.

Sorghum produced in Australia is used almost exclusively for feed, especially cattle, pigs and poultry.
None is used for human consumption while a significant market exists in the pet food industry. An export
market of about 1 Mt exists, particularly to Japan, but the average amount exported is in the order of
300-500Kt.

Sorghum requires a warm, summer growing period of about 4-5 months, with planting times usually
between September to January.

The crop is highly drought tolerant, but responds well to rainfall, especially during head forming and grain
fill stages.

Sorghum usually yields better than maize on poor fertility soils.

Page285of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.New Australian research shows sorghum has huge potential as a single source for energy, food, animal
feed, September 24 2013 :

A new Australian-based research study into sweet sorghum has shown the huge potential of the crop as a
single source of energy, food and animal feed.

Sweet sorghum is receiving significant global interest because of its potential as a multi-product crop,
however there has been minimal research under Australian growing conditions or using Australian
processing facilities, until now.

Sweet sorghum is a fast growing plant that produces a stalk up to five metres tall with a high concentration
of fermentable sugars at a level similar to that of sugarcane, and produces a large panicle of edible,
nutritional grain similar to that of grain sorghum. Unlike many other crops used for renewable energy
production, sweet sorghum can simultaneously produce food and feed co-products.

Conducted by Queensland University of Technology in collaboration with industry partner AgriFuels Ltd,
the research looked at sweet sorghum’s agronomy, its ability to be processed using existing processing
infrastructure, its carbon footprint, using it to produce biofuels, and its use in food products for humans, fish
and livestock.
The project’s lead researcher, Associate Prof Ian O’Hara said that sweet sorghum has a wide potential
cropping area, including tropical and sub-tropical Queensland, the Northern Territory, Western Australia
and in temperate regions of New South Wales, Victoria and Western Australia.

“Our research showed that several varieties of sweet sorghum grew very quickly in field trials, reaching
maturity in only 16-20 weeks with fermentable sugar concentrations similar to those of sugarcane under
optimal conditions,” Associate Prof O’Hara said.

“Our research indicates there are significant short term opportunities for the co-location of sweet sorghum
and sugarcane production to increase feedstock availability for bio-ethanol production. In fact, we found
that adding sweet sorghum juice to sugarcane juice resulted in higher ethanol yields than fermenting
sugarcane juice alone.”

Associate Prof O’Hara said the research team also produced a range of sweet sorghum food and feed
products including sweet sorghum flour, syrup, sweet sorghum-based breakfast cereal, fish and animal
feed pellets and human dietary fibre products.

“When we analysed the nutritional quality and economics of these products it was shown that there are
significant opportunities for manufacturing food and feed products from sweet sorghum in Australia. These
products include livestock feed from sweet sorghum grain, syrup or molasses feed supplements, stock
feed from sweet sorghum bagasse, and the production of mixed animal and fish feed products
incorporating all three residues,” Associate Prof O’Hara said.

Biorefinery products result in strong net reduction in Global Warming Potential

Associate Prof O’Hara said that a carbon footprint analysis of six biorefinery process options for the
conversion of sweet sorghum to fuel and animal feed products under Australian conditions was also
carried out and the results were positive.

“We conducted a life cycle assessment and it determined that the aggregated effects of all sweet sorghum
biorefinery products resulted in a strong net reduction in Global Warming Potential. This was true even for
scenarios with the lowest sweet sorghum crop yields, so sweet sorghum biorefineries can assist in
reducing carbon emissions,” Associate Prof O’Hara said.

Associate Prof O’Hara said Australia is well placed to establish integrated biorefineries producing sweet
sorghum-based products for domestic use and for export into the Asian market.

“Sweet sorghum is one crop that has significant potential to contribute to the development of Australia’s
bioeconomy. Further research and commercialisation activities will be required to help develop sweet
sorghum potential for commercial cultivation and processing at a large scale in Australia,” Associate Prof
O’Hara said.

The research project was funded by RIRDC and industry partner AgriFuels Ltd.

The complete research report titled ‘Sweet sorghum – opportunities for a new, renewable fuel and food
industry in Australia’ can be found on the RIRDC website: https://rirdc.infoservices.com.au/items/13-087

Sorghum canes as pasture

Page286of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.*Other reports point out that while under certain conditions sorghum produces cyanogenetic glucosides
during the growing stage that forms toxic hydrocyanic acid, or prussic acid, this is avoided by feeding
animals with dry well cured stalk residue (dried for at least 3 weeks).

Stock should not be pastured in growing crops which are higher in prussic acid but only in mature crops.

There is also high prussic acid content in frost hit crops that should be avoided until dried.

*The prussic acid content of sorghum is higher if the soil is high in nitrogen and deficient in phosphorous
and potash.

*Our add: During research we came across two anti-aging products, Pevonia, Botanica Elastin Polypeptide
with Sorghum, retailing at $50.95 and Pevonia Botanica Power Repair Age Correction Intensifier - Elastin
& Sorghum that retails for $81.95.

AYI report dated March 24 :Test production report on SuperSorghum

"SuperSorghum represents an immediate opportunity to get back into production old or poorly operated
and managed sugar cane farms or land that was too poor for sugar cane farms. Test farming at Home Hill
in Northern Queensland is already underway. A hybrid version of SuperSorghum that produces high
volumes of sucrose was planted as a direct substitute for sugar cane. SuperSorghum requires no change
in capital equipment on the farm , using the same machines. The harvested material is then supplied to the
existing sugar mill and the same processing takes place as for sugar cane.

SuperSorghum is however harvested after a 100 day growing cycle allowing up to two or three crops per
year and provides the same amount of sugar per crop as sugar cane produces in one crop - but it takes 12
months for sugar cane to grow.

Sorghum as a feedstock also represents an immediate market, but its longer term potential as a biomass
for ethanol production is enormous. Other hybrid varieties of SuperSorghum that develop less sugar but
more alcohol represents a significant long term opportunity for the business in Australia".

A1 INVESTMENTS & RESOURCES LTD - A SNAPSHOT

A1 Investments & Resources Ltd had its beginnings when Minerals Corporation Ltd in June 2004
announced it has arranged with Growth Equities Corporation Ltd, a licensed funds management company,
to manage a special purpose investment company, China Century Group Ltd (CCG) which will acquire
MSC's shareholding in Sinotel, a telecom infrastructure company, to become a specialised China
investment company. It listed on October 2 , 2007 closing at 28c on the first day with a portfolio of China
and Australia investments.

On November 3 2011 it changed its name to A1 Investments & Resources Ltd. AYI continued to hold a
portfolio of mixed resources projects, mainly in Australia.
*On March 3 this year the company announced an agreement to acquire all the shares in Marvel Seeds,
a Singapore based private company, and the distributor worldwide of Super Sorghum seeds via a sales
agreement with SOL Holdings Corp in Japan.
The company said, "The board of AY1 has been seeking new directions and a sustainable and growth
focused business plan for some time. The Board determined that a natural resource focus was too
limiting in the near and medium term and sought to examine and analyse various opportunities particularly
in food and agriculture".
*Then on March 24 AI Investments announced it has entered into a heads of agreement to acquire the
exclusive distribution rights for SuperSorghum seeds in Australia from Sol Holdings in Japan, and entered
into a mutual termination agreement with Marvel Investments.
A1 also announced the placement of $1 million from sophisticated investors in Singapore at .8c, a 20%
discount to VWAP for the past 15 trading days. The funds will be used to pay the licence fee, the
purchase of SuperSorghum seed for distribution and for working capital.

A1 also announced the parties associated with the new investors have offered to enter a converting note in
a sum of $2 million payable instalments of $500,000 between September and December 2014 to be
converted on December 31, 2014 at a 20% discount to VWAP.
The funds will be used to purchase further seed and working capital.

Subject to regulatory approval by ASIC and ASX and shareholder approval.

Page287of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AY1 also announced it has agreed with Marvel Investments to enter into a mutual termination agreement
of the sale and purchase of Marvel Seeds for no liability.

A meeting of shareholders to consider the proposal is scheduled for March 31.
The company also needs regulatory approval by ASIC and the ASX.

A1 INVESTMENTS & RESOURCES LTD FINANCIALS

Code: AYI

Last Traded price 0.01c.

Shares Issued 478m.

Market Cap $478,000.

Proforma Adjustments:

1/ Convertible Notes converted $2.7m Shares added 302,517,200.

2/ Raised via the issue of $3m. Shares added 125m

3/ Note Holders interest payment $163,000.

4/ Paid $1m for license fee.

Directors:
Charlie Nakamura, B.IE Uni of Nihon, Japan, MBA Uni of Dubuque, executive director and CEO

Charlie Nakamura worked for the Tokai Bank in Japan, that merged to form the current Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, from 1991 to 2002. In 1998 he transferred to Tokai Australia Finance Corporation
and was a head of the corporate finance department for Japanese corporations in Australia.

In 2000 Charlie was the representative of Tokai bank in the project finance deal with BHP and Mitsubishi
for the "Blackwater" coking coal project.
In 2002 Charlie left Tokai Australia Finance Corporation to found a mortgage finance company in Sydney.
In 2007 Charlie started Jinji Resources Pty Ltd as managing director which was acquired by CYA.

Peter Kao, Bachelor of Telecom and Master of Biomedical Engineering, Uni of NSW, executive director,
COO and company secretary. Peter has been a business and operations manager for IT and
technology companies in Australia and Taiwan. He was appointed COO and Company Secretary of A1
Investments & Resources Ltd in November 2011.

Peter Ashcroft, LLB (Uni of Sydney), Solicitor of the Supreme Court of NSW and High Court of Australia.
Peter Ashcroft is a commercial law specialist with over 35 years experience.
Dan Kao, B.Me and Master of Biomedical Engineering, UNI of NSW, non exec director.

Dan Kao was CEO and MD of Chna Century Capital Ltd from February 2009 to November 2011. He was a
senior design engineer and team leader for over 8 years in the health care industry in China and Taiwan.
He has been a nonexec director of AYI since November 2011.

Major shareholders:

Minatek Pty Ltd 11.92%

KOR Holdings Pty Ltd 9.49%

Mr Yoshiyasu Aki 8.86%

Mrs Shen-Mei Huang Wei 5.40%.
The top shareholders hold 72.87% of the company.

NS gclimt : Climate Change | m11 : Equity Markets | nanl : Analyses | mgroil : Grains/Edible Oils Markets |

gcat : Political/General News | genv : Environmental News | gglobe : Global/World Issues | gwea : Weather

Page288of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.| m14 : Commodity Markets | m141 : Agricultural Commodity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market
News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter

RE austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
PUB News Bites Pty Ltd
AN Document NBOZEN0020140327ea3r000b5

Page289of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.