Judgment day

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Judgment day

Anne Hyland
3,750 words
31 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
50
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Publishing He was the power behind Rupert Murdoch's throne in the halcyon days at News Corp. Now
Ken Cowley, feeling the shadow of mortality, wants to put a few things on the record: Elisabeth, not
Lachlan, is the smart Murdoch, The Australian newspaper is 'pathetic', and Qantas boss Alan Joyce is,
well, a corporate misfit. Anne Hyland writes.

Ken Cowley, once one of the most powerful men in Australia, is reflecting on life, death and his career.
Seated in his office in Milsons Point on Sydney's lower north shore, decked out in R.M. Williams attire
down to its world famous boots, Cowley is a man content with his own achievements and aware
increasingly of his own mortality. On at least half a dozen occasions, he reflects on when he will go to
God.

He has relinquished almost all of his work duties, except as chairman of the aforementioned bush
outfitter, which has been a labour of love for the past two decades.

His wife of 55 years, Maureen, has urged him to sell the business, that he owns, and last year he
offloaded a 50 per cent stake in R.M. Williams to the private equity arm of global luxury goods
groupLVMH.
"I'm very comfortable knowing there's a good safe home for it if I climb the stairway to heaven," Cowley
says.

Soon he will relinquish the remainder and spend more time with his wife. "That's her up there," he says,
pointing to a glamorous framed photo of Maureen. It sits prominently in his office, which looks out
towards Sydney Harbour.
Cowley, who turns 80 in November, used to sit at the right hand of billionaire media baron Rupert
Murdoch, and was one of his most trusted lieutenants. Indeed, Murdoch nearly made Cowley a mogul in
his own right in 1995.
The two men had discussed a deal for Cowley to buy the Australian arm of News Corporation, of which
he was chief executive, and also Murdoch's Seven Network stake. But the dream never became reality
because Murdoch's broader scheme with Kerry Packer to carve up the media landscape together,
including the then John Fairfax Holdings, was killed by the prime minster, Paul Keating.
So instead of owning News Corp in Australia, Cowley remained a faithful company man. He was a
board director of News Corp for almost half his working life – 32 years – and ran the Australian arm of
the company for 27 years.

He has been a director of Commonwealth Bank, News Corp Australia's banker, and was an executive
chairman of the now defunct national airline Ansett.Unafraid to be blunt

Cowley, who's known to many as simply KC, has been reflecting on the industries in which he spent
most of his working life: airlines and media. He's frustrated and critical of the management and
strategies he sees there.

Page222of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In his characteristic blunt style – a style that earned him Murdoch's respect, trust and friendship –
Cowley delivers some stinging assessments. Even his old boss and friend Murdoch is not immune.

"The problem is now Rupert doesn't have many people around him that give him advice and tell him the
things he doesn't want to hear. That was one of my strong relationships with him. From day one I was
not frightened to tell him what he should do and shouldn't do."

Cowley says he had the backing of Murdoch's mother, the late Dame Elisabeth Murdoch, when it came
to telling Rupert what he needed to hear.

"I used to get on fantastically with her," Cowley recalls . "She was a great supporter of mine with him.
She used to help me argue with him. Once in Melbourne, she got Rupert and I to come to her in a hotel
room and, to my pleasant surprise, she took Rupert on about giving me support in Australia, and was
across all the details of the media companies, the Herald and Weekly Times . . . and Rupert went along
with it and changed lots of things and virtually handed over to me and said, 'You're the boss'. He said to
me, you can make any changes you like. And I made lots of changes, people and all."

One of those changes was in the balance between management, the advertising department and the
editorial section of News Corp's Australian newspapers. Cowley saw the editor as a person who could
work with him to make a profit and involved them in briefing advertising agencies, customers and
clients. He got editors involved in budgets and made it clear that any initiative they wanted to pursue
had to be costed and demonstrated it would make money. It was a new frontier for editors, who
previously worried only about the masthead's content.The wrong successor

Where Cowley is most critical of Murdoch now is his decision in March to name eldest son Lachlan as
non-executive co-chairman of News Corp and 21st Century Fox. It's not the breathtaking nepotism of
the appointment that has upset Cowley, as Murdoch has employed his major shareholding to propagate
his dynasty. Rather it's that Cowley believes Murdoch has picked the wrong child – he has six children
from three marriages – to succeed him.

"I like Lachlan," Cowley says. "He's a nice man but he's not a great businessman. He's not a big and
good decision-maker in my opinion."
It is why he believes Lachlan shouldn't be the anointed one to leadNews Corporation and 21st Century
Fox. Instead, he says, it should be Murdoch's daughter, Elisabeth.

"She's the smartest of all them. I've tried to tell him," Cowley says. "He got angry with me. He said, 'Oh
you're saying it just because she's a woman'.

"I said, 'I am not! It's her brain!' Anyway, it didn't do any good. He's got an old-fashioned view [of
women]. And apart from that, he thinks he's going to live forever."

Murdoch is 83. Cowley says he once told him he was going to work until he was 100 and recalls
laughing at this statement.

"He said, 'What are you laughing at?' I said, 'He decides'," says Cowley, with his finger pointing
heavenward.

"He's still going," he marvels of Murdoch.

Cowley predicts upheaval in the running of News Corp and 21st Century Fox once Murdoch dies. News
was split into two companies last June, with 21st Century Fox separated out.

"If Rupert goes to God, James and Elisabeth – they're going to have a big say in it [the business]. Not a
little say in it," Cowley says. "I've always been very impressed with Elisabeth."

Lachlan was always number three, in Cowley's opinion, if you had to choose an executive from among
Murdoch's three children from his second marriage to Anna Torv. "Both James and Elisabeth are much
smarter than he is."

Lachlan trained under Cowley at News Corp in Australia, which was then known as News Limited. He
succeeded Cowley in 1997, but even before that, Cowley had increasingly become uncomfortable in the
role.

Murdoch would regularly phone to discuss News Ltd's business strategy with his son, effectively cutting
out Cowley. The progression of Lachlan as heir had altered the power balance at the top. It was a
courageous decision for Cowley to step back from power. It must have been difficult to give up being the
head of Australia's most important and biggest media company. At the time Cowley said: "I handed
over to Lachlan. So I've done all I can do without him actually picking up the total responsibility for the

Page223of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.company. This isn't a company of committees. It's appropriate that a single leadership emerges, for
good management and after my own long time on the mountain top."Doubts shared
Cowley was given a lavish farewell on Hayman Island and almost 300 guests, including politicians and
business luminaries, attended and paid homage, while pop singer John Farnham and jazz musician
Don Burrows provided entertainment. Cowley was given a large early riverscape painted by Arthur Boyd
as a parting gift.

For years it had hung in his office.

Cowley's views now on Lachlan would upset his old boss, but they are shared privately and widely
among many of Murdoch's former top company men.

In March, Murdoch made clear his delight in elevating Lachlan to the top job and also at his return to the
business, after a nine-year absence: "This appointment is a sign of confidence in the growth potential of
News Corp and a recognition of Lachlan's entrepreneurial leadership and passion for news, digital
media and sport," he said.
"In this elevated role, Lachlan will help us leadNews Corp forward, as we expand our reach and invest
in new technologies and markets around the world."

Lachlan had quit News in 2005 where he had been working as deputy chief operating officer. Reports
were he had fallen out with two of Murdoch's senior executives, Peter Chernin and Roger Ailes.

Lachlan moved from New York to Sydney and pursued his own media interests in Australia, which have
included success with DMG Radio Australia (now Nova Entertainment) and a disastrous investment in
ailing television broadcaster Ten Network Holdings. Lachlan was chairman of Ten until March, when he
stood down. Years ago, he also had success leading News' investment into REA Group.

Cowley is interested in television even though he spent most of his working life in newspapers. He
believes the managers of Australia's newspapers today, at both News and Fairfax Media, publisher of
AFR Weekend, should be exploring closer ties with television broadcasters, as the publishing industry
struggles.

"There should be a very strong relationship between television broadcasting and the newspaper
industry. There isn't. There are no big thinkers out there and there's nobody climbing the mountain in the
media business."

The newspaper industry globally is going through structural upheaval as advertisers and audiences shift
to the less lucrative digital formats. Both News Corp Australia and Fairfax Media have seen advertising
revenues collapse in recent years.

Citigroup analyst Justin Diddams estimates, since financial year 2008, advertising revenues at News
Corp Australia have fallen from $1.9 billion to $1.2 billion in financial year 2014. At Fairfax, in the same
period, he reckons advertising revenues have dropped from about $1.6 billion to $1.04 billion. In
contrast, Google earns more than $1 billion a year in Australia from advertising.

Cowley believes the management bench strength at News Corp in Australia could be improved. "It's a
worry. Rupert has not . . . he hasn't been, I think, careful enough to have picked the right person to run
Australia."

Julian Clarke, an industry veteran, was appointed chief executive of News Corp Australia in August
2013. Cowley was also critical of News's masthead, The Australian, which he helped establish with
Murdoch.

"The Australian now is pathetic," says Cowley. "It should have been growing stronger. With each
publication you've got to select the person who can give strong leadership and growth and business and
look over the horizon all the time, and they're not doing that.

"If Fairfax was properly run and had great leadership and imagination, they could have News Ltd on
their knees."An odd couple

Cowley has always had a keen interest in The Australian. He built the national newspaper with
Murdoch.

Cowley met Murdoch for the first time in 1962. They were an odd couple. Murdoch was the young heir
at his father's now defunct Adelaide afternoon paper, The News, and had been schooled at Geelong
Grammar and Oxford University. Cowley was born in Bankstown, then one of Sydney's lower-income
and rougher suburbs, and went to Bankstown High School.

Page224of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Cowley, three years Murdoch's junior, had set up his own newspaper, the Canberra bi-weekly, The
Territorial. He had previously worked as a printer at The Canberra Times, after his father advised him to
get a trade.

The meeting of Cowley and Murdoch was well before Murdoch had built a media and entertainment
empire that would span the globe and skies. The News would be the foundation of what would become
News Ltd and then the international News Corp.

Cowley was printer, publisher and editor of The Territorial. The two men met as Cowley was taking a
tour of Murdoch's now defunct Daily Mirror. When the tour finished, Cowley got a message that
Murdoch wanted to meet him.

"He had a copy of my newspaper on his desk," Cowley said in an interview. "He asked, 'Who edits it and
who writes all this anti-Menzies stuff?' "

Cowley replied he edited and wrote most of the political stories: they were aimed at the public servants
in Canberra who loved him socking it to then conservative prime minister Robert Menzies.

Murdoch and Cowley stayed in touch and by 1964 would together launch Australia's first national
newspaper, The Australian, based in Canberra and produced in the offices of The Territorial.

Murdoch offered Cowley a job in editorial. But Cowley told him he didn't know enough about that side of
the business but had formal training in production, so he became Murdoch's production manager. He
moved to Sydney as production manager of The Australian in 1967 and then became production chief
of the Sydney operation, which included The Daily Mirror. In 1974, he was made deputy general
manager and appointed to the board of Mirror Newspapers.The newspaper fixit man

By 1980, Cowley was the most powerful man at News Ltd, having been appointed chief executive. He
later became chairman in 1992. Cowley had responsibility for an empire that published, at various times
and in various incarnations, The Daily Mirror, The Sunday Mirror, The Daily Telegraph and The Sunday
Telegraph in Sydney, The Herald-Sun and The Sunday Herald-Sun in Melbourne, The Advertiser in
Adelaide, The Courier Mail in Brisbane, The Northern Territory News in Darwin, The Hobart Mercury
and The Sunday Mail in Perth.

But it was almost always The Australian that had politicians beating a path to Cowley's door, which is
another reason why he was a greater supporter of the newspaper, even at those times when Murdoch
wasn't.

In the early 1980s, during a period of enormous instability in the editorial department at The Australian,
Murdoch's patience with the newspaper wore thin. He phoned Cowley and ordered, "Fix it or shut it, and
don't ring me back."

Cowley fixed it, starting with the sacking of 39 journalists. But he kept the paper going. Cowley oversaw
the launch of The Weekend Australian and by 1984 was able to report to Murdoch that, after 20 years,
The Australian had made a profit on a year's operations.

This is one of the reasons why Cowley, who also established Newspoll, wants to see The Australian
performing more strongly than it is now.
Former News executives claim The Australian has lost as much as $36 million a year. However, its
editor-in-chief, Chris Mitchell, has put the figure closer to $30 million, and has since made substantial
cost reductions.
But Cowley's not socking it only to News. He's equally critical of Fairfax. "I'm worried about Fairfax," he
says, accusing management of driving the company "downhill".
Fairfax management have been actively restructuring the company and slashing costs as the digital
revolution continues to wreak havoc with the business models of publishers the world over. Its actions
have won favour among analysts and institutional investors.
One who saw the structural upheaval in the media was James Packer, who is now a gaming billionaire.
He dispassionately exited his family's long association with television and publishing. Cowley recalls
Kerry Packer's frustration at his inability to get his son to share his passion for media.

"Kerry Packer once sent his helicopter down from his cattle station up north and rang me and said,
'there's a helicopter on its way to pick you and Maureen up. I want you to come up to my farm for the
weekend.'

Page225of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."I tried to resist. We did go. James was there. I certainly didn't miss the tension between them. It was
because James was not interested in the media company and Kerry was angry with him. He was only
interested in gambling. On Sunday morning, he had a real tense argument with him but James was not
listening."Alan Joyce 'a misfit'

Over the years, Cowley expanded control of his fiefdom in Australia, beyond News. By 1992, he had
taken over from Murdoch as joint chairman of Ansett, which was 50 per cent owned by News Ltd – but
only after first securing Murdoch's agreement to force out the other joint chairman, Sir Peter Abeles,
which he did within months.
Ansett was a challenge for Cowley, as it repeatedly lost money. News eventually sold out of the airline
in 2000, offloading its stake to Air New Zealand for $680 million. Singapore Airlines had been the
underbidder. It was exquisite timing as Ansett went into administration a year later and eventually
collapsed.

"Airline businesses are very difficult to run and very difficult to make a profit in," Cowley says. It's why
you would think he wouldn't judge anyone managing an airline too harshly. But he does if that person is
Alan Joyce, the chief executive of Qantas, who worked at Ansett for four years until 2000 as head of
network planning.

Cowley says when running any business a chief executive should surround him – or herself – with good
people and especially in airlines, when it's all about the people working in that business, and not just the
service you sell.

"It's important that Qantas remains successful and properly funded and again that's people," Cowley
says. "Alan Joyce is a strange man. I've had one of his top people come to see me. It was scary. He's
worried where Qantas is going or not going.

"It'll be interesting to see where Alan Joyce finishes up. I think he's a misfit."

Under Joyce's five-and-a-half years of leadership, loss-making Qantas has seen multiple changes in
strategy as he struggles to turn around the ailing national flag carrier. In February, the airline reported a
first-half loss of $252 million – its biggest half-year loss since 1995.

By contrast, Qantas reported a doubling in its first-half profit in February 2008. Joyce was made chief
executive in November of that year.

The carrier's poor performance saw it stripped of its investment-grade credit rating last December and
relegated to junk status. Cowley wonders about the muscle of the Qantasboard.

"They probably just accept everything he [Joyce] tells them, rather than question everything he tells
them."

Cowley says one of his strengths in his business career, and in his personal life, has been judging
people. "I'm good at assessing people and looking at whether I can trust them and that's helped me all
my life."On the farm, boots and all
After News, Cowley was chairman of printing and magazine group PMP. It had been spun out from
News and was later bought by the Independent Print Media Group in 2001, for $630 million.

The trust, closeness and business relationship between Murdoch and Cowley extended beyond media
and airlines into other areas such as farming.

"He [Murdoch] knew I was very involved in farming," Cowley says. "I had my own farm in Bathurst. He
told me he had a major problem with his farm, his cattle station and would I mind taking an interest in it
to help him. So I did.
"It was a mess. Because I had been running FS Falkiner – a rural company – I'd picked out a very
strong person out of there to come and run the cattle station, Cavan. It was on the river at Yass."

News owned the FS Falkiner properties from 1978 to 2000.
Cavan was Murdoch's farm. "Then Rupert convinced me, begged me, 'Please sell your farm and buy
half of my farm so that you can run it for me, which you're doing now'. I said, 'I will sell my farm but I
can't afford to buy half of your property'. He said, 'Oh don't worry about that'."
Cowley says he didn't want Cavan to be a gift or sold at some undervalued price.

Page226of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."I said, 'I'm not going to take it at the wrong price. I'm not going to steal it off you. I can't afford it. What I
can afford to do is I can go you 50-50 in the operations and we'll just pay you rent for the land.' I did it
and I turned the company around and I got it making a lot of money. When I retired, I got out of that
too."

Cowley has long had a connection with the land. He was involved in the establishment of the Australian
Stockman's Hall of Fame, in Longreach, with Reginald Murray Williams, founder of R.M. Williams, which
Cowley eventually bought.
The bush outfitter is now Cowley's only real commercial interest but soon even that will come to an
end.
His parting gift to R.M. Williams will be that it will be taken to the world in a much bigger way than
Cowley achieved. Now with LVMH's private equity arm, L Capital, which paid $53 million for a
half-interest in the bush clothing icon, it's looking at expanding through Europe and North America,
where there is strong appetite for its apparel and famous boots. R.M. Williams's boots have adorned the
feet of US presidents such as Bill Clinton, Chinese politicians and now the Australian Army.
All that Cowley insists is that R.M. Williams remains headquartered in Australia, keeps its Australian
identity and the talented Australians who are working for it.

"It has to stay Australian, with Australian people and an Australian image. That's the thing I want to be
assured of. More than the quality, image, it's the people in the company and that that doesn't change.
It's the people." For Cowley, it's always been about the people.

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

nnewz : News Corp | qntas : Qantas Airways Ltd
i475 : Printing/Publishing | i4751 : Newspaper Publishing | i75 : Airlines | i7501 : Scheduled Passenger
Airlines | iairtr : Air Transport | imed : Media/Entertainment | ipubl : Publishing | itsp :
Transportation/Shipping
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140530ea5v0000e

Page227of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.