Sunland pauses site buying

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Sunland pauses site buying

Matthew Cranston
373 words
18 September 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
40
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Sunland chief executive Sahba Abedian has called time on Australia's residential development
site market after having counter-cyclically purchased up to $80 million worth of land per year for
the last five years.
Just a week after snapping up billionaire Harry Triguboff's development site in Sydney's Northern
Beaches for $18 million, Mr Abedian now thinks Sunland has enough of a pipeline to get through
the next cycle.

He is also cautious about the exorbitant prices being paid around the country by numerous local
and offshore developers.

"In terms of acquisitions I don't think we need any more now," Mr Abedian said. "We will now move
towards having a greater focus on delivery. We have enough of a pipeline."
He said the number of Chinese and Singaporean buyers was reminiscent of the 1990s when
Japanese buyers were dominating the buying.

"There are some very big prices being paid for sites at the moment. But it is just a point in time," he
said.Riding perfect cycles

Sunland has picked the cycles close to perfection buying multiple distressed assets during the
financial crisis and up until as recently as last year when it bought out the debt of failed fund
manager LM Group's Maddison Estate for $24.75 million.

"We went to banks and looked at their underutilised assets," Mr Abedian said.
Sunland is banked by ANZ whose head of commercial property, Eddie Law, warned this week
that banks needed to carefully monitor the "logic" behind some of the big development site
purchases being made.

"The bank has no prejudice about the source of equity, rather it focuses on the capacity and
capability attaching to the development sponsor," Mr Law said.
"Chinese equity competes in its own framework against local equity. It has a propensity to pay a
higher price, particularly for development sites, and the jury is out as to the logic attached to that at
the moment," Mr Law said.
Sunland has previously warned about the affect of Chinese developers on the market.
Several chief executives of institutional real estate companies have also publicly said they would
not bid on development sites if they knew Chinese equity was bidding for them.

IN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction

Page64of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140917ea9i0005o

Page65of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.