House prices raised by Chinese demand

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
House prices raised by Chinese demand

By Max Mason
491 words
11 March 2014
St George & Sutherland Shire Leader
FSGEOR
First
9
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

FINDING an affordable home in Sydney is only likely to get harder, with wealthy Chinese investors
forecast to continue to pump money into Australian properties.
A generation of Australians is being priced out of the property market.

There are currently 1.1 million millionaires in China who could easily afford properties in Australia's two
most expensive markets, Credit Suisse says in a research note.
"A generation of Australians [is] being priced out of the property market. Many face a life- time of
renting," Credit Suisse analysts Hasan Tevfik and Damien Boey said.
Using data from the Australian Bureau of Statistics and the Foreign Investment Review Board, Credit
Suisse estimates the Chinese are buying 18 per cent of the new dwelling supply in Sydney, and 14
per cent of the supply in Melbourne.
Wealthy Chinese buyers have purchased $24 billion of Australia housing in the past seven years, and
over the next seven years an additional $44 billion will be spent on residential property, Credit Suisse
estimates.
"While Australia has some of the most unaffordable housing in the world, further strong Chinese
demand can push prices even higher," the investment bank said.

That doesn't bode well for first-home buyers who struggle to break into the market. First-home buyer
activity, as a proportion of total borrowers, is near record lows at 12.7 per cent of total loan approvals,
according to the ABS.

First-time buyers in February comprised less than 10 per cent of all mortgages processed by mortgage
broker AFG for the first time since June 2010.

The numbers are the most dramatic in NSW where first-home buyers were responsible for just 3.4 per
cent of AFG mortgages, down from an already very low 4.5 per cent in February last year.
Over the last 12 months, property prices in capital cities have jumped 10 per cent, according to the
RPData-Rismark home index.

The rise was most severe in Sydney, where prices rose 14.6 per cent, pushing the median house price
to $746,640.
Chinese buyers are currently spending $5.4 billion a year on Australian properties, Credit Suisse said,
with the split relatively even between new settlers and others, which include investors, developers and
temporary residents.

Page40of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."The combination of rising income levels, lower capital barriers and further ease of doing an
international property transaction should ensure there will be even more demand from the Chinese
in years ahead," the bank's analysts said.
The figures presented by Credit Suisse might even understate the true picture of Chinese investment
in Australian property.

That's because there are alternative means to do so which fall outside of readily trackable measures of
this trend, such as when a Chinese national provides the money for an Australian-based family
member, friend or solicitor to purchase a property.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

ereal : Real Estate Markets | e1121 : Home Sales/Housing Affordability | emhpr : Housing Prices | e11
: Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | china : China | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FSGEOR0020140310ea3b0001a

Page41of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.