Vendetta Mining Corp. Closes the Pegmont Pb-Zn-Ag Property Transaction and $2.25 Million Private Placement

HD

Vendetta Mining Corp. Closes the Pegmont Pb-Zn-Ag Property Transaction and $2.25 Million
Private Placement

WC 597 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

27 August 2014
ACCESSWIRE
ACWIRE
English
Copyright 2014. ACCESSWIRE

TD

Vancouver, BC / ACCESSWIRE / August 27th, 2014 / Vendetta Mining Corp. (VTT-TSX:V) (the
"Company" or "Vendetta") is pleased to announce that it has received final TSX Venture Exchange
("TSXV") approval for both its previously announced option deal on the Pegmont Lead-Zinc-Silver deposit,
in Queensland, Australia and its concurrent private placement (see news release #1 dated August 11th
2014)
The Company has initiated the payment of the initial option payment of A$250,000 to Pegmont Mines Ltd
(the "Vendor") and the reimbursement of A$300,000 in exploration expenditures by the Vendor that were
incurred to meet minimum Queensland Ministry of Mines required work commitments for the current year
during the negotiation period. The Company will be completing QA/QC checks and the results will follow.

Pegmont Lead Zinc Deposit
The Pegmont lead-zinc-silver deposit is located 25 km east of BHP Billiton's world class Cannington
silver-lead-zinc mine and 28 km north of Chinova Resources' Osborne copper-gold mine. It is proximate
to existing infrastructure that includes roads, railhead and natural gas for power generation.

Financing
The Company has closed its over-subscribed non-brokered private placement for aggregate gross
proceeds of $2,249,980.46. The Company issued units at $0.26 per unit. Each unit in the private
placement is comprised of one common share and one-half of one share purchase warrant with each
whole warrant exercisable into one additional common share at a price of $0.35 until August 27, 2017.
In connection with the private placement, the Company has paid cash finder's fees to certain finders for
an aggregate amount of $46,982.44, which is equal to 8% of the total subscription amount of the number
of units introduced by the finders to the Company.

All securities issued in connection with the Financing will be subject to a four-month hold period expiring
on December 28th, 2014.

New Directors
The Company has accepted the resignations of two directors, Rob McLeod and Darryl Cardey.
Their places on the board have been filled with the appointment of Mr. Peter Voulgaris B.Eng.Geol.
(Hons), M.Eng.Sci. MAusIMM, a mining professional with over 20 years experience in mine operations,
development and business development and Mr. Doug Ramshaw BSc (Hons), ARSM, a geologist and
former mining analyst with 20 years' experience in the industry and capital markets.

In addition, Mr. Cale Moodie has been appointed as Chief Financial Officer and Ms. Sheryl Elsdon as
Corporate Secretary.
About Vendetta Mining Corp.
Vendetta Mining Corp. is a Canadian junior exploration company engaged in acquiring, exploring, and
developing mineral properties with an emphasis on lead, zinc and silver. It is currently focused on
advanced stage exploration projects in Australia.

ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

Page65of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."Michael Williams"

Michael Williams

President & CEO

The TSX Venture Exchange does not accept responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this release.

Some statements in this news release contain forward-looking information, including without limitation
statements as to planned expenditures and exploration programs. These statements address future
events and conditions and, as such, involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors
which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any
future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the statements. Such factors include
without limitation the completion of planned expenditures, the ability to complete exploration programs on
schedule and the success of exploration programs.
SOURCE: Vendetta Mining Corp.

CO ivaaus : Chinova Resources Ltd. | pegmnt : Pegmont Mines Limited | vdttmn : Vendetta Mining Corp |

IN

NS

RE

sdccg : Shanxi Donghui Coal Coking Group Co. Ltd.
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i2113 : Lead
Ore/Zinc Ore Mining
c171 : Share Capital | cprpla : Private Placements | npress : Press Releases | c17 : Funding/Capital |
cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters
| nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
queensl : Queensland | vancv : Vancouver | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr :
Australia | cabc : British Columbia | cana : Canada | namz : North America

IPD TSX.V:VTT
PUB Accesswire
AN

Document ACWIRE0020140827ea8r0028l

Page66of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.