Quantium Solutions Australia Extends Ecommerce Logistics Capabilities in Australia

HD
CR
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Quantium Solutions Australia Extends Ecommerce Logistics Capabilities in Australia

Distributed by Contify.com
754 words
3 December 2014
India Retail News
ATRTAL
English
Copyright © 2014 Contify.com

Dec. 3 -- Singapore Post Limited issued the following news release:

Quantium Solutions (Australia) Pty Ltd, the wholly-owned subsidiary of Singapore Post Ltd (SingPost
Group), is acquiring 100% of Couriers Please Holdings Pty Limited (CP Holdings), an Australia-based
parcel delivery company, from New Zealand Post Group for A$ 95 million, complementing its
ecommerce logistics capabilities in Australia, in an announcement by the Group.

Quantium Solutions is an established regional ecommerce logistics provider offering fulfilment and
ecommerce solutions. With operations in 12 countries within the Asia Pacific region and access to
more than 220 countries/territories worldwide, Quantium Solutions delivers a low-cost and reliable
service in domestic markets and within the region. Quantium Solutions Australia's operations are
headquartered in Sydney.

CouriersPlease is one of Australia's leading metropolitan small parcel delivery businesses. It has
extensive national coverage, a low cost network and operates an asset light franchisee model, with
depots located primarily in Eastern and Southern Australia, comprising the majority of the Australian
delivery market. As one the few operators with national coverage, CouriersPlease provides metropolitan
and nationwide small parcel freight fulfillment. It has a network of 575 franchisees nationwide and
handled nearly 11 million consignments in its 2014 financial year. CouriersPlease's revenue for the
year ended 30 June 2014 was more than A$100 million.

Said Mr Kok Peet Leong, Regional Director (Pacific) of Quantium Solutions International: "Australia is
an advanced market for ecommerce and we see good growth potential as regional emerging markets
open up and further engage in ecommerce. With our end-to-end solutions, Quantium Solutions aim to
enable large overseas brands as well as small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in Australia to
participate in ecommerce in Asia Pacific. In addition to deploying CourierPlease's last-mile expertise, we
will continue to work with postal peers and other strategic partners to tap the growing ecommerce
market in Australia and beyond."
Asia Pacific which accounts for nearly a third of all B2C ecommerce sales globally, is expected to lead
growth in the share of worldwide spend online with a 16.7% growth in year 2016. Australia has seen
B2C sales growing at a rapid pace. According to the Australian Bureau of Statistics, Australian
consumers spent in excess of A$ 10 billion (at least A$ 6.23 billion on overseas purchases and A$
4.55 billion on domestic purchases) on online purchases in financial year 2012. The B2C ecommerce
sales in Australia for 2016 is expected to grow to US$ 31.24 billion (A$ 36.8 billion). [Source:
eMarketer]

Dr Wolfgang Baier, Group Chief Executive Officer of SingPost Group: "In line with our vision to be the
regional leader in ecommerce logistics, we have been enhancing our capabilities in the areas of
freight-forwarding, customs & regulatory management, warehousing & fulfillment, last-mile delivery &
returns and front-end web-solutions. As part of this strategy, the acquisition of CouriersPlease, an
established last mile service provider in Australia, will help to strengthen our ecommerce last mile
capability to support our growing ecommerce logistics business in the region."

He added: "SingPost will add significant value to CouriersPlease through our access to marquee
ecommerce customers, expertise in technology and automation, as well as innovations in our approach

Page205of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.to last mile delivery and products. I look forward to harnessing our combined capabilities in operations
and technology to develop innovative solutions not only for our customers in Australia but also in other
markets. I expect to derive good synergies between the Group and CouriersPlease including
implementing best practices from each party."

CouriersPlease will be able to immediately leverage SingPost Group's capabilities in the regional
ecommerce logistics value chain. With more than 1,000 ecommerce customers in the B2B4C segment
including global brands like adidas, Levis, Canon and Toshiba, the Group has developed a network of
22 distribution and fulfillment centres world-wide and recently started construction of a state-of-the art
fully integrated ecommerce logistics hub in Singapore to serve regional customers. Group is working
with its postal peers as well as regional partners. The Group also holds a majority stake in Famous
Holdings a regional freight consolidator and freight-forwarder with a network in 7 countries namely
Singapore, Japan, Australia, China, Malaysia, UK and the USA. The Group has also been scaling up its
regional capabilities in self-storage solutions to serve small and medium sized businesses in Malaysia
and Hong Kong.

Source: Singapore Post Limited

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

conpln : CP Holdings Ltd | sinpos : Singapore Post Limited | nzpo : New Zealand Post Office
iretail : Retail | iecom : E-commerce | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | iint : Internet/Online | itech : Technology |
i66 : Hotels/Restaurants | i665 : Lodgings | i6651 : Hotels (except Casino)/Motels | i7901 : Postal
Service | icargo : Freight/Cargo Transport | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality | itourm : Tourism | itsp :
Transportation/Shipping
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | singp : Singapore | malay : Malaysia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | seasiaz :
Southeast Asia
Athena Information Solutions Pvt. Ltd.
Document ATRTAL0020141203eac30003t

Page206of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.