Hive of activity provides a sweet opportunity

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

MarketWatch
Hive of activity provides a sweet opportunity

TIM BOREHAM, CRITERION
828 words
2 December 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
32
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Capilano Honey (CZZ) $7.05 THE supermarkets’ private label brands have squeezed even the
big-name suppliers, but the Kerry Stokes-backed Capilano remains queen bee with a 67 per cent
market share.

Dry weather means local honey supply has been constrained. To combat this, Capilano opened a
second front with its Allowrie and Smiths brands, using imported honey from Argentina and China.

Thus, Capilano has ensured its rivals — notably Beechworth Honey with a 10 per cent share — do
not recapture share when supply loosens. As with Capilano’s eponymous brand, Beechworth only
uses local honey.
Happily for all, the nation’s bees have taken a leaf out of the Business Council’s productivity
manifesto and again are becoming a hive of activity. But according to CannacordGenuity’s chief
apiarist, Mark Topy, more rain is needed in NSW and Queensland for yields to return to normal.

On Friday, Capilano reported that earnings for the four months to October had surpassed the $2.45
million achieved for the whole of the first (December) half of 2013.

Capilano has managed to pass on the cost of increased honey input prices, which have firmed 20
per cent this year. Buy.

Carnegie Wave (CWE) 6.5c DEFYING the oil price slump, Carnegie shares have been firming after
last month’s commissioning of the wave-power group’s CETO 5 unit off Garden Island in Western
Australia.

A second facility is due to be installed before Christmas, with first power delivered to the naval base
in the New Year.

The sector has been problematic, with Scottish player Pelamis last week following the likes of
Australia’s Oceanlinx into administration. On the bright side, this raises the prospect of Carnegie
picking up cheap assets.

Carnegie chief Mike Ottaviano says displacing diesel for, say, a remote island community is now a
little tougher. “But unless oil drops further and stays there for years, it still doesn’t deal with the
price-risk exposure … nor the energy security or environmental issues,’’ Ottaviano says.

As well as having $9.5m of cash, Carnegie has an undrawn $20m loan facility and $18m of undrawn
federal government grants.
Spec buy.

Hydrocarbon horror THE last time Santos (STO, $9.11) shares plumbed these levels was in early
2007, when oil traded at similar levels but then bounded to a peak of $US135 a barrel.

Page58of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The difference is that China was booming and the US was not awash with cheap shale gas.

Along with Woodside Petroleum (WPL, $34.20), Oil Search (OSH, $7.29) and BHP Billiton (BHP,
$29.27), the South Australian gas stalwart was hammered for a second day yesterday.

Of course, these producers will be around long after the developers have shelved their plans and
explorers have hung up their drill bits.

Speaking of which, gravity finally caught up with shares in LNG Limited (LNG, $2.52), the entity that
plans to build two North American LNG import plants. Even without the oil price swoon we thought
LNG shares were overvalued, ascribing a sell call at $3.76 on July 31.
We were less sagacious about developer Karoon Gas (KAR, $2.67), rating the stock a spec buy at
$3.16 last Friday on the assumption OPEC would turn off the taps.

It didn’t. Karoon is now trading well under its cash backing, which means punters are being paid to
take the 130 million barrels of Brazilian reserves.

As for BHP, now under $30 a share for the first time since early 2009, its oil and iron ore exposures
look as comfortable as the Coalition’s Vic election post mortem.
Still, the dollar is cushioning the commodities pain and we’ll stick with a long-term buy.

Metcash (MTS) $2.24 WITH retailing’s third force losing its zing, new management insists its
multi-pronged fix-it plan is bearing fruit. Unconvinced investors have hit Metcash shares by 16 per
cent to record lows.

Weak sales from the mainstay food and grocery (IGA) arm belie any benefit from the competition
regulator’s move to curtail Coles and Woolies’ petrol discounts.
Instead, the big two simply moved to other discounting mechanisms, such as 85c bread.
The get-fit initiatives include a “price match” guarantee on the Black & Gold home brand, which is
also being spiced up.

“Price perception is always a challenge for our networks but I think we are making inroads,’’ CEO
Ian Morrice says.

Metcash also has a problem with liquor and we doubt a seven-step program will rectify the woes.
Last December’s long-term buy call at $3.28 a share now looks as appealing as a can of Black &
Gold baked beans.
Still, our optimistic take is the remediation efforts create more upside than downside. Spec buy.The
Australian accepts no responsibility for stock recommendations. Readers should contact a licensed
financial adviser. The author owns Santos and BHP shares.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141201eac200023

Page59of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.