Palmer firm accused of shifting Chinese funds to boost ailing project

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

TheNation
Palmer firm accused of shifting Chinese funds to boost ailing project

HEDLEY THOMAS, PAUL GARVEY
1,047 words
9 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
1
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Exclusive CLIVE Palmer’s company, Mineralogy, spent Chinese money to advance one of his
separate struggling resources projects, which had nothing to do with the Beijing-controlled company’s
interests in Australia, according to documented expenditure items totalling millions of dollars.
Documents before the Federal Court show that some of the money, which Chinese-owned
companyCitic Pacific had set aside to administer a port, was instead spent on engineering work for a
Mineralogy-controlled company, Australasian Resources Limited, which was being led by Mr Palmer’s
senator-elect, Zhenya “Dio” Wang. Mr Wang quit as managing director of the cash-strapped company
this week to take up his post as a senator for Western Australia from July 1.

The money was allegedly wrongfully spent without the permission or knowledge of Citic Pacific, which
did not have any financial stake or interest in Australasian Resources, according to documents
reviewed by The Australian in the Federal Court in Perth.
Hundreds of other payments, allegedly siphoned by Mineralogy from an account that held millions of
dollars deposited by the Bank of China on behalf of Citic Pacific, are now at the centre of a Federal
Court case in which “serious questions’’ about the transactions are likely to be referred to West
Australian police.
The Chinese company’s lawyers have told the Federal Court that more than $12 million has been
siphoned off wrongfully, with some of it being used for political expenses for the costly federal election
campaign by the tycoon’s Palmer United Party.

Revelations in The Australian about the evidence in the ongoing Federal Court case led to a scathing
attack in Queensland’s parliament yesterday by Deputy Premier Jeff Seeney, who branded Mr Palmer
“a crook’’, just a day after the founder of the Palmer United Party launched defamation action against
Premier Campbell Newman.

Mr Seeney, who has previously accused Mr Palmer of trying to buy the ruling Liberal National Party,
taunted PUP’s state member Alex Douglas for being a key figure in “the best party that a crook using
other people’s money can buy’’.
“It’s not even Australian money — (it’s) the best party Chinese money can buy,’’ Mr Seeney said.

“The best party that fraudulently obtained money can buy.’’ Mr Palmer, whose two Queensland
businesses — a nickel refinery at Townsville and a dinosaur park on the Sunshine Coast — have
suffered from cashflow problems and mounting financial losses in the past three years, warned that he
would sue if the claim of him being “a crook’’ was made outside parliament.
“First of all, if I’m a crook and he’s the Deputy Premier, what’s he doing about it?” Mr Palmer said. “If
he believes what he says, why doesn’t he be specific with his allegations?’’ Denying claims that
Chinese money was wrongfully spent by Mineralogy, Mr Palmer said Citic Pacific was “shipping
resources from Australia to China without paying for them’’.

Page276of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In more than 400 pages of affidavit and expenditure material obtained by The Australian from
Continued on Page 2 Continued from Page 1 the Federal Court, copies of invoices, ledgers and bank
accounts show how very significant sums of money that belonged to CITIC Pacific were spent by Mr
Palmer’s flagship investment vehicle.

CITIC Pacific’s barrister, Andrew Bell SC, has raised the need for a “searching inquiry’’ and a “forensic
accounting exercise’’ to track down missing money, including more than $12m that was withdrawn in
two cheques in the weeks and days before the federal election for which the PUP spent more than
$10m.
The millions in missing funds were originally allocated by CITIC to a National Australia Bank account
with the intention of the money being used to cover the day-to-day expenses of operating, maintaining
and repairing facilities at the port at Cape Preston, which is integral to a $7bn-plus iron ore project.

One of Mr Palmer’s executives, Vimal Sharma, a signatory to the account, was a PUP candidates in
the federal election. Mr Sharma and his son, Vashil, also a PUP candidate who declined to comment
yesterday, are named in Federal Court documentation due to payments received from the account.

The Federal Court has heard that Mineralogy, which had access to the account, could not have
legitimately spent “increasingly exorbitant amounts of so-called administration costs in excess of
something like $23m over three years and have wholly failed to account for that expenditure’’.
The Federal Court was told Mineralogy should not have spent the money as the company was not
legally permitted to perform key functions at the port.

ProMet Engineers, Mineralogy’s marine engineering consultant, was paid more than $94,000 for work
related to a project on mining leases belonging to Australian Resources that had nothing to do with
CITIC.
An invoice for $63,403 from law firm Ashurst described the work as being professional services to
Mineralogy “for contractual disputes with CITIC Pacific Limited (and two of its wholly owned
subsidiaries)’’.

The invoice and payment indicate Mineralogy used CITIC’s cash to pay for Mineralogy’s litigation with
CITIC.

Salaries, superannuation funds, lawyers and resources consultants attracted much of the cash.

Correspondence in an affidavit shows how CITIC became increasingly worried that its contributions to
the fund were being used to support work being done for Australasian Resources.

CITIC executive director Fei Xu said in a letter to Mineralogy dated January 16, 2012, that CITIC
“notes salaries of staff have been allocated in their entirety to (CITIC), although (CITIC) is aware
Mineralogy personnel are spending a considerable amount of time attending to work in connection
with the (Australasian Resources) project’’.

Staffing levels were also questioned, given the limited levels of activity at a port that was still waiting to
begin exports.

The documents show CITIC first flagged its concerns about how the administrative funds were being
used as early as December 2010, with relations between the two becoming in-creasingly strained over
time.

They also illustrate how the falling out between the companies extended to the reluctance of Mr
Palmer’s company to pay for the hire of personalprotective equipment while visiting the Sino Iron
project.

cekal : Australasian Resources Limited | skfdev : CITIC Pacific Limited
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
| ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | imet : Mining/Quarrying
npag : Page-One Stories | c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal Action | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat
: Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz
: Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

CO
IN

NS

RE

Page277of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140508ea590006r

Page278of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.