Govt to fund mine airports

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Govt to fund mine airports

Geoff Egan Geoff.egan@apn.com.au
358 words
18 November 2014
The Morning Bulletin
APNMOB
Main
3
English
Copyright 2014 APN Newspapers Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

THE Queensland Government has offered to build airports to facilitate fly-in, fly-out mines in the
Galilee.

Deputy Premier Jeff Seeney announced yesterday the government would co-own a “common” rail line
in the Galilee Basin with Adani Mining, developers of the proposed Carmichael coal mine, following
G20 meetings with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi.

The Indian Government-owned State Bank of India will provide a $1 billion credit line to Adani.

The rail project could help to create more than 27,000 jobs – but Mr Seeney said the mines would likely
be fly-in, fly-out and the government was open to helping build airports to facilitate this.

In a statement Adani chief Jeyakumar Janakaraj said the government and State Bank of India
agreements showed strong confidence in the project.
Mr Seeney said the government would take a minority stake, worth “hundreds of millions”, in the rail
project which they eventually planned to sell back to the miners.

“I think it’s a great step forward for Queenslanders who will be looking for jobs in the decades to come,”
he said.

Mr Seeney rejected claims the agreement came as the world began to move away from fossil fuels
only days after the United States and China agreed to reduce their carbon emissions.
“I think that everybody that’s even got any sort or knowledge of the energy requirements around the
world recognises that coal will play a major role in reducing the world’s energy requirements for many,
many years to come.”

Rockhampton Mayor Margaret Strelow has congratulated Adani on the announcements.

“Rockhampton is well-placed to provide services and to be a base for residential growth, at least in
part, as the huge Galilee Basin reaps benefits from the State Government’s co-investment,” she said.

“We’re here for the long haul.”

The other major Galilee Basin miner GVK Hancock confirmed it had “ongoing dialogue” with the
government regarding the proposed Alpha coal mine’s infrastructure.

– APN NEWSDESK

CO
IN

adnmnp : Adani Mining Pty Ltd | sbind : State Bank of India Ltd. | adexns : Adani Enterprises Ltd
i112 : Coal Mining Support Activities | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | imet : Mining/Quarrying

Page178of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS
RE

PUB
AN

gpol : Domestic Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations
india : India | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
austr : Australia | bric : BRICS Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | indsubz : Indian Subcontinent | sasiaz : Southern Asia
APN Newspapers Pty Ltd
Document APNMOB0020141117eabi000rv

Page179of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.