WA:Elizabeth Quay no 'rich enclave': Barnett

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

WA:Elizabeth Quay no 'rich enclave': Barnett

364 words
10 December 2014
Australian Associated Press General News
AAP
English
(c) 2014 Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

QUAY PERTH, Dec 10 AAP - Colin Barnett denies Perth's contentious Elizabeth Quay development
will be an "enclave for the wealthy" and insists it now has full public support.

Labelled by the opposition as the Liberal leader's "pet project", the waterfront precinct is costing the
state government $440 million and is expected to attract a further $2.2 billion of private sector
investment.

The premier said on Wednesday it was a transformational project that would "change Perth forever".

"And I think the public of Western Australia now fully support this," he told reporters.

"There were naysayers and doubters but I think they've gone.

"People have said this will be some sort of enclave for the rich and wealthy. That is not the case - this
is very much a public area."
Mr Barnett said $90 million worth of land had been sold around the public spaces, including to the
Ritz-Carltonhotel group and Chevron, and he expected the government would eventually recoup its
outlay.

"The state is well on the way to recovering much of what has been spent."

He said the project was on time and on budget.

Mr Barnett said by this time next year, public works including the inlet and boardwalk will be completed.
Yet it will take several more years for all of the surrounding commercial and residential properties to
be built.

Planning minister John Day said negotiations were underway to sell two lots and other lots would follow
over the next two years.
Mr Day also said compensation action with the leaseholders of a Chinese restaurant knocked down to
make way for the precinct, Wang Nominees, had not yet settled.

The Wangs have already been paid $7.25 million by the state government.
"We think based on all the property advice we have within government that that is a very fair payment
but as is their right, they have elected to pursue the matter and it's currently in the Supreme Court," he
said.

Elizabeth Quay was dubbed "Betty's Jetty" and the "Regina Marina" by locals as it was named by Mr
Barnett after the Queen.

AAP rlm/jk

NS

greg : Regional Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol :
Domestic Politics

Page216of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | perth : Perth | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd
Document AAP0000020141210eaca004mp

Page217of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.