Australia’s top 30 female entrepreneurs: International Women’s Day 2014

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Australia’s top 30 female entrepreneurs: International Women’s Day 2014

by SmartCompany
4,022 words
7 March 2014
Smart Company
SMACOM
English
© Copyright 2014 Private Media Partners Pty. Ltd. All Right Reserved.

Brought to you by Job Capital

As we mark International Women’s Day, SmartCompany has compiled its annual list of Australia’s Top
30 Female Entrepreneurs.

Each year, we celebrate the Australian female business owners who have been exemplary in their
industries, are trailblazers and demonstrate inspiring and aspiring business journeys. This year the list
generated a combined revenue of $6.127 billion. 
That’s slightly down on last year’s list where the combined revenue was $6.452 billion last year and
largely reflects the decline in the fortunes of Australia’s wealthiest person, Gina Rinehart. While
Rinehart may have fallen from revenue of $2.37 billion to $1.986 billion she is still far and away the
list leader. However, there are some extremely impressive business women in this year’s top 10.

There’s a new top 10 entrant this year, Sue Hollis, who has shot onto the list with a bullet and a
revenue of $250 million from her corporate travel company TravelEdge.

Here’s the top 10 for 2014:

Entrepreneur

Revenue
Company

Gina Rinehart
$1.986 billion

Hancock Prospecting

Vicky Teoh
$724.5 million

TPG

Lesley Gillespie
$575 million

Bakers Delight

Naomi Milgrom
$445 million
ARJ Group

Page250of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Maxine Horne
$345 million
Vita Group

Charlotte Vidor
$285 million
Toga Group

Sue Hollis
$250 million

TravelEdge

Janine Allis
$225 million

Retail Zoo

Therese Rein
$210 million

Ingeus

Iris Lustig-Moar
$175 million

Lustig Moar

The list of Australia’s top female entrepreneurs is ranked according to revenue. Where possible,
revenue has been provided by the entrepreneurs; if not, SmartCompany has sourced the revenue from
publicly available sources, industry contacts or internal estimates.

An asterisk (*) denotes where revenue has been estimated.

Here are their stories:

1. Gina Rinehart
Company : Hancock Prospecting

Established : 1955
Revenue : $1.986 billion
The mining magnate’s personal wealth took a hit last year, as revenue and earnings slumped at
Hancock Prospecting. Figures released in December 2013 by the Australian Securities and
Investments Commission confirmed that the iron-ore mining company’s annual turnover had
dropped by 14% (from $2.37 billion to $1.986) during the financial year 2012-13.
But despite having $7 billion wiped off her personal fortune, Rinehart remains Australia’s richest
person and was recently named the fourth richest woman in the world by BRW magazine, with an
estimated net worth of $20.02 billion.
With the much-anticipated Roy Hillsite expected to commence production in late 2015, it’s safe to say
this economic downturn will be short-lived, with reports Rinehart is close to securing the $8 billion
needed to fund the massive project.

In October last year, following a long-running feud with her children, Rinehart avoided a court
appearance by relinquishing her position as head of the $5 billion family trust. With no agreement
reached on who should be Rinehart’s successor, the legal battle shows no sign of abating.

2. Vicky Teoh

Page251of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Company : TPG

Established : 1992
Revenue : $724.5 million
The co-founders of ASX-listed company TPG joined the ranks of Australia’s billionaires at close of
trading on April 24, 2013, when Vicky and David Teoh’s combined shareholding in the internet service
provider exceeded the $1 billion mark by $9 million. The husband-and-wife team each own about
18% of the broadband company in their own names.

The previous month, BRW named Vicky Teoh the richest self-made woman in the country, due to her
$390 million personal fortune that has since risen to $530 million.

The couple’s high-speed trajectory to success looks set to continue as TPG rolls out its new, faster
broadband service, which will offer a budget price tag and speeds to rival the Abbott government’s
National Broadband Network. That is, if they can fend off competition from telcos such as Telstra. 
In 2013, TPG’s revenue increased by 9% to $724.5 million.

3. Lesley Gillespie
Company : Bakers Delight

Founded : 1980 (becoming a franchise in 1988)
Revenue : $575 million (with Richard Gillespie)

Co-founder, executive director and joint CEO Lesley Gillespie founded her first bakery with husband
Roger in 1980, and franchising commenced in 1988 when the pair had 15 Bakers Delight outlets.
Fast-forward to today, when a tried-and-tested business model and a 12.7% share of the Australian
bread market has positioned Bakers Delight as Australia’s most successful bakery franchise. The
couple now operate over 700 bakeries globally, including 30 bakeries in New Zealand and close to 80
across three Canadian provinces, which employ more than 15,000 employees. 
With nearly 34 years’ business experience, Gillespie takes her philanthropic commitments seriously
and has been awarded the Medal of the Order of Australia for services to the community and support
of charitable organisations. Last year, franchises across Australia raised more than $1.2 million for
Breast Cancer Network Australia (BCNA) through the sale of pink iced buns and donations.

4. Naomi Milgrom
Company : ARJ Group

Founded : 1939
Revenue : $445 million

Naomi Milgrom, the daughter of Melbourne entrepreneur and retail king Marc Besen, bought out the
family business in 2003 and today is the sole owner, executive chair and CEO of private company
ARJ Group, which owns women’s clothing retailers Sportsgirl, Sussan and Suzanne Grae.

The three brands combined have 504 stores and 4020 employees across Australia, generating annual
revenue of $445 million in the year ended June 2013. This might signal a drop of $48 million in
revenue from the previous year, but Milgrom has managed to keep net profits steady for the past three
years despite competition from the arrival of international chains and more and more Australian
consumers spending their money with overseas retailers online.  

5. Maxine Horne
Company : Vita Group

Established : 1995 (founded as Fone Zone)
Revenue : $345 million

Moving from the UK to Australia, Maxine Horne spotted a gap in the market and set up one of the first
mobile phone retailers in Australia in 1995. Today, she is the joint chief executive of Vita Group, a

Page252of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.multi-brand and multi-channel publicly-listed company whose share price rose from below 40 cents to
above 65 cents in the past year.
As Australia’s largest Telstra dealership, Horne believes the secret to Vita Group’s success lies in
forming partnerships with market leaders, keeping a close eye on overseas trends and investing in
people:

“ The most important thing in any organisation is your people. Having engaged people who take on
accountability and really believe in where they’re taking the business is what makes it successful."
Revenue climbed 14% to $345 million in financial year 2013.

Story continues on page 2. Please click below.

6. Charlotte Vidor
Company: Toga Group

Founded: 1963
Revenue: $285 million*
Starting life as a property development, construction, investment and management company, Toga
Group was founded by Charlotte Vidor with her husband Ervin after they migrated to Australia from
Poland and Hungary. Having diversified and expanded its reach considerably, the group now owns
and manages four hospitality brands – Medina, Adina, Vibe and Travelodge Hotels – comprising
6800 – apartments and rooms and 1800 employees.
And this figure is set to grow after the group sealed a lucrative deal with Singaporean property group
Far East Orchard in May 2013.
BRW placed Vidor’s personal wealth at $700 million in May 2013.

7. Sue Hollis
Company: TravelEdge

Founded: July 2000
Revenue:  $250 million.

Hollis founded TravelEdge with Grant Wilson in 2000.  She told SmartCompany the travel services
business is focusing on developing new solutions to a relatively traditional model. 

“Our goal is to be the most dynamic and respected deliver of travel related service to corporate
Australia," Hollis says. 

“For us, this means continually staying ahead of traditional industry trends through initiating new
models, developing technology that gives clients greater control, and continually evolving services
ahead of client need."

8. Janine Allis
Company : Retail Zoo

Founded : 2000
Revenue : $223 million
Retail Zoo, parent company of Boost Juice bars, Boost International, Salsa’s Fresh Mex Grill and
CIBO Espresso, opened 58 new stores and saw revenue soar to $223 million in FY13.
Recently, rumours of a sale negotiation with Asia Pacific group Affinity Equity have been circulating,
in a deal that could be worth $200 million. Allis ranked 20th on last year’s BRW Rich Women list, with
an estimated wealth of $60 million. If the sale goes ahead, she’s likely to receive around $50 million.

What does Allis think it takes to be a successful entrepreneur? “What comes first is attitude. You might
not be the most educated, intelligent, or qualified person for a role, but you might be that someone
who has the drive and a twinkle in their eyes, but didn’t have the chance to have the education."

Page253of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.9. Therese Rein
Company : Ingeus

Established : 1989
Revenue : $210 million*

Offering corporate consulting, recruitment and labour hire, on top of helping the unemployed secure
work, Brisbane-based Ingeus has a grown a global presence in the past 25 years and now operates
150 offices internationally.

Managing director and CEO Therese Rein (two-time ex-prime minister Kevin Rudd’s wife) admits she
was inspired by the challenges faced by her wheelchair-bound father (he was injured while serving in
the Australian Air Force) and says that it is a desire to enable people to “reconnect with their
communities, to reconnect with independence, to reconnect with their potential" that motivates her.

10. Iris Lustig-Moar
Company : Lustig & Moar

Established : 1971
Revenue : $171 million*
The construction business behind a number of luxury property developments in Melbourne, Sydney
and Hong Kong, Lustig & Moar is headed up by Iris Lustig-Moar along with her ex-husband Max Moar
– the pair’s combined fortune is $379 million. The business was founded by Lustig-Moar’s late father.

Story continues on page 3. Please click below.

11. Sarina Russo
Company: Sarina RussoGroup

Established: 1979
Revenue: $106 million
Revenue at the Sarina RussoGroup has flat-lined for the past two years, but the group continues to
be a dominant player in the recruitment and education space. The company started when in 1979
Russo hired a single room and starter her own typing and commercial practices business, The Office
Academy with just nine students. Operating for the past 35 years, the company employs 1000 people
across 40 sites in Australia and the United Kingdom. In the UK, Sarina Russo Job Access has been
recognised as a top provider for finding work for 18-24 year olds. 

12. Diana Williams
Company: Fernwood

Established: 1989
Revenue: Over $100 million*

Diana Williams revolutionised the Australian fitness industry in 1989 by establishing a chain of
women-only gyms. Now the Fernwood Fitness founder and managing director is applying the same
philosophy to investing.

Williams has signed up as a member of Scale Investors, a network that encourages women to invest
in early-stage companies. She’s looking to achieve the same success as she has had with Fernwood,
which now has tens of thousands of employees and locations across the country.

13. Barb de Corti
Company: ENJO

Established: 1994
Revenue: Over $100 million*

Page254of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Barb de Corti’s environmentally friendly cleaning products business ENJO turns 20 this year. In
November last year de Corti launched a new company called Zabada, which sells products to the
United States using the same micro fibre technology behind ENJO.

De Corti previously told SmartCompany she spends half of each day looking at trends which affect
ENJO and the other half of her day imparting this knowledge to her team.
“Have your eyes on the business and not in the business," she says.
“Very often in the early days I was working in the business which then could only grow as far as my
knowledge could, so working on the business and learning from external sources I can grow the
business."

14. Gillian Franklin
Company: The Heat Group

Established: 2000
Revenue: $77 million*
In 2013 The Heat Group started selling direct to the public for the first time, launching an online shop.
This follows on from a bumper 2012 where the company signed a deal with Warner Brothers
Consumer Products to sell a range of the company’s personal care range, estimated to generate $20
million with three to five years.
Despite having a reasonably quiet 2013 with no major deals, it’s clear The Heat Group has come a
long way from the coffee shop where it was founded 14 years ago. The company now has more than
100 employees and continues to be a leader in the cosmetics industry.

15. Carolyn Creswell
Company: Carman’s Fine Food

Established: 1992
Revenue: $55 million*

The past 12 months have been big for the founder of Carman’s Fine Food Carolyn Creswell. She’s
appeared on Channel Ten’s television show Recipe to Riches as one of three judges and a mentor
and her business has grown by an estimated $5 million. Her personal fortune is estimated to be
around $40 million and she has also previously been named Telstra Business Woman of the Year.
The business originally started as a $1000 venture, but now it makes a range of muesli, muesli bars
and porridges found in Coles and Woolworths, as well as 32 other countries around the globe.

Story continues on page 4. Please click below.

16. Lilly Haikin
Company: Max Brenner Australian franchise

Established: 2000
Revenue: $50 million* (with Tom Haikin)

Lilly Haikin and her husband Tom hold the Australian franchise rights to the chocolate café chain Max
Brenner. The Max Brenner brand was created in 1996 by two chocolatiers, Max Fichtman and Oded
Brenner, who built a chain of chocolate shops in Israel. At a chance meeting with Brenner in 1999,
Tom Haikin suggested broadening the Max Brenner branding into “chocolate bar" cafes, and secured
the Australian rights for the concept.

From one cafe opened in Sydney’s Paddington in 2000, the Haikins now have 35 outlets, and employ
more than 300 people.

17. Jo Horgan
Company: Cosmetics Cubed

Established: 1997

Page255of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Revenue: $50 million*
The Mecca Cosmetics retail business was founded in 1997, but since then it’s come a long way. With
dozens of stores across Australia in a few different ranges, Jo Horgan has managed to take the
business from its “humble beginnings" to one of the country’s leading prestige cosmetics labels.
Horgan started the business in her twenties after working for L’Oreal. The company has kept a focus
on maintaining each location like a department store – Horgan believes the boutique style and
customer service helps foster a sense of individuality.

18. Naomi Simson
Company: RedBalloon

Established: 2001
Revenue: $50 million*
Naomi Simson has turned what was once a small experience gifts site into one of Australia’s most
successful online retail operations. In February 2014 RedBalloon it launched a new corporate
offering, Recognise Every Day (RED) a unique business stream housed within the existing
RedBalloon business to create and deliver employee recognition programs to organisations across
the country.

There was also cause to celebrate at RedBalloon in October 2013 when it hit its “big, hairy, audacious
goal" of selling 2 million experiences by 2015.
Simson set that BHAG back in 2004. It took 10 years to ship the first million RedBalloon vouchers,
and just over two years to ship the second million.

19. Penny Spencer
Company: Spencer Group of Companies
Revenue: $42 million.

Penny Spencer founded Spencer Travel to offer personalised service in corporate travel management.
She describes having a business as similar to having a child. “You think as a baby it's so difficult,
‘God, I can't sleep, blah, blah’ and then you get to the teenagers and you think, ‘Oh God, I wish I had a
baby again, it was so easy’. And I think it's similar in business," Spencer says.
During 2014 Spencer has purchased another business, opening Spencer Travel Southside, so the
Spencer Group of Companies now has four locations with a head office in Surry Hills. 

20. Betty Fong
Company: Pie Face

Established: 2003
Revenue: $40 million*

Sometimes it seems as if there is a Pie Face store on every corner in Australia’s major cities, thanks to
the business acumen and drive of founders Betty Fong and her husband Wayne Homschek. Now, Pie
Face is going international and just opened its third company owned store in New York last week, with
another five planned to open by July this year.
“What's great about being in the food business; there are no gender biases in the industry," Fong
says.

“It's not unusual to meet other female entrepreneurs starting their own food concepts."
Fong says it’s a challenge combining running an international business with having a family but it
keeps things interesting. “One minute you're having a board meeting conference call, the next reading
a story book to the girls before bedtime," she says.

Story continues on page 5. Please click below.

21. Jo Burston

Page256of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Company: Job Capital

Established: 2006
Revenue: $37 million

Job Capital began in 2006 when Burston pitched the idea to entrepreneur and investor Philip
Weinman. She quit her job and took the business full-time.

The outsourced provider to recruitment companies is growing every year and Burston has also
launched Big-Data to move into the SaaS market. Burston took the mission of "re-engineering the
recruitment industry and their very dated processes" to prototype and then to a user pay model within
the last 18 months.  
Her latest project is what she calls her "true life purpose" and next business Rare Birds, which aims to
be the channel between women entrepreneurs and the world. It will showcase “open, honest and
awe-inspiring stories" from women at all stages of their entrepreneurial journey. 

22. Kristina Karlsson
Company: Kikki K

Established: 2001
Revenue: $37 million*
Kristina Karlsson founded Kikki K back in 2001 with an inspiration to create a stationery brand which
would focus on clean design. Now, the business has dozens of locations across Australia, New
Zealand and south-east Asia, and has even made it to the BRW Best Places to Work list in 2012. With
big plans to expand across the globe, and a strong digital presence, Karlsson isn’t set to slow down
just yet.

23. Vanessa Garrard
Company: E3 Style

Established: 2006
Revenue: $30 million
Garrard says: “I never do things by half, I’m always going full steam ahead, looking for opportunities
and thinking about the best ways to move the business forward."

While the busy mum with four children under nine is excited about the year ahead and entering new
markets globally, she says that it has been “the most challenging year in business, I’ve been running
businesses for over 20 years so that is saying a lot!"
The past couple of years have seen her buy out her business partner, restructure her Australian, US
and China operations, implement new IT and accounting systems, establish a new branded
distribution arm in the business and launch a global range of youth electronics and stationery
products. You could say she’s been quite busy!

She was also named the Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the Year in the Industry category which she
explained as “a tremendously proud and surreal moment, I still get goosebumps thinking about it". She
is the youngest person ever to win this prestigious award.

24. Carla Zampatti
Company: Carla Zampatti

Established: 1965
Revenue: $30 million*
Carla Zampatti started her fashion brand in the 1960s and the company has skyrocketed to success.
The company distributes its product through David Jones and over 30 retail outlets.
Zampatti is a success outside the business, having been made a member of the Order of Australia in
1987. She was also awarded Australian Fashion Laureate in 2008, and has served on the boards of
Westfield and McDonald’s Australia.

Page257of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.25. Grace Chu
Company: First Click Consulting
Revenue: $29 million

Founded: 2005

After a solid career in internet marketing, and alarmed by Australia’s slow uptake of online
opportunities, Grace Chu decided to launch her own business when she was pregnant with her son in
2005.

“I knew that the internet was rapidly becoming one of the fastest growing marketing channels in history
– and many Australian brands were simply not successful online players. I had no doubt that these
brands just didn't know how to be successful online. There weren't many agencies providing quality
services so I knew there was a big opportunity to enter the market," Chu says.

“Since then, I've watched both my babies grow at rapid rates."

Story continues on page 6. Please click below.

26. Nahji Chu
Company: Miss Chu

Established:
Revenue: $25 million

From refugee to owning a chain of Vietnamese restaurants, Nahji Chu has an amazing story. Now her
restaurant chain, Miss Chu, is going global, opening its first international store in London.
Chu is also continuing to expand her business in Australia.

“This year we'll be building three more stores in Australia – currently building Balmain, Sydney and
Armadale, Melbourne, with a new bar concept in Darlinghurst opening within the year," Chu told
SmartCompany .

27. Sylvia Wilson
Company: Bark Busters
Revenue: $25 million*
Running her franchise business has taught Sylvia Wilson that being an all-rounder is important, as
well as being able to juggle all the other things in an entrepreneur’s life. “You also have family to look
after; for married entrepreneurs, a husband to think about as well," she says.

“I feel women work a lot harder because we are focusing on so many things, but women can do a lot
of things at once and be quite good at all of them. You have to be a mother, a wife, an accountant and
a secretary, you have to be everything."

28. Jenny Paradiso
Company: SunTrix

Established: 2009
Revenue: $25 million (with David Hille)
Paradiso began Suntrix with David Hille in a booming market for solar energy but since then tough
times have hit. Suntrix has survived the tough times by focusing on customer service and a
commercial market as well as residential. 

“We worked hard and never gave up," Paradiso says.

“We had a commitment to our staff and customers and this saw us through some really difficult times.
We hired staff when we could and we outsourced as much as possible."

29. Chika Sakane

Page258of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Company: Bike Roar

Established: 2011
Revenue: $24 million

Bike Roar is a comprehensive product information website that connects cyclists to bicycle retailers.
Users can browse over 45,000 products and 4000 retailers in the United States and Australia,
compare specs, read advice and reviews, and connect to their nearest stores. 

Sakane says she hasn’t encountered any difficulties being a female entrepreneur.

“I just consider myself as an entrepreneur not as a female, I just do what I have to do to get things
done," she says. “The cycle business is very male dominated, so I guess I’m just used to it."  

“Both myself and my team work bloody hard, we’re all on the same page and we’re working towards a
big vision together. It’s hard but fun at the same time."

30. Tammy May
Company: MyBudget

Established: 1999
Revenue: $24 million
At the age of 22 May took a leap of faith by leaving the law firm she worked at to start her own
business.  

“Sometimes you’re braver when you’re young and I figured if it didn’t work out I’d have plenty of time in
the future to recover," she told SmartCompany .

“I wanted to take the risk because it was making such a big difference in people’s lives."
Since starting, the business has grown at 50% year-on-year and May manages to juggle a young
family with running a business.
“When I had my first daughter it forced me to replace myself in the business, get the right procedures
in place and have people able to make decisions without me – it was fantastic for the business," she
says.

RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | sydney : Sydney | uk : United Kingdom | victor : Victoria
(Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz :
Europe | nswals : New South Wales | weurz : Western Europe
Private Media Partners Pty Ltd.
Document SMACOM0020140310ea370000k

Page259of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.