Chinese interest skewed by two major deals

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Finance
Chinese interest skewed by two major deals

ROWAN CALLICK, ASIA-PACIFIC EDITOR
558 words
12 March 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
18
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Australia is not quite the investment target that figures indicate
AUSTRALIA'S continuing role as a favourite target for Chinese investment depended
disproportionately last year on two massive energy deals, say KPMG and Sydney University's
China Studies Centre in a report.

China State Grid's acquisition of 19.9 per cent of SP AusNet and 60 per cent of Victoria-based
utility Jemena, and CNOOC's purchase of a quarter of the Curtis LNG project in Queensland,
together accounted for 61 per cent of the total.
Also in 2013, Australia narrowly lost to the US its title as the world's top destination for Chinese
capital, on an accumulated basis.
That ``should serve as a warning that Chinese investment remains volatile on a yearly basis'', the
report says.
Since 2006, 75 per cent of Chinese direct investment has gone into a small number of very large
deals in Western Australia and Queensland.
These have not all gone according to plan, the report says, ``but the Chinese are long-term
investors, and are now starting to export large quantities of raw materials'' from them to satisfy
Chinese domestic demand.
It says that Australia is well placed to remain a priority destination for the $550 billion due to be
invested internationally by China over the next five years, provided key policy settings are
implemented.

That includes, the report says, cutting domestic operating costs, increasing productivity and
speeding project approval.
Over the past eight years, the US has received $66bn in direct investment from China, 13 per cent
of the total, and Australia $63bn, 12 per cent, followed by Canada with 8 per cent, Brazil 6 per cent
and Britain 4 per cent.
In 2013, the US attracted 17 per cent of China's overseas investment, just over double the
percentage Australia attracted.
The report says that while the largest resource and energy producers compete with Australia for the
biggest investments, ``competition for medium and smaller-sized projects in sectors such as
commercial real estate, agribusiness and services is intensifying, with new entrants from the
Chinese private sector''.

Thus Australian businesses and regulators need to monitor and understand better what the country's
competitors are doing to attract investment.

Page8of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.There were 40 Chinese investment deals in Australia last year, worth $10bn, with an increasing
share coming from private investors, the report says, particularly in commercial real estate.
Mining investment more than halved last year.

The report says that ``while anecdotally there is genuine interest and increasing activity from
predominantly private Chinese investors in Australia's farming and agribusiness, in 2013 only two
transactions were recorded''.

There is also genuine interest, it says, in infrastructure -- anticipating investment as a result of the
technical capability and financing available from China's largest engineering and construction
companies.
The state grid acquisition pushed Victoria for the first time to the top of the states attracting
Chinese funding, nearly half the total.
The number of deals worth more than $220 million fell as a proportion of the total, from 28 per cent
to 17.5 per cent, as diversity increased.

And while state-owned investment continued to dominate with 84 per cent of the total value, 62 per
cent of the number of deals came from the private sector.

GLENDA KORPORAAL P24

CO
IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

spauen : SP AusNet | sinpow : Singapore Power Ltd | tmasek : Temasek Holdings Pte Ltd
i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | iutil : Utilities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | china : China | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140311ea3c0001w

Page9of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.