Record output drives leaner Rio share rally

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Record output drives leaner Rio share rally

JOHN DAGGE
575 words
17 January 2014
The Courier-Mail
COUMAI
CourierMail
61
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

INVESTORS have cheered another record production result from mining giant Rio Tinto, fuelling the
biggest one-day rally for the miner’s shares since November.

Rio shares jumped more than 2 per cent yesterday after it delivered results that were stronger than
forecast in its two key divisions, iron ore and copper.

The world’s iron ore giants, including Rio, BHP Billiton, Vale and Australia’s Fortescue Metals, are
pressing on with costly expansions, backing their faith in Chinese demand amid concerns about a
possible supply glut and price falls. Rio, Australia’s biggest iron ore miner, produced 266 million
tonnes of the nation’s single biggest export item in 2013, a 5 per cent rise on the previous year and
one million tonnes more than forecast.
The healthy figures, which included 66.5 million tonnes for the December quarter, were delivered
despite the impact of cyclone Christina in the Western Australia Pilbara region.
Ports were closed for three days at the end of last year as a consequence of Christina. Iron ore
accounts for about 85 per cent of Rio’s earnings.
Production of copper, Rio’s other key earner, was up 15 per cent in 2013 with 631,500 tonnes mined.
There was record annual production for bauxite and thermal coal. Production of bauxite, used to
make aluminium, rose 10 per cent to 43.2 million tonnes and thermal coal was up 12 per cent to 26.8
million tonnes.

Analysts slashed their production forecasts in the wake of a landslide at Rio’s Bingham Canyon Mine,
in the US, one of the world’s biggest copper mines, but Rio has recovered faster than expected.

The results were delivered almost a year to the day after Sam Walsh (pictured) took the helm at Rio.

Mr Walsh was named chief after his predecessor, Tom Albanese, was ousted for overseeing a series
of immense writedowns on investment projects.
Mr Walsh said Rio had sold $2.5 billion of about $3.5 billion in assets earmarked for sale last year
and had exceeded its cost cutting targets for 2013.

“These actions, together with lower capital expenditure in 2013 and beyond, will ensure Rio Tinto is
well positioned to deliver greater value to shareholders,’’ Mr Walsh said. “These are excellent fourth
quarter operational results, demonstrating continued delivery on our commitments.” UBS analyst Glyn
Lawcock said Rio had beaten its production guidance in all commodities, bar uranium and semi-soft
coking coal.
“While there were minor misses, the major drivers of copper and iron ore are doing better than
guided and better than our expectation,” Mr Lawcock said.

Page97of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Fat Prophets mining analyst Dave Lennox said while weaker commodity prices would prevent record
profits, Rio would receive significant help from the Australian dollar’s fall in 2013, as it traded in US
currency.

“They have done the two things you do when you can’t get profit from just price increases: you
increase volume where possible and lower costs where possible,’’ he said.

Mr Lennox said cutting more costs would be difficult from now on after the obvious things were done.
UBS has a price target of $80 a share on Rio. The company’s shares closed $1.34 higher yesterday
at $65.58.The stock has not been a great performer for investors over the past year. This time last
year Rio’s shares were at $65.55.

CO

IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

ambol : Fortescue Metals Group Ltd | craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd | rtz : Rio Tinto PLC | rtzcra : Rio Tinto
Group
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c21 : Output/Production | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document COUMAI0020140116ea1h0000w

Page98of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.