RWE (CM) Next Graphite Completes Going-Public Transaction for African Mine...

HD
WC 360 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

RWE (CM) Next Graphite Completes Going-Public Transaction for African Mine...

5 March 2014
Resources News (RWE)
RESNEW
English
Copyright 2014 RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved.

TD

RWE (CM) Next Graphite Completes Going-Public Transaction for African Mine Assets Achieves US
Public Listing
Sydney - Wednesday - March 05 (RWE) - Next Graphite, Inc which holds an exclusive option to purchase
90% ownership of a mining license over 125,000 acres of previously producing graphite properties in the
Republic of Namibia, southwest Africa, has completed its going- public transaction.

In simultaneous and subsequent financings the company sold common stock in private placements to
certain investors valuing the company at USD$50,000,000.
Next Graphite is a development stage company targeting the growing global graphite production industry.
Graphite demand is being driven by the development of new markets for clean and efficient energy
alternatives, smart grid infrastructure and military capabilities.
With Next Graphite's projected African mining and processing costs competitive with Chinese levels, the
graphite production industry in Namibia holds compelling potential economics as well.

Following the exercise of its exclusive option, the completion of GPNE's planned mine development
activities is expected to result in a multi-million dollar inward investment into Namibia.
On November 14, 2013, the company entered into a Stock Purchase Option Agreement with NMC Corp,
a corporation organized under the laws of the Province of Ontario, Canada, whereby NMC granted to the
company an option to purchase ordinary shares of equity capital of Gazania Investments Two Hundred
and Forty Two Limited, a corporation organized under the laws of the Republic of Namibia, representing
90% of all issued and outstanding shares of GIT NMC will cause GIT to be re-issued the Exploration
Prospecting License 3895 issued by the Namibia Ministry of Mines and Energy so the company through
its eventual subsidiary can engage in graphite production for the area known as Aukum in the southern
Karas Region.

The Aukum Graphite Mine has been producing from 1940 to 1974 according to Ministry records, and is
Namibia's only proven miner of the industrial mineral.
Simultaneous with the above transactions, the company issued shares of Common Stock to NMC
representing approximately 25% ownership in connection with the option grant closing under the Option
Agreement.

ENDS

CO zewjew : Next Graphite Inc.
IN
NS

i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i654 : Specialty Stores | i6540028 : Jewelry Stores | iretail : Retail
cnatrd : Natural Reserves/Resources Discovery | c24 : Capacity/Facilities | ccat : Corporate/Industrial
News
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd
AN

Document RESNEW0020140305ea350004h

Page195of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.