Holdmark keen to bolster pipeline

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PrimeSpace
Holdmark keen to bolster pipeline

GREG BROWN, TRADING ROOM
698 words
20 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
32
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

HOLDMARK Property Group managing director Sarkis Nassif says the company is eyeing more
development sites in Sydney’s inner west to bolster its 3000-strong apartment pipeline, while waiting
for council approval to start its biggest project yet.
Mr Nassif, who founded Holdmark in the late 1980s, says the group hopes to start its $1 billion
Shepherds Bay project at Meadowbank after Christmas.

Holdmark bought the industrial site nearly 15 years ago and has had protracted negotiations with the
council to build on the land, which fronts Parramatta River. The project is likely to have about 2000
units in buildings ranging from four to 15 storeys.

“Construction will start on the day I get approval,” Mr Nassif said. “You can’t control the approval, but
probably after Christmas we will start laying the concrete.” He said the approval process in NSW needs
to be more efficient. “The planning system needs to perform better and red tape needs to be cut — the
lazy approval process impacts heavily on the state economy.” Mr Nassif founded Holdmark 27 years
ago when he emigrated from his native Lebanon. His father was in the construction industry in
Lebanon and financially supported Mr Nassif in his early local ventures.

Like a number of NSW developers, Holdmark has been caught up in the controversies over political
donations and dealings with local councils.

In 2008, Holdmark was named in a NSW Department of Local Government investigation into buying
council land in Sydney’s Auburn well below valuation. Mr Nassif says there was nothing to the
allegations.
The group started with small townhouse projects in Burwood and Parramatta and has since grown into
a diversified developer that has completed major Sydney apartment developments.

It also has a foot in the office, industrial and retail space. Its projects include the $200 million Air St
Leonard’s apartment project, and a three-tower apartment, office and retail complex in Elsire Street,
Burwood.

“We have got a wider experience than just apartments; where there is an opportunity we will grab it” he
said.
In June, the group paid $80m for an office building at 2-60 Railway Parade, Burwood, which was sold
by Tony Pitt’s 360 Capital Group. The building has a net income of more than $6.5m but has potential
to be converted into an apartment complex when the leases run out in about five years.
Mr Nassif was coy on long- term plans on the site.

“It will depend on the market in five years time,” he said.

Page189of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Holdmark was one of the few local players to buy a commercial building with residential conversion
potential this year with Asian groups the most prominent.
The Australian reported last week that Hong Kong-listed groupShimao Property Holdings bought a
Sydney CBD office building at 175 Liverpool Street for about $400m, while Hong Kong-based Golden
Horse Holdings recently bought an ageing industrial property in Erskineville from Goodman Group for
about $350m.

Mr Nassif said the increased presence of Asian developers in the past two years has been a
game-changer for developers. Asian developers are willing to pay more for sites so they can get a
foothold in the market, he said.

“They’ve got a different feasibility,’’ he said. “It hasn’t prevented us from buying sites but has made us
think more carefully about expanding. They have just come into the market so let’s test (how many are
left) in a few years time.” Mr Nassif has no plans to expand out of Sydney, saying that a decade-long
drought in supply has left the market in good stead for future housing demand.

On location, he likes the inner west and areas close to the water. “Water always makes you relax and
we deserve it as we work so hard,” he said. “I believe if you sit on the balcony and have your barbecue,
and have your beer it can help you relax after a long day.”Mr Nassif said he hoped to pass on the
business to one of his children. His son Kevin and daughter Kristy work for the company.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141119eabk0003t

Page190of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.