China steel trader denies debt crisis

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News - International News
China steel trader denies debt crisis

Lisa Murray AFR correspondent
638 words
25 September 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
18
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Shanghai Sinosteel, China's biggest state-owned steel trader, is struggling to pay for its rapid
expansion over the past eight years amid a slump in prices and a general credit tightening.
The company has significant interests in Australia and is one of China's biggest importers of iron
ore, but was forced to deny a slew of media reports in recent days suggesting it had defaulted on
debt payments.

The state-owned newspaper Economic Information Daily, said the company was struggling to
repay loans worth more than 78 billion yuan ($14 billion), citing an unnamed "insider". Steel
market analysts say the figure is closer to 10 billion yuan.

Sinosteel has admitted it faces financial difficulties, but denied reports of an imminent debt crisis.
The Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, one of Sinosteel's biggest lenders, also said on
Tuesday the company had not defaulted on its loans.
Still, Sinosteel's troubles reflect the challenges facing China's steel industry.

Prices tumbled almost 30 per cent so far in 2014 and are hovering near eight-year lows as demand
for the metal declines in line with China's pace of economic growth.
The drop in steel demand has also pushed iron ore prices down to five-year lows.Sector faces
several issues

The steel sector has been hit by overcapacity problems and a crackdown on non-bank financing
deals,making it harder for traders to access credit and stay afloat.
China's steel sector is heavily subsidised. In the first half of this year, subsidies accounted for
80 per cent of listed steel mills' total profits, said Reuters. That was up from 22 per cent in the first
half of 2013. Meanwhile, the sector's profit margin halved to just 0.3 per cent.
Sinosteel, a former Fortune 500 company, went on a buying spree in the last eight years, which
included the $1.4 billion, 2008 acquisition of Australian iron ore companyMidwest Corp.

Qiu Yuecheng, an analyst at steel products trading platform XiBen New Line says Sinosteel would
not collapse.

"It won't close down because it's a big state-owned enterprise. There is no precedent for that.

"Sinosteel had a rapid expansion and now the steel market is sluggish so it's hard for them to
improve their debt situation" he said.Slowing economy
China's economy has slowed in recent months as a pick-up in exports failed to offset a drop in
activity for the property and heavy industry sectors.

Page111of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The government is trying to rein in China's fast-growing and poorly regulated shadow banking
sector and has eased credit with only targeted measures.
Media reports this week said China's big banks had been directed to relax loan restrictions for
some clients, including first-time home buyers in the hope it will help the property market.
But China's steel output growth rates are slowing significantly, a Chinese industry official told a
mining conference in Melbourne this week.
Deputy secretary general of the China Iron and Steel Association, Li Xinchuang said steel
production was close to its peak and would not make it to a billion tonnes as predicted by
Australia's big iron ore producers Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton.
A spokeswoman for Sinosteel's Australian subsidiary would not comment on Chinese media
reports about debt problems. She also refused to say if they would affect the Midwest project.

Sinosteel hoped to produce magnetite from Midwest's Koolanooka deposit but progress has been
slow.

With Lucy Gao

Key points Sinosteel reported to be struggling to meet its debts commitments, including defaulting
on payments. Crisis denied by company and its biggest bank lender, but analysts say it reflects the
challenges facing the steel industry in China.

i81402 : Commercial Banking | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | isteel : Steel
Production | i814 : Banking | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal :
Financial Services
e212 : Government Borrowing | e21 : Government Finance | ecat : Economic News
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric
: BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140924ea9p0000r

IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

Page112of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.