Investing at right time

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Investing at right time

315 words
18 November 2014
Burnie Advocate
FABURN
Advocate First Edition
17
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

MINING tycoons Andrew Forrest and Gina Rinehart stand to reap major benefits from Australia's free
trade deal with China, thanks to their recent beef and dairy investments.
The billionaires, who have made their fortunes through iron ore, boosted their involvement in
agriculture as China's demand for high-quality beef and dairy products surges.

Australia's agricultural exports are set to increase under the free trade agreement with China, as beef
and dairy producers benefit from a reduction in tariffs.

A boost to agriculture is also anticipated to counter the downturn in the mining sector.

Fortescue Metals chairman Andrew Forrest said the FTA would become the most significant trade deal
Australia has ever done.
"We can offer Chinese consumers the highest quality produce and Chinese consumers can be
confident in the reliability of supply and food safety," Mr Forrest said in his role as chairman of the
Australian Sino Hundred Year Agricultural and Food Safety Partnership.

Last week he said he did not want to see the Australian agricultural sector forgo export revenue as
iron-ore miners did 30 years ago when Brazil entered the international market.

Mr Forrest bought Harvey Beef, Western Australia's largest beef processor and the state's only
accredited exporter to China.
His private company, Minderoo, has also worked to restore a Pilbara cattle station that runs 3000
head of cattle on a 240,000-hectare pastoral lease.

Ms Rinehart, Australia's richest person and the chairwoman of Hancock Prospecting, is looking to
expand her business empire to take advantage of booming demand for baby formula in China. Ms
Rinehart's Hope Dairies wants to acquire about 5000 hectares of farmland in Queensland to create
one of Australia's largest dairy farms, producing about 30,000 tonnes of formula for export to China
every year.

IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
c312 : External Markets | e512 : Physical Trade | c31 : Marketing/Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial
News | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | tasman : Tasmania | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FABURN0020141117eabi00034

Page133of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Page134of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.