Coast benefiting from Asian boom

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Lifestyle
Coast benefiting from Asian boom

JACK HOUGHTON
261 words
11 December 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoastFeatureA
7
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE emerging middle class in China and India has opened the Gold Coast’s property market to a
different kind of international buyer.

Ray White Surfers Paradise has capitalised on the growth and already secured a large portion of the
market.

Chief executive Andrew Bell said the “astonishing” rise of the Asian middle class had created lifestyle
buyers.

“These new buyers are guys just like us,” Andrew said.
“They used to be investors with heaps of money but now they are lifestyle purchasers.

“It is a different way of doing business and it will make up a huge part of our operation in the future.”
Andrew says the change means Asian property investment will become more steady in the future.
“Asian business used to come in waves of interest from different regions but it is becoming broader,”
he said.
“Japan was a powerhouse in the 1980s and then they died out and Hong Kong and Singapore came
in the late 80s and early 90s.

“As of the September quarter just passed, 50 per cent of our buyers were from outside the Gold
Coast. That means we have a huge level of national and international wealth being invested into the
city.” Commercial property expert Greg Bell said the Ray White brand had expanded into southeast
Asia.
“We have offices in Beijing, Hong Kong and Singapore and as a group are really pushing into
southeast Asia,” he said.The Bell brothers said more than 320 properties were purchased by Asian
buyers in the September quarter.

NS

RE
PUB
AN

mpcsmt : Precious Metals Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mcat :
Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E
Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020141211eacb0002h

Page147of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.