Massive losses cloud future

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Massive losses cloud future

Angus Grigg
703 words
24 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
8
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Shanghai | The substantial shadow of Clive Palmer will follow Treasurer Joe Hockey to Beijing this
week, amid acrimony over the nearly $30 billion in investment losses suffered by Chinese
companies in Australia over the last decade. As Mr Palmer begins negotiations with the government
over the passage of its budget, it will be his troubled Sino Iron project which is being discussed in
China.
Mr Hockey will meet with officials from China's top economic planning agency on Tuesday, in a bid to
attract the next wave of Chinese investment into Australian infrastructure and agricultural projects.

But his pitch will be clouded by the protracted dispute and heavy losses suffered by state-backed Citi
Pacific in Mr Palmer's Sino Iron project in Western Australia.
"It's certainly been a difficult learning experience for them [the Chinese]," said Stephen Joske, the
senior manager for Asia at AustralianSuper in Beijing.
"I think you might see a quiet period for Chinese investment in Australia for a couple of years, due to
the cyclical downturn in China and their investment experience in Australia."

Mr Hockey won't be raising the Citic dispute during his meetings in Beijing, according to a
spokesperson, but it may be brought up by those sitting opposite.

"It is very likely they will," said Mei Xinyu, a researcher attached to the Ministry of Commerce in
Beijing.

The most logical forum would be during Tuesday's half-day dialogue with the National Development
and Reform Commission. It is China's top economic planning agency, which is also responsible for
outbound investment.the damage may have already been done

Even if Citic is not raised with Mr Hockey, others like West Australian Premier Colin Barnett believe
the damage may have already been done.
"Clive has damaged our relationship with China," Mr Barnett told reporters last month. "I spend a lot
of my time as Premier ensuring that that damage is kept to an absolute minimum."Queensland's
deputy premier Jeff Seeney agreed with these comments and went a step further, saying Mr Palmer
was a national "embarrassment".
Accounting firm KMPG said Australia lost its position as the number one destination for Chinese
investment in 2013, after flows declined 10 per cent to $US9.1 billion ($9.6 billion.) The US is now
China's favoured destination.
This was despite overall outbound investment from China growing by nearly 17 per cent to $US90
billion.

Page23of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In this more competitive environment for Chinese capital, Mr Palmer's ongoing stoush with Citic is
seen as a big negative. He has been accused by the Chinese company of using $12 million of its
money to bankroll last year's election campaign.

The businessman-turned-politician denies the allegations.
He is also in dispute with Citic over the port at his iron ore mine and the timing of royalty payments.

But these issues are dwarfed by the financial pain suffered by Citic. It has invested between
$US10 billion and $US 12 billion in the iron ore project, but is looking at sizeable write-downs.
"This is hands down the worst mining investment of the past decade in Australia," said Tim Murray,
the managing partner of J Capital Research. He is forecasting the project will eventually be closed,
forcing Citic to write off its entire $US12 billion investment.
But its total losses will be even higher as Citic lost $US2 billion attempting to hedge its Australian
dollar exposure before construction began.
Another Chinese state-owned firm, Chinalco, has also suffered big losses in Australia. It is down
$A9.6 billion from its 9.8 per cent stake in mining giant Rio Tinto. This investment has fallen 50 per
cent in value since it was purchased in February 2008, just before the global financial crisis.

At the time, Rio's London listed shares were trading at around double their current price.
A subsequent deal which would have allowed Chinalco to increase its stake in Rio to 18 per cent, at
a far lower valuation, collapsed in June 2009.
Chinese state-owned miner Yancoal has also lost around $3.5 billion on its investments in Australia,
after buying Felix Resources and taking control of Gloucester Coal.

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

arefnd : AustralianSuper Pty Ltd
i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150214 : Private Pension Funds | ifinal : Financial
Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | ipension : Pension Funds
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
china : China | austr : Australia | beijin : Beijing | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140623ea6o0001j

Page24of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.