Europe clouding outlook: Investec

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Europe clouding outlook: Investec

RICHARD GLUYAS, BANKING
621 words
17 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
23
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

A SENSE of nervousness pervades the world’s major economies, as concern about the strength of
any recovery in Europe detracts from an improving outlook in Britain and the US, according to
Investec Group chief executive Stephen Koseff.

Mr Koseff, possibly the world’s longest-serving chief executive of a large bank, attended last week’s
annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund in Washington, where the consensus was that
Britain and US economies appeared well set for growth.

“But there’s a bit of nervousness about deflation in Europe, and whether China can manage its
transition from infrastructure to consumer-led growth,” he said.
“It (the IMF meeting) didn’t feel as bad as 2012, but Europe and China are looking a bit ‘iffy’ and
France and Italy are the two countries that people are most worried about.” As for Australia, the
outlook was OK, with growth likely to chug along at just over 2 per cent.

Activity levels were “decent”, but they had not returned to pre-financial crisis levels.

That said, there was no prospect of the “wheels falling off”, with interest rates at historically low
levels.

Mr Koseff joined South Africa-based Investec when it was a start-up in 1980. He became CEO in
1997, transforming it into a global wealth, investment and specialist lending group with $220 billion
in funds under management, up from $50 million in the early 1990s.
In Australia, Investec quit banking in July with the $440m sale of its finance and leasing business to
Bank of Queensland, a transaction that Mr Koseff said was driven by the need to get bigger and
compete with the mainstream players or get out.
The bank still has its Investec Australia Property Fund, a locally domiciled but South African-listed
real estate investment trust, which is capitalised at $140m and undergoing a rights issue to acquire
up to $400m in commercial property assets.

It also operates a boutique investment bank mainly focused on the mid-tier market.
Earlier this year, it advised Therese Rein, the wife of former prime minister Kevin Rudd, on the sale
of her jobseeker company Ingeus in a deal worth as much as $US206m.

The investment bank, however, has suffered some instability, with the loss of its head banker,
Christian Nicks, earlier this year. In addition to these businesses, Investec continues to manage
money for Australian institutional clients.
Mr Koseff said the group was not in the market to buy any local businesses, preferring to grow the
operation organically.

Page303of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“The opportunities for us have generally involved finding activities as banks around the world
deleverage or refocus,” he said.

“We can be a beneficiary of that process, although it’s been seven years since the financial crisis so
the opportunities have taken a long time to come through.

“The Americans got themselves sorted out pretty quickly, the UK is probably 90 per cent of the way
through, and Europe is about 70 per cent.” Some opportunities could emerge in Europe, with the
European Banking Authority publishing the results of EU-wide stress test on October 26.

The test assesses the resilience of EU banks to an external shock. Mr Koseff said the opportunities
would mostly be “on the periphery”, as the most stressed financial institutions had already been
“coaxed into” the necessary repair work through capital-raisings or asset sales.

After 17 years in the job, Mr Koseff nominated a series of British funds management deals, enabling
Investec to achieve scale, as the highlight.As for his worst deal, it was hard to go past the acquisition
of the British subprime mortgage business Kensington on August 8, 2007 — strategically sound,
perhaps, but appalling timing.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | uk : United Kingdom | eurz : Europe | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | eecz : European Union Countries | weurz : Western Europe
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141017eaah00039

Page304of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.