Judge rebukes Mineralogy's legal tactics

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Judge rebukes Mineralogy's legal tactics

Julie-anne Sprague
357 words
7 August 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
9
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

A West Australian Supreme Court judge has rebuked Clive Palmer's Mineralogy and ordered the
mining group to pay China's Citic Pacific legal costs, estimated to exceed $1 million.

Justice James Edelman on Wednesday ordered Mineralogy to pay the costs to Citic on an indemnity
basis over a legal claim launched last year that Mineralogy abandoned four months later.

The claim was made as part of what is becoming a long-running dispute with Citic Pacific over the
$10 billion Sino iron project in WA's Pilbara.

In an unusual move, Justice Edelman awarded indemnity costs, which means Citic can claim all of
its legal fees rather than standard party costs, which typically recover between one-third to half the
costs incurred.

Justice Edelman said Citic's legal team had spent 2656 working hours assessing Mineralogy's
"frustration claim" before it was abandoned. His judgment noted Citic's lawyers cost between $363
to $638 an hour.Mineralogy's belief 'unreasonable'

Justice Edelman said Mineralogy's belief that its frustration claim would expedite court proceedings
was "to say the least, unreasonable".

The judge hit out at Mineralogy for attempting to slow down its legal fight with Citic by making
numerous applications to amend its original statement of claim. "Mineralogy's numerous, and
sometimes very significant, changes to its case have slowed these proceedings down dramatically,"
he said.

"There will soon come a point, if it has not been already reached, when a line must be drawn so that
the defendants can be clear on the detail of the case [that] they have to answer."

Lawyers for both companies were back in WA's Supreme Court on Wednesday as Mineralogy
argued for an independent expert to determine royalty payments. Citic wants a judge to determine
the outcome.

Justice Edelman said he had "real concern" that if an expert determined the royalty outcome the
matter would wind up back in the courts because there were "billions of dollars at stake".This
meant it was "fairly likely" that one party was going to challenge the mechanism determining the
royalty payments.

CO
IN

skfdev : CITIC Pacific Limited
i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services

Page23of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE
PUB
AN

gcrim : Crime/Courts | gvsup : Judicial Branch | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat :
Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod :
Government Bodies
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140806ea870002s

Page24of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.