Engineers couple to tackle projects

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Engineers couple to tackle projects

Jenny Wiggins
731 words
2 December 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
17
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Global consolidation of engineering firms will continue as multibillion-dollar infrastructure projects
demand more specialised skills, the Asia-Pacific head of WSP and Parsons Brinckerhoff, Guy
Templeton, has forecast.

"The engineering market is becoming more global, and it takes specialist expertise to execute the
largest and most complex projects," Mr Templeton told The Australian Financial Review.

Parsons Brinckerhoff, which provides engineering and design services, was acquired by Canadian
engineering group WSP in October for about $1.6 billion.

"The cultural fit with WSP is very, very good . . . for Parsons Brinckerhoff, this is very much a return to
being a pure-play engineering and professional services business," Mr Templeton said.

A wave of mergers is under way in the engineering sector as companies adjust to tougher markets
after years of expansion. New York-headquartered Parsons Brinckerhoff was previously owned by the
United Kingdom construction groupBalfour Beatty, which has been struggling with falling profits.
United States engineering design group AECOM completed the acquisition of its American rival URS
for about $US4 billion ($4.8 billion)in October, creating a giant company that supersedes its next
largest global competitor, Australia's WorleyParsons.
Dutch engineering groupArcadis bought the UK's Hyder Consulting for about $566 million the same
month.
Earlier this year, the UK's AMEC paid $3.5 billion purchase of fellow engineering and construction
groupFoster Wheeler while US groupJacobs Engineering's paid $1.3 billion to buy Australia's
Sinclair Knight Merz a year ago. A 38 per cent slump in WorleyParsons' stock price over the past 12
months is making the engineering group, which has a market capitalisation of $2.5 billion,
increasingly vulnerable to a potential takeover.

Meanwhile, Brisbane-based Cardno, which provides infrastructure design and project management
services, has hired UBS to help fend off possible takeover bids as its share price slides.

Cardno's stock has more than halved in value over the past 12 months.

WSP, which plans to keep the Parsons Brickerhoff brand for the time being, is now the largest building
services company in Asia, according to Mr Templeton.

By combining Parsons Brinckerhoff's expertise in "horizontal infrastructure, such as roads and rail, with
WSP's focus on "vertical infrastructure," such as skyscrapers, the combined company will be able to
bid on a broader range of projects, Mr Templeton said.

Page107of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.WSP did the structural engineering on London's Shard tower, which is 310 metres high and now the
tallest building in western Europe.Skyscrapers present opportunity

A series of proposals for skyscrapers over 300 metres high in Sydney, Brisbane and Melbourne were
good opportunities for WSP and Parsons Brinckerhoff, because the companies had experience
designing buildings between 300 metres and 600 metres in Asia, Mr Templeton said. Parsons
Brinckerhoff designed China's tallest building, the 632 metre high Shanghai Tower.
In Australia, WSP has a $2 billion contract to provide engineering services to Sydney's Central Park
urban development and is working on residential towers in Sydney and Melbourne. It previously
provided building services, including lighting and environmentally sustainable design, to Tasmania's
Museum of Old and New Art. Parsons Brinckerhoff is also eyeing more project management jobs in
Australia after being hired by Indian group Adani to oversee development of its $16 billion Carmichael
coal mine in Queensland's Galilee Basin.

"We are seeing good demand [for services] around project management and work to reduce the cost
of delivery," Mr Templeton said.

Parsons Brinckerhoff's other big project management job in Australia, running Gina Rinehart's
$10 billionRoy Hilliron ore development in Western Australia's Pilbara region, is nearing completion.
The iron ore project is 68 percent finished with iron ore expected to be shipped in September. The
firm is keen to participate in upcoming tunnelling projects, like Sydney's WestConnex motorway and
Brisbane's proposed BaT (bus and train) tunnel, which aims to combine a railway and a busway
beneath the Brisbane River.

"There's a lot of demand for tunnelling, driven by the need to solve urban congestion while minimising
impact on communities," Mr Templeton said.

Parsons Brinckerhoff is part of the design team on Melbourne's East West Link motorway, under
review by Victoria's Labor government. Mr Templeton declined to comment on whether the project
would be scrapped, saying the team's work was continuing.

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

bicc : Balfour Beatty PLC | parsbi : Parsons Brinckerhoff Inc. | genifz : WSP Global Inc.
i502 : Heavy Construction | i837 : Technical Services | i8371 : Architects/Surveyors | ibcs :
Business/Consumer Services | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | melb : Melbourne | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) |
apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales | queensl : Queensland
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141201eac200008

Page108of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.