Port push worth pursuing

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Port push worth pursuing

Mark Beyer
641 words
9 May 2014
Business News
WABN
English
© Copyright 2014 Business News Pty Ltd.

The $1.4 billion takeover offer for Perth company Aquila Resources could prove to be one of the
most strategically important developments in Western Australia for many years.

The main driver behind the takeover offer is the desire of joint bidders Baosteel and Aurizon to hasten
development of the West Pilbara iron ore project.

For Baosteel, it's the opportunity to develop new iron ore mines to secure future supplies for its steel
mills in China.
For Aurizon, it's the opportunity to develop a 432-kilometre railway and a 40 million tonnes per
annum port at Anketell Point, near Dampier.
At a likely cost of $6 billion, it's a huge undertaking.
What makes it especially significant is the potential to unlock 'stranded' iron ore deposits held by
junior miners at a time when most pundits had tipped the end of major new investments in the sector.
There was also good news for aspiring iron ore miners in the southern half of the state, after the state
government selected a preferred consortium to develop multi-user export facilities at Esperance.
Rail company Asciano, construction contractor McConnell Dowell, and Japanese trading house
Marubeni make for a very powerful grouping.
MacDow is currently building two wharves for the Roy Hilliron ore project. Once completed, the
contractor will have built 10 of the 14 iron ore load-out wharves at Port Hedland.

The consortium has been tasked with designing, building, funding and operating the proposed facility,
which would nearly double the port's export capacity to 20mtpa.

But it will only proceed if miners in the Yilgarn region can commit to supplying 10mtpa.

That represents a big challenge, and opportunity, for the likes of Cazaly Resources, Jupiter Mines,
Radar Iron, GWR, and Mindax.

The tough times facing some of these companies was highlighted by Mindax's announcement last
month that its chairman, its chief executive and most staff would leave the company to cut costs.

If the economics of the Esperance port project start to look shaky, it will be interesting to see if new
Transport Minister Dean Nalder is prepared to watch it fold.

That's what his predecessor, Troy Buswell, vowed 12 months ago.
"There is no guarantee that process will lead to an outcome in terms of investment in infrastructure,"
Mr Buswell told a ports conference.

"I hope it does but there is no guarantee.

"The role of government will not be to step in to that process to try and subsidise or shore it up."

Page180of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Buswell was right, for many reasons.

One reason is that, if the Asciano project - or indeed Aurizon's plans for Anketell Point - is unable to
proceed, there are alternatives.
As Business News has previously reported, Iron Ore Holdings, Mineral Resources and Rutila
Resources are working on transhipment ports in the Pilbara and at Kwinana.

These ports would provide a lower development cost and potentially proceed faster than traditional
harbour construction projects.

The Barnett government has cautiously accepted the benefits of private sector investment in new port
infrastructure, evidenced most clearly at Esperance.
It has also floated the possible sale of specific assets like the Utah Point berth at Port Hedland.

But why not go a step further and get the private sector to buy entire ports, as other states have done
at extraordinarily attractive prices?
The Port of Newcastle was sold last month for $1.75 billion, or 28 times underlying profit as
measured by earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA).

A few months earlier, Sydney's Port Botany and Wollongong's Port Kembla were sold for a price
equivalent to 25 times EBITDA.
At those sorts of multiples, the WA Treasury would reap about $6 billion from selling Fremantle, Port
Hedland and Dampier ports.

It's got to be worth a closer look.

CO
IN

RE
PUB
AN

dorval : Aurizon Mines Ltd | hclamn : Hecla Mining Co
i5020017 : Harbor Construction | i763 : Port/Harbor Operations | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron
Ore Mining | i502 : Heavy Construction | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | iconst : Construction |
icre : Real Estate/Construction | imet : Mining/Quarrying | iship : Water Transport/Shipping | itsp :
Transportation/Shipping | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Business News Pty Ltd
Document WABN000020140508ea59000m9

Page181of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.