QBE's North American 'Upheaval' -- Market Talk

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

QBE's North American 'Upheaval' -- Market Talk

1,537 words
21 October 2014
09:40
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

2239 GMT [Dow Jones] QBE Insurance's (QBE.AU) investor briefing on its North American operations
highlights a division undergoing significant upheaval in an effort to try and improve its sub-par
performance, J.P. Morgan says. The company's target for the division by itself likely isn't enough to get
investors excited about its prospects, the brokerage says, adding there is still possible upside for QBE
from macro factors such as the outlook for interest rates plus a relatively cheap valuation. It maintains an
overweight recommendation and A$12/share target. QBE last traded at A$11.03.
(robb.stewart@wsj.com; Twitter: @RobbMStewart)

18:30 EDT - Downer EDI's (DOW.AU) M&A activity may not end with its A$300M purchase of closely
held Tenix, says RBC Capital Markets. The broker notes that fiscal 2015 gearing is likely to be around
10%, giving it the flexibility for more deals. "We estimate that another similar-sized acquisition is within
Downer's capability or alternatively it may want to keep balance sheet capacity for a large contract win in
contract mining or other alternatives, if they present," says RBC. "With the stock down 15% since the
21st August and the acquisition catalyst now delivered, we recommend buying Downer on an
expectation that it is likely to continue to rally," RBC says. DOW last traded at A$4.19.
(david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

18:27 EDT - Ferrovial (FER.MC) could go hostile with its bid for Transfield (TSE.AU), says RBC Capital
Markets. Transfield yesterday rejected Ferrovial's A$1.95/share offer but said it would open up its books
in the hope of attracting a sweetener from the Spanish company. The offer, which values Transfield at
around A$1B (US$878M), was pitched at a 30% premium to the shares' closing price Friday of A$1.50.
"Whilst the chance of a higher offer exists, we feel existing shareholders would accept if the offer went
hostile," RBC says, lifting its price target on Transfield to A$1.95 from A$1.30. There's also potential for a
rival bid--more likely from another offshore player--the brokers says, but adds Transfield remains "high
risk" with relatively heavy debt levels. (Ross.Kelly@wsj.com)

18:24 EDT - Development risks are rising at Goodman Group (GMG.AU), with more speculative projects
and greater reliance on new markets, says JPMorgan after spending last week visiting GMG's
operations in Sydney, Melbourne and Auckland. Firm keeps an underweight rating and A$5.42 price
target, versus A$5.36 recent trade. "We aren't concerned with GMG's near-term earnings; development
leasing should see GMG FY15 EPS growth ahead of its 6% target. However we believe its 6% per
annum through-the-cycle target is priced." (rebecca.thurlow@wsj.com; @beckthurlow)

18:22 EDT - There are a number of tailwinds for Perpetual (PPT.AU) and a clear path to near-term
earnings growth, but JPMorgan says it still prefers fellow listed fund manager Magellan Financial
(MFG.AU). The broker retains a neutral stance on PPT and A$49.31/share target. PPT's 1Q funds under
management highlighted positive flows for the company, but JPMorgan says that was largely driven by
money moving into cash and fixed income. It adds the establishment of a new global equities fund is a
positive step. PPT last traded at A$43.66. (robb.stewart@wsj.com; @RobbMStewart)

18:21 EDT - Australia's equities market is on track for a sixth straight gain, although there remains some
nervousness among investors. IG forecasts an opening rise of 17 points to about 5336 for the S&P/ASX
200, although it adds Chinese GDP data and weakness in the London-traded shares of local
heavyweights Rio Tinto (RIO.AU) and BHP Billiton (BHP.AU) may drag on the market. "With the full-year
numbers from the banks a week away, banks should remain supported," IG market strategist Evan
Lucas says. Shares in the big banks have steadily been recovering in recent days from heavy selling.

Page94of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Newcrest (NCM.AU) will be in focus after releasing quarterly production figures, while Bradken (BKN.AU)
and Southern Cross Media (SXL.AU) are both set to stage annual general meetings. The ASX 200 rose
0.9% to 5319.4 Monday. (robb.stewart@wsj.com; @RobbMStewart)
18:19 EDT - Just call Microsoft (MSFT) CEO Satya Nadella the $84M man. The company for the first
time today valued Nadella's compensation for the year ended June 30, his first in the CEO chair, and it
was $84.3M. The biggest chunk was a long-term stock grant, valued at $59.2M, based on how MSFT's
shares perform versus other companies in the S&P-500 index over five years. He won't receive any of
those shares until 2019. MSFT also says Nadella received a stock retention payment valued at $13.5M
as MSFT's board sought to keep executives from jumping ship when Steve Ballmer announced his
retirement in August. MSFT previously disclosed elements of Nadella's pay, but not the whole kit and
kaboodle. (shira.ovide@wsj.com; @ShiraOvide)
18:17 EDT - Wood MacKenzie, an energy consulting firm, says despite new environmental rules in
China, coal will continue to dominate as a power plant fuel. As new air emission regulations go into
effect, China will need more natural gas and coal's role in electricity production will drop to 64% of the
fuel mix, down from 72%. But overall energy demand in China as growing, so "in absolute terms, this
translates to coal demand increasing by just over two billion tonnes from now until then," the report
says. "Tackling chronic air pollution is a clear government priority but not the only one," writes analyst
David Brown. Economic growth, energy security and low cost power sources remain paramount.
Chinese policy has evolved during 2014 to focus on emissions control rather than a mass fuel switch to
cleaner burning gas, Brown says. (lynn.cook@wsj.com; @LynnJCook)

18:05 EDT - Facing a deadline of Monday, the Environmental Protection Agency asked--and a D.C.
Circuit court granted--its request to wait until Nov. 3 to file its brief in response to a lawsuit brought by
Murray Energy challenging the agency's proposed rule cutting carbon emissions from hundreds of
coal-fired power plants. Observers on both sides of this fight were surprised the court even agreed to
receive briefs on the case, but it won't be clear for a few weeks whether the court will hear oral
arguments or whether Murray Energy will be successful. This slight delay means any public news on it
will definitely come after the midterm elections, which are Nov. 4. (amy.harder@wsj.com;
@AmyAHarder)

17:52 EDT - Competition in McDonald's (MCD) domestic market has been intense, with traditional rivals
such as Taco Bell and Burger King (BKW) upping their game and Chick-fil-A expanding. Offers of fresh
food has lured some of MCD's core late-teen to mid-30s customers away, while a bloated menu that
slowed service also has hurt the chain. Same-store sales in the US have been falling, and analysts are
expecting a decline of nearly 3% for the quarter and 2.8% for September. (julie.jargon@wsj.com)

17:50 EDT - McDonald's (MCD) has been struggling to regain consumer confidence across Asia after
Chinese authorities accused a Chinese supplier this summer of intentionally selling expired meat to
MCD and other fast-food outlets. The fast food chain has said that scandal is expected to cut its 3Q profit
by about 15-20 cents a share from a year ago. Earnings results for the quarter are due Tuesday
morning. Analysts expect net income of $1.37 a share. The Street also sees sagging Asia/Pacific and
Middle East and Africa sales to bring down global same-store sales for the quarter by 3%.
(julie.jargon@wsj.com)

17:47 EDT - Now we know which executives Microsoft's (MSFT) board didn't want to jump ship. After
Steve Ballmer announced his retirement last August, MSFT's board doled out "retention" stock grants to
prevent important executives from leaving. MSFT didn't say at the time who got the grants, or how much.
In a filing today, MSFT named names. The biggest payout to top executives went to...Satya Nadella,
picked as Ballmer's successor in February. His stock award was valued at $13.5M at the time of the
grant. Kevin Turner, the COO and sales chief, was No. 2 with a retention grant valued at $10.1M.
(shira.ovide@wsj.com; @ShiraOvide)

To contact the Market Talk Editors,
Kevin Kingsbury, 212 416-2354, kevin.kingsbury@wsj.com
Cynthia Lin, 212 416-4403, Cynthia.lin@wsj.com
John Shipman, 212 416-2181, john.shipman@wsj.com
Patrick Sullivan, 212 416-2326, Patrick.sullivan@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

October 20, 2014 18:40 ET (22:40 GMT)

CO

qbeibp : QBE Insurance Group Ltd | cnyc : JPMorgan Chase & Co.

Page95of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN
NS

RE

i82 : Insurance | ifinal : Financial Services | i82001 : Full-line Insurance | ibnk : Banking/Credit
namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters
austr : Australia | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North
America

PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020141020eaak003v1

Page96of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.