Suit tailoring has entered the digital age

SE
HD
WC 375 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

ROP
Suit tailoring has entered the digital age

22 January 2014
Eastern Daily Press
EAP
English
Copyright 2014. Archant Regional Limited.

TD

A Norfolk entrepreneur has launched a digital rival to Savile Row by taking traditional suit tailoring online.
Elliot Suiter has set up a UK branch of the Australian start-up company InStitchu – an e-commerce site
providing suit customisation for a cut price.

Since its launch three weeks ago, the 23-year-old from Watlington, King’s Lynn, has already recorded
more than 20 orders and seen upwards of 60 people registering on the website.

But while the main focus is to make 3,000 orders in the first three years, Mr Suiter is also keen to launch
pop-up shops in Norwich and Cambridge – or even a fully fledged store in London.

“There is a massive demand at the moment for customisation," Mr Suiter said. “Because of how much
variety there is out there, people want their things to be personal to them. Meanwhile, men’s fashion is
growing at a rapid rate. The combination of these two areas means that there is a genuine demand for
tailored suits. Formal wear is certainly becoming more fashionable for younger people."
Shoppers can buy a suit from InStitchu by entering their measurements online, or by arranging a booking
to get measured.
Each suit is then manufactured in China, with an average price of £200 to £500.
Mr Suiter became involved with the company after meeting the owners while travelling in Sydney,
Australia.

He convinced them to set up InStitchu in the UK, despite their initial plans to launch their first overseas
operation in America.

But while suit tailoring maybe steeped in heritage, Mr Suiter is keen for the business to be at the forefront
of technological advances, with plans to use a full-body scanning machine to take suit measurements in
the future.

“Referrals will be a big part of our business," he added. “We are looking to do pop-up sites in coffee
shops. We will use our full-size banners so we can market strongly.
“Our long term aim is to have pop-up shops in hotel foyers or bank buildings.

“In Australia we have a portal measurement system, which provides 3D body scanning, but we need to
find a base for this in the UK."

NS
RE

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | uk : United Kingdom | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | eecz : European
Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe

IPD EDP.2014-01-22.001.BUS.ROP.12_Story_1
PUB Archant Regional Limited
AN

Document EAP0000020140122ea1m0001q

Page84of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.