Brownfield LNG Offers Majors Growth in Asia

Features

SE
HD Brownfield LNG Offers Majors Growth in Asia
WC 739 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

30 June 2014
LNG Intelligence
LNGI
English
©2014 Energy Intelligence Group. All rights reserved

What are the majors up to in Asian LNG? 

TD

Royal Dutch Shell's recent scaling back of its LNG exposure in Australia has been at odds with its
integrated peers' desire to ramp up Asia-Pacific LNG capacity with an eye on feeding the region's
voracious appetite for gas. Shell's peers are under the same investor pressure as the Anglo-Dutch
supermajor to improve capital efficiency, and rising LNG development costs have certainly placed them in
a bind, but Asia offers scope for future brownfield expansions that should be both cheaper and quicker to
bring on line than greenfield schemes in East Africa or Canada. Having earlier this year sold its 6.4%
interest in Chevron's Wheatstone project in Australia, Shell is now reducing its 23.1% stake in Australian
independent Woodside Petroleum to around 4.5% (LNGI Jun.19'14). These sales will see Shell shed
some 1.8 million tons per year in equity LNG capacity, and drop to second place behind Chevron among
the majors in Asian LNG, based on its expected equity capacity by 2020 of 14.05 million tons/yr.

In contrast to Shell, Chevron has made a huge commitment to Australian LNG, leading both the mammoth
15.6 million ton per year Gorgon and the 8.9 million ton/yr Wheatstone projects. With its existing Asian
portfolio limited to just a one-sixth stake in Australia's Northwest Shelf project, Chevron is eager to add
new trains at both Wheatstone and Gorgon to improve project economics and boost returns. But
expansion at Gorgon, which is due on stream in 2015, will present challenges due to the scheme's
environmentally sensitive location on Barrow Island off the country's northwest coast, and resistance from
partner Shell, which prefers to first stabilize operations from the project's three initial trains.

Chevron is also targeting the Asian market with its Kitimat LNG venture on Canada's Pacific coast, but is
facing marketing challenges, with Asian buyers deterred, despite the offer of possible upstream stakes in
the scheme, by the US major's insistence on 100% oil-linked pricing.

Total and Exxon Mobil both have legacy LNG interests in Indonesia, but face uncertain futures, and are
trying to carve out new opportunities elsewhere in Asia. Total's Mahakam production sharing contract, gas
from which feeds the Bontang LNG plant, expires in 2017, while Exxon's aging Arun plant is set to shut
down after October. 

Total may well have to cede Mahakam operatorship to state Pertamina, and has also failed to secure a
role in Mahakam partner Inpex's Abadi floating LNG (FLNG) project in Indonesia. Against that backdrop,
the French major is aggressively pursuing equity positions in the Ichthys and Gladstone projects in
Australia, and is now eyeing its own operated greenfield project in Papua New Guinea, where it was, in
March, the surprise buyer of a 40.1% stake in the country's most promising gas license, PRL 15 (LNGI
Mar.27'14). 

Exxon already has an enviable position in Papua New Guinea, where its PNG LNG project is widely
expected to be more profitable than rival Australian schemes, with a third train likely to be added (LNGI
May21'14). It is also studying FLNG as a development option for its Scarborough field offshore Australia,
and could yet attract Japanese buyers to its giant Alaska LNG project as a result of cooling relations
between Japan and Russia.

The LNG laggard among the leading majors, both in Asia and globally, remains BP. Apart from a likely
third train to be added at Tangguh in Indonesia, the UK major is also a partner in Australia's delayed
Browse floating LNG scheme, which is now looking at project sanction in the second half of 2015 (LNGI
Apr.8'14). Rather than pursuing LNG equity or operatorship, BP instead appears to be building a flexible
trading portfolio, signing up for 4.4 million tons/yr from the US' Freeport LNG export venture. The UK
major seems to have "lost its way in the LNG game," one observer suggests, attributing this to the strategy

Page248of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.rethink and budget constraints caused by the 2010 Macondo blowout, and a view inside BP that Tangguh,
which started up in 2009, was poorly executed from a commercial standpoint, offering overly generous
pricing to its main offtaker, state China National Offshore Oil Corp.
Energy Intelligence

 

CO wodpet : Woodside Petroleum Ltd | socal : Chevron Corporation
IN

i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil
Extraction
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | papng : Papua New Guinea | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | pacisz : Pacific Islands

NS
RE

PUB Energy Intelligence Group Inc.
AN Document LNGI000020140705ea6u00004

Page249of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.