Australian Equities Roundup -- Market Talk

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Australian Equities Roundup -- Market Talk

3,457 words
14 July 2014
14:58
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

0836 - Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott will likely be successful in winning over an obdurate new
senate, but Barclays concedes this may take longer than it expected. Facing opposition from the Palmer
United Party and the Greens, Mr. Abbott will presumably amend a proposal to repeal the carbon tax to
ensure it passes. "This last-minute change underscores the unpredictability of the new senate," Barclays
says. "This same point is made by the Palmer party unexpectedly indicating it will reject the planned
scrapping of the welfare measures that were funded by these taxes." Blocking the changes could add
A$7 billion to the government's forecast budget deficit of A$30 billion in 2014-15. So, Barclays says
there's the clear risk that fiscal policy is easier in the short term than either it or Australia's central bank
envisaged. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

0856 - The bigger risk for Australia right now is a renewed recession and rising unemployment, not
runaway inflation, says Carl Weinberg, chief economist at High Frequency Economics. He cites a
number of concerns, including fiscal austerity, which comes to about 1.3% of GDP in 2014-15. Income
from commodity exports is also being clobbered by a sharp worsening of the terms of trade in local
currency, just as coal and iron prices have been tumbling. The AUD is also rising year-year-on-year,
choking exports. "We see no case for the Reserve Bank of Australia to raise rates right now, even though
CPI increases are rising toward the top of their 2-3% target range," Weinberg says. "If austerity is
maintained and the economy slows, below-potential growth will brake price pressures with no help from
the bank." (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

0912 - Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG.AU) may have fallen short of its FY14 shipping guidance and
disappointed by selling its iron ore at weaker-than-expected prices last quarter, but that hasn't turned
J.P. Morgan sour on the stock. "While we acknowledge investor confidence in the stock has taken a hit
recently with the widening price discounts, we don't believe one quarter of weak pricing represents a
permanent structural change in realizations," says analyst Lyndon Fagan, who maintains an overweight
rating with a A$5.10 price target. He says Fortescue's achieved price of US$106/ton in FY14 implies a
4Q iron-ore price of US$82/ton, below the bank's US$90/ton estimate. Still, Fagan says the stock has
room to rise up to 20% to its net present value. FMG closed Friday down 0.2% at A$4.34.
(rhiannon.hoyle@wsj.com; Twitter: @RhiannonHoyle)

0921 - Volatility in LNG Ltd.'s (LNG.AU) stock has subsided recently, with trade volumes and price
variation normalizing. "We view this as a good time to buy in or accumulate further stock in the lead up to
a number of key milestones in the coming 3-4 months," says Foster Stockbroking. These milestones
include binding tolling agreements for its Magnolia project in the U.S., finalizing an EPC contract and the
project's capital costs, concluding a project finance term sheet, and regulatory approvals. Foster rates
LNG Ltd. as a buy with a A$3.44 price target. LNG last traded at A$2.22. (david.winning@wsj.com;
@dwinningWSJ)

0925 - Australia's S&P/ASX 200 looks set to consolidate before key events this week. RBA minutes and
U.S. retail sales are due Tuesday, and China releases GDP, industrial production and retail sales on
Wednesday. The Fed's "beige book" is also due Wednesday, and voting FOMC members Janet Yellen
and Richard Fisher are speaking. Thursday sees U.S. housing starts data released. Some lingering
caution was evident Friday, with U.S. 10-year bond yields down 2 basis points and spot gold remaining
near a 4-month high. But equities appeared reassured that the delay in Banco Espirito Santo's debt
repayment won't have broader implications for European banks. While BES said it had a 1.18
billion-euro exposure to the Espirito Santo conglomerate, its capital buffer is 2.1 billion euros above the

Page97of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.minimum regulatory level. IG strategist Evan Lucas tips a 0.5% opening rise in the S&P/ASX 200. Last
5486.8. (david.rogers@wsj.com; Twitter: @DavidRogersWSJ)

0940 - A change in the regulatory regime in India is very likely to see Insurance Australia Group Ltd.
(IAG.AU) lift its stake in SBI General Insurance, suggests J.P. Morgan. The first budget from India's new
government includes plans to increase foreign ownership caps on insurers to 49% to encourage
investment. IAG bought a 26% interest in SBI for roughly A$126 million ($118.3 million) in late 2009,
and J.P. Morgan analyst Siddharth Parameswaran believes it will spend an estimated A$150 million to
take that to 49% in light of the ownership rule change. IAG's stated goal is for its Asian businesses to
represent 10% of gross written premiums on a proportional basis by 2016. Still, J.P. Morgan says the
main focus over the coming year will be on insurance margins, as IAG beds down the recently acquired
insurance unit of Wesfarmers Ltd. (WES.AU). IAG is neutral with a A$5.48/share ($5.14) target. IAG last
traded at A$5.98. (robb.stewart@wsj.com; Twitter: @RobbMStewart)

1001 - Bank of America Merrill Lynch says Fortescue's (FMG.AU) 4Q pricing was worse than expected
though it still rates the iron ore miner a Buy, with a A$6.50 target price. "Today's announcement does
not change our view on near term results materially, but increases the risk for FY15," the broker says.
"We view the 124.2 million tons of iron ore shipments in FY14 as in line with consensus and a slight
miss to FMG's guidance of 127 million tons." FMG last A$4.35. (david.rogers@wsj.com; Twitter:
@DavidRogersWSJ)

1003 - Australia's central bank is resigned to the fact that the level of the Australian dollar will be largely
dictated by the pace of policy change at the U.S. Federal Reserve, says Paul Bloxham, chief economist
at HSBC, Australia. Citing an interview with RBA Governor Glenn Stevens by The Australian over the
weekend, Bloxham said it was notable that Stevens did not mention the possibility of direct market
intervention to weaken the currency. Stevens said markets are underestimating the potential for a big fall
in the currency once the Fed starts to raise interest rates.(james.glynn@wsj.com)

1005 - Bank of America Merrill Lynch cuts Perseus (PRU.AU) to Underperform from Neutral on share
price strength. It notes that while Perseus is will break-even with spot gold price at US$1,300/ounce,
margins are negative after tax rate and corporate administration. "Under our flat gold price forecasts
over the next two years, we prefer exposure to low cost gold producers such as Alacer Gold (AQG.AU),
the broker says. PRU last at A$0.53. (david.rogers@wsj.com; Twitter: @DavidRogersWSJ)

1005 - Expectations rise for a strong 4Q14 result from BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP.AU), which is estimated to
have shipped more iron ore than expected last quarter based on Port Hedland export numbers. J.P.
Morgan analyst Lyndon Fagan estimates the miner shipped at a 246-million-ton annualized rate in
4Q14, higher than the bank's 222-million-ton estimate and pointing to full-year shipments around 224
million tons. BHP previously forecast it would produce 217 million tons of ore during the 12-month
period. "While we need to wait for the quarterly due July 23 for full details, we believe the surprise in
volume has been achieved based on quicker than planned ramp up of Jimblebar and low capital intensity
port debottlenecking projects yielding successful results," Fagan says in a note. The bank retains a
neutral rating, but bumps its price target up to A$39.00 a share, from A$38.00. BHP trades up 0.2% at
A$37.64. (rhiannon.hoyle@wsj.com; Twitter: @RhiannonHoyle)

1011 - The bigger risk for Australia right now is renewed recession and rising unemployment, not
runaway inflation, says Carl Weinberg, chief economist at High Frequency Economics. He cites a
number of concerns, including fiscal austerity, which comes to about 1.3% of GDP in 2014-15. Income
from commodity exports is also being clobbered by a sharp worsening of the terms of trade in local
currency, just as coal and iron prices have been tumbling. The AUD is also rising year-over-year,
choking exports. "We see no case for the Reserve Bank of Australia to raise rates right now, even though
CPI increases are rising toward the top of their 2-3% target range," Weinberg says. "If austerity is
maintained and the economy slows, below-potential growth will brake price pressures with no help from
the bank." (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)
1025 - Australia has been at the wrong end of the cost curve for copper mining, with underground
mining and wage inflation driving down the competitiveness of the industry, says UBS. Still, some
miners stand out as good opportunities for investors. UBS rates Sandfire Resources (SFR.AU) as a buy
with a A$7.70 price target, noting it is producing high-grade copper at the Degrussa mine. The broker is
less keen on OZ Minerals (OZL.AU), rating it a sell with a A$3.60 target, as it transitions from an open pit
at Prominent Hill to a higher cost and potentially marginal underground operation over the coming years.
Australia is the world's fifth-largest copper producer, but output is set to fall to 770,000 tons in 2017 from
950,000 tons last year. SFR and OZL last traded at A$6.37 and A$4.31, respectively.
(david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

14 Jul 2014 00:58 ET Australian Equities Roundup -- Market Talk -2-

Page98of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.1036 - Former Reserve Bank of Australia Deputy Governor Stephen Grenville weighs in on the debate
now raging in Australia over whether the benefits of the country's decade-long mining-investment boom
were squandered. In an upbeat paper published this month by policy think-tank the Lowy Institute,
Grenville says "we didn't blow the opportunity presented" by surging commodity prices. The
macro-economic management of the boom, which saw commodity prices hit record levels, driving record
mining investment, was handled well, he says. Still, with better government policies, "we could have
done a lot better." Overall, Australia is well placed to maintain a solid economic performance into the
future," Grenville says. (james.glynn@wsj.com)
1042 - Dr. Copper is on the mend with signs of strengthening demand, and CIMB thinks the time is right
to be increasing exposure in the commodity through buying stock in OZ Minerals (OZL.AU). Themes of
low inventories, recovering demand and supply tightness have emerged to drive copper back above
US$7,000/ton to four-month highs. "Both OZ Minerals and Sandfire Resources (SFR.AU) will benefit
from a strong copper price and market outlook," CIMB says. "We do, however, prefer OZ Minerals on a
fundamental valuation basis and our view that further positive catalysts remain to be realized over 2014."
Potential catalysts include OZ Minerals declaring a dividend, and a sale of a stake in its Carrapateena
project in Australia. SFR and OZL last traded at A$6.35 and A$4.31, respectively.
(david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1049 - Australia's S&P/ASX 200 hits a four-day high of 5512.4, with high-yield equities outperforming
after the S&P 500 gains 0.2% and U.S. 10-year bond yields fall two basis points. Among high-yield
standouts, the four major banks and Telstra (TLS.AU) are up 0.3%-0.6%. Karoon Gas (KAR.AU) gains
3.1% after refusing to rule out a share buyback after selling gas assets to Origin (ORG.AU). Iron-ore
miners are lagging, with Fortescue (FMG.AU) down 1.8% after underwhelming 4Q shipping guidance on
Friday. CMC Chief Market Analyst Rick Spooner says the market is slowly drifting up as valuations are
"about right" and expectations of moderate earnings growth underpin the outlook. Index is last up 0.4% at
5506.4. (david.rogers@wsj.com; Twitter: @DavidRogersWSJ)
1050 - The mystery bidders seeking to gatecrash Horizon Oil's (HZN.AU) tieup with Roc Oil (ROC.AU)
are likely to be international companies that are attracted to Roc's Asian assets and its relationships with
national oil companies including Petronas, PetroChina (PTR) and Cnooc (CEO), UBS analyst Nik Burns
says. Roc has received two non-binding proposals, but has kept the bidders' identities close to its chest.
"Roc has technical and operational abilities and relationships with national oil companies' that rank
beyond the relative size of the company," Burns says. UBS rates Roc a buy, with a A$0.65 target price,
noting there could be good news to come including more reserves at its Zhao Dong block offshore China.
ROC and HZN last traded at A$0.575 and A$0.355, respectively. (david.winning@wsj.com;
@dwinningWSJ)

1055 - It's been one of the laggards of world commodity markets over the past couple of years, but nickel
looks set to be one of the standout performers in FY15, according to Commonwealth Bank of Australia. It
expects the industrial metal to gain around 31% over the next 12 months on weaker supply. It expects
zinc will also rise strongly, with a forecast 17% lift over the period. Aluminum prices are meanwhile
expected to rise much more modestly, as are crude oil prices, the bank says. "At the other end of the
spectrum, we expect financial-year average prices for iron ore to fall the most out of all of our
coverage--with a fall of more than 20% factored into our numbers as seaborne supply growth heavily
outweighs demand growth," says the bank, which also forecasts a further fall in coking coal prices.
(rhiannon.hoyle@wsj.com; Twitter: @RhiannonHoyle)

1102 - Commonwealth Bank says the Australian dollar's outlook remains positive, with AUD/USD
potentially to retest 0.9500 by August. An improving Australian economy, receding fear of a sharp
domestic mining investment slowdown, stronger foreign purchases of AUD bonds, an improving global
economy, less downward pressure on Australia's terms of trade, and a softer U.S. dollar are likely to
buoy the AUD/USD to 0.9700 by December and 0.9900 by 1Q15, CBA currency strategists say.
AUD/USD last 0.9392. (david.rogers@wsj.com; Twitter: @DavidRogersWSJ)

1110 - A rebound in job ad volumes prompts Macquarie to lift its forecasts for Seek (SEK.AU), which it
recommends at outperform. It raises its fiscal 2014 EPS estimate by 1.6%, the FY15 estimate by 4.4%
and FY16 by 3%. "Separate to this, we expect continued strong momentum at Seek's international
businesses and remain positive on the medium-term growth prospects." Macquarie's valuation estimate
rises to A$17.20/share from A$16.20. SEK is trading up 0.4% at A$16.53. (robb.stewart@wsj.com;
Twitter: @RobbMStewart)
1120 - When it comes to acquisitions, three isn't a crowd for Australian law firm Shine Corporate
(SHJ.AU). Shine raised A$29.5 million to fund the purchase of Emanate Legal and Stephen Browne
Personal Injury Lawyers, while signaling that another deal is on the cards. Alexandra Clarke, an analyst
at Australian broker Morgans, says the announced deals could boost Shine's EPS by around 5% in
FY15, and use only two-thirds of the raised capital. A third acquisition could happen without the need to

Page99of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.raise further equity, Clarke says. "We believe Shine will continue to benefit from a fragmented market
and its ability to acquire value enhancing acquisitions," she says. Morgans rates Shine at add and ups its
price target 22% to A$2.60. SHJ last trades at A$2.30. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1328 - With a strong line up of movies set to hit screens in 2015, led by proven franchises including The
Avengers, Macquarie anticipates solid box office revenue growth for the year and raises Village
Roadshow (VRL.AU) to outperform from neutral. Its target price rises to A$8.50/share from A$7.60.
Macquarie adds the outlook for Village Roadshow's distribution business, which has been under
pressure from declining DVD sales, is improving thanks to video-on-demand services and possible steps
by the Australian government to crack down on online piracy. VRL is trading up 1.3% at A$7.61.
(robb.stewart@wsj.com; Twitter: @RobbMStewart)

1131 - Following comments by Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens in a weekend
interview with The Australian newspaper that interest rates are likely to remain steady for longer,
Barclays, Australia, is sticking with its forecast that interest rates will likely rise modestly through 2015
from 2.5% now to 3.5% by year end. Kieran Davies, chief economist at Barclays, Australia, says a recent
sharp fall in consumer confidence is the biggest risk to his forecast. Stevens told the Australian it is too
early "for people to be contemplating early rises in rates." (james.glynn@wsj.com)

1144 - Australia's S&P/ASX 200 hits a 5-day high of 5517.9 as buyers dominate amid light share trading
volumes. With U.S. heavyweights including Citigroup, Goldman Sachs, Johnson & Johnson, J.P. Morgan,
Intel and Yahoo! reporting in the next two days, investors appear to be favouring high-yield and
safe-haven stocks, with the major banks, Telstra (TLS.AU), Woolworths (WOW.AU), CSL (CSL.AU),
Scentre Group (SCG.AU), Amcor (AMC.AU), and Goodman Group (GMG.AU) up 0.6%-1.2%. PanAust
(PNA.AU) falls 4.9% amid uncertainty over whether a A$1.5 billion takeover bid from Guangdong Rising
Assets Management will proceed. (david.rogers@wsj.com; Twitter: @DavidRogersWSJ)

1145 - After a few weeks of negative data surprises in Australia and a relatively dovish speech by
Reserve Bank of Australia Gov. Glenn Stevens, Goldman Sachs Australia says it is holding firm to its
view that official interest rates will be cut in September. Firmly in the minority among economists in
calling a coming rate cut, financial market bets on a rate cut in the second half of 2014 have nevertheless
risen over recent weeks. Interest rate futures are currently pricing a 50% probability of an interest rate
reduction by November 2014, and a 25% chance by September. One trigger for a near-term cut will
emerge soon as the Federal government is expected to soon scrap the country's carbon tax, which
Goldman says will see inflation risks retreat. (james.glynn@wsj.com)

1320 - Australian house prices rebounded in the past week, with Sydney prices up 11.5% in annualized
trend terms, according to ANZ Bank. "Despite consumer confidence remaining only moderately higher
than the recent post-Budget lows, home prices increased strongly in Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane in
the past week," ANZ Senior Property Analyst David Cannington says. Reserve Bank of Australia
Governor Glenn Stevens said earlier this month that "investors should take care" in the Sydney property
market after a large increase in borrowing and an increase in lending with high loan-to-value ratios in
recent quarters. The Governor also said some segments of the housing market appear to have been
calming down lately. (david.rogers@wsj.com; Twitter: @DavidRogersWSJ)

1332 - AUD/USD is currently hemmed in as low volatility accentuates the carry trade, while weak
economic data is strengthening expectations of another interest rate cut, according to NAB. "The push
versus pull of the low volatility, risk-on market against the signs of faltering in the domestic
economy--which is allowing the fixed income market to price in easing ahead--means that the Australian
dollar is stuck at present levels," NAB's Global Co-Head of FX Strategy, Ray Attrill says. "At current
levels of vol, which are historically low, we may need to see a more sustained rise in market risk aversion
before it reacts in the typically negative fashion." He recommends shorting AUD/USD on any spike
higher. (david.rogers@wsj.com; Twitter: @DavidRogersWSJ)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

July 14, 2014 00:58 ET (04:58 GMT)

CO

IN

NS

barc : Barclays PLC | bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | cnooc : CNOOC Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC | chno :
China National Offshore Oil Corporation
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial
Banking | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
ecat : Economic News | gpol : Domestic Politics | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial
Market News | namt : All Market Talk | nsmcm : Stock Market Commentary | nrmf : Routine
Market/Financial News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter

Page100of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

usa : United States | austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
| namz : North America | nswals : New South Wales

PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020140714ea7e000bk

Page101of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.