Domino's grows on hunger pangs of tighter households

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business - Trading Room
Domino's grows on hunger pangs of tighter households

Bianca Hartge-Hazelman
717 words
2 July 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
33
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

The best-performing stocks over the past financial year were largely driven by hunger pangs, as the
appetite for gold, nickel and fast food helped Domino's Pizza and a handful of resource companies
power ahead.

Australian benchmark the S&P/ASX 200 ended the financial year 12.35 per cent higher at 5395.7
points - the highest the market has been since mid-2008.

The top five included four resource companies - gold producer Northern Star (115 per cent), nickel
producer Western Areas (up 99 per cent), Independence Group (92.5 per cent) and Aquila Resources
(89.9 per cent).
Domino's Pizza was the only non-mining company with a strong gain of 97 per cent over the past
financial year after successfully expanding offshore and thriving in the midst of the post-budget blues,
which hurt retail spending.
"Domino's has been an amazing performer," Equity Trustees chief investment officer George
Boubouras said.

"In a traditional sense, fast food is resilient to lower consumer confidence. The last two readings on
confidence shows a surprisingly sharp fall, which would be consistent in households limiting their
discretionary purchases and, traditionally, substitution means staying at home and eating pizza and
drinking cheap bear."

Auscap Asset Management portfolio manager Tim Carleton added that Domino's had successfully
expanded into Europe and Japan and retained its premium growth multiple.

"Western Areas performed well largely due to the nickel price, which was up 37 per cent over the
course of the financial year," he said.

The return in the broader sharemarket builds on a gain of about 16 per cent last financial year and
comes as many market experts predict the new financial year will cement three years of double-digit
returns in the wake of the global financial crisis.

The strong benchmark gains were basically mirrored in the returns of the average balanced
superannuation fund, thanks to soaring equity markets, which are relishing in a new-found confidence
driven by central bank stimulus and record low volatility.
The worst performers included three resources companies - Paladin Energy (-66 per cent), rare earths
companyLynas Corp (-65.3 per cent) and Regis Resources (-43.3 per cent) - following weakness in
commodity prices.

Retailer The Reject Shop (49.3 per cent) and travel group Wotif.com (46.4 per cent) completed the
bottom five.

Page71of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."Wotif's business model faced stiff competition from offshore booking agencies. While The Reject Shop
was priced for strong growth as its store footprint expanded, but then disappointed with respect to
underlying earnings, so suffered from the double whammy of earnings downgrades and a de-rate of the
earnings multiple the company traded on," Mr Carleton said.
The best-performing sectors were information technology and energy, while health and consumer
staples put on the least amount of gains.

Retail stocks in particular were largely punished by investors.
Solid returns for Australian shares saw $168 billion added to the value of the top 200 companies,
taking the total to $1.7 trillion.

The five biggest banks, BHP Billiton and Telstra led the market rally because of their significant size
and power to shift momentum, while QBE Insurance, Coca-Cola Amatil and GrainCorp were the
heaviest laggards.

"Investors are chasing equities with high yields, given short-term interest rates are at or near historic
lows across much of the developed world, including Australia. This has led to strong gains in the share
prices of companies paying high fully franked dividends, including the major banks as well as some of
the other financials, consumer staples stocks and Telstra," industry expert Nathan Walsh said.

Australian shares are expected to move 11.5 per cent higher in the next 12 months, helped by central
bank stimulus and the willingness of investors to once again put their faith in mining stocks, despite the
end of the investment boom and Chinese growth slowing from its breakneck speed.

The standouts were companies that delivered in defiance of an economy growing at a below-trend
pace, such as SEEK and CSR.

The Commonwealth Bank cracked $80 a share and it was not even the best-performing bank stock in
the index - that honour belongs to Bank of Queensland.

NS

RE
PUB
AN

c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | m11 : Equity Markets | c15 : Performance | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140701ea720004g

Page72of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.