D'oOh! . . . A tale of two outdoor sales

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
D'oOh! . . . A tale of two outdoor sales

Jake Mitchell and Joyce Moullakis
1,022 words
6 December 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
38
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Inside the deal Confidence in the IPO process may not have served CHAMP as well as they'd hoped.
CHAMP Private Equity lost a crucial bet on Melbourne Cup day.

One of Australia's most renowned buyout firms was pursuing a dual track sale process for its outdoor
advertising business oOh!Media, including talks with free-to-air television group Nine Entertainment.
The vendor already had boutique firm Highbury Partnership, Macquarie Capital and JPMorgan in its
corner.

On the day of the race that stops the nation, a meeting was scheduled at the Sydney office of Nine's
adviser Greenhill & Co just prior to the starting gun. The parties sat around the negotiating table, while
most leading executives sipped champagne at Flemington's flamboyant Birdcage Enclosure or one of
many other functions.

Nine chief David Gyngell had flagged several times throughout the year he was keen on outdoor assets
and this was the last major one on the block after Quadrant Private Equity had sold APN Outdoor to the
public market a few weeks earlier.
Nine tabled an offer, believed to be just under $400 million, to buy oOh!Media. Nine was confident it
had arrived at the table with a fair bid, but another side of the story says the bid was flaky, non-binding
and basically unacceptable.
Nine was told that CHAMP had an offer from another suitor worth more than $400 million, with no
strings attached. This was likely referring to interest from US private equity firmThe Carlyle Group,
which was also in the mix. Carlyle tabled an indicative bid, but in a stop-start trade sale, didn't get as far
as complete due diligence.

The oOh!Media board went into the process with a preference for a float, unbeknownst to suitors, and it
wasn't going to accept anything bar a bid that would shoot the lights out. The priority was to have a deal
done in 2014.

CHAMP executives were not all that interested in negotiating with Nine. They were so confident in a
potential initial public offering, they did not even take Nine's written offer – which conceivably could have
been used as a bargaining tool with other parties – when they left Chifley about half-an-hour after the
Cup's conclusion.

There was an 11th-hour attempt to re-engage with Carlyle, but the float was well under way.

oOh!Media's chief Brendon Cook and right-hand man Peter McClelland embarked on a roadshow that
spanned Sydney, Melbourne, New Zealand and Hong Kong to front investors.

Herbert Smith Freehills provided legal advice on the transaction and KPMG steered the accounting
work.A strange outcome

Page91of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Fast-forward three weeks from race day and CHAMP's joint lead managers Macquarie and
JPMorgan closed an institutional book-build for the oOh!Media float at 7.5-times forecast earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, or an enterprise value of $365.5 million.

While the details of any negotiations are a grey area, this is surely a strange outcome. What makes it
even more curious is that Quadrant was able to sell APN Outdoor for 9.4-times EBITDA to the public
market about a month prior to the oOh!Media book-build.

It appears CHAMP was outmanoeuvred by Quadrant's managing director Chris Hadley, who saw the
value in beating CHAMP to the sale in order to dictate price.
The oOh!Mediasale was led by CHAMP director Darren Smorgon and dubbed "Project Bradman" by the
firm because when it paid around $200 million to take the company private in 2012, it called the
operation "Project Pigeon" in reference to the moniker of former Australian cricketer Glenn McGrath,
who, while playing often drew the chant: "ooh ahh, Glenn McGrath." The sale name followed the theme
and channelled the near-perfect Don Bradman. CHAMP paid another $110 million to Ten Network
Holdings in 2012 for outdoor business Eye Corp, which was folded into oOh!Media.
Unfortunately for CHAMP, the oOh!Mediasale had a few bumps.

The major pitch from CHAMP and Quadrant revolved around the digitisation of billboards and signs,
which makes outdoor companies more profitable because they are able to rotate ad inventory more
quickly and efficiently.

The benefits of the digital investment are clear, with APN Outdoor and oOh!Media both generating
strong earnings growth in recent years. Transactions in the traditional media space since 2010, not
including APN Outdoor and oOh!Media, have been completed at an average multiple of 8.1-times
EBITDA.

There is no doubt the market was suffering IPO fatigue at the time of oOh!Media's book-build last
month. Floats like Aconex and Green's Foods were pulled around that time, while SurfStitch had to be
repriced. There was also some bad news circulating on the loss of key contracts, which hit oOh!Media's
earnings.

An indicative price range of 8.2- to 8.8-times EBITDA was set. Macquarie's pre-marketing suggested
oOh!Media could be worth up to 9.8-times. The lacklustre debut from Medibank Private also didn't help
investor sentiment. Despite offering shares at a significant discount to APN Outdoor, the book-build,
held on November 27, was re-priced at 7.5-times. The float was well supported at this price and
managed to attract some big investors, with Perpetual expected to be a substantial shareholder when
oOh!Media lists on December 17. And nobody could question that CHAMP has put its money where its
mouth is. The firm did not sell down into the IPO and will maintain 32.2 per cent of the listed entity, until
at least after the release of oOh!Media's 2015 full-year result. This would give the indication they believe
there is significant upside to come.

On numbers alone, CHAMP may have lost the Melbourne Cup wager with Nine and Carlyle on the
valuation of oOh!Media. But like the big race the focus is on the horses that stay the distance.

amezza : Castle Harlan Australian Mezzanine Partners Pty Ltd | aotdpl : APN Outdoor Group Ltd. |
greeh : Greenhill & Co Inc | mcqbnk : Macquarie Group Limited | pitwo : OohMedia Group Ltd | qpeqpl :
Quadrant Private Equity Pty. Ltd. | humant : Human Therapeutics Pty Limited | prvnew : APN News &
Media Ltd
iinv : Investing/Securities | ifinal : Financial Services | i814 : Banking | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial
Vehicles | i8150203 : Private Equity | i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | i838 :
Advertising | iadv : Advertising/Marketing/Public Relations | ialtinv : Alternative Investments | ibcs :
Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | imark : Marketing | imed : Media/Entertainment |
ioutad : Outdoor Advertising
c1711 : Initial Public Offerings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | reqris : Suggested Reading
Investing/Securities | c02 : Corporate Changes | c14 : Stock Listings | c17 : Funding/Capital | c171 :
Share Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E
Industry News Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading
Industry News
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141205eac60000e

CO

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page92of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Page93of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.