No room for Pyne's flat-earth views in schools

No room for Pyne's flat-earth views in schools

By The Canberra Times

18 January 2014
Canberra Times
CANBTZ

HD
BY
WC 1,004 words
PD
SN
SC
PG B002
LA
CY
LP

English
(c) 2014 The Canberra Times

TD

No room for Pyne's flat-earth views in schools

'Christopher Pyne cannot bear that society has become better, more tolerant and progressive. He would
rather see it more hidebound and monocultural.

T he Labor Party, teaching unions, education academics, and P & Cs have all been accused of moving
the national curriculum to the left. The curriculum has become too "secular", "Asia-oriented", "left",
"progressive", "new age" and "politically correct", to use the words of former Liberal staffer and teacher
Kevin Donnelly who has been appointed by Education Minister Christopher Pyne to an inquiry to review
the curriculum. Pyne now wants to reverse the trend. He wants students to learn more about Australia's
Christian and British heritage. He is being applauded by commentators in The Australian, and condemned
everywhere else. But it is not the creators of the existing curriculum who have carried an agenda to move
it in a political direction, rather it is Pyne. Pyne wants the curriculum to propagate his narrow view of the
world. Previous development of the curriculum was not by deliberately engineered political acts. Rather it
was a natural evolution to reflect the changes in Australia and the world. Australia has, in fact, moved
closer to Asia. Britain and the US have been replaced by China and Japan as our major trading partners.
More Australians travel to Asia than Britain and the US. A higher proportion of immigrants now come from
Asia. Australia has, in fact, become more secular. Every census reveals a lower percentage of the
population practising religion or even nominating themselves as holding a religion. Australia has, in fact,
become less Christian as the proportion of people with other faiths grows. Australia has, in fact, become
more progressive. Equality of opportunity and support for it has spread and the law of the land promotes
it. Discrimination on grounds of disability, race and sexual orientation has become unacceptable and
unlawful. Australia has, in fact, become more politically correct, if by that term you mean that rampant
racist, sexist and homophobic conversation has become more socially unacceptable. Australia has
become more progressive and politically correct if by those terms you mean recognition of wrongs done to
indigenous people and legal and other steps to redress them. The changes in the formal national
curriculum have merely reflected these changes. They were not some concerted, deliberate plan to
subvert Australia's Christian British heritage. The importance of that heritage has been waning without
conspiratorial help from the Labor Party or the left. Bear in mind these societal changes were not
instigated by the Labor Party or the Greens. They were general trends. Menzies signed the treaty with
Japan. Fraser began Indo-Chinese immigration and passed the Northern Territory Land Rights Act. The
changes are not only reflected in formal education. As new teachers come into the system, they too infuse
these changes into their schools - in the way the schools are run, as well as what they teach. In short,
Pyne is the political creature. Pyne is trying to turn the schools into propagators of an out- dated and
unrealistic view of the world. And that is the fundamental

problem here. Christopher Pyne cannot bear that society has become better, more tolerant and
progressive. He would rather see it more hidebound and monocultural. Abbott should move him from a
social portfolio where the Tories like government to meddle to make things in their own image, to an
economic portfolio where they want government to do nothing. That way he would do less damage.

T here is much merit in Tony Abbott's view that the betterment of indigenous Australians can be achieved
by economic self-help. This week I came across a case of petty bureaucracy doing its best to stifle that
trend. On Badu Island, about halfway between Thursday Island and Papua New Guinea, there is a
quarry owned by the Badu Island Foundation Ltd. It employs up to 10 people and produces aggregate for

Page52of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.roads, drains and harbours throughout the Torres Strait. They want to buy better plant and equipment to
expand and become more efficient. So they applied for a loan to the Commonwealth's Torres Strait
Regional Authority. The authority has imposed an absurd and unacceptable condition on the loan - that
the directors give personal guarantees for it. That may be standard for small private companies, but
unheard of for a public not-for-profit company. The directors have no personal interest. They are just
being good citizens serving on an indigenous foundation. Obviously, they are liable for negligence or
malfeasance, but not for commercial failure. The authority says the condition was imposed by the
Australian Government Solicitor. The AGS says, no, it was put onto the loan document on instructions
from the authority. Impasse. Buck pass. The documents support the AGS view. But the upshot is no loan
money. The quarry has a positive cash flow and is a successful business. Some extra finance would
enable it to get better. The lives of Torres Strait islanders would be improved as road-making capacity
would be improved. Otherwise, the extra aggregate would have to come from a quarry via Cairns 800
kilometres away. This is a small example, but if it is in any way indicative of the hurdles put up against
indigenous businesses, small wonder we have such trouble improving indigenous living standards.

I f the Commonwealth has a debt crisis, why are 900 Australian Tax Office jobs being axed and the ATO
proposing that big accounting and law firms be allowed to sign off on large corporations' tax compliance?
This is bound to cost more in the long run. The big accounting and law firms will do what they always do:
charge big and play the tune that their paymasters call for. But since when did the Coalition want effective,
efficient government when it comes to gathering tax from their rich mates? www.crispinhull.com.au

53370520
gedu : Education | gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RF
NS
RE
PUB Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty Ltd
AN

Document CANBTZ0020140117ea1i00022

Page53of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.