Qantas takes hard line on market share

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Qantas takes hard line on market share

Jamie Freed
564 words
24 January 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
21
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Aviation - Carrier defends strategy

Qantas will not back down from its target of a 65 per cent share of the domestic aviation market
because doing so would be like "waving the white flag", says chief financial officer Gareth Evans.

Investors and analysts have begun to question whether Qantas should maintain such a hard line in
the sand on market share given the airline's weakened financial state amid strong competition from
Virgin Australia. In addition, the competition regulator last year began an investigation into potential
misuse of market power as a result of the target.

But in an opinion piece published in Friday's edition of The Age, Mr Evans stridently defends the
airline's strategy, saying that dumping the market-share target would lead to Qantas abandoning its
role in regional Australia and betraying the loyalty of its frequent flyers.

"Imagine someone saying Woolworths should start closing stores in response to the threat from
Coles," he said. "Anyone who advocates this kind of approach simply does not understand the way
business works. We plan to keep improving and strengthening our competitive advantages."

Mr Evans said the target was designed to give Qantas customers a market-leading choice of
destinations, frequencies and seats at the times when they want to travel.

His comments come as Qantas undertakes a strategic review, in which it could decide to sell assets
such as a minority stake in its frequent flyer program or Jetstar. Qantas has forecast it will report a
pre-tax loss of up to $300 million in the first half and has flagged plans to slash 1000 jobs and cut $2
billion of spending over the next three years.
Rival Virgin has filled its coffers with $350 million, mostly from three major foreign airline
shareholders, to help continue its battle against Qantas. Virgin is now at least 77 per cent foreign
owned. Qantas, which is barred from majority foreign ownership, has sought government help to
level the playing field.

The government is considering a proposal to provide a standby credit facility backed by a
government guarantee for which Qantas would pay a fee. The deal would not guarantee the airline's
existing debt but it could help return Qantas to an investment grade credit rating by showing it has
the government's backing.

Union leaders have suggested any government assistance should be dependent on the airline using
it to fund its Australian operations rather than grow its Jetstar joint ventures in Asia.
Qantas and its partners have yet to receive approval to launch Jetstar Hong Kong. Mr Evans
defended Qantas' investment in Jetstar's Asia arms, saying the total equity investment to date was
less than the outlay on a single A380.

Page258of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."That's far less than the inflated figures tossed around by those who would rather scapegoat Jetstar -
the same people who seize on any setback experienced by these start-up ventures as the 'real issue'
facing Qantas," he said. Mr Evans said the value of the airlines was already significantly higher than
their foundation capital, which UBS estimates at $270 million.

"[The value] will increase as the Asian middle class drives nearly half the world's air traffic growth
over the next 20 years," he said. "It takes breathtaking small-mindedness to dismiss this growth as
an 'Asian distraction'."

vrbair : Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd | qntas : Qantas Airways Ltd
i75 : Airlines | i7501 : Scheduled Passenger Airlines | iairtr : Air Transport | ilowair : Low Cost Airlines
| itsp : Transportation/Shipping
c313 : Market Share | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact
: Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140123ea1o00047

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page259of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.