Is it time to sell?

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Is it time to sell?

Rebecca Thistleton
1,391 words
20 September 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
23
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Property Letterboxes are crammed with real estate pamphlets luring us to list. Rebecca Thistleton
weighs the pros and cons of putting up the 'For Sale' sign.

How many real estate brochures and agents knocking on the door does it take before you ask
yourself: Should I sell?

Prices are rising, sentiment is strong and interest rates are low. So the temptation is there, but what
about finding another home to move to and the dangers of having to buy at the market's peak?

If thrashing it out over the dinner table hasn't offered a solution, perhaps the experts and a look at the
data can.

Potential sellers need to bear in mind that conditions vary greatly in the capital cities and regional
centres. And while the decision to sell relies on macro drivers such as price growth, economic
sentiment and interest rates, knowing the market at street level is also key.

Low stock levels mean vendors can confidently negotiate on commission, but, as with any service,
quality comes at a price. Commissions vary and depend on the agent, local competition and the price
bracket of the house. Agents depend on turnover – selling as many homes as possible. This can
mean a willingness to accept an offer.
A good agent is one who works for the vendor, not just the sale, and pushes hard for the best price.
For such a frothy market, the number of homes for sale is low. That means competition is high and
top-notch properties are drawing multiple bidders.
This is the dream scenario for a seller. A successful sale needs only one good offer. A good auction
needs two bidders. Multiple bidders generate great auctions and above-reserve prices.

Successful sales campaigns are evidenced in strong auction clearance rates, which have tracked
between 75 per cent and 83 per cent in Sydney and Melbourne.

Around the other capitals, where auctions are not as popular, days-on-market numbers have fallen
and vendors are selling their homes faster. Agents around Sydney, Brisbane and Melbourne's inner
suburbs are hopeful more sellers will list once the school holidays have passed.

However, before getting carried away, remember the market is patchy. In cities such as Perth and
Hobart, and in regional towns, vendors wistfully watch Sydney and Melbourne's clearance rates as
local sentiment remains sluggish. In those areas, low stock levels reflect a lack of vendor confidence.

RP Data figures show that new listings rose only 0.7 per cent in September compared with August –
just 0.1 per cent, seasonally adjusted. The rate of new listings in Sydney has fallen.

Page208of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."We had a late spring last year due to the federal election, and I think we'll have a late spring again
this year," says Belle Property principal Tim Foote, who expects new listings to lift later this year.

For now, the Sydney-based agent, who sells around the lower North Shore, says most winter stock
has been absorbed and listings levels are below expectations for this time of year.

As more stock comes to market, the reality of whether or not a shortage is driving competition will be
tested.

Picking the top of the market is a dark art, and there were suggestions in May this year that price
growth had run its course.

However, prices continued to creep higher during the cooler – and generally quieter – months. SQM
Research's Louis Christopher, who bullishly tipped last year's price gains of 15 per cent to 20 per
cent in Sydney and 10 per cent nationally, says there is more room for capital gains. He predicts
prices will rise 8 per cent to 12 per cent in Sydney in 2014-15 if interest rates are unchanged.

He expects Melbourne prices to rise 5 per cent to 9 per cent, and Brisbane 5 per cent to 8 per cent.

The ongoing growth has sparked debate about a possible housing bubble, which Christopher
dismisses. On Tuesday, Treasurer Joe Hockey called the bubble talk "lazy analysis". Regardless of
whether prices are keeping pace or behaving erratically, reports of homes selling for $100,000 and
$200,000 above reserve are encouraging for anyone considering a sale.

Modest homes in Sydney's inner-west and bigger family homes in Melbourne's inner-east have shot
the lights out at auction this year.

Vendors must weigh up whether to sell for a great price now or possibly an even higher price next
year.

Melbourne buyers' advocate Mal James says there has been talk from agents encouraging buyers to
take advantage of low interest rates, leading some to warn of a looming bubble. But around his
stomping ground, the million-dollar-plus inner-east of Melbourne, interest rates are not the driver.

"From our experience of buying 100-plus homes every year, we see that very few inner-Melbourne
multimillion-dollar homes are bought on 90 per cent debt ratios," James says.
Houses in the million-dollar-plus market tend to follow sharemarket trends and reflect broader
economic drivers rather than interest rates.

Industry leaders agree a rate rise is likely in 2015, which impacts on everyone in a different way, but
overall sentiment towards the market could shift as a result. Those thinking of selling need to
consider the needs of the buyer and take a forensic approach to the market.

Low interest rates have encouraged investors to buy.

Investor-priced stock will sell well in areas where supply is low, while apartments in over-supplied
markets such as Melbourne's CBD will struggle as the influx of new apartment stock dilutes the buyer
pool.

A flurry of buyer activity is good news for sellers, but Neil Smoli, director of property investment and
research firm Aviate, warns against blindly following the herd.

Sellers wanting the best prices tend to be around the same popular areas – developed suburbs, close
to transport, with open space. Smoli says buyers need to hunt out the lesser-picked pockets to avoid
paying a premium.

"Often it is those suburbs neighbouring hot-spot suburbs, which enjoy similar benefits and investment
prospects but aren't yet awash with properties at inflated prices, that offer the greatest potential
upside for investors," he says.
Homes in inner suburbs near schools, transport and services priced up to $2.5 million have attracted
strong interest from families wanting to upgrade.

Given the popularity of going to auction in Melbourne, James tracks bidder numbers and says there
have been more than two bidders per auction each week for quality family homes.

"That says to us the bidder depth should be able to soak up this first wave of spring stock – meaning
buyers will have to compete," he says.

Page209of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Demand from Chinese buyers for prestige housing is healthy and should encourage potential
vendors. Chinese property portal juwai.com reports Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and the Gold
Coast are all among the top 10 cities searched for internationally.

That demand may lift the top end of the market, which James says is relatively soft and not as
consistent as the lower and family home market, priced from about $750,000.

In Perth, agent Scott Banister-Jones says apartments are plentiful and may be harder to shift,
whereas homes on big blocks are strong sellers.

One Melbourne vendor who picked the right time to sell was Chris Mitchell, who sold his
one-bedroom apartment in Port Melbourne for $615,000 – more than $10,000 per square metre.

His agent, RT Edgar's Gerald Betts, says the property sold well because it was in the landmark
HMAS building with water views and big floor plans.

Mitchell says he will rent for the next year and then look to buy. This may be a wise move, as
RP Data analysts note early signs the market may tip back in the buyer's favour. RP Data reports
vendor discounting has risen, showing buyers have a slightly better position when negotiating on
price.

Choosing the time to sell is a weighty decision most people make just a handful of times. The same
can be said for buying a new home. Regardless of market sentiment, there will always be a need for
people to buy and sell. The difference comes down to the right month and year to make that call.

IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
e1202 : Interest Rates | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia
Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | queensl : Queensland
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140919ea9k0001l

Page210of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.