City & Country: Property Briefs

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

City & Country: Property Briefs

Compiled by Jo-Ann Huang
1,132 words
21 October 2014
The Edge Singapore
EDGESI
English
(c) 2014 The Edge Publishing Pte Ltd. All Rights Reserved.

Shophouse units in Siglap for sale

Two ground floor shophouses (top) at the corner of Figaro Street and Jalan Tua Kong in the Siglap area
have been put up for sale by tender. The two shophouses at 1 and 1B Figaro Street have a lease tenure
of 9,999-years and dual frontage. Its immediate surroundings are landed houses, F&B outlets and
service retailers. Both units are owned by related parties and are offered for sale together. They will be
sold with existing tenancies, with one of the units currently leased to a popular European bistro. 1 Figaro
Street is sized at 2,021 sq ft, while 1B is sized at 1,500 sq ft. The guide price for the two units is $8
million and investors can expect a gross rental return in excess of 3.5%, says Galven Tan, director of
investment properties at CBRE, the marketing agent for the properties. The tender closes on Nov 28.

September home sales posts

50% increase m-o-m

New home sales for September excluding executive condominiums reached 648 units, registering a 50%
increase month-on-month. The improvement is attributed to the resumption of market activity after the
Hungry Ghost Festival, says Ong Teck Hui, national director of research and consultancy at JLL. Monthly
sales volume is still subdued compared with the pre-total debt servicing ratio period, he adds. Of the 648
developer units sold in September, 272 units were from new launches while the remaining 376 units
were from earlier launches.
There were 514 new units launched for sale in September, with five new launches, namely M5 and One
Duchess in the core central region (CCR), 70 St Patrick's in the outside central region (OCR) as well as
Forte Suites and Highline Residences in the rest of central region (RCR). Highline Residences by Keppel
Land and 70 Saint Patrick's by UOL Group reported the highest take-up rates.
In 3Q2014, developers sold 1,596 new private homes, the lowest quarterly sales since 4Q2008, says
JLL. In the year before the total debt servicing ratio was imposed, quarterly sales averaged 5,000 units,
which was treble the volume in 3Q2014. "This shows the extent to which demand has weakened in the
primary market," says Ong..

Chia Siew Chuin, director of research and advisory at Colliers International expects new home sales for
the month of October to be in the range of 500 to 700 units, in light of the healthy take-up rate at Marina
One Residences.

CDL first developer in Asia

to adopt PPVC method for EC
Singapore's giant listed property developer City Developments Ltd (CDL) will be the first developer in
Asia to adopt the use of Prefabricated Prefinished Volumetric Construction (PPVC) in a large scale
residential development. The project is the 636-unit executive condo (top) by CDL in Canberra Drive.
The project will have eight 10 to 12 storey blocks, and will be constructed using some 3,300 building
modules, possibly the largest application of PPVC in the world. The use of PPVC for the EC is expected
to increase construction productivity by more than 40% and save some 5,500 man days compared with

Page24of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.the conventional construction method, according to CDL. Consequently, the EC is expected to be
completed four months ahead of schedule.

Resale home prices slide in September
The Singapore Real Estate Exchange Property Index (SPI) recorded a 0.3% drop in residential resale
prices for September compared with August. The OCR drove the overall index down with a price
decrease of 2.1%. On the other hand, prices in the CCR and the RCR went up by 0.9% and 2.9%
respectively. September prices in the CCR continued to rise after a 4.2% gain in August. Overall prices
have declined by 5.6% since its last high in January, while dropping 4.6% y-o-y. Resale volumes
increased by 15.3% m-o-m, while rental volumes fell by 14%.

Keppel Land to commence

Phase Two of Manila project
Keppel Land is expanding its commercial portfolio with the development of Phase Two of its SM-KL
project (left) in the Ortigas CBD in Manila, the Philippines. Phase Two comprises a 42-storey office
building and an extension of The Podium, an existing five-storey retail building that is part of Phase One.
The total construction cost for Phase Two is $336 million.

The project is jointly-developed by Keppel Land through Keppel Philippine Properties, and Banco de Oro,
the banking arm of Philippine conglomerate SM Group. To be completed in 2019, the new office tower
will have a net lettable area (NLA) of 957,996 sq ft. The expansion of The Podium adds more than
365,976 sq ft of retail space and bringing the total retail NLA to 538,200 sq ft when completed in 2016.
The Podium is 90% leased to brands such as Philip Stein, Calvin Klein, Topshop, Dorothy Perkins and
Nike.

Lake Life EC more than

three-times subscribed
Lake Life, a new executive condo (EC) in the Jurong Lake district by an Evia Real Estate-led consortium,
announced that it has received 1,853 e-applications for its 546 units. This means the project is more than
three-times subscribed, the highest number of e-applications ever received for an EC. Of all the
applications, about 66% are second-time applicants, with an average age of 42 years. The EC is
developed by Evia Real Estate, BBR Holdings, OKP Holdings, Ho Lee Group and CNH Investment, a
joint venture between two privately-held construction companies. Lake Life has a selection of two- to
five-bedroom units. It is scheduled for completion in December 2017.
Asia Pacific hotel transactions

at US$3.9 billion in 1H2014, says JLL
Transaction volumes in the hotel sector across Asia-Pacific totalled US$3.9 billion ($4.97 billion) for
1H2014, says JLL in its hotel investment report. This is 6.5% higher than the level of transactions
achieved in 1H2013. Asian hotel markets recorded the lion's share of activity with sales totalling US$3.5
billion, compared with Australasia's US$0.6 billion. Japan and China dominated, with US$1 billion of
sales each, and accounted for 60% of the deal flow.
"There is a definite trend among hotel investors to look further afield and consider markets that may not
have been on the radar just a few years ago," says Scott Hetherington, CEO of JLL's hotel and
hospitality group. While investment is becoming more geographically widespread, major gateway cities
continued to see the highest volume of transactions, for instance, Shanghai, Sydney, Tokyo, Melbourne
and Osaka. - Compiled by Jo-Ann Huang

IN
NS

RE

iretail : Retail | i64 : Retail/Wholesale
e1121 : Home Sales/Housing Affordability | ereal : Real Estate Markets | nsum : News Digests | e11 :
Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
phlns : Philippines | singp : Singapore | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | seasiaz :
Southeast Asia

PUB The Edge Publishing Pte Ltd
AN

Document EDGESI0020141021eaal0000b

Page25of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.