Data: this century's oil boom

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Supplement - Special Report
Data: this century's oil boom

Technology Mark Eggleton
1,351 words
18 March 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
3
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Big data is the current relatively amorphous buzz concept that has grabbed the attention of business
over the last couple of years.

Yet while we suffer occasional bouts of paranoia concerning the data collection techniques of
governments, Google, Facebook or Twitter, one man really led them all.

Amazon's Jeff Bezos, who exhorts employees with the phrase "This is still day one", understood that
data was in many ways the oil of the 21st century.

Andreas Weigend, a former Amazon chief scientist and current lecturer at Stanford University and
the Cheung Kong Graduate School of Business in China, the big challenge for business is figuring
out who refines the oil (data) and how it will be refined.

Mr Weigend who has consulted to businesses and groups as diverse as Goldman Sachs, AT&T,
Alibaba and the World Economic Forum will be presenting at Sydney's World Business Forum.

He says today's successful companies are able to make sense of their data because they are able to
"quantify their model of customer delight."

"Data gives you all the answers so the challenge for business is to ask the right questions. The
problem for many businesses is they don't know which questions to ask."
Though each company model differs, a fruitful starting point is to express strategic goals as
concrete equations.

"It's a bit like a recipe where you have to weigh the ingredients like the flour and the sugar. It's
relatively easy to find the right weight of ingredients as opposed to sitting and trying to agree what
needs to be done."Better or worse

One of the first things Mr Weigend asks companies when he's consulting is whether the product gets
better with data or worse.

He says companies need to engineer their systems so they get better with data because ultimately it
is all about helping people make better decisions.
"It's about regret minimisation because we want you to buy stuff you believe in."
It's the secret of Amazon, which markets itself as Earth's most customer-centric company – as it
records every keystroke and page you click through in a bid to improve the user experience on your
next visit by customising you. Interestingly, being treated as an individual is more back to the future
than a new-fangled idea.

Page298of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Wind back the clock just over a century and a visit to the local grocery store to buy bread and milk or
sugar and flour saw you treated as an individual.
The shopkeeper knew regular customers individually and would remember favoured purchases.

It was in the immediate aftermath of the industrial revolution and the advent of mass production that
created the mass consumer.

The first Fords off the production line were built for the masses – in any colour as long it was black.

The only market segmentation was in the different levels of retail catalogues posted out to
consumers.

Segmenting the market was expensive because everything had to be manually recorded and all the
marketing collateral had to be sent by mail.

Data means those expensive constraints are no longer there. Individuality is king

For example, American Express employs a team of statisticians in the US who figure out what offers
to show each individual based on their transactions over the last month.
"The market is no longer about segmentation by group but coming up with offers for individuals –
from catalogue segments to individual segments once a month," Mr Weigend says.

"With mobile's shareability we can break up data further from a segment size of one to a segment
size of one tenth.

"We can tell how far you have walked today, whether you're passing the shop and running late or
early for work, which tells us you might be in the market for a cappuccino."

It's this level of tracking which does tend to make consumers (especially in Western nations) a little
skittish.

In the wake of Edward Snowden's revelations many people are worried about the amount of
personal data they're sharing.

Mr Weigend agrees we need to have a debate on the level of data being retained but he says we do
tend to worry more about the rare downside risk than we do the long-term benefits.

"There is no black and white answer it's all very grey.

"We have to ask ourselves what sort of society do we want to engineer and what are the potential
downside risks of someone sharing our data," he says.

"I want to help consumers make decisions in an informed way because it is very tricky.

"We need to ask what are the role of secrets and which level of granularity we want – do we want to
be seen as an individual or as just another citizen?

"Do we want to be seen as a person who sits next to another guy in the office who bought the same
book or would you rather order anonymously as an individual?" Thinking has changed

A key point for Mr Weigend is data has always been available; it's just the economics of data and
surveillance that have changed.

For example, a century ago your every move could have been tracked, by a team of private eyes,
but it was prohibitively expensive. Nowadays, every time your mobile rings it's providing data of your
exact location to your phone company. And it costs virtually nothing.

In some ways, the level of data available does virtually render government census obsolete.
Mr Weigend cites the examples of Tencent's Wechat service and Alibaba in China, both of whom
probably know more block-by-block about Chinese consumers than the government.

"In the UK, Tesco has better data than the census."

Yet while business and consumers do have a lot of questions to ask about data collection and its
use there are plenty of examples where better data collection does lead to a better customer
experience.

Page299of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Weigend believes Amazon is a great example, because Jeff Bezos understands the constraints
of the past no longer apply.
Hotel booking site Agoda uses data constructively rather than just pushing rooms to consumers.
"Hotel inventory is extremely perishable and it makes short-term sense to just push excess inventory
but we found that we're better off really trying to show people what they're looking for because user
acquisition costs are high.

"It's easy to optimise things short-term and screw up on the long-term. Good and bad

"We also started to differentiate between good clicks and bad clicks. Traditionally, if people click that
is a good thing but if it was a short click we were clearly not giving consumers what they wanted
while a long click meant they were engaging with a property," he said.

Weigend already sees plenty of simple examples of how sharing data works.

"I recently saw an offering in San Francisco where as you drive to the airport you can organise to
rent your car while you're away. So simple.
"The company knows when you'll be back and they can match your car to someone who has just
arrived.

"They know when you're back and they can make sure your car is there when you return.

"Suddenly, what used to be a cost is a potential money maker.

"I could see a car rental business like Hertz or Avis offering car-sharing where you let your car to
them as a management company and they just ensure your car or a replacement is there on return.

"It would save on their fleet costs and it's matching data with needs."
Weigend mentions US finance start-up SigFig (see related report) as another company shaking up
an industry through better use of data.

As for advice to business, Weigend says some companies and organisations use big data to not
make decisions.

Business needs to make decisions and act rather than wait for more data.

"There should be no analysis paralysis." he concluded.

amzcom : Amazon.com, Inc.
i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i656000301 : Etailing (B2C) | iretail : Retail
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140317ea3i00013

CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

Page300of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.