Funds Dip Toes Into Australian Water

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Funds Dip Toes Into Australian Water

By Ross Kelly
1,009 words
13 March 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
17
English
Copyright © 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

SYDNEY -- Australian fund managers are eying an increasingly liquid market: water.

A state-run system giving farmers fixed allocations for river water flowing into the country's agricultural
heartland is tempting speculators to buy up those rights in anticipation of higher prices.

A specialist fund manager, Blue Sky Alternative Investments Ltd., recently raised 20 million
Australian dollars (US$18 million) to pour into the fledgling market, following earlier moves by San
Diego, Calif.-based Summit Global and VicSuper, one of Australia's biggest pension funds.
According to Australian government estimates, the water rights are worth A$26 billion, although only
a fraction are traded. Farmers use most of their entitlements to irrigate land on which they grow
everything from macadamia nuts to cotton.

Investors globally have long studied the potential of buying into water as an alternative to
commodities such as wheat or oil, as shifts such as population growth and urbanization strain
supplies.
According to the World Economic Forum, an organization that hosts business leaders in the Swiss
resort of Davos each year, demand for water globally for individual and industrial use will exceed
supply by 40% in 2030.

However, technical limitations have constrained the more advanced use of derivatives and other tools
for managing risks and pricing in the water market. Small-scale trading of water occurs in some U.S.
states, such as Arizona, but no comprehensive platform for open dealing exists.

Adding to the challenge is the perception that water is abundantly available.

Moving water can be expensive, either to places experiencing drought, or between buyers and sellers
that aren't located close together. Also, putting a price on water is politically unacceptable in many
countries, where access to lakes and rivers is considered a basic right.

As a result, investors have largely chosen to bet on infrastructure and technology linked to water
production, transport and storage.
Two years ago, China Investment Corp., that country's sovereign-wealth fund, acquired 8.7% of
Thames Water, a closely held utility responsible for the public water supply in London. Another U.K.
water provider, Severn Trent PLC, rejected a GBP 5.3 billion (US$8.8 billion) takeover bid by a
consortium of British, Kuwaiti and Canadian infrastructure investors last year.

For many investors, Australia's water-trading system is the most advanced. Since 2007, people have
no longer needed to own land in the Murray Darling basin -- a vast system of interconnected rivers
and tributaries in eastern Australia that feeds the country's major food bowl -- to be eligible to buy and
sell water rights.

Page168of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Water in the Murray-Darling basin is allocated to landholders who can either use it on their property or
offer it for sale. The federal government decides how much water can be removed, based on rainfall
levels.

The government is also an active trader, seeking to guard against too much river water being
extracted and causing environmental damage.

Currently, there are nearly 16,300 gigaliters of water in the Murray-Darling basin -- roughly equivalent
to 33 times the water contained in Sydney Harbor. The price of an entitlement in the basin ranges
from A$900 to A$1,800 a megaliter, according to Australian government data.

"It is a lot easier and more transparent to invest in water in Australia" than in other countries, said Kim
Morison, managing director of Blue Sky.
The Brisbane-based asset manager's recent fundraising comes after it invested around A$80 million
on behalf of Summit Global between 2008 and 2011.

As the world's driest inhabited continent, Australia is prone to droughts, which Blue Sky is betting will
boost returns from water relative to other asset classes such as equities.

Blue Sky believes it can generate a net return, after management fees, of 10% a year over a
five-to-seven year holding period. Returns are based on a combination of any capital appreciation in
the value of the water entitlements it invests in, and the yield that is generated from selling annual
water allocations to buyers such as farmers.

By far the largest third-party investor in the Murray Darling basin is VicSuper, a Melbourne-based
pension fund that manages around A$10 billion in assets.
Another player is Melbourne-based Tandou Ltd., which currently has around A$30 million in water
entitlements.

"Agricultural investment is a growing area and water is a key part of that," said Oscar Fabian,
VicSuper's chief investment officer.

Still, VicSuper's returns on investment in water have been volatile, partly because of the lack of a
single national exchange in Australia. Periods of extreme weather, particularly heavy rainfall, have
magnified the risks.

For many institutional investors, the potential dangers remain too great. Tyndall Investment
Management Ltd., the local subsidiary of Tokyo-based Nikko Asset Management, attempted to raise
A$100 million from Australian and overseas investors for a water-focused fund last year. It
abandoned those plans as big investors shied away from an investment without a proven record of
returns.
"I don't want to gild the lily and tell you there is billions of dollars of investment capital ready to flood
the Australian water market overnight," said Richard Lourey, who led that fundraising effort before
leaving Tyndall in September.

Still, intensifying deal activity in Australian agricultural assets, including a three-way takeover tussle
for Warrnambool Cheese and Butter Factory Co. and Archer Daniels Midland Co.'s failed A$3 billion
bid for GrainCorp Ltd., is helping to change attitudes to water as an investment, Mr. Lourey said.
Australia exports about 70% of its food output, making it a critical supplier of meat and dairy goods to
markets such as China. As incomes in North Asia rise, people will likely rely more on Australia's food
bowl and an efficient use of water, he said.
"I can certainly see A$2 billion of third-party capital coming into the market over the next five years,"
Mr. Lourey said.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

CO
IN

bsaltd : Blue SKY Alternative Investments Ltd
i01001 : Farming | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i17 : Water Utilities | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco |
i8150211 : Unit Trusts/Mutual Funds | i831 : Financial Investments | iinv : Investing/Securities | i0 :
Agriculture | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifinal : Financial
Services | iutil : Utilities

Page169of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE

IPC
PUB
AN

c314 : Pricing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ciprof : Industry Profile | neqac : Equities Asset
Class News | reqris : Suggested Reading Investing/Securities | c31 : Marketing | ncat : Content Types
| nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | redit : Selection of Top
Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
AEQI
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document AWSJ000020140312ea3d00015

Page170of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.