CPA Global Appoints Marcos Antunes as General Manager Asia Pacific

HD
CR
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

CPA Global Appoints Marcos Antunes as General Manager Asia Pacific

CPA Global; PR Newswire
627 words
25 September 2014
10:15
PR Newswire Europe
TWOTEN
English
Copyright © 2014 PR Newswire Europe Limited. All Rights Reserved.

SYDNEY, September 25, 2014 /PRNewswire/ --
CPA Global, the world's leading specialist in intellectual property (IP) software and services, has
appointed Marcos Antunes to head up its business across Asia Pacific, which is a major growth area for
the Company.

     (Logo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20130910/638525 )

     (Photo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20140924/708461 )

As General Manager, Asia Pacific, Antunes is responsible for leading CPA Global's continued expansion
in the region, helping meet the rapidly increasing demand for IP management services and software.
Antunes has a strong commercial background and extensive business experience in Asia Pacific. Before
joining CPA Global, he was Business Development Director, Asia Pacific, for international marketing
services company TAG, part of the Deutsche Post DHL Group. In this role, Antunes led key client
relationships in regional markets including Japan, Mainland China, Hong Kong, South Korea, Singapore
and Australia.

Previously, Antunes worked for 10 years with Madrid-based AFA Press, a leading content and service
provider for international media. He held a number of senior management positions with AFA Press, most
latterly being Commercial Director, responsible for managing teams across 32 countries. Before that, he
was Regional Sales Director, covering emerging markets in Asia, Middle East, South America and Africa.

Commenting on Antunes' appointment, CPA Global's Chief Business Development Officer, Simon
Webster, said: "We are delighted to appoint Marcos Antunes to lead our business expansion in Asia
Pacific. This is an important region for CPA Global and a major part of our international growth strategy."

Added Antunes: "This is an exciting time for the IP industry in Asia Pacific and for CPA Global. With our
world-class IP management solutions, CPA Global is strongly positioned to support the ongoing
development of regional IP markets and to help meet the ever-increasing demand for IP services and
software from corporations and law firms across Asia Pacific."

About CPA Global  
CPA Global is the world's leading intellectual property (IP) management software and services
specialist, and an international provider of outsourced legal services. With offices across Europe, the
United States and Asia Pacific, CPA Global supports many of the world's best known corporations and
law firms with a range of IP and broader legal services, helping them to manage risk, cost and capacity,
and realise greater value for their businesses and IP assets.

CPA Global helps corporates and law firms in managing valuable IP Rights, such as patents, designs and
trademarks, ensuring that IP portfolios are protected, maintained and regularly reviewed in order to
maximise value. Working closely with its clients, CPA Global ensures they have the best information on
which to base IP decisions, and the best support in terms of helping implement those decisions. CPA
Global is also a leading player in the outsourced legal services sector, providing high quality and

Page95of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.cost-efficient legal support services such as transaction support, contract management, anti-bribery and
compliance, and legal research.

Founded in Jersey, Channel Islands in 1969, CPA Global today employs more than 1,800 people, serving
clients' needs in 200 jurisdictions through its own offices and an extensive agent network. CPA Global's
diverse client list ranges from major global corporations, headquartered in Europe, North America and
Asia Pacific, to small and medium-sized enterprises and innovation start-ups; and from top international
law firms to national and regional law and IP firms. For further information, please visit:
http://www.cpaglobal.com.

Media Contacts: 

Steve Clark +44(0)207549-5504, sclark@cpaglobal.com

Victoria Knowles +44(0)20-7549-4585, vknowles@cpaglobal.com

ART |
CO
IN

NS

RE

cpannu : CPA Global Ltd | dbppst : Deutsche Post AG | cinii : Cinven Ltd
i7901 : Postal Service | i835 : Legal Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | icargo :
Freight/Cargo Transport | itsp : Transportation/Shipping
c411 : Management Moves | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | npress : Press Releases | c41 :
Management | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin :
C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | hkong : Hong Kong | sydney : Sydney | taiwan : Taiwan | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz :
Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | china : China | chinaz : Greater China |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals :
New South Wales
CPA Global
CPR

IPD
IPC
PUB PR Newswire Association, Inc.
AN

Document TWOTEN0020140925ea9p00001

Page96of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.