Australian's bet on China gas begins to pay off

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Australian's bet on China gas begins to pay off

441 words
5 December 2014
Syrian Arab News Agency
SYRANA
English
© 2014 SANA. All Rights Reserved. Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company

An Australian entrepreneur's bet on natural gas acreage in a Chinese desert cast off by Chevron Corp is
set to reap far bigger returns than expected, a director of the firm behind the project said.
In what appears a rare bright spot for gas investments, as global energy prices slump, the project is
benefiting from Beijing's policies to boost output of the cleaner-burning fuel.

Chevron gave up a 50 percent stake in 3,000 square km in China's Ordos Basin to Australian Bernard
Ridgeway in 2005, in return for spending $7 million to drill and assess the resource.

It was in a very undeveloped state at that time, so it was a fairly big punt, said Gavin Harper, a
non-executive director recruited by Ridgeway for the firm he founded, Sino Gas & Energy .
Nine years later, after snaring the rest of Chevron's interest for free and then selling a 51 percent stake
to Hong Kong-based MIE Holdings Corp for $100 million, Sino Gas started producing this week.

The acreage is in an area known for reserves of tight gas, which needs horizontal drilling and fracturing
technology to free gas trapped in rock.
Sino's pilot production, targeted to reach 25 million cubic feet a day, marks the first step toward
certifying reserves. It then needs a final development plan approved before it can move to full production,
expected in 2017.

The blocks it owns with MIE and state-owned partners potentially could hold 4 trillion cubic feet of gas,
equivalent to Japan's annual demand and much bigger than first thought.

SWITCH TO GAS
Besides scale, it is benefiting from China's push to use gas instead of coal to cut pollution and
emissions, which has led to two gas price rises since the project was conceived.

Sino Gas has agreed a selling price of $9.50 per thousand cubic feet (Mcf) to a customer in Shanxi,
more than four times its production cost of $2 per Mcf, Sino Gas Chief Executive Glenn Corrie told
Reuters.
Analysts say the firm's key challenges are to secure approvals on its reserve assessments and
development plan from the government and its production sharing partners China National Petroleum
Corp (CNPC) and CUCBM, a state-owned company led by CNOOC Ltd, within the next two years.
Noting how it should be shielded from plunging oil prices, Euroz analyst Michael Skinner has a Sino Gas
target price of A$0.42. The stock last traded at A$0.19, valuing the company at A$293 million ($246
million).International

CO
IN

RE

miehoc : MIE Holdings Corp | socal : Chevron Corporation
i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | iextra : Natural
Gas/Oil Extraction | iexplo : Natural Gas/Oil Exploration
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

Page109of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Oil & Gas

IPD
PUB Syrian Arab News Agency
AN

Document SYRANA0020141205eac5000ru

Page110of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.