CITY BEAT

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
CITY BEAT

JAMES McCULLOUGH
604 words
2 April 2014
The Courier-Mail
COUMAI
CourierMail
25
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

HOW MUCH TO ROCKY?

YELLOW Cabs chief Neill Ford is moving north.

The polo-playing Ford (below) has just acquired Rocky Cabs and is on the advertising bandwagon
up north. In fact, he is on the radio there almost hourly saying how proud he is to be in the tropical
north.

Ford doesn’t muck about with taxis.

The keen rally driver and Mercedes enthusiast has built a multimillion-dollar taxi empire from very
little and most of it on . . . blood, sweat and hard work.

CHANGE OF FORTUNE IMAGINE our surprise when we discovered this week that former high
profile 1980s and ’90s Brisbane businessman Ross Palmer was . . . bankrupt.

He recently declared himself bankrupt with debts of an estimated $800,000. Bankruptcy trustee Nick
Combis from Vincent accountants yesterday confirmed the move, saying the amount was owed
mainly to financial institutions and the bankruptcy move was initiated by Palmer on a voluntary basis.
Calls to Palmer met with no response yesterday.

FAMILY WIN DAY A LONG-running legal corporate stoush in New Farm, which had attracted
significant interest, was wound up in the Supreme Court recently.
The Holzapfel family won a judgment against New Farm accountant Phillip Ham, who sold his home
in the area last year for a cool $5 million.

The Holzapfels took Ham to court over alleged breach of trust involving a family trust which had as
its trustee a company controlled by Ham.

Supreme Court Justice Anthe Philippides ruled in favour of the Holzapfels and instructed Ham and
the company to pay $4.06 million after a long court case.
What was it all about? Apparently things turned sour with a dispute over whether Ham’s company
bought some property for itself or the Holzapfel family trust and who was entitled to the money when
the property was sold.

TAX HORRORS THE neighbours are wondering how long before we see a few Louis Vuitton
suitcases on the footpath.

After all, that’s what the famous one time owner the late Senor Chris Skase did all those years ago
as he left for Spain.

Page223of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Local bizzoid Yii Hii bought Skase’s old home in arguably one of the best streets in Brisbane,
Dickson Terrace, and has been living there for a few years. Mr Hii’s main interest is a mining
company in the Philippines with the encouraging name of Investwell Mining.

Our spies report visiting Mr Hii and his charming wife often and being treated to a very elaborate
Chinese tea sit-down despite the fact Mr Hii hails from Malaysia.

Anyway, as widely reported recently, Mr Hii now has a big problem. The Australian Taxation Office is
chasing him for an unpaid tax bill allegedly $70 million.

No doubt if he had to he could sell a few things. He could of course start in the garage. He owns two
(yep, two) Bentleys, a Ferrari, a Rolls-Royce and one of the best cars ever produced . . . a
Lamborghini.

Attempts to contact Mr Hii were unsuccessful.

GREEN SHOOTS JONES Lang Lasalle has announced an almost doubling of its Valuation and
Advisory business in Queensland, led by the appointment of leading industry figures Troy Linnane
and Dennis Morgan. Praise the lord.
The move sees virtually the entire Queensland residential development valuation team from Colliers
International join JLL in Brisbane.

GEM JOBKIWI jeweller Michael Hill, which bases its international operations in Brisbane, has
appointed Joe Talcott as its supreme salesman – well, chief marketing officer. He is one of
Australia’s best-known marketers, having worked at McDonald’s and also News Corp, publisher of
The Courier-Mail.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | queensl :
Queensland
News Ltd.
Document COUMAI0020140401ea420001j

Page224of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.