Leung faces twin probes into cash payments

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Local (Hong Kong News)
Leung faces twin probes into cash payments

Joyce Ng, James Griffiths and Benjamin Robertson
476 words
10 October 2014
South China Morning Post
SCMP
1
1
English
(c) 2014 South China Morning Post Publishers Limited, Hong Kong. All rights reserved.

ICAC vows to handle case impartially, while Australian senator seeks police action
Hong Kong’s graft-buster and police in Australia will launch separate investigations into a HK$50
million deal between Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying (pictured) and an Australian firm.

The Independent Commission Against Corruption (ICAC) received a complaint filed by the Neo
Democrats political party yesterday after details of the deal were revealed by Fairfax newspapers in
Australia on Wednesday. An ICAC spokesman said the commission would handle the case
“impartially, independently and [lawfully]”.

Secretary for Justice Rimsky Yuen Kwok-keung said he had delegated full responsibility to Director
of Public Prosecutions Keith Yeung Ka-hung to avoid any perception of bias.

In Australia, a senator asked federal police to investigate if the deal broke foreign bribery laws.

The Australian media reported how Leung was paid HK$50 million in an agreement with
engineering firm UGL in December 2011 – six months before he became chief executive. UGL was
seeking to buy insolvent property firm DTZ, of which Leung was a director and chairman of its
Asia-Pacific branch.

The deal – made two days before Leung resigned from DTZ and the completion of the takeover –
stipulated that he would receive the money in two instalments in 2012 and 2013. UGL and Leung
said the money was to prevent him from forming or joining a rival firm within two years.

The agreement included an “additional commitment” clause, in which Leung agreed to “[act] as a
referee and adviser from time to time” if UGL asked.

This has raised questions about whether part of the money was to secure Leung’s future services.
As chief executive, Leung could not take up a paid advisory job for a commercial entity.

Leung inserted a handwritten clause into the contract saying he would perform the required duty
“provided that it does not create any conflict of interest”.

UGL said that the vendor in the deal, the Royal Bank of Scotland, and their advisers were fully
aware of UGL’s intention to enter into an arrangement with Leung.

Lawmaker Albert Ho Chun-yan said the clause “would not save Leung” because he had already
pocketed the money. Ho also asked if Leung had declared it to the chief justice. Leung’s office did
not respond last night.

The deal is also controversial because DTZ’s administrator, Ernst & Young, was not informed about
its details.

Page239of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.David Webb, deputy chairman of the Takeovers and Mergers Panel under the Security and Futures
Commission, said Ernst & Young should have been informed so it could “consider whether an
excessive amount of the value of the business was being shifted from the company to its director
and management”.

Additional reporting by Andrea Chen and Tony Cheung

RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
South China Morning Post Publishers Limited
Document SCMP000020141009eaaa0002y

Page240of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.