Milk demand is booming

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

DairyPage
Milk demand is booming

L Griffin
491 words
18 February 2014
Country News
MPCOUN
M060
English
Copyright 2014. McPherson Media Group.

Australia’s farm gate milk prices are up around 25 per cent on last season and the outlook for global
demand for dairy, particularly in China, remains robust, according to Dairy Australia’s Situation and
Outlook Update report released last Wednesday in Moama.
The report finds despite the overall positive trends, increased cash flow for dairy farmers is being
directed to creditor payment and debt retirement.

Global dairy demand remains on a steady footing despite pricing at near record levels and production
shortfalls in China and Russia have boosted import demand in those markets.

South-East Asia is showing steady growth despite localised challenges, and exports to South Korea
should benefit from the new Korea-Australia Free Trade Agreement.
Australia’s milk production trails 2012-13 in year-to-date data and is expected to finish the year at
levels the same or slightly lower than those recorded in 2012-13, due largely to ongoing issues from
the challenging second half of the year.
Dairy Australia is forecasting milk production of 9.0-9.2 billion litres for the 2013-14 season, a
contraction of between 0-2 per cent.

‘‘Poor weather has been a constraining factor, particularly in northern regions, as have lower in-calf
rates and pasture damage,’’ Dairy Australia commercial and research analysis manager Norman
Repacholi said.
‘‘But as the season progresses, confidence will likely firm with the farm gate price and this will provide
the latitude to capture some production opportunities.

‘‘Processors will attempt to adjust product mix to maximise returns where contractual arrangements
permit, still, lower than expected production could mean delays in fulfilling orders.

‘‘At the same time, producers focused on Australia’s domestic market have not seen the same, if any
jump in milk price as those experienced by dairy producers in export focused regions.

‘‘They are also still facing cost pressures as a result of unfavourable weather or tight regional hay and
grain supplies.’’
Mr Repacholi said Australian dairy heifer exports were still in high demand with live cattle exports up
12 per cent to about 85 000 head in the year to November 2013 with China the major buyer (79 per
cent) followed by Pakistan (10 per cent) and Russia (four per cent).

On global currency movements, the weaker Australian dollar is likely to place upward price pressure
on imports such as fertiliser, fuel and grain prices.

Page8of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.‘‘Australia’s supermarket milk and dairy spreads, volumes and values are remaining stable, cheese
volumes are up, but discounting of chilled (block) cheeses has shown a slight decline in the total
category value,’’ Mr Repacholi said.
‘‘Despite last season’s challenges, Australian dairy has scored international headlines with the
competition to acquire Warrnambool Cheese and Butter (WCB) and a rush of other major
transactions.
‘‘The intense business interest in the potential of Australian dairy in the region reinforces how well
regarded our sector is for its quality produce.’’

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

dryust : Dairy Australia
i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i413 : Dairy Products | i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i0 :
Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
c21 : Output/Production | e512 : Physical Trade | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e51 :
Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
McPherson Media Group
Document MPCOUN0020140217ea2i0000m

Page9of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.