LER: LEAF ENERGY 'S LOW COST, LOW POLLUTION AND PROVEN PLATFORM TECHNOLOGY TURNS WASTE PLANT MATERIAL INTO CELLULOSE, A THRIVING INDUSTRY WITH A HUGE FUTURE IN SEVE...

HD LER: LEAF ENERGY'S LOW COST, LOW POLLUTION AND PROVEN PLATFORM TECHNOLOGY

TURNS WASTE PLANT MATERIAL INTO CELLULOSE, A THRIVING INDUSTRY WITH A HUGE
FUTURE IN SEVERAL APPLICATIONS. LER HAS KNOWLEDGEABLE
Jenny Prabhu

BY
WC 2,867 words
PD 25 July 2014
SN OzEquities News Bites
SC NBOZEN
LA
CY Copyright 2014 News Bites Pty Ltd. All rights reserved.
LP

English

AUSTRALIAN COMPANY NEWS BITES

OZEQUITIES NEWS BITES

TD

Leaf Energy Ltd listed in the shell of Aquacarotene after merging with Queensland based company
Farmacule BioIndustries Pty Ltd in 2010.
The company's wholly owned technology (patent applied for) turns waste plant matter into cellulose as
well as lignin and hemicellulose using the cheap, abundant and recyclable product glycerol (patent for
process applied for), via low cost, low pollution technology.

The huge and growing demand for cellulose

A report dated June 23 2014 by Grand View Research Inc stated, "The global market for cellulose fibers is
expected to reach $US 29,611.1 million by 2020. Low prices of raw material coupled with regulatory
supports offered by various countries are expected to be key driving factors for the market. In addition, the
augmented demand for clothing and apparel in emerging economies is also expected boost the demand
for cellulose fibers. However, fluctuating prices of raw material is expected to be a key challenge for
market growth.

*Clothing emerged as the leading application segment for cellulose fiber and accounted for 61.3% of total
market volume in 2013. It is also expected to be the fastest growing application segment, at an estimated
CAGR of 8.2% from 2014 to 2020.

Further key findings from the study suggest:

• The global demand for cellulose fibers was 5,400.1kilo tons in 2013 and is expected to reach 9,202.8kilo
tons by 2020, growing at a CAGR of 8.1% from 2014 to 2020.

• Cellulose fiber demand for spun yarn applications segment is expected to grow at an estimated CAGR of
9.9% from 2014 to 2020, in terms of revenue.

• Asia Pacific continued its dominance in the global cellulose fibers market and accounted for 45.5% of
total market volume in 2013 to become the leading cellulose fiber consuming region. Asia Pacific, along
with being the largest market is also expected to be the fastest growing market for cellulose fibers, at an
estimated CAGR of 8.6% from 2014 to 2020. Clothing segment dominated Asia Pacific market in terms of
revenue and accounted for around 60% of the total market share.

• Asia Pacific market was followed by Europe owing to various government regulations supporting the use
of biodegradable fabrics. North America contributed around 14% in the global market for cellulose fibers in
terms of volume.

• The global market for cellulose fibers is fragmented within many companies including Thai Rayon,
Aoyang, Tangshan, Fulida, Sateri, Grasim Industries, Lenzing, Helon and Indo Bharat, with Lenzing
dominating the overall market with a market share of 17.5% of the total market volume.

Page276of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.(i) Why Cellulose will replace cotton fibre

"The Cellulose Gap", a scholarly report by Franz Martin Hammerle, June 2011, looks at cellulose fibre as a
substitute for cotton. He said in the report, "Within the next two decades the world population will grow by
1.4 billion and is moving up the food chain. By 2030 we will have an additional demand for food of 43 %.
On the other hand arable land is limited and the cropland area per person will shrink. This situation will
result in a food crisis.

"Also the demand for textile fibres (natural as well as man-made) will increase by 84 %. But in the future
cotton production will be stagnant because of the limited availability of arable land.

The experience shows that approximately one third of textile fibres have to be cellulosic fibres because of
certain properties like absorbency and moisture management. This will result in a disproportionately high
demand for man-made cellulosic fibres in the coming years. The substitution of cotton by man-made
cellulose fibres is also a contribution to the environment ..

"Man-made cellulose fibres are extremely sustainable fibres. In comparison to cotton they have some
important assets - No arable land is necessary, less water consumption (the Aral Sea has all but
disappeared because of cotton production), no input of pesticides and fertilizers'.

(ii) The need for plant derived Cellulose to replace petro chemical plastic packaging
A US 2011 report revealed between 100 and 200 billion pounds of plastic is manufactured annually. An
estimated 10% of plastic ends up in the oceans every year. About 20% comes from ships and platforms in
the sea. The remaining 80% comes from the land – garbage that travels through storm drains or
watersheds and accumulates in streams, rivers, and bays. Eventually this plastic garbage finds its way to
into the oceans, where ocean winds and the earth's rotation create "gyres' — massive, slow rotating
whirlpools in which plastic trash can accumulate.

The North Pacific Subtropical Gyre is an area that traditionally supported plankton and small sea life, but
now the plastic in some parts of this Gyre outweighs the plankton by a ratio of six to one.

This Gyre is the home of two massive ocean garbage collections – the Western and Eastern Pacific
Garbage Patches. The Western Garbage Patch circulates between California and Hawaii and, according
to an article in the LA Times, is estimated to be twice the size of Texas. The Eastern Garbage Patch
circulates between Hawaii and Japan.

Other major gyres exist in the South Pacific, North and South Atlantic, and Indian Oceans. Smaller gyres
have been discovered near Alaska and Antarctica. Moore estimates that bits of plastic now outnumber
plankton in many parts of world's seas.

Roughly 44% of all seabird species, 22% of cetaceans, all species of sea turtles and many species of fish
have been documented with plastic in or wrapped around their bodies.

(iii) Cellulosic sugars - work under way by several companies including Coca-Cola

Doris De Guzman writing in Tecnon OrbChem on December 27 2013 said in news on cellulosic sugars,
"Recent cellulosic sugars activities especially from Renmatix, Proterro and Sweetwater... "Let’s start with
Renmatix, which recently announced two big-time partnerships this month — BASF and Virent/Coca-Cola.

"The partnership of Virent/Coca-Cola and Renmatix is targeting the use of cellulosic sugar in the
production of bio-based paraxylene, a raw material used in the manufacture of purified terephthalic acid
(PTA), which is a major chemical component in the production of PET bottles or fibers. Virent and
Coca-Cola are currently working to developed a drop-in bio-based PX for Coca-Cola to be able to soon
offer a 100% bio-based PET bottle under its PlantBottle packaging. Virent’s bio-based PX product will be
marketed under the trademark BioFormPX.

"Right now, Coca-Cola’s PlantBottle is made from sugarcane ethanol-based monoethylene glycol or MEG
(the other component of PET) and petro-based PTA. Bio-based MEG has an average 40% premium,
according to Tecnon OrbiChem’s Bio-Materials report. It will be difficult for Coca-Cola (and for those of
Coca-Cola’s partners who are working towards bio-based PTA or other alternatives) to absorb more
bio-based premiums in order to manufacture a 100% bio-based PET bottle. Coca-Cola’s partners have to
think about sourcing lower feedstock costs at this early stage to be able to satisfy Coca-Cola’s
sustainability demands.

"This is where cellulosic sugars are trying to come in in addition to being a non-food feedstock. Renmatix
said its Plantrose platform will be evaluated and potentially optimized to provide an affordable sugar
streams for Virent’s Bioforming process for large-scale production of bio-based PX. The Plantrose process

Page277of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.reportedly produces affordable cellulosic sugars, C5 (xylose) and C6 (glucose) using water-based method
called supercritical hydrolysis in lieu of more expensive chemical and enzymatic routes to cellulosic sugars
used today".

(iii) Among other uses for cellulose ..

Cellulose has versatile uses in many industries such as veterinary foods, wood and paper and products for
human consumption - it produces thick and creamy food items without the use of as much fat. It is used in
cosmetics.

Glycerol as a sugar substitute
Glycerol, the reagent used by Leaf Energy (patent applied for) in converting biomass to cellulose, is also
used in food and beverages where it serves as a humectant, solvent, and sweetener, and may help
preserve foods. It is also used as filler in commercially prepared low-fat foods (e.g., cookies), and as a
thickening agent in liqueurs. Glycerol and water are used to preserve certain types of leaves

As a sugar substitute, it has approximately 27 kilocalories per teaspoon (sugar has 20) and is 60% as
sweet as sucrose. It does not feed the bacteria that form plaques and cause dental cavities. As a food
additive, glycerol is labelled as E number E422. It is added to icing (frosting) to prevent it setting too hard.

Glycerol has a caloric density similar to table sugar, but a lower glycemic index and different metabolic
pathway within the body, so some dietary advocates accept glycerol as a sweetener compatible with low
carbohydrate diets.

For human consumption, glycerol is classified by the U.S. FDA among the sugar alcohols as a caloric
macronutrient.

* * *
Leaf Energy's Glycerol technology, patent applied for, has comparatively lower capital cost, lower
operating cost and faster processing times than other processes to convert biomaterial into cellulose.

Chairman Jay Hetzel was a co-founder of Catapult Genetics, sold to Pfizer. Ken Richards, managing
director took Norgard Clohessy Equity Ltd from capitalisation of $60,000 to $50 million. He has managed
several other companies, mostly in the environmentally sustainable field.
*Leaf Energy received the Judges Award at the Consensus Greentech Awards in June this year.
While Leaf Energy has yet to decide on the location for its plant (Australia and other countries are under
consideration), the path to production, including establishment of its plant is expected to be about three
years from now - or two years following a decision as to where to set up a manufacturing facility.
LEAF ENERGY LTD - A SNAPSHOT

Farmacule Bioindustries Pty Ltd was formed in 2001 with global exploitation rights from the Queensland
University of Technology (QUT) for the patented INPACT technology which was developed by a QUT
research team led by Farmacule's CSO Prof James Dale to provide a sophisticated proprietary gene
switching and amplification technology to increase the express and yield in selected plants of novel
proteins, enzymes and molecules of interest.
Farmacule signed a collaboration agreement with Swiss based global agribusiness companySyngenta
Crop Protection AG and the Queensland University of Technology to produce bioethanol from sugar cane
for global markets. Use of Farmacule's INPACT technology had the potential to significantly reduce the
cost of enzymes needed to break down the waste biomass to allow it to be processed into ethanol.

In 2010 Farmacule Bioindustries came onto the boards via a merger with Aquacarotene.
AQL consolidated its shares on a 20 to 1 basis and issued 15 million post consolidation shares to
Farmacule on certain milestones.
Aquacarotene changed its name to Leaf Energy Ltd on November 26 2010.
Aquacarotene, under Ken Richards (who is now the managing director of Leaf Energy Ltd) had sold its
algae-farming assets in Western Australia to US companyAurora Biofuels for $2 million.
*Leaf Energy in 2012 had a worldwide exclusive license agreement with Texas A&M University to develop
the marine yeast Debaryomyces, that complemented the technologies being developed through the
Syngenta Centre for Sugarcane Biofuels Development by the Queensland University of Technology.

Page278of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Leaf Energy today:
*Leaf Energy's Glycerol process - patent application submitted
Earlier this month Leaf Energy submitted a patent application for its platform glycerol process.
Competitive Advantages of Leaf Energy's Glycerol pre treatment process

Leaf’s Glycerol Pretreatment Process uses a cheap, recyclable, abundant reagent, Glycerol, in a simple
process, to break down plant matter into Lignin, Cellulose and Hemicellulose at low temperatures. These
component parts are then available for further processing to sugars using enzymatic hydrolysis and those
sugars can then be converted to biofuels, bioplastics and green chemicals.

The process has a lower capital cost because the process needs lower temperature and lower pressures
than many other technologies and has faster processing times due to the efficiency of glycerol as the
reagent.

The Glycerol Pretreatment Process has significant advantages over current pretreatments being

used such as steam explosion.

July 15 2014 - trials at Andritz facility, Ohio - conversion of cellulose to sugars opens up second income
stream for Glycell process
Leaf Energy on July 15 announced continuous production trials at the Andritz pilot plant facility (that has
focused on developing the Glycell process on industrially available equipment on several different biomass
inputs) has received a report from Andritz on the component testing and conversion of cellulose to sugars
for the second set of trials run in late January 2014:

Highlights included :

99% saccharification of cellulose to sugars in six hours from the Glycell process for pretreated sugar cane
bagasse a significant new opportunity for Leaf Energy.

*Clean sugars were produced with negligible degradation of product.

The results were obtained from continuous production trials at the Andritz pilot plant facility in Springfield,
Ohio (Andritz is a leading supplier of plant, equipment and services for pulp and paper and other
industries).

Capital costs

In a Scoping Study on the Glycell process prepared by Dr Les Edye a principal of BioIndustry Partners at
Queensland University of Technology and then independently reviewed by DWH Process Consulting led
by Dr David Humbird in the US, released on July 7, the base plant and infrastructure capital costs for a
plant was calculated at $32.8 million with an after tax internal rate of return of 42%.
Leaf Energy expects significantly lower capex and opex costs vs other methods of production due to lower
temperatures required, lower enzyme loads and lower energy costs vs competing technologies.

A greenfields plant is expected to take two years to production, once a site is decided upon.

Significantly faster production can be achieved by retrofitting a plant to existing ethanol plants - eg, the 70
ethanol plants currently operating in India. This approach could also facilitate large carbon savings in
multiple markets.
There are current ethanol plants in several countries including the US, Brazil, EU, China, Russia,
Thailand, Canada, India, Colombia and Australia with some 22.35 million US liquid gallons per year of
production.

Cellulosic ethanol from waste plant material forms a small but growing proportion of total cellulose
production - and is far less environmentally costly - than ethanol developed from crops.
However, at some stage Leaf Energy expects to establish its own plant on a greenfields site.

(Leaf's Glycerol process uses existing "off the shelf" machinery).

In the pipeline

Dec 23 2013: Collaborative and royalty agreement with Actinogen

Page279of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Under the terms of the agreement LER will fund further studies in ACW’s bioethanol project in which the
Company previously identified strains of actinomycetes capable of producing

cellulase(s) .
LEAF ENERGY LTD FINANCIALS

Code: LER

Last Traded price 4.7c.

Shares Issued 94.1m.

Market Cap 4.46m.

Directors:

Jay Hetzel, Chairman

Background in biotechnology, R&D and commercialisation. Co-founder of Catapult Genetics, sold to Pfizer.
Numerous board/executive positions.

Ken Richards, Managing Director

Mr Richards has in excess of 25 years experience as a Managing Director in various listed and unlisted
companies across agriculture and technology sectors. Ken’s life as a public company CEO has seen him
complete transactions (capital raisings, takeovers, assets sales etc) well in excess of $200,000,000. In
2007 Ken took on the role of Managing Director of Aquacarotene, a Micro Algae producer. Ken initiated
the sale of the pond lease to Californian based Aurora Biofuels for $2,000,000. In 2010 Aquacarotene
merged with Queensland based Company Farmacule BioIndustries Pty Ltd to form Leaf Energy. Ken
holds a Bachelor of Commerce and a Master of Business Administration degree from the University of
WA. Mr Richards is a fellow of the Australian Institute of Company Directors.
Alex Baker ,B.Sc., GDip.Biotech., MTM, MAICD, Chief Operating Officer

Mr Baker has 20 years of professional business experience including multi-sector experience in
healthcare, life science and IT. He has worked in a range of company types including ASX listed
companies QRxPharma Ltd (ASX:QRX), Progen Pharmaceuticals Ltd (ASX: PGL) and now Leaf Energy
(ASX:LER). He has senior management experience including CEO for Maverick Biosciences. He adds
additional skills and expertise in relationship management and business development. He holds tertiary
qualifications include a Master of Technology Management, Graduate Diploma in Biotechnology and a
Bachelor of Science plus other relevant continuing professional development. Mr Baker is a member of the
Australian Institute of Company Directors.
Samantha Madden, B.Com, CA, Financial Controller

Mrs Madden has a business accounting and taxation background with a focus on small to medium
business. She holds a Bachelor of Commerce from The University of Queensland and is a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia. Her wide ranging experience was gained through positions
with chartered accountancy firms and as Financial Controller for varied businesses in Brisbane.

Major shareholders:

Ken Richards 15.25%

Russell Charles Wilson 11%

Queensland University's QUTBLUEBOX Pty Ltd as trustee 5.9%.

NS m11 : Equity Markets | nanl : Analyses | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types |

nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB News Bites Pty Ltd
AN Document NBOZEN0020140725ea7p0001e

Page280of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.