NSW dairy potential under review

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Early General News
NSW dairy potential under review

539 words
25 September 2014
Stock Journal
FSTOCJ
24
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

CHEAPER land and well-advanced plans to add value to NSW milk are set to make central west a
growth zone for the Australian dairy industry in the next two years.
Dairy Connect NSW chief executive officer Mike Logan said that although long overlooked by the milk
industry as something of a 'bridesmaid' state for manufacturing, NSW's dairy potential was now being
seriously reviewed by overseas investors.

Part of the attraction was the state's dairy farmland values which, at $20,000 a hectare, were typically
$30,000/ha cheaper than New Zealand, and well below Vic and Tas, while sea freight costs to Asia
were lower from Sydney.
Mr Logan said the first of three proposed milk powder plant projects in NSW were on the cusp of being
signed off, with foreign investment backing at Orange, and off-take agreements for milk powder
products had already been negotiated with Chinese retailers.
Australia produced just 108,000 tonnes of whole milk powder last year, down 22 per cent on the
previous year, while China consumed 1.8 million tonnes, including most of NZ's 1.25mt output.

Mr Logan said that with backing from energy supplier AGL, DairyConnect's push to get similar small
but efficient powder plants built at Gloucester on the Mid North Coast and Nowra on the South Coast
was likely to require up to 500 million litres annually for all three sites, lifting milk demand from NSW
farms by 50pc in five years.
"We believe the central west will be an enormous growth area for dairy within two years," he told the
recent Australia-China Business Week forum.
NSW represents a great chance to invest at a grassroots level, particularly for the Chinese industry.

"We're showing investors we are competitive with NZ or Vic or Tas and well-run farms can make
serious money," Mr Logan said.

He pointed to a relatively modest-sized, low-cost 300-cow Lachlan Valley farm milking 38 litres a head
daily well up from the NSW average of about 26L/day.

"This bloke has a tax problem, so he's just bought the farm next door," Mr Logan said.
Given Chinese dairy retailers were now legally responsible for guaranteeing the quality of products
they sold, it made sense for Chinese businesses to co-invest in the milk supply chain from farms to
factory and along the cold chain.
DairyConnect also wants to see NSW's emerging milk powder sector value-added with a nutritional
powder or infant formula production plant in Sydney.

While the Norco cooperative had broken new ground, proving the credibility of NSW processing and
quality assurance standards with its much-applauded fresh milk exports to China, Mr Logan was not
convinced the fresh milk export advantage would last for long.

Page102of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."We need to get into a market that's bigger and infant formula certainly an area that's suitable for
NSW," he said, noting Chinese families were obsessed with the health and nutritional needs of their
children.
Freedom Foods has also focused on servicing the needs of Chinese brands including Bright Foods
and New Hope.

ANDREW MARSHALL

IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 :
Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy Products | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
c21 : Output/Production | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
china : China | austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia
Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FSTOCJ0020140924ea9p0002c

Page103of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.