Hong Kong provides ideal path into China - EXCLUSIVE -

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Finance
Hong Kong provides ideal path into China - EXCLUSIVE -

ROWAN CALLICK, ASIA-PACIFIC EDITOR
1,045 words
19 March 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
18
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

AUSTRALIAN fine wine and food producers are being urged to use Hong Kong, where consumers
have a similar income to Australia, as a springboard into Asia.
Australia only provided about $90 million of the $1.1 billion worth of wine bought last year by Hong
Kong, where wine imports have quadrupled since duties were abolished in 2008.

Fred Lam, executive director of the Hong Kong Trade Development Council, has brought to
Australia 20 principals of 17 food and wine companies, seeking quality Australian suppliers.
``Business matching has gone well,'' he told The Australian.

He strongly backs the start of negotiations towards a free trade agreement between Australia and
Hong Kong, which already has a deal with New Zealand, is close to concluding one with Chile and is
negotiating with ASEAN.
The previous Labor government rejected a request from Hong Kong to start negotiations, but
Foreign Minister Julie Bishop said in opposition that she supported such a move.
Mr Lam said: ``We in Hong Kong, with our seven million population of discerning consumers, are a
marketing hub for lifestyle products for the rest of China.
``We have 35 million tourists from China every year, out of 50 million overall. Chinese consumers
see Hong Kong very much as a fashion hub, a city that sets lifestyle trends. What is popular in
Hong Kong tends to be imitated very quickly in the rest of China.''

He brought this mission over, he said, because ``we still feel there's a knowledge gap between
Australian producers and our part of the world. We need more exchange -- more of our companies
coming here to get to know your premium but smaller exporters.
``The food and wine market tends to be dominated by big brands, but it's not a complete picture of
what Australia has to offer. We're not interested in just sourcing from Australia one-off, but
establishing a long-term partnership with the right companies.
``China is of course an attractive prospect economically, but it can be quite daunting for small and
medium companies.

``We have more than 30 years' experience in that market, and a Closer Economic Partnership
Arrangement, an FTA,with China.
``Any province in China will name Hong Kong as the largest investor there by far. We have the
infrastructure and the contacts.''
It was a continental-scale market, whose demand could not be met by Hong Kong companies alone.
``They need to work with the right overseas companies. There's plenty business for everybody.''

Page216of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Lam said he would not stop companies going straight into China if they had the resources,
know-how and the right people. ``But for most firms new to the market, and especially for SMEs,'' the
challenges are considerable -- with China comprising about 30 markets, as his council sees it, each
with its unique character and requirement,'' he said.

``We are quite prepared to put money on the table to work with the right companies, products and
services on entering the Chinese market, or a Chinese market. We need to take a very long-term
view.''
He said that a lot of people interested in exporting to China are concerned about intellectual property
protection. ``That's another good reason why Hong Kong makes a very good partner and first step.

``Australians are very familiar with the legal system we have. And we speak English too, or very
many of us do.''
Mainland China, he said, was dominated by wine from France and while the new austerity policy
from Beijing, intended to combat corruption, might be a blow to the top end European brands, it could
be a good time for Australian wines to push in to the market, offering quality for a lower price.
``High net worth individuals and families are coming to Hong Kong to buy apartments and other big
value items, and sometimes through being there they also gain some understanding of other parts of
the world -- what they, like Australia, have to offer.''
Hong Kong also sees itself as more than a market for China. Half the world's population lives within
a five-hour flight from the city.

``We are very well connected in ASEAN and Taiwan and other parts of Asia,'' he said. ``A lot of what
we import is then re-exported to other parts of Asia. We are the business service platform for Asia,
and we'd like to see more Australian companies participating in its growth.

``We want to encourage more of your companies to be a little bit more adventurous, to take the first
step, to look at what this market is doing and at what your competitors are doing in it, to look at price
points and eating habits that you can't just read off a piece of paper.
``We eat out a lot, not only in Chinese restaurants. We have 16,000 restaurants overall, from every
part of the world -- including, for example, 1000 Japanese restaurants.'' And as in the rest of Asia,
Hong Kong people eat hot meals, usually in restaurants, every lunchtime.
He said: ``If companies can establish themselves in Hong Kong, they may find they have less
problems in doing so in other parts of China afterwards. Like you, we have two dominant
supermarket chains, but a lot of smaller stores selling high-end products. And virtually anyone can be
a wine importer.

``I intend to take some of your wines home, for instance, and I shall face no questions from customs
officers. We have virtually no restriction on importing foodstuffs, we can buy fruit and vegetables
from all over the world, and those willing to pay a little extra, do so.''
On an FTA, he said that while Hong Kong was a free port, and it was already easy to export
products there, such a deal would provide closer co-operation on services, ``and Hong Kong is very
much a services economy''.
There was potential, he said, for Hong Kong and Australia to work together in the mainland market.
``The development of its services sector, a strong priority for the new leadership in Beijing, needs a
lot of outside help.'' There was also potential in infrastructure and construction, he said.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

e512 : Physical Trade | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | china : China | hkong : Hong Kong | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140318ea3j0004t

Page217of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.