( LEAD ) S. Korea, Australia, Indonesia absent as China launches regional bank

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

(LEAD) S. Korea, Australia, Indonesia absent as China launches regional bank

401 words
24 October 2014
Yonhap English News
YONH
English
© Copyright 2014 Yonhap News Agency. All rights reserved.

(ATTN: ADDS remarks by Chinese president in para 8, details in para 4; CORRECTS number of
participating countries in para 5)

BEIJING, Oct. 24 (Yonhap) -- South Korea, Australia and Indonesia on Friday did not join the launch
of a regional bank led by China to fund infrastructure projects in Asia, amid Washington's concerns
over the new regional lender as it competes with established multilateral lenders such as the Asian
Development Bank (ADB).

China is pushing to set up the Asia Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) as a counterbalance to the
ADB and the World Bank, dominated by the United States, Japan and Western economic powers, as
it seeks to increase its economic clout in Asia.
China has offered US$50 billion with a reported stake of up to 50 percent in the AIIB, but South
Korean Finance Minister Choi Kyung-hwan said earlier this week that Seoul is willing to join the new
regional bank if China improves the governance structure of the AIIB.
Choi has said South Korea and China still have been in consultations about the AIIB, saying Seoul
could join the new regional bank even if it does not participate in the Friday event.
Representatives from China and 20 nations, including India, Singapore, Vietnam and the Philippines,
signed a memorandum of understanding at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing.
The AIIB is expected to begin its operations by the end of next year.
Chinese President Xi Jinping asked South Korean Park Geun-hye to join the AIIB during their
summit in July this year.

After the signing ceremony, Xi urged the participating countries to join efforts in making the AIIB an
"equal, inclusive and highly efficient infrastructure investment platform," according to the state-run
China Securities Daily.

ADB President Takehiko Nakao said Thursday that he does not have a stance on South Korea's
interest in joining China's push for the AIIB but cautioned that the China-led bank should meet
international standards.

"About the interest of the Korean government joining the AIIB, we don't have any positions," Nakao
told reporters during a press briefing at the ADB Resident Mission in Beijing.

"We don't prevent from or encourage member countries to join the AIIB," Nakao said. "It's a decision
by the country."

kdh@yna.co.kr (END)

20141024 1608 KST

IN

RE

i8150106 : Development Banking | irbank : Regional Banks | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit |
ifinal : Financial Services
china : China | skorea : South Korea | austr : Australia | indon : Indonesia | seoul : Seoul | beijin :
Beijing | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries |

Page82of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies |
easiaz : Eastern Asia | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Yonhap News Agency
Document YONH000020141024eaao002jr

PUB
AN

Page83of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.