Australian chefs have no reservations

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

TheNation
Australian chefs have no reservations

SCOTT MURDOCH, JOHN LETHLEAN
522 words
22 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
11
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

EXCLUSIVE AUSTRALIAN restaurateurs are hopeful the free-trade agreement will make operating in
China a piece of cake, with lower prices thanks to tariff cuts encouraging more Chinese diners to part
with their hard-earned yuan in exchange for the best of Aussie food and wine.
As part of the long-awaited trade deal finalised in Canberra this week, the Chinese government will
allow Australian-owned hotels and restaurants to open across the country. Chinese-born Australian
James Sing has operated the Kakadu Restaurant in Shanghai for the past seven years and has another
outlet due to open in the next few months.

He said running Western-style restaurants in China was tough but he hoped the FTA would speed up
the approval and development processes. “With our new restaurant, we were told that it would take two
months to get ... (a licence) but now it’s taken about four months,” he said. “The Chinese government
has said they wanted to speed up that process but it just hasn’t happened.” Luke Mangan said the
timing of the FTA couldn’t be better. He flew home to Sydney on Thursday after meetings in Hong
Kong and Shanghai to expand his Salt brand of restaurants. “We’re looking at both markets, but it
depends on the deal and the location,” said Mr Mangan, who has stakes in restaurants in Jakarta, Bali,
Singapore, Tokyo and the Maldives.
“But for our model, which is all about showcasing Australian produce and wine in Asia, this agreement
could be really great.” Mr Mangan, who has a Tokyo-based backer, said Asia was the “future of our
business, given the hurdles in Australia”. “Our model is to go into new buildings or developments. I
have no preference at this stage; it might be Shanghai, Hong Kong or both. It depends on the location,
and the vibe.” Rockpool’s Neil Perry said that while he wasn’t across the detail of how the FTA might
create opportunities in China, “I’d be very open to the right idea.” He said that while there had been
approaches to his group in the past, “it’s as much about who’s in power at the time and getting the right
partners on the ground”.
In Shanghai, Mr Sing said he was confident that reduced tariffs on meat and wine would mean lower
prices, which would attract more Chinese diners. Under the FTA, the 14 per cent tariff on bottled wine
will be phased out over four years and beef taxes of 12 to 25 per cent will be cut over nine years.
“I think the biggest thing for my business will hopefully be cheaper export prices of beef and lamb,” Mr
Sing said.
“Also for wine, if the distributors pass on the lower prices, which I’m pretty sure they will because that is
a very competitive business, that is going to make things a lot better.”He said he hoped Australia and
China could come to an agreement on the lifting of a ban on the sale of kangaroo meat.

IN

NS

i6611 : Full-service Restaurants | i66 : Hotels/Restaurants | i661 : Restaurants/Cafes/Fast Food Places |
ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality
cprdop : Facility Openings | c24 : Capacity/Facilities | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News

Page237of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

PUB
AN

china : China | austr : Australia | auscap : Australian Capital Territory | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia
| ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141121eabm0005m

Page238of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.