New Talisman Gold Mines Limited; Quarterly Activities Report to 31 December 2013

HD
WC 852 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

New Talisman Gold Mines Limited; Quarterly Activities Report to 31 December 2013

30 January 2014
14:24
New Zealand Exchange Company Announcements
NZXCOM
English
Copyright (c) 2014 New Zealand Exchange Ltd ( )

TD

ANNOUNCEMENT BY NEW TALISMAN GOLD MINES LIMITED [ASX, NZSX: NTL, NTLOA] FOR
PUBLIC RELEASE Quarterly Activities Report to 31st December New Talisman Gold Mines Limited
(NTL) is pleased to present the quarterly report on activities for the period ended 31st December 2013.
HIGHLIGHTS o Successful completion of a Share Purchase Plan o Access Arrangement and Resource
Consent granted for Bulk Sampling/Trial Mining o Heads of agreement signed with Chinese Investor
Group for NZ$10.9M o Sale of interest in Mpokoto Gold Project CORPORATE A share purchase plan
(SPP) was completed during the period raising a total of $348,445 before expenses. The SPP funds are
being applied to the bulk sampling/trial mining phase of the Talisman mine project and to fund NTL
working capital.

TALISMAN GOLD PROJECT (100%) - Hauraki District, NZ Access agreement During the period NTL
entered into an access agreement with the Department of Conservation over the Talisman mine permit
area Resource Consent During the reporting period NTL received resource consent from the Hauraki
District Council over the Talisman mine project area. Chinese investor group On the 12th December 2013
NTL entered into a heads of agreement with St Albans Pty Ltd for the full funding of the phase 1 of the
Talisman mine project catered for in the Pre-feasibility dated 31st March 2013. The HOA provides for the
investor to fund $10.9M NZD in return 65% of the project's physical gold catered for in the Prefeasibility
Study after costs. The proposal provides for the investor to set up a separate processing facility to treat
the ore and first right of refusal on future joint ventures with NTL. Following the reporting date the
company has received formal extension request by the group and a site visit and import of specialized
treatment equipment is currently planned for mid February.
SUBSIDIARY COMPANY - COROMANDEL GOLD LIMITED (100%) [Not Listed] Golden Valley Gold
Project (100%) - Hauraki District, NZ The proposed drilling programme is under review while targets
identified are being verified. Northland Base and Precious Metals Project (100%) - Northland region, NZ
Exploration planned for the current year is being based on results of previous prospecting work by the
company and the literature and data review in 2013. BROKEN HILL PROSPECTING LTD (21.7%) -
NSW, Australia [ASX:BPL] BPL is evaluating opportunities to establish a sulphuric acid industry with pyrite
concentrate from BPL's deposits as a feed source for a pyrite roasting plant. Several established chemical
companies are assessing the business model. A new website (http://brokenhillchemical.com) to promote
new chemical opportunities from sulphuric acid production from future processing of cobalt-pyrite ore has
been established. In early December a University of NSW student commenced a study of cobalt in soils
and gossans in the project area. The thesis work will have particular emphasis on the mobility of cobalt in
the weathering processes and results will benefit ongoing exploration. The Australian Graduate School of
Management, University of NSW (AGSM) is using the Broken Hill Chemical business as a case study for
a small team of graduate students. The study will commence in early 2014 and take several months to
complete as part of the AGSM's MBA graduate course. The 2013 Research & Development Tax Incentive
Schedule for Broken Hill Prospecting Limited for the year ended 30 June 2013 was calculated with
assistance from KMPG and a refundable R&D Tax offset amount of $344,973.60 was received in early
December. MPOKOTO GOLD PROJECT SALE OF INTERESTS During the period NTL sold its interests
in Netcom, the holder of the Mpokoto Gold project interests to Armadale Capital PLC, a listed AIM
company for 93 million shares in Armadale. Subsequent to the period NTL completed its program to sell
down the Armadale Capital PLC (ACP) shares issued following the acquisition by ACP of NTL's interests
in the Mpokoto Gold Project. A net return of over 38% on the initial investment was made in February
2013. Matthew Hill Executive Director + 64 9 303 1893

Page306of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.About New Talisman Gold Mines Ltd New Talisman Gold is a dual listed (NZSX & ASX: NTL) leading
New Zealand minerals development company with 1800 shareholders who are mainly from Australia and
New Zealand. The company's flagship asset the Talisman mine holds a JORC compliant mineral
resource, a JORC compliant reserve and has been granted resource consents and access arrangements
for the initial phase of the project. The company is currently initiating bulk sampling at Talisman and
continues to advance the development of the mine. New Talisman's wholly owned subsidiary Coromandel
Gold Limited holds a portfolio of high quality mineral interests and gold properties in the Hauraki and
Northland Districts of New Zealand. New Talisman Gold owns 21.7% of Broken Hill Prospecting Limited,
which holds a cobaltiferous pyrite project at Thackaringa, about 25 kilometres south-west of Broken Hill in
Australia. BPL is listed on both the ASX and NZSX (Code: BPL). More about New Talisman Gold at
www.newtalismangold.co.nz

NS

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i2112 : Gold
Ore/Silver Ore Mining
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | npress : Press Releases | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin
: FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

CO herit : New Talisman Gold Mines Limited
IN

RE
PUB New Zealand Exchange Limited
AN

Document NZXCOM0020140130ea1u000dx

Search Summary

Text

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or entitys) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
01/01/2014 to 30/04/2014
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
2,564
29 August 2018 1:39

Page307of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.