Sino Australia ‘losing $330k a month due to ASIC freezing orders’

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Sino Australia ‘losing $330k a month due to ASIC freezing orders’

LEO SHANAHAN
542 words
23 April 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
17
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

EXCLUSIVE SINO Australia Oil and Gas claims to be losing $330,000 a month as a result of ASIC
freezing orders against the company, and has fallen short of assurances it made about expected
profits before floating on the ASX late last year. According to late financial accounts lodged by the
company with the Australian Securities & Investments Commission on April 8, its net profit declined
from a projected $13.6 million to about $8.3m in the 2013 calendar year. This was despite revenue
being up from a projected $28m to $33m.

The downturn in profit came despite assurances from Sino chairman and majority shareholder Shao
Tianpeng that the company was on target to reach its projected profits just prior to floating on
December 12 last year.

Former Sino director Wayne Johnson told The Australian that he was personally assured by Mr Shao
prior to the listing that the company was on target to meet its profit forecast.

“The market was told it was on forecast because that was what the board was told. I was on CNBC on
December 12 stating that we had made our bloody numbers,” he said.

“I am surprised that the numbers that have been produced because they are substantially and
negatively different to the financial information produced to the board in December 2013.” Neither Sino
nor Mr Shao returned calls yesterday.

The accounts also show related-party transactions paid to Mr Shao worth $3.1m. One entry in
related-party transactions, under the heading “company expenses paid by Tianpeng Shao”, lists a
payment of $1.565m. Another entry under “payable to related party” lists a payment to Mr Shao for
$1.643m.
Sino was the largest non-backdoor listing of a Chinese company on the ASX last year when it floated
on December 12, raising $12.8m at 50c a share, for a market capitalisation of $109m.
The Chinese drilling services company had trading in its shares halted by the ASX after it failed to
lodge its accounts in February.

ASIC has also frozen the HSBC bank account of Sino after Mr Shao attempted to transfer $7.5m to
accounts in China.
According to a letter of complaint to the corporate regulator from two of the company’s sacked
directors, Mr Johnson and Andrew Faulkner, Mr Shao asked the board to authorise the payment of
$7.5m into a Chinese bank a day after the company had listed, which would have left $170,000 in its
accounts. Mr Johnson and Mr Faulkner were removed from the board after refusing to sign off on the
transfer.
According to the financial statement the company now claims it “has and will” continue to lose
$330,000 a month “as a consequence of the ASIC actions to freeze the company’s bank accounts ...

Page29of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.the company has not been able to utilise the majority of the funds raised in the IPO to purchase the
specialised equipment outlined in the prospectus”.

It claims “this is the cost of fully trained engineers and technicians who have been employed and
trained to operate the equipment but currently remain idle”.The Sino matter returns to the Federal
Court next month.

CO
NS

RE
PUB
AN

ausic : Australian Securities and Investments Commission
c151 : Earnings | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140422ea4n000c7

Page30of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.