Fortescue fall prompts Forrest to splash out

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Finance
Fortescue fall prompts Forrest to splash out

PAUL GARVEY
515 words
18 March 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
19
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

BILLIONAIRE mining magnate Andrew Forrest has spent almost $5 million buying more shares in
Fortescue Metals, reinforcing his faith in the outlook for the company amid a turbulent market for
iron ore.
Regulatory filings released yesterday showed Mr Forrest spent $4.9m to buy one million Fortescue
shares between Monday and Wednesday last week, when the company was being sold down
heavily on iron ore jitters.

Fortescue came in for heavy selling last Monday, losing almost 10 per cent of its value as investors
responded to a steep fall in spot iron ore prices out of China.
The new share purchase, carried out at an average price of about $4.93 a share, is small in the
context of the one billion shares Mr Forrest already holds in Fortescue but indicates a preparedness
to add to his holdings amid falling prices.
After a strong performance last year, the price of iron ore and investor sentiment towards the
companies that mine it have declined in recent months. That shift has driven a fall of more than 15
per cent in Fortescue's share price so far this year, wiping more than $700m off the value of Mr
Forrest's 33 per cent stake.

Last week's outlay by Mr Forrest will be dwarfed by the dividend cheque he is scheduled to receive
early next month. The 10c fully franked interim dividend declared as part of Fortescue's recent
half-year result will be worth about $102.7m to Mr Forrest.
The turn in sentiment against the iron ore sector has been stoked by concerns about the availability
of credit in China as well as weak trade data. In addition, stockpiles of both iron ore and steel have
been rising strongly in China in recent months.
Iron ore stocks there have risen by almost 50 per cent since late August, while the country's
stockpiles of steel rebar have climbed by 88.6 per cent since December.
Exports from Australia have also been rising, as major iron ore miners like Fortescue continue to
boost their output.

Also, the cyclone season in Western Australia's Pilbara region has been particularly weak this year,
allowing for higher than expected output.
But just as quickly as the price of iron ore fell, it began to recover.
After the benchmark iron ore price fell from $US114.20 a tonne to $US104.70 last Monday, it began
recovering over the rest of the week before closing at $US110.10.

Analysts at UBS led by Glyn Lawcock said in a research note that the volatility of the past week was
``making our heads spin''.

Page287of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Macquarie Private Wealth analysts, meanwhile, were encouraged by the better than expected steel
production volumes contained in Chinese economic data released last Thursday.
``We find that as long as demand conditions don't deteriorate further, iron ore should be able to
trade at above its current price level for the June quarter,'' the Macquarie analysts said in a note.

Shares in Fortescue closed down 7c to $4.91 yesterday.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

ambol : Fortescue Metals Group Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140317ea3i00029

Page288of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.