LEEMING Skate Park and Applecross Church are featured in a crime thriller that is one of six best film finalists in WA’s CinefestOZ, the nation’s richest film prize....

HD

WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

LEEMING Skate Park and Applecross Church are featured in a crime thriller that is one of six
best film finalists in WA’s CinefestOZ, the nation’s richest film prize.
319 words
26 August 2014
Melville Times
NLPMVT
1
17
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved

The Reckoning is the work of Brentwood couple John V. Soto and his wife Deidre Kitcher, former
accountants who now operate their company Filmscope and previously released supernatural horror
movies Crush and Needle that have performed well in the international DVD, video-on-demand and TV
markets.

And locals will have a chance to see the M-rated flick as a P&C fundraiser for at Brentwood Primary
School, where two of the producers’ four children are students, at Hoyts Garden City on September 4.

Starring Jonathan Lapaglia, Luke Hemsworth (brother of Chris and Liam), Viva Blanca and Hanna
Mangan Lawrence, the film follows two parallel stories of a detective’s journey as he tries to hunt down
two girls who have video footage of a murder.

Soto recently won the best director award for the film at the British Independent Film Festival and will be
available for a Q&A session after the screening.

The event will include a range of fundraising initiatives to benefit the school, the most lucrative being an
auction of extras roles in Filmscope's next movie, a joint Chinese/Australian film production.

A variety of other auctions and raffles will include Crown accommodation, a year’s supply of beauty
treatment from Heavens Beauty, a Sonos Play 3 from West Coast Hi Fi Cannington, a helicopter flight
from Rotorvation, a $1500 voucher from Residential Garage Doors, $500 to spend at Terrazza Cafe
and five hours of one-on-one coaching with ex-Olympic swim team coach Greg Hodge.

Funds raised will help with the cost of educational initiatives at the school like mathletics and to
purchase additional library resources. Of the 170 tickets available, 100 had already been sold by last
week.

NS

RE
PUB
AN

gmovie : Movies | gcha : Charities/Philanthropy | gcat : Political/General News | gcom :
Society/Community | gent : Arts/Entertainment
waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
News Ltd.
Document NLPMVT0020150123ea8q00114

Page228of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.