Reality check pushes producer to repair balance sheet and cut costs

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Reality check pushes producer to repair balance sheet and cut costs

RICHARD GLUYAS
1,112 words
16 September 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
26
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

REALITY CHECK FOR ARRIUM AS FALLING ORE PRICES HURT
IF it wasn’t apparent already, the bear case for iron ore is now overwhelming after yesterday’s move
by mining and steel group Arrium to tap shareholders for $754 million in a deeply discounted capital
raising.

With prices now at their lowest level in five years and no let-up in discounting, particularly for
lower-grade ores, it was time for a dose of realism from chief executive Andrew Roberts and his
board, given that Arrium sits uncomfortably high on the industry cost curve at a cash cost of $US73 a
tonne, or $US84 a tonne total cost of production.

Over the past month, as global sentiment around the commodity deteriorated, the rate of decline in
prices has picked up worryingly.

The Peter Smedley-chaired Arrium board clearly became engaged as the spot price headed south to
its present level of $US82 a tonne, at which the company’s key iron ore business is break-even at
best.

Roberts, though, has no intention of standing still. Last year’s $45m cost-cutting program, which was
mainly focused on steel, will now be extended into mining, targeting a further $60m-$90m in
annualised benefits.

The objective is to slash Arrium’s cash cost of production to the mid-to-high $60-a-tonne range, which
is still well ahead of the super-efficient industry behemoths BHP Billiton ($US50 a tonne) and Rio
Tinto ($US45 a tonne).

Arrium’s problems have been compounded by a balance sheet that remains stretched from its
expansion projects, including the $US932m purchase of the Moly-Cop mining consumables
business in late 2010, as well as a $600m-plus investment in doubling its iron ore export capacity to
13m tonnes a year.

At June 30, some progress had been made on debt reduction but borrowings were still way too high
at $1.7 billion.

While Arrium’s gearing ratio of 31.4 per cent was well within the group’s 50 per cent-plus banking
covenant, its debt load was almost double its market capitalisation, placing it outside investment
mandates for a range of institutions.
To haul itself back into calculations, the company had to increase earnings or lower debt. Or both.

Arrium has clearly chosen the latter path — net debt will be slashed to $976m for a manageable
gearing ratio of 17.9 per cent.

Page34of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.As a result, the company would be toiling less for its bankers and more for its shareholders, with
interest costs to be slashed by $20m, and hopefully some of yesterday’s announced cost cuts would
fall to the bottom line assuming iron ore prices behave themselves.

Less than a month ago, at Arrium’s annual result, Roberts backed Brazilian producer Vale’s
assessment that prices would settle in a range of $US90-$US120 a tonne, albeit with the potential to
go higher and lower in the short-term.

Since then, prices have slumped from $US95 a tonne to $US82 a tonne amid collapsing sentiment,
mostly driven by the iron ore market going into oversupply in the past year.
As more capacity has come on-stream, the problem has been compounded by China’s slowing
economy, with many of the country’s steelmakers struggling to sell their product.
UBS analysts say that, at current prices, about 25 per cent of the iron ore industry is now at
break-even or making losses.

Last week, former senior BHP Billiton senior executive Alberto Calderon warned of a permanent fall in
prices as growth in the Chinese economy became increasingly driven by private consumption rather
than investment. Calderon predicted that prices for the nation’s biggest export could revert to its
marginal cost, and even overshoot to the low $US70-a-tonne range for “some years”.

Earlier this month, BHP Billiton boss Andrew Mackenzie said there was a chance of upside in
metallurgical coal in the medium-term, “but not in iron ore”.

These are testing times for the industry, and the bear case is worsened when it’s considered that the
substantial decline in prices has been in the face of reasonably steady Chinese demand, meaning
that supply problems — not demand — have so far been at fault.
Optimists point to consensus broker forecasts of $US104 a tonne of iron ore, and say that part of the
current price malaise is seasonal.

But no one needs any reminding that the bear case, if realised, will have a significant spillover effect
on the wider economy.
JPMorgan forecast yesterday that if iron ore prices reach $US70 a tonne by the middle of next year,
the terms of trade could fall by a further 10 per cent, with nominal GDP growth easing to 2.6-2.7 per
cent and unemployment spiking to 6.7-6.8 per cent.
Bank disclosure EVERY year, the major banks each spend several hundred million dollars pumping
out lengthy product disclosure statements that are barely read, if at all, before customers junk them in
the recycling bin.

It’s a massive waste of resources, given the whole purpose of the exercise is to protect the customer
through stringent disclosure.

While there are good intentions behind the tough regime, which came out of the Wallis financial
system review, current inquiry head David Murray declared on the release of his interim report that
disclosure had not lived up to its lofty ambition.

In short, it had failed, and other options should now be investigated. Instead of accepting Murray’s
bleak assessment, ANZ Bank and the Consumer Action Law Centre (CALC) yesterday combined to
produce a joint submission to the inquiry that calls for improved disclosure through such initiatives as
plain English drafting, key fact sheets and electronic delivery of existing information.

It’s a unique partnership for the CALC — never before has it joined with the traditional enemy, a major
bank, to lodge a submission to a major inquiry.

CALC chief executive Gerard Brody reckons there’s an opportunity to get disclosure right, which
would benefit the industry as well as consumers.

Brody thinks, as well, that commonsense and timely disclosure, along with other reforms like
suitability requirements for the sale and distribution of financial products, could have made a
meaningful contribution to avoiding the Commonwealth Financial Planning debacle.

The CALC wants Murray to attack the root causes of the malaise, including a raft of prescriptive
legislation about the contents of product disclosure statements, and an overly legalistic approach by
the banks to compliance. Here’s hoping the other banks get on board.John Durie is on leave and
returns next week

Page35of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | imet : Mining/Quarrying |
ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | reqrmm : Suggested Reading Metals/Mining | redit : Selection of
Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140915ea9g00015

Page36of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.