Fonterra hopes to extend its presence

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Fonterra hopes to extend its presence

BLAIR SPEEDY Dairy
600 words
5 April 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
27
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

The NZ co-operative sees no end to the sector’s consolidation FONTERRA chief Lukas Paravicini has
warned the consolidation of the Australian dairy sector is far from over and the New Zealand dairy
co-operative is determined to play a major role.
Fonterra, which owns dairy brands including Perfect Italiano and Mainland cheese as well as Western
Star butter, announced this week it would invest about $30 million in new capacity at its Victorian
processing plant after signing a $60m, 10-year supply deal with supermarket giant Woolworths for its
house-brand milk.

Speaking to The Australian in Sydney, Mr Paravicini said the deal was just one example of Fonterra’s
determination to expand its Australian presence.

“Australia is an important strategic market where we see a lot of benefits — we’re already No 1 in the
food service sector and we’re very strong in the domestic market, but we see Australia playing a
fundamental role in the export market and we want to leverage Fonterra’s existing reach in more than
140 international markets,” he said.
Canadian dairy giant Saputo snared 87.92 per cent of Victorian milk processor Warrnambool Cheese
& Butter in a $500m-plus takeover battle that wrapped up in February, prompting expectation that
other processors could be sold as increasing demand from Asia drives dairy prices higher.

“I don’t think we’ve seen the end of the consolidation — we’re following it closely and we’re very
interested in the market, but we’ll only engage if we see an opportunity to create value,” Mr Paravicini
said.
In November Fonterra picked up a 9 per cent stake in Australian dairy processor Bega Cheese, which
at the time was engaged in a three-way takeover battle for Warrnambool.
While Fonterra has said the stake was designed to protect its commercial relationship with Bega, with
which it has a 25-year licensing deal to use the Bega cheese brand, the move prompted speculation
Fonterra was readying itself for a takeover.

However, Mr Paravicini said Fonterra had no deals under consideration. “Some of the assets available
aren’t the right assets — either they’re in the wrong location or they’re not efficient — so we have to be
very cautious,” he said.
The bigger opportunity, he said, was in boosting Australia’s dairy production by improving profitability
for dairy farmers — a task Fonterra was tackling by introducing new herd management techniques to
farmers.
While other processors including Lion — owner of the Pura milk brand — have blamed supermarkets’
$1 a litre milk for slashing processors’ profitability, Mr Paravicini said Fonterra’s deal with Woolies
paved the way for further expansion.

Page285of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“Farmers need stability and certainty so when they ramp up production they know the demand is there,
so this deal with Woolworths is about giving them that stability,” he said.

Fonterra on Friday was fined $NZ300,000 ($277,210) over four charges relating to last year’s recall of
a number of dairy products following a contamination scare.
The dairy giant recalled products across Asia after warning they could contain clostridium botulinum,
which can cause botulism, but the scare was later found to be a false alarm.Mr Paravicini said a recent
slowdown in Chinese demand was driven by higher dairy prices, which had outpaced Chinese
income growth. He added: “Long-term, there’s a huge demand … for dairy protein from emerging
markets, largely from their youth population, but also the elderly — which is good for us because we
have innovative supplement products that aid mobility.”

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

foncop : Fonterra Co-operative Group Limited
i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy Products | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140404ea45000au

Page286of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.