Nyrstar: 83.11% new Shares subscribed in Rights Offering - Launch of Scrips Offering

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Nyrstar: 83.11% new Shares subscribed in Rights Offering - Launch of Scrips Offering

1,811 words
25 September 2014
16:00
Thomson Reuters ONE
HUGNEN
English
© 2014 All Rights Reserved. Thomson Reuters.

THIS ANNOUNCEMENT IS NOT FOR Distribution, DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY, IN THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA, AUSTRALIA, CANADA, JAPAN, South Africa OR ANY OTHER JURISDICTION
WHERE TO DO SO WOULD BE prohibited by applicable law.

25 September 2014, 7.00 am CEST

Nyrstar NV ("Nyrstar" or the "Company") announced today that 83.11% of the total number of
170,022,544 new shares (the "Shares") offered pursuant to its rights offering in the amount of
€251,633,365.12 (the "Rights Offering" and, together with the Scrips Offering referred to below, the
"Offering") have been subscribed at €1.48 per new Share (the "Subscription Price").

The new Shares were offered with non-statutory preference rights (the "Rights") at a ratio of 1 new Share
for 1 Right (the "Ratio"). The Rights were tradable on the regulated market of Euronext Brussels from 12
September 2014 to 23 September 2014. Subject to restrictions under applicable securities laws, existing
shareholders of Nyrstar as at the closing of such regulated market on 11 September 2014 and persons
having acquired Rights during the period from 12 September 2014 until 23 September 2014 (by 4.00 pm
CEST) (the "Rights Subscription Period") had the right to subscribe for the new Shares at the
Subscription Price and in accordance with the Ratio.

The 28,720,976 Rights that have not been exercised at the end of the Rights Subscription Period will be
converted into an equal number of scrips (the "Scrips"). Goldman Sachs International and KBC Securities
NV (the "Joint Bookrunners") and ABN AMRO Bank N.V., BNP Paribas Fortis SA/NV and RBC Europe
Limited (together with the Joint Bookrunners, the "Underwriters") will offer and sell the Scrips in an
offering (i) by way of an exempt private placement in Belgium and elsewhere outside the United States
pursuant to Regulation S of the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "U.S. Securities
Act"), and (ii) within the United States solely to qualified institutional buyers ("QIBs" as defined in Rule
144A under the U.S. Securities Act) in transactions exempt from registration under the U.S. Securities Act
(the "Scrips Offering"). Goldman Sachs International and KBC Securities NV are acting as Joint
Bookrunners for the Offering. Purchasers of Scrips will have the obligation to subscribe for new Shares
corresponding to the number of Scrips acquired by them in accordance with the Ratio. The Scrips
Offering is expected to start today, 25 September 2014, and is expected to end on the same day.  The
results of the Scrips Offering will be announced promptly after its completion.

The Underwriters have agreed to subscribe for any new Shares not taken up in the Offering, subject to
the terms and conditions of an underwriting agreement. Furthermore, funds and accounts under
management being direct or indirect subsidiaries of BlackRock, Inc. ("BlackRock") have advised the
Company that they intended to participate in the Offering. In addition, BlackRock has entered into an
agreement to sub-underwrite the Rights Offering for an amount of €35 million, further demonstrating its
support for the proposed Rights Offering.
The net proceeds, if any, of the sale of the Scrips will be divided proportionally between all holders of
Rights that have not been exercised during the Rights Subscription Period, unless the net proceeds of the
sale of Scrips divided by the number of unexercised Rights is less than €0.01.

Page83of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The results of the Scrips Offering and the amount (if any) of the net proceeds of the sale of Scrips due to
holders of unexercised Rights will be announced after completion of the Scrips Offering via a press
release, which is expected to be issued on or around 25 September 2014. The payment of the
subscriptions with Rights and Scrips is expected to take place on or around 30 September 2014. Delivery
of the new Shares will take place on or around 30 September 2014. The payment of the net proceeds, if
any, of the sale of Scrips, as the case may be, is expected to occur as of 30 September 2014.

A prospectus has been approved by the Belgian Financial Services and Markets Authority on 10
September 2014 (the "Prospectus") and is available in English, Dutch and French. Subject to certain
restrictions, copies of the Prospectus are available without charge, as from 11 September 2014, upon
request in Belgium from KBC Bank on +32 3 283 29 70, from CBC Banque on +32 800 92 020, and from
BNP ParibasFortis on +32 2 433 40 32 (French), +32 2 433 40 31 (Dutch) and +32 2 433 40 34 (English).
Subject to certain restrictions, the Prospectus may be accessed on the websites of KBC Bank (
www.kbc.be/nyrstar ), KBC Securities ( www.kbcsecurities.be and www.bolero.be ) and CBC Banque (
www.cbc.be/nyrstar ) and the website of BNP ParibasFortis ( www.bnpparibasfortis.be/sparenenbeleggen
(Dutch or English) or www.bnpparibasfortis.be/epargneretplacer (French or English), as well as on the
website of Nyrstar ( www.nyrstar.com ) as from 11 September 2014. Moreover and subject to the same
restrictions, copies of the Prospectus are available, without charge, at Zinkstraat 1, B-2490 Balen,
Belgium, telephone number: +32 14 44 95 00, as from 11 September 2014.

- Ends -

About Nyrstar
Nyrstar is an integrated mining and metals business, with market leading positions in zinc and lead, and
growing positions in other base and precious metals; essential resources that are fuelling the rapid
urbanisation and industrialisation of our changing world. Nyrstar has mining, smelting, and commercial
operations located in Europe, the Americas, China and Australia and employs approximately 6,500
people. Nyrstar is incorporated in Belgium and has its corporate office in Switzerland. Nyrstar is listed on
NYSE Euronext Brussels under the symbol NYR. For further information please visit the Nyrstar website,
www.nyrstar.com .

For further information

Investors:
Amy Rajendran 

Group Manager Investor Relations

T: +41 44 745 8103

M: +41 79 722 3089

E: amy.rajendran@nyrstar.com  

Media:
Dirk Delmartino
Pip Green
nyrstar@brunswickgroup.com

Brunswick Group (Brussels)
Brunswick Group (London)

T: +32 2 235 6510
T: +44 20 7404 5959

IMPORTANT INFORMATION
This announcement is for general information only and does not constitute an offer to sell or to purchase
or the solicitation of an offer to buy or to sell, nor shall there be any sale or purchase of, the securities
referred to herein, in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation, sale or purchase would be unlawful
prior to registration, exemption from registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such
jurisdiction.  This announcement is not for distribution, directly or indirectly, in the United States of
America, Australia, Canada, Japan, South Africa or any other jurisdiction where to do so would be
prohibited by applicable law.  Any persons reading this announcement should inform themselves of and
observe any such restrictions.

The securities referred to herein have not been and will not be registered under the U.S. Securities Act,
and the securities may not be offered or sold in the United States (as defined in Regulation S under the
U.S. Securities Act) unless these securities are registered under the U.S. Securities Act, or an exemption
from the registration requirements of the U.S. Securities Act is available. Nyrstar and its affiliates have not
registered, and do not intend to register, any portion of the offering of the securities concerned in the
United States, and do not intend to conduct a public offering of securities in the United States.

Page84of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In any Member State of the European Economic Area that has implemented the Prospectus Directive,
other than Belgium (in respect of the Offering), this communication is only addressed to and is only
directed at qualified investors in that Member State within the meaning of Article 2(1)(e) of the Prospectus
Directive.  The expression "Prospectus Directive" means Directive 2003/71/EC (and amendments thereto,
including Directive 2010/73/EU, to the extent implemented in any relevant Member State) and includes
any relevant implementing measures in any Member State.

This communication is being distributed only to, and is directed only at (a) persons outside the United
Kingdom, (b) investment professionals falling within Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets
Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005, as amended (the "Order"), and (c) high net worth companies,
and other persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully be communicated, falling within Article 49(2) (a) to
(d) of the Order (all such persons together being referred to as "relevant persons").  The offerings are only
available to, and any invitation, offer or agreement to subscribe, purchase, or otherwise acquire or sell
such securities will be engaged in only with relevant persons.  Any person who is not a relevant person
should not act or rely on this communication or any of its contents.

This communication is not a prospectus for the purposes of the Prospectus Directive in relation to the
Offering.  A prospectus prepared and made available in accordance with the Prospectus Directive is
published, which can be obtained, amongst others, from the Company. The Prospectus in relation to the
Offering can be obtained as aforementioned.  Investors should not subscribe for any securities referred to
in this document except on the basis of information contained in the Prospectus in relation to the Offering.
Investors may not accept an offer of securities referred to herein, nor acquire or sell such securities,
unless on the basis of information contained in the Prospectus that has been or will be published or
disseminated by the Company. This communication cannot be used as basis for any investment
agreement or decision.
No announcement or information regarding the offering, listing or securities of the Company referred to
above may be disseminated to the public in jurisdictions outside of Belgium where a prior registration or
approval is required for such purpose.  No steps have been taken, or will be taken, for the offering, listing
or securities of the Company in any jurisdiction outside of Belgium where such steps would be required. 
The issue, exercise, or sale of, the subscription for or purchase of securities of the Company are subject
to special legal or statutory restrictions in certain jurisdictions. The Company is not liable if the
aforementioned restrictions are not complied with by any person.

The full press release can be downloaded from the following link:

Press Release (English)

Press Release (French)

Press Release (Dutch)

This announcement is distributed by NASDAQ OMX Corporate Solutions on behalf of NASDAQ OMX
Corporate Solutions clients.

The issuer of this announcement warrants that they are solely responsible for the content, accuracy and
originality of the information contained therein.

Source: Nyrstar via Globenewswire

HUG#1858161

CT
CO
IN

NS

RE

IPD
IPC

nyrstr : Nyrstar SA/NV
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2113 : Lead Ore/Zinc Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
c171 : Share Capital | npress : Press Releases | c17 : Funding/Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
usa : United States | belg : Belgium | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
benluxz : Benelux Countries | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America |
weurz : Western Europe
Basic Materials
A0M58B

Page85of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB Thomson Reuters (Markets) Norway AS
AN

Document HUGNEN0020140925ea9p00001

Page86of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.