Qantas splits in bid for investors

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Qantas splits in bid for investors

Jamie Freed
524 words
29 August 2014
Canberra Times
CANBTZ
B010
English
(c) 2014 The Canberra Times

Qantas splits in bid for investors

Aviation International division hived off

Jamie Freed Alan Joyce says he is intent on cutting $2 billion of costs over the next three years. Photo:
Bloomberg
Qantas is setting up a holding company for its international division - a change that could allow it to sell
up to 49 per cent of the business to an outside investor. The move was made possible by changes to the
QantasSale Act that removed restrictions on a single airline owning more than 25 per cent or a group of
airlines owning more than 35 per cent of the company. Chief executive Alan Joyce said the split
increased the potential for investment, but cautioned it could take time to find an investor interested in the
business, which is unprofitable. Mr Joyce said the immediate focus was on cutting $2 billion of costs
over three years, of which up to $1 billion will come from the international division. He said the division
would benefit from the airline's reduction in employees and fuel consumption,

closure of a maintenance base at Avalon, and changes such as making better use of ground power units.
Qantas also intends to increase the use of its international fleet by 6per cent by adding flights that will
lead its A380s and 747s to spend more time in the air. As it prepares to hive off the international division,
Qantas is looking again at whether to pursue a split of its Air Operator's Certificates, or licences to fly, so
that the domestic and international business each have their own. That plan was put on ice in February.
The decision to split the international business triggered the need for the airline to make $2.6 billion of
write-downs on its international fleet of A380s, 747s and A330s. The impairments could, however, help
the international business return to profitability, because future depreciation costs will be reduced by
$200 million a year. Mr Joyce would not be drawn on
when he expected the international business to stop losing money. "I'm not going to speculate when that
is going to occur, but this [international split] is aimed at allowing us to seek further investment around the
international business," he said. Qantas has previously said it will not exercise options or purchase rights
over 50 Boeing 787-9s until its international business stops losing

money. On Thursday, it pushed back the timing of the first options to be exercised to 2017 from 2016.
The decision to split the international business rather than the domestic business pleased shareholders,
who were concerned the airline could sell a stake in the profitable domestic arm and dilute their exposure
to it. Potential investors in the international business could include code- share partners such as
Emirates, China Southern and China Eastern. But StrategicAero Research strategist Saj Ahmad said he
doubted any airline would be interested in buying a stake while the business was losing money. "I
honestly cannot see anyone lining up to take a stake here - it would be like pouring money down the
drain," he said.

RF
CO
IN

59799518
qntas : Qantas Airways Ltd
i75 : Airlines | i7501 : Scheduled Passenger Airlines | iairtr : Air Transport | itsp : Transportation/Shipping

Page215of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

canbrr : Canberra | apacz : Asia Pacific | auscap : Australian Capital Territory | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
| austr : Australia

PUB Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty Ltd
AN

Document CANBTZ0020140828ea8t0000w

Page216of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.