Geminder in $44.5m portfolio sell-off

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Geminder in $44.5m portfolio sell-off

Damon Kitney, Property
456 words
24 July 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
21
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

MELBOURNE packaging billionaire Raphael Geminder has moved to reduce the number of
related-party transactions between his private companies and his 40 per cent-owned, listed
packaging company Pact Group by selling off a portfolio of industrial properties.
His Geminder Holdings has finalised the $44.5 million sale of a national portfolio of industrial
properties to funds management groups CorVal and Heathley through CBRE.

The three properties were sold with long-term leasebacks to Pact, while a fourth was sold with a
long-term leaseback to privately owned business P’Auer.
Mr Geminder, who is the chairman of Geminder Holdings, said: “The sale of these properties
materially reduces the number of related-party property interactions with Pact Group.
“It also delivers Pact Group a lower aggregate rental in the first year of occupancy and a sign-on fee
for the new leases with the incoming landlords. That’s a great outcome for all stakeholders.” Pact
shares are still trading below their $3.80 issue price amid ongoing concerns among some fund
managers about the extent of related dealings between Pact and Mr Geminder’s private companies.

Pact has a number of related-party relationships struck at arm’s length with other entities controlled by
Mr Geminder, including the sharemarket-listed Pro-Pac Packaging. But Pact shares have rallied over
the $3.70 mark this month, after falling to a low of $3.10 at the end of February. As part of the float
process, Pact entered into conditional share-purchase agreements with a number of entities in which
Pact, Geminder Holdings, or related entities held stakes.
Another deal on the horizon is Asian packaging group Dynapack. Dynapack is half-owned by the
Hambali family of Indonesia and half-owned by Geminder Holdings, which acquired the interest in
2011. It has 17 manufacturing plants in Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand and Vietnam.
Pact has signed an option to buy the business, but any purchase would be subject to an independent
expert’s report and a Pact shareholder vote where Mr Geminder would not be able to vote his stake.
In May, Dynapack added to its operations when it bought a Chinese packaging company.
Pact chief executive Brian Cridland, who has run the company for more than a decade, has
previously said he had no concerns about conflicts of interest between Mr Geminder and Pact. “They
are all on the table, they are all at arm’s length,’’ Mr Cridland said. “I don’t even see them as conflicts, I
see them as commercial arm’s-length dealings between different entities.’’ The company said in May
it remained on track to meet its prospectus forecasts.PRIMESPACE P29

NS
RE

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | victor : Victoria
(Australia)

Page74of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140723ea7o00028

Page75of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.