Celebrating the best in real estate - Matty Ma

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Press Release
Celebrating the best in real estate - Matty Ma

Harcourts
636 words
14 May 2014
12:37
Scoop.co.nz
SCCONZ
English
Copyright 2014, scoop.co.nz All Rights Reserved.

Celebrating the best in real estate

14 May 2014

An unrelenting work ethic and dedication to excellence has seen Matty Ma crowned the top real estate
sale consultant in Auckland and Northland once again.

Albany-based Matty Ma was recognised as number one at the 2013/2014 End of Year Awards for New
Zealand's largest real estate group, Harcourts.

Matty has consistently placed in the Harcourts' Top 20 chart over the past 10 years, and has ranked
number one in the Northern Region for five out of the past six years.

Harcourts CEO Hayden Duncan says Matty works incredibly hard, usually seven days a week, and her
success is very well deserved.

"Harcourts is full of incredibly hard working people, so you can appreciate just how special Matty is to
win this award. Real estate is a very competitive industry and if you fail to perform, people will not give
you a second chance. However, 95% of Matty's business is repeat and referral - she is incredibly busy
but she and her team give outstanding service to all her clients, not matter how big or small."
Matty, who was a futures broker and journalist in China, has worked hard to establish excellent relations
with overseas investors and new immigrants.

She says she feels a big responsibility to represent Harcourts in the best way possible and she and her
team go the extra distance for every single client.

Matty is also the top performing rural sales consultant in the Northern Region, thanks to the many rural
listings in the Albany area. The Albany office has also become one of Harcourts' top national offices for
revenue.

"I have four assistants who have excellent IT knowledge and we have good systems in place. We give
our very best efforts to every one of our clients and that's why we get so many referrals. I am often
contacted about listings outside of Auckland, but I try to stick to the North Shore because that is where I
know best and the place I can give the best service," Matty says.

Other top ranking Harcourts sales consultants for 2013/2012 were Anton Huang of Howick (2nd) and
David Nightingale of (3rd) St Heliers.
The top performing NAI Harcourts commercial sales consultant for the Northern Region is Paul
Hebditch who is based in Beachlands.

Paul, who has been with NAI Harcourts since its inception in 2011, says he had a very good year
including the completion of three particularly large land development deals.

Page260of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."There are plenty of opportunities in Beachlands. I work by establishing good relationships and working
very hard to get the vendor the results they want."
The top property manager for the region is Michelle Bellette of Central Auckland Property Management
Limited.

Michelle, who manages properties throughout central Auckland, says she maintains the high standards
of her properties and as a result she has a very good level of occupancy.
"Great service is very important to me. I also have a very firm handle on arrears and we actually have
zero currently. It's all about hard work, maintaining good properties and doing your best by people,"
Michelle says.

The regional Harcourts 2013/2014 End of Year Awards precede the National Awards event to be held at
the upcoming Harcourts Annual Conference at Auckland's SKYCITY on 19th-21st of May. It is the
largest real estate conference in New Zealand.

This year's Northern Region 2013/2014 End of Year award winners:

• Top 3 Sales Consultants: (1) Matty Ma, Albany; (2) Anton Huang, Howick (3) David Nightingale, St
Heliers

• Top Rural Sales Consultants: Matty Ma, Albany
• Top NAI Harcourts Commercial Sales Consultants: Paul Hebditch, Beachlands
• Top Property Manager: Michelle Bellette, Central Auckland Property Management Limited

ENDS

IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest : Real Estate
e1117 : Business/Economic/Investor Sentiment | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat :
Economic News
nz : New Zealand | auckl : Auckland | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Scoop Media Limited
Document SCCONZ0020140514ea5e0008f

Page261of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.