Dairy majors back retailers on $1 milk

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Dairy majors back retailers on $1 milk

EXCLUSIVE: Damon Kitney, AGRIBUSINESS
794 words
9 August 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
25
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Dairy producers back $1 milk The heavyweights of the Australian dairy industry have lashed the critics
of Coles and Woolworths selling milk at $1 a litre — including Agricultural Minister Barnaby Joyce —
claiming the practice is in line with global benchmarks.

In the wake of the Australian Competition & Consumer Commission launching action against Coles in
May for its treatment of suppliers, Mr Joyce told the latest Global Food Forum that retailers continuing
to advertise milk at $1 a litre was “BS’’.

“They are selling water for a dearer price. This is not sustainable and it sends all the wrong signals back
to the farm gate about whether they should be investing,’’ Mr Joyce said.
Coles and Woolworths slashed the price of milk to $2 for two litres four years ago. Coles struck a new
long-term supply deal last year with Murray Goulburn that will see the co-operative supply Coles with
about 200 million litres of private-label fresh milk annually. The farming community has treated the
Coles-Murray Goulburn deal with much suspicion, heightened by advertisements in July offering four
litres of premium Devondale milk for $3. The low price was due to temporary oversupply.

Coles this week unveiled a new supplier charter with former Victorian premier Jeff Kennett as an
independent arbiter amid ongoing negative perceptions about the treatment of suppliers.

Merrill Lynch analyst David Errington warned yesterday that the ACCC’s campaign against the big
supermarket chains amounted to a “material threat to the earnings of both Coles and Woolworths” and
would “make it increasingly difficult for both to extract improved terms from suppliers”.

But Murray Goulburn chief executive Gary Helou said the public deserved to know “the truth’’ about $1
milk. “That is what it transacts for the world over. You can go to Europe, you can go to the US, you go
to Asia, the Middle East, that’s the average price of a litre of milk off the shelf. It’s between 90c and $1
for house brand, and house brands dominate that category the world over,’’ he said.
“The great bulk of dairy is produced in Victoria and Tasmania, the bulk of it is exported, hence the
setting up of the price ex-farm gate is driven by international prices and foreign exchange.’’ His
comments were backed by Lion chief executive Stuart Irvine. Lion, which is owned by Japan’s Kirin,
owns the old National Foodsdairy assets.
“It does represent the international price of milk, it’s nothing strange, and the leadership of Coles and
Woolies come from the UK and from The Netherlands, they’re just replicating what they know,’’ Mr
Irvine said, noting that neither retailer made money out of $1 a litre of milk and it was simply used to
drive traffic through the stores. “So the biggest effect of $1 a litre is probably all your small stores that
can’t afford to miss their margin in those products of the baskets.’’ Bega Cheese chief executive Barry
Irvin said the $1-a-litre milk accounted for only a small proportion of Australian production. He also
claimed the price of milk going into value-added products such as cheese was even less.
“If you go to a supermarket tomorrow you’ll probably find cheese at $8 a kilo for a generic cheese
product. Just to be clear about what that is, it takes 10 litres of milk to make a kilo of cheese, 80c a

Page113of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.litre. I’d be delighted if the generic cheese price was actually $10 — $1 a litre,’’ he said. He added: “The
banks are lucky Coles and Woolworths exist because people pick on Coles and Woolworths rather than
the banks.’’ Mr Joyce said firms such as Norco were showing that Australian milk could be sold for
higher prices offshore, noting that milk from northern NSW was fetching $7 to $12 a litre in China.
In April, the Perich family backed Freedom’s Pactum Dairy Group announced an agreement to supply
premium long-life milk to Bright Dairy.

“Given we believe the majority, if not all, of Coles and Woolworths EBIT growth over the past four years
has been made up from better buying from suppliers, we believe this is a material threat to earnings,”
Merrill Lynch’s Mr Errington noted. The move came on the same day the government released a draft
grocery industry code along the lines of the one submitted by Coles and Woolworths last
November.The ACCC has launched a series of cases in recent months against the retailers, including
an unconscionable conduct against Coles and a detergent cartel action against Woolworths, and has
accepted undertakings from both major retailers on petrol discounting.

CO

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

mryglb : Murray Goulburn Co-operative Company Limited | auccc : Australian Competition and
Consumer Commission | colsgj : Coles Group Ltd | wsfrm : Wesfarmers Ltd
i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i413 : Dairy Products | i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i41 :
Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i656 :
Mixed Retailing | i6560002 : Department Stores | iretail : Retail
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | reqrfb : Suggested Reading Food/Beverages/Tobacco | redit :
Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140808ea890003r

Page114of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.