Iron ore is a giant game of chicken

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News - Opinion
Iron ore is a giant game of chicken

Angus Taylor
840 words
16 October 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
70
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Strategy The race is on to grab market share dropped by high-cost producers. Australian miners must
move quickly to make sure Vale bails out first. Angus Taylor
The price of iron ore is on everyone's lips, and the obsession is warranted. For every drop of $1 per
tonne, Australia loses about $600 million a year in revenue – and rising.

Of that, $200 million goes to governments and the balance goes to shareholders. These are
seriously big numbers and big stakes.
Ivan Glasenberg, chief executive of Glencore, is telling Rio Tinto's shareholders that their company
doesn't get it and that a merger will fix the issue.

West Australian Premier Colin Barnett is telling us that such rampant expansion is unhealthy. Rio
Tinto's Andrew Harding is reminding everyone that Rio's margins are very attractive, so extra volume
is good.
The iron ore majors are engaged in a game of chicken, the likes of which has not been seen before.
The parameters are clear. We can still expect some solid growth in global demand for iron ore, but
this isn't the real prize. In the coming months and years the price will settle at unprofitable levels for
high-cost mines. Costly production, particularly privately owned Chinese mines, will exit the market.

As these mines inevitably close – and it will be painful – the surrendered volumes are an extremely
valuable catch to low-cost producers and their host country. Questions remain over who gets to
produce those tonnes.

The players are also clear. Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton have the advantage of well-prepared
expansions in the Pilbara close to market. Vale, the Brazilian iron ore monster, has the lowest cost of
production, but much further to ship to China.

Meanwhile, Rio can choose between expansions in Australia or Guinea in West Africa. The costs of
other producers are too high to be relevant, with the possible exception of Fortescue Metals
Group.Plenty at stake
The value of these expansions is enormous to Australia. If we can grab an extra 100 million tonnes it
is worth close to $1 billion of recurring gross revenues, and at least $200 million in annual tax
revenue. The expansions will require as much as $20 billion of investment – exactly what we need
as other mining investment slows.

Game theory can shed light on such a game of chicken. First, the player with the lowest costs
typically captures more of the market, as the French mathematician Antoine Cournot demonstrated in
1838.

Page82of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.All of the majors are pushing the envelope on costs, and telling us so. Vale is introducing supersized
ships to address its distance from China.

Second, signalling your intention to "lock the steering wheel" will cause your competitors to "swerve"
(in this context, halt or slow expansions). The economist Heinrich von Stackelberg worked this out in
1934. BHP has outlined plans to increase iron ore output by 65 million tonnes to 290 Mt by the end
of 2017.

Rio Tinto, meanwhile, plans to ramp up output from its current 290 Mt to 330 Mt by 2015, not
including its planned development in Guinea.

Third, the biggest producer, Vale – which has the most to lose – has blinked. No wonder Vale's
director of planning has said "everyone is nervous about the iron ore price". None would be more
nervous than Vale. Vale has the strongest incentive to slow global expansions, and despite
extraordinary geological resources has been slow to expand, hindered by Brazil's complex licensing
process.

Finally, secretly preparing to "swerve" (that is, to reduce production and expansions) at the last
moment is typically smart for large players, so long as this really is a secret. But that requires
flexibility far greater than Australia's current regulatory regime permits.Flexibility the way forward

So if Australia is to win this game, what do we need to do? We clearly need to stop jawboning Rio
Tinto and BHP Billiton to halt their expansions. Doing so only gives our competitors a glimmer of
hope.

We need to ensure that our producers are able to get their operational and expansion costs down.
The government's focus on industrial relations in major development projects is important in this
context. But more is needed.

Our miners need to be ready to move quickly and flexibly. This means reducing unnecessary
regulatory constraints, as the government has done by streamlining environmental approvals. We
must avoid any further risk of a cumbersome access regime coming into place, particularly given that
our major producers are vertically integrated exporters.
And, of course, we have to avoid any risk of reintroducing the mining tax, with all the uncertainty that
would create.

The Business Council of Australia has told us that we need an industry policy that builds on our
competitive advantages. Policies supporting our biggest export industry to win do just that.

Angus Taylor is the federal member for Hume. He advised Australian and global organisations on
strategy before entering politics.

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | imet : Mining/Quarrying |
ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | reqrmm : Suggested Reading
Metals/Mining | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter |
redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141015eaag0002x

Page83of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.