Preliminary 2014 Boral Ltd Earnings Presentation - Final

HD Preliminary 2014 Boral Ltd Earnings Presentation - Final
WC 13,671 words
PD 26 August 2014
SN CQ FD Disclosure
SC FNDW
LA English
CY © 2014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.
LP

Presentation

TD

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Boral Full Year Results
call for financial community. (Operators instructions). I must advise you that this conference is being
recorded today, Wednesday August 27, 2014. I would now like to hand the call over to your first speaker
Mr Mike Kane , thank you please go ahead.

MIKE KANE , CEO, MD, BORAL LIMITED : Good afternoon and I'll try to work with this echo a little bit, if
you can't hear me in the back raise your hand, I'd be surprised through. I think you'll be able to, I don't have
to talk very loud. That's good because I've been talking all morning and I'm a little hoarse. Spent a little
time with the media trying to get the story straight and I think we pretty much accomplished that.

Welcome everyone and thank you for joining us for Boral 's full year results presentation for the year ended
June 30, 2014. We appreciate UBS hosting us in their auditorium today.
I'm joined by Ros Ng Boral 's CFO, as well as several of our senior executives including Joe Goss who is
Divisional Managing Director of Construction, Materials and Cement. Al Borm, President of Boral USA.
Frederic de Rougemont , CEO of USG Boral. Darren Schulz , Executive General Manager of Australian
Building Products. Steve Pyne Executive General Manager of Queensland Northern Territories for Boral
Construction Materials . And Tony Charnock , Senior Vice President of USG Boral Asia Pacific.

Today we'll provide an overview of Boral 's full year results and take you through the operational
performance by division. Ros will present the consolidated financial results, including significant items of
Boral 's debt position. And I will conclude by highlighting our current strategic priorities and comment on the
outlook for Boral by division. We will talk for around 30 to 35 minutes before opening up for questions.
I'm pleased to report a solid full year performance from Boral with a strong uplift in most key metrics
including earnings and net profit. While reported revenue is down 2% to AUD5.2 billion, sales revenue
from continuing operations increased 7% to AUD4.5 billion. Which is a clear indication of the
performance of the underlying business and the benefits of increased market activity in key markets.

The 2% decline of reported revenue reflects the impact of the Gypsum business going from 100%
consolidated reporting to a 50% share equity accounted interest, from the last four months of the year
following the formation of the USG Boral joint venture on February 28.
EBIT of AUD294 million was a significant 29% increase on the prior year, driven by cost reductions and
restructuring benefits and generally better market conditions. Excluding significant items profit after tax was
AUD171 million, a 64% increase on the prior year. Statutory net profit after tax of AUD173 million after
AUD2 million of net significant items was a substantial improvement on last year's net after tax loss of
AUD212 million.

I can tell you if you had a little struggle with that issue to understand how those numbers moved back and
forth. Gearing has come down to 18% from 30% last year; Ros will provide more detail around our balance
sheet later in the presentation.

Earnings per share have increased by 62% to AUD0.22 and we've announced a fully franked final dividend
of AUD0.08 for a full year dividend of AUD0.15 per share, an increase of 36% on the prior year. Overall
EBIT return on funds employment or ROFE is heading in the right direction at 7.2% up from 4.7% in 2013.

Page231of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It's a complicated set of results, so what I've tried to do is summarize it in six major highlights of this year's
results. First is in the area of safety, we delivered a 22% reduction in recordable injuries this year, which is
a good result. With a lost time injury frequency rate of 1.9, we stacked up very well within the industries in
which we operate. Of course there's still more to do to continue improving our safety performance.

Second was the significant level of cash generation, which I'll come back to. Third was the strong
contribution from construction materials and cement, which was broadly steady on last year, despite an
AUD20 million decline in property EBIT.
Fourth was a substantial AUD48 million turnaround in Australian building products. Fifth the formation of
AUD1.6 billion USG Boral JV established in the gypsum business as an outstanding growth platform.
Finally the continued improvement in Boral USA was a highlight, particularly the fact that we delivered a
positive EBITDA of $3 million for the first time in six years. The EBIT waterfall chart tells most of the story.
Operating EBIT from construction materials and cement was up AUD16 million, largely offset in the
AUD20 million lower EBIT from property sales. The steady result for CM&C reflects benefits from
restructuring and cost reduction, as well as major projects. Weather was also on our side this year,
especially relative to recent years.
Property sales generated significant cash flow in 2014, but were less profitable than sales in the prior year.
For example Macquarie Westland in New South Wales was sold for AUD50 million, close to book value.

Building products also benefited from restructuring and cost reductions as well as general market
improvements, to deliver an AUD8 million profit. In Boral Gypsum we had eight months of consolidated
earnings, verses 12 months last year, resulting in AUD15 million of lower consolidated earnings. This was
partially offset by an AUD10 million post-tax equity contribution for the last four months, after forming the
JV with USG .

Importantly the business is performing well in both Australian and Asia. And in the USA the business
delivered improved results with a substantial Australian AUD26 million reduction of losses in the year, on
the back of the continued US housing recovery and restructuring initiatives.
Included in unallocated earnings is AUD7 million of higher corporate costs as a result of transitional office
lease costs, bonuses being earned in financial year 2014 and not in financial year 2013, and cost to
support Boral 's innovation programs.

Turning now to look at our external market drivers. In financial year 2014 we generally experienced better
market conditions across Australia, Asia and USA, with a couple of exceptions.

In Australia roads, highways, subdivisions and bridges activity, continued to decline from its 2012 peak.
With the value of work done in financial year 2014, estimated to have declined by around 10% of the prior
year.
On the other hand, non-residential activity was up around 5% nationally driven by strong levels of activity
in New South Wales, which reflects Barangaroo and other large scale commercial developments in metro
New South Wales.

Australian housing starts were up around 11% to AUD180,000 in financial year 2014 with detached
housing starts up 10% and multi residential up 13%.

While the positive trend in housing starts is continuing to benefit Boral , detached housing is proportionate
of total housing activity in Australia, dipped to historic lows at 57%, relative to the previous 20 year average
of 67%.
For context, detached housing drives around 14% of total revenues for Boral , while multi residential
dwellings currently drive around 7% of our total revenue. Alterations and additions in Australia remain
subdued but up 3% in 2014.

In the USA total housing starts were 9% higher than last year, but below market expectations at 953,000
starts. Multifamily housing starts outpaced single family starts, which were up just 6% on the prior year.
Single family starts in both Boral brick states and tile states were up 7% year-on-year.
In Asia, market activity was higher at all of our key countries, except China where activity remains subdued
in the high end markets in the regions where we operate.

Looking more closely at the divisions and the EBIT return on funds employed or ROFE. We are making
improvements across the board, but we still have work to do. Construction materials and cement is
currently delivering a solid return on funds employed of 12.7%.

Page232of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Having benefited from prior year restructuring initiative and ongoing major project activity.

In CM&C we are continuing to focus on cost controls, but pricing remains equivocally important if we are to
lift returns from current levels. In building products we have reached a positive ROFE of 2% as a result of
significant restructuring. Although there is still a lot of work to do, to improve returns to an acceptable level.
I have said before that we will struggle with the little returns -- required returns from this division, without
further restructuring. So that remains a priority.

The underlying Boral gypsum business has increased ROFE to 6.1% off stronger volumes, prices and
operational performances in Australia and Asia. Further ROFE gains will come from market growth, product
penetration and new technologies.

In Boral USA return of the funds employees are proving there is still a negative result at the moment. We
expect the lift in returns of the US housing market recovery continues, but we are aware that we need to
deliver very high returns from Boral USA at the peak, to offset the protracted negative returns of recent
years.
Now to look a little bit more detail at construction materials and cement, which reported AUD3.3 billion in
revenue, two thirds of the group's revenue and AUD277 million in EBIT.

The strong underlying performance was underpinned by improved earnings from quarries and cement. But
lower contributions from the other businesses. Volumes were up between 3% to 7% in concrete quarries
and cement, supported by a steady flow of major project activity and improvements in residential and
non-residential construction markets. Especially in metro New South Wales and Western Australia.

There was continued weakness in regional Queensland and New South Wales due to the reduction in
roads and resource related activity, and the Victorian market remained flat.

Like for like, selling prices were broadly flat in concrete quarries and cement, due to competitive pressures,
particularly in Queensland and Victoria. Although there was some lift in New South Wales. Overall pricing
was up marginally in concrete to a favourable geographic and product mix.

Supporting the strong performance were significant prior year restructuring benefits in construction
materials, and AUD28 million in cost reductions and productivity improvements in cement. Including the
exit of clinker production at Waurn Ponds in Victoria and associated depreciation savings found in last
year's asset impairments. And ceasing coal mining at the Berrima Colliery.

The asset business was negatively impacted by the continued decline in roads and highway activity,
including the completion of the Queensland flood recovery work and Melbourne's peninsular link in the
prior year.

Increased competitive pressures in Queensland and Victoria also impacted margins in the asphalt
business. The concrete placing business was impacted by some operating inefficiencies during the period,
which lowered margins and earnings.
The divisions EBIT result includes AUD10 million of equity accounted income, as a result of a
reassessment of provisions associated with the rehabilitation of PLDC.

Now turning to building products.
With a 5% revenue lift of AUD487 million, building products delivered a strong turnaround of profitability.
Improving from an AUD40 million EBIT loss to an AUD8 million profit. The improvement was largely
driven by the restructuring and rationalization which commenced in financial year 2013 and delivered
AUD10 million of benefits in financial year 2014. Plus the AUD9 million net decline in depreciation
charges following last year's asset impairments.

Increased housing construction activity in New South Wales, Queensland and Western Australia, also
returning to the lift in earnings through higher bricks, roofing and soft wood volumes.

Furthermore, operational performance improvements and production volume leverage contributed AUD15
million to the lift in EBIT. Pricing outcomes improved across the board, ranging from 2% and 5% higher
average selling prices across all businesses. In bricks volumes increased by 9% with strong gains in New
South Wales, Western Australia and Queensland, offsetting weaker demand in Victoria.

Brick prices were up by 2% including a modest increase in Western Australia, which was the first time in a
number of years. And a 9% increase in New South Wales, partly reflecting a product mix shift to higher
value faced bricks. In April 2014 we announced the intention to form a bricks JV with CSR . Whilst still

Page233of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.subject to ACCC clearance, this JV will capitalize on operational and overhead efficiencies, delivering
returns that recover the cost of capital through the cycle.

(Inaudible), modest volume and price growth was delivered despite the ongoing impacts of product
substitution and relatively low levels of detached housing, and A&A activity in New South Wales and
Victoria.

Timber, excluding the exited woodchip business, revenues were up 3%, driven largely by 5% higher
softwood prices and an 18% volume lift. Hardwood pricing improved but volumes were flat due to subdued
activity in A&A and in the higher end detached housing market as well as import competition.

In June 2014, we agreed a new supply contract with Forestry New South Wales, accepting AUD8.55
million for a 50,000 cubic metre reduction in annual timber allocations for the next nine years. This
supports a more sustainable long term outcome for our hardwood business and the industry overall. As
part of the negotiations, we've also extended the contract by five more years to 2028.

Turning now to Boral gypsum. (Inaudible) the USG Boral plasterboard and ceilings joint venture which
formally commenced on March 1, 2014.
Our full year reported revenue of AUD691 million and reported EBIT of AUD77 million for the gypsum
business comprises eight months of 100% consolidated plus AUD10 million in equity income from the
four months of 50% owned equity accounted joint venture earnings. There are a number of significant
items coming out from the transaction and the business restructuring which Ros will take you into more
detail about later.

The integration of Boral gypsum and USG (technical difficulty) and we are already starting to realise the
early benefits from USG adjacent products in our key gypsum markets. The USG technology roll out is on
track and new next-gen products are expected to be available in Australia by the end of the calendar year.
Previously announced synergies of $50 million are expected to be delivered within the first three years of
the technology roll out in Australia and Asia.
Looking at the underlying business, we achieved strong growth in revenues to AUD1.1 billion of 19% on a
like-for-like basis and EBIT was up 23% to AUD102 million.

The underlying earnings growth reflects improved housing market conditions in Australia and continuing
market growth across Asia. In Australia, revenue growth was underpinned by a 7% increase in board
volumes, 3% to 4% higher board prices and a 9% increase in non-board revenue including ceiling tiles,
[metal stud] compounds, plaster, gypsum re-sale products and contracting.
The Australia business also achieved a AUD7.5 million EBIT benefit from operational cost reductions, and
[production mine] leveraged impact following improvements on manufacturing and distribution performance
at Port Melbourne relative to last year, as well as the full year impact of prior year headcount reductions.
In Asia, revenues increased in most markets with strong volume growth in Korea and Indonesia. Board
volumes were up 17% in Korea, and gains were made in prices and margins, reflecting market
improvements, recovered market share and some short term gain as a result of competitor supply
constraints.

In Thailand, despite the impact of political unrest on the construction market in late 2013 and early 2014,
particularly in Bangkok, broad volumes were up 5% while prices remained flat in a highly competitive
market.
China returned to profitability with a 9% increase in board volumes, although the high end premium market
where we operate remains subdued. In Indonesia, earnings were adversely impacted by the significant
depreciation in local currency, as raw materials and energy are priced in US dollars. However, underlying
demand in Indonesia was strong, with volumes up 17% and strong pricing gains.

Overall, capacity utilisation in gypsum was around 69%, which accounts for new capacity coming online
from the final planned expansions in China and Vietnam. Ideally, we need to be around 80% or higher to
benefit margins and earnings.

A cost-down program has commenced in the USG Boral JV to help the business remain competitive in the
face of inflationary cost pressures, and as additional resources are added to support the roll out of new
technologies and the expanded product portfolio.

To Boral USA . The division achieved substantial reduction in EBIT losses in financial year 2014,
underpinned by the continuing US housing recovery, albeit at slower than expected levels.

Page234of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Indeed, the US business broke through to profitability in the fourth quarter of financial year 2014 as the
annualised run rate of the total US housing starts reached approximately $1.1 million. EBIT was still
negative at AUD39 million or $35 million.
EBITDA was positive at AUD3 million. The first positive result in six years for Boral USA , which shows we
are making good progress in the business.

Revenue was up 9% in US dollars despite the loss of revenues from the divested Oklahoma concrete and
sand operations. Revenue from the cladding business, which includes bricks, stone and trim grew 17%.
The bricks business delivered increases in volumes, pricing and distribution revenue while Cultured Stone
volume and price increases were offset by an adverse geographic shift in demand.

In our developing trim business, both revenue and volumes doubled off a low base due to an increase in
[dual] locations to 368 from 217 in 2013. The trim business also launched a new high value siding product
during the year.

Roofing revenues increased with growth in volumes and price. Meanwhile, we continued plant network
rationalisations with the closure of the Pompano concrete tile plant in Florida, with products transferred to
Lake Wales, and the closure of the Ione clay tile plant in California.

Both the fly ash and remaining construction materials business performed profitably, with strong growth in
volumes and pricing due to improved construction material conditions in Denver.

I'd now like to hand over to Ros to provide detail around our financial results for the year.

ROS NG , CFO, BORAL LIMITED : Thanks Mike, good afternoon. Turning to financial results.

Boral improved its overall financial performance in financial year 2014 despite a small 2% drop in reported
revenue to AUD5.2 billion. EBITDA was up 4% to AUD556 million, with a AUD46 million lower
depreciation and amortisation expense of AUD261 million. This comes from the realignment of asset
values last year, most notably in building products and cement, together with lower gypsum depreciation.
Boral 's EBIT before significant items increased by 29% to AUD294 million. As discussed by Mike, this
was largely driven by the underlying strengths in construction materials in cement, the significant
turnaround in building products, as well as the improved results from Boral USA .
Net interest was AUD14 million lower AUD83 million, reflecting Boral 's significant lower debt levels,
which I will expand on in more detail later.
Income tax expense increased by AUD17 million due to high Australian earnings. The underlying effective
tax rate increased to 17%, compared to 15% last year, largely as a result of increased earnings from
Australia, lower US losses and equity accounted gypsum earnings.
Underlying profit after tax of AUD171 million was up 64% on last year. Significant items come to a net gain
of AUD2 million for a statutory reported net profit after tax of AUD173 million, which is a significant
improvement on last year's loss of AUD212 million.

Now I'll go through in more detail about significant items.

We had a number of significant items in financial year 2014 as a result of ongoing restructuring and
portfolio reshaping at Boral . The AUD23 million net gain from gypsum transactions relates to a AUD26.4
million gain on completion of the formation of the USG Boral joint venture, along with Boral 's 50% share
of equity accounted post-tax restructuring costs in the joint venture of about AUD3.8 million, which largely
relates to redundancies as part of the joint venture formation and restructuring.

Other significant items result from restructuring and capacity rationalisation (technical difficulty). AUD30
million in Boral US related to impairments taken following the closure of the Ione clay roof tile plant and
the August brick paver plants, as well as costs in restructuring the USA regional sales and management
teams.
AUD14 million in Australia's cement business of costs associated with the closure of the off-white specialty
cement kiln at Maldon New South Wales.
AUD17 million associated with the restructure of Construction Materials in Queensland and Asphalt in
Victoria in response to softer market conditions, along with reduction of support services, to correspond to
the recent portfolio changes.
Separately, a negative AUD4 million relates to the sale of the Windows business in November last year
and some of the costs associated with the proposed east coast Bricks joint venture with CSR .

Page235of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.A positive AUD16 million significant item relates to an interest benefit from resolution of a tax issue with
the Australian Tax Office . This gives a total earnings before tax impact of negative AUD27 million,
however after income tax, this gives us a net significant benefit of AUD2 million.

Now turning to cash flow. We significantly improved the business cash generation during financial year
2014, in line with a key part of our strategy to reduce Boral 's net debt. Operating cash flow increased by
AUD198 million to AUD507 million for the year through increased earnings, a continued focus on working
capital management, through improved [DFOs] and lower inventory levels. Lower income tax payment due
to the timing of instalments also benefited operating cash flow.
Sale proceeds from the second half in 2014 on the Quarrywest land in New South Wales and the cash
received from the New South Wales government for reduced timber allocations also contributed significant
benefit in working capital.

We have maintained our strict capital allocation measures, resulting in capital expenditure being down 13%
on fiscal year 2013 to AUD268 million.
Proceeds from the sale of assets and land including gypsum into the USG Boral joint venture, the
divestment of Windows business, net of a final payment on acquisition of the Cultured Stone business in
the US, contributed in total AUD545 million to cash flow.
Free cash flow was up strongly from AUD177 million to AUD783 million, which has helped significantly
with debt reduction. As of July 1, 2013, Boral had net debt of AUD1.45 billion. A combination of improved
underlying cash flow, lower capital spend and proceeds from the sale of businesses have seen net debt
more than halved from financial year 2013 levels to AUD718 million.

Looking now at CapEx in more detail. Financial year 2014 total capital expenditure remained relatively low
and in line with the expectations at AUD268 million. Stay in business capital expenditure represented 78%
of depreciation.

This is higher than SIB investment last year, which represented an unsustainably low level of 41% of
depreciation. Stay in business capital comprised the majority of the financial year 2014 spend of AUD203
million, compared to growth capital of AUD65 million.

Our stay in business investment has focused on essential health, safety and environmental initiatives, key
refurbishment projects and asset replacement projects, including the replacement of our ageing fleet.
Growth CapEx of AUD65 million was down significantly on previous years due to the completion of the
Peppertree Quarry project this year, and was constrained to essential projects such as our wheatstone
concrete assets, the completion of the new line at Ho Chi Minh City plasterboard plant in Vietnam and the
commencement of preliminary work on a number of other quarry development projects.
As already highlighted, net debt at year end of AUD718 million was AUD728 million lower than at year
end June 2013.

As a result, gearing reduced significantly to 18% from 30% at June 2013. Boral remains well within its
financial debt covenants, with our gearing covenant reduced to 26%, well within the threshold of less than
60%. Our debt maturity profile is well spread, with a weighted average debt maturity of 3.4 years and a
weighted average cost of debt steady at 6.1%.
The next refinancing will be the $200 million private placement notes, which are due to mature in May
2015.

Net interest cover has improved from 2.3 times in financial year 2013 to 3.5 times, and net debt to EBITDA
has fallen from 2.7 times in financial year 2013 to 1.3 times.
Our balance sheet is robust, with AUD500 million of undrawn bank facilities and cash of AUD383 million
as of end of June. Boral will continue to manage capital efficiency with a considered financial policy, will
ensure we have sufficient liquidity to execute on business strategy, and also to support our continuing
financial obligations.

I'll hand back to Mike to talk about Boral 's strategic priorities and the outlook for 2015.

MIKE KANE : Thank you Ros. We are now well-advanced in the first two years of our fix, execute and
transform journey. I'm pleased with our progress as we begin to approach the end of the fix phase. I'm
confident that we have fixed a lot of the things that were holding us back from delivering improved
performance. This includes re-shaping the portfolio, managing costs down, and as Ros talked about,
reducing debt through cash generation and the conservation of capital.

Page236of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.While there are still some fixes we have to see through including further realignment of the building
products portfolio, we are now looking towards the execute and transform phase of improving the way we
operate. Our objectives are to be more efficient, more disciplined and more profitable in our operations
and to transform our performance and sustainable growth through innovation.

We need to increase our capacity utilisation. We've stopped adding new capacity in our gypsum business,
at least until we increase utilisation rates. We are responding to external challenges by realigning
businesses as markets change, and we're becoming more responsive.

We are demonstrating an ability to secure access to innovation technologies, as well as develop our own
innovations. We have more to do, but we are on an innovation path now. We are investigating opportunities
to reduce our exposure to high fixed cost businesses and to create a more geographically balanced
portfolio over time.

While we are continuing to work on long term strategic positioning, the immediate focus remains on
managing costs down.
We have made significant progress in financial year 2014, with the realisation of AUD130 million in
cumulative cost reductions from announced cost-down programs. This includes AUD93 million of
incremental benefits in financial year 2014. A further AUD20 million in annualised benefits from reduced
contractor spend is expected in financial year 2015, to reach a total annualised benefits, which is the third
program of benefits from previously announced cost reduction programs

Separate to these programs, a number of divisional cost reduction programs commenced in the second
half of financial year 2014, to combat inflationary and other cost pressures. These include a dedicated cost
reduction program in USG Boral to help the business remain competitive, as additional resources were
added to support the roll out of the new technologies, and the sales and marketing of the expanded product
portfolio.

In Boral USA , further organisational streamlining was undertaken in June 2014. With the restructuring and
consolidation of sales and manufacturing teams as well as the consolidation of management
responsibilities, this reduced headcount by around 70 people and is expected to save the business $12
million per annum from financial year 2015.

In construction materials and cement, further restructuring occurred the second half of financial year 2014,
particularly Queensland, most notably in the asphalt business. There was also an associated realignment
of resources that support services. In total, headcount was reduced by 118 positions, and this should
deliver around AUD11 million of annualised cost savings in financial year of 2015.

Looking back over the past year or two, we've made significant progress in reshaping the portfolio in order
to reduce cost, respond to changing market dynamics and to strengthen Boral 's long term growth
potential.
Through divestments and land sales over the past two years, we've generated AUD251 million of cash,
achieving our target of between AUD200 million and AUD300 million.

In construction materials and cement, we've exited clinker manufacturing at Waurn Ponds and transitioned
to an import model in Victoria cement, which delivers clear benefits. We ceased production at the Berrima
Colliery and announced our intention to permanently close the colliery.

We announced the closure of the small scale high cost specialty cement kiln at Maldon, and as mentioned,
we have restructured the asphalt business in Queensland and Victoria to better align with the weaker
activity levels in those markets.

The only products the portfolio changes have been significant including the divestment of windows. In
timber we ceased manufacturing engineering flooring and exited softwood distribution in Queensland and
the woodchip export business.

We agreed to a reduction in our hardwood timber supply from Forestry New South Wales for the next nine
years to support a more sustainable long term outcome for the business and the industry more broadly. In
bricks, we announced the intention to form an Australian east coast bricks joint venture with CSR .

In Boral gypsum, we formed the USG Boral JV which is progressing very well. In the USA, we further
consolidated a roofing production capacity with the closure of the Pompano and Ione roof tile plants, and
we permanently closed the August brick paver plant.

It would be (inaudible) refinements in financial year 2015, including a strategic review of our timber
business and increased investment in R&D around our exterior roofing and cladding poly-ash technologies.

Page237of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The key objective of our fix, execute, transform program is to enable us to deliver superior returns through
the cycle. We are focusing on improving EBIT return on funds employed to 15% in the long term. We hope
the increase to 7.2% in fiscal year 2014 from 4.7% in financial year 2013 and cyclical lows of 4.1% in
financial year 2012.

While we've made significant improvements, there's still a considerable amount of work to reach our 15%
target. This will require our relentless focus on cost, margins, capital and cash generation, as well as our
continued focus on positioning the portfolio so that Boral is well-positioned to take advantage of sustainable
growth.

Now to look at our outlook for financial year 2015 by division.

The Australian housing market should strengthen further in financial year 2015, but this will be offset by
softer activity in roads, highways, subdivisions and bridges and other engineering construction activity,
which we expect to pick up in financial year 2016.

We expect construction materials and cement to continue to deliver a strong result, which will underpin
Group earnings, especially (inaudible) benefit to realise cost reduction and restructuring programs already
implemented.

While we've been challenged in obtaining price leverage in 2014, if this continues in financial year 2015, it
could dampen earnings expectations. The smaller building products division will continue to improve, and is
expected to deliver an EBIT that is approximately double the EBIT delivered in financial year 2014.

Boral gypsum -- underlying earnings from USG Boral will continue to grow, due to growth in demand as
well as business improvements. The stronger result will be partially offset by integration costs associated
with the roll out of next-gen technologies and a broader product portfolio.

Overall for Boral , the gypsum division will contributed lower earnings in financial year 2015, reflecting the
move to a full 12 months of 50% equity accounted post-tax earnings.

In Boral USA , we expect a strong improvement to a broadly break-even EBIT result in financial year 2015,
assuming the housing market recovery continues and housing starts reach 1.1 million to 1.2 million for
the year, which is in line with market expectations.

Our immediate (technical difficulties) managing costs, margins, capital and cash to further leverage the
market growth opportunities in financial year 2015.

On that note, I'll now open to questions from the room followed by questions from those on the conference
call. For fairness, please ask only one question. If time permits, I will come back to allows supplementary
questions.

Questions and Answers
UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Right here.

SIMON THACKRAY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP : Simon Thackray from Citi. Thanks Mike. I've only got one
question because I'm only allowed one. Looking at the substantial amount of cost that has been taken out
of this business, are we at a position where guys like myself could overestimate the operating leverage in
this business if you do not get price from here?

In other words, will cost have to come back into this business, given you've addressed the fixed cost base?
It's been a substantial amount -- if there's more to come out if the cycle's not working in your favour, the but
the risk here is that this has been a story of operating leverage and now the only way we're going to get
that leverage is with price.

MIKE KANE : There's no question price is going to play a significant part going forward. We've done the
lion's share of a lot of the cost out that can be done, particularly in the headcount side of the business. I
would expect though that as I look at the Australian market, we've had full volumes in this market.

So it's not a question of variable headcount coming back into this business as I don't expect demand to
substantially improve from where it is today.

In the US it's a different story. With the leverage of volume, there will be some variable headcount that has
to come back to meet that, but I think we've done such a good job on getting the fixed headcount overhead
down, that that will continue to pay benefits for us as the (inaudible) come forward. We've really flattened
the organisation in the US, even beyond the levels that I took it when I was there, and I'm very impressed
with the teams and the work being done.

Page238of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The other thing that's happened in this Company is that we now have a critical focus on cost management
on a continuous basis. This is not episodic. It's not something that you just do one year and you say you're
done and you complete it. Whenever we have disappointments in the marketplace, we have to look to the
compressible cost that we can manage and a good example of that, Joe and I have had these
conversations, (inaudible) weather here in August. Look at the worst weather month in August, it was a wet
month in 16 years in Australia, for the eastern cities.

Frankly, that's had an impact on performance in August. We don't have the results out yet, but I don't need
to see the results to tell you that August is not going to be a very good month. July was a decent month,
but July had better weather. If that continues, it's going to challenge this business to achieve its targets for
this year, and already Joe and I are talking about, how do we respond to this.
That type of mentality is permeated across the business. I'm very pleased, in the gypsum business for
example. They looked at the additional cost that they were going to have to take on when the
manufacturing and the marketing and the sales people at USG came over to help implant the technology
and roll out this new technology throughout this broad geography. Rather than just take on those costs and
hope for a better day, they said no, we've got to figure out a way to reduce our cost to offset that impost.
That's the approach we want to see and that's what we're seeing in all of our businesses.

One of them -- the business that leads the way is Australian building products. They've done an
extraordinary job. When you look at the result, there wasn't a lot of price in 2014 that helped us out. So
therefore, it's been mostly a question of self-help. We've done the lion's share of it.

We've (inaudible) price. We do expect to see some price improvement in this financial year. I know my
guys all stood up six months ago and put their hand on heart and said, we're going to get price increases
and we did our damnedest but it didn't happen in construction materials.
We believe it needs to happen this year, albeit it'll be modest across the board.

SIMON THACKRAY: Just to confirm, that is the assumption in the outlook you're giving is some modest--

MIKE KANE : Some modest price increases.

SIMON THACKRAY: --price increases.

MIKE KANE : We can't long term do this without price increasing. Inflationary pressures particularly in
Australia will overwhelm us if we can't ultimately get price.

ANDREW JOHNSTON, ANALYST, CLSA: Mike, Andrew Johnston, CLSA. One question on page 23 and
this sort of follows on from the issue on price and it's got two parts. So first in the construction materials,
are you expecting, are you saying that you expect price increases over and above what you got last year?

And to what extent is the increased demand of increased volumes in New South Wales at the expense of
other states important in driving that, driving that price increase? And I suppose as part of that, could you
talk about the timing of the quarry start up at Marulan?

MIKE KANE : Okay so since we didn't really get much price increase and we were essentially flat in
construction materials last year they wouldn't have to work very hard to improve that. Double up real quick.
I expect modest price increases.

They will breach the cost of inflation but it all begins with the cement price and we were unsuccessful in
getting the cement price increase and as we predicted, in the absence of a cement price increase it's
extraordinary difficult to get the downstream product price increases. We do expect some price increase
this year and we're going to fight hard to get it.

Your second question is the start-up of Peppertree?

ANDREW JOHNSTON: Sorry, yes. I suppose you said you need it in cement but what about aggregates?
How important is aggregate?

MIKE KANE : It's very important but once again we're not forecasting any large movement in price in
aggregate. A modest improvement in both concrete, aggregate, asphalt and cement this year is what we're
planning and we think it's reasonably achievable.

The markets are continuing to improve with the exception of roads, highways and infrastructure so if you
just look at the commercial construction market and the residential markets and New South Wales is the
most robust market that we're in and we don't have, we have no reason to believe that will not continue.

Page239of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.There's a, when it comes to major projects and highway work there's a lull as you go from the finish up of
work to move on to the next projects. We're going to see in financial year 2015 a drop off I think with
aggregate of somewhere around 10% but we then expect as we get to the end of the financial year and
move into financial year 2016 that should come back. It should come back very strong because a lot of the
projects that are on the queue, I've just got a few right here, should all start to show up in varying stages.

So we've got a gateway which is currently underway but it is the Toowoomba bypass in Queensland,
there's the Ipswich Motorway and Bruce Highway in Queensland. These are big projects that are on the
cuff.

The Sturt Highway in New South Wales, WestConnex and NorthConnex in New South Wales, East-West
Link Regional Rail Link, Western Highway, Princes Highway western Victoria, Perth Airport Gateway ,
we're seeing some of that now, Swan Valley bypass in Western Australia and the Perth Freight Link. In
South Australia the North-South Road and Corridor.

There's just a soapbox of projects. Now all we've got is, they're not going to happen at the same time but
they all take roughly 18 months from when you start pushing till you finally get them shovel ready and we
think that's going to push us somewhere around financial year 2016.

ANDREW JOHNSTON: Sorry, the last part of that was around Marulan and the close down of Penrith
Lakes and the start up at Marulan and how important is that in terms of pricing?

MIKE KANE : It shouldn't have any dramatic impact on price. Why don't I ask Joe Goss , he's right here, to
tell what he thinks?

JOE GOSS , DIVISIONAL MD, BORAL CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & CEMENT: As (technical
difficulty) said for Peppertree we're moving the quarry. We need one last price increase to be able to
recovery that cost in that investment so looking into fiscal year 2016 we're going to be expecting that
increase. We obviously will continue to operate throughout this fiscal year with closing coming in March,
May timeframe.

MIKE KANE : So what we've done to adjust for that is we've started up Peppertree, we're curtailed volume
coming out of other quarries so that we can prove up Peppertree and it's an important exercise that we're
going through and we're seeing the performance we expect on that Peppertree quarry.

ANDREW SCOTT, ANALYST, CIMB: Mike, Andrew Scott from CIMB. One probably partly for you, partly
for Ros, we spoke about a 4% increase in EBITDA, of 29% increase in EBIT and it seems to me if you look
at it simply sort of 45% to 50% of the improvement seems to have come from purely a lower depreciation.
Probably not surprising, we've had AUD200 million of impairments, sorry, AUD400 million of impairments
and a couple of hundred million dollars of that related directly to PP&E over the last few years. When do
we get to the point where you can draw a line and say this is our funds employed, this is our asset base
and we're moving forward from here?
MIKE KANE : Well I think you can see on the prior year we had a couple of hundred million dollars in
extraordinary write-downs and this year we stopped going negative on those numbers but I think the lion's
share of the restructuring piece associated with the asset base has been done.

But I would argue that as we continue to work through building products in Australia we may have
situations where there's some write-downs associated if we do something with some of those assets. I
can't preclude it but I'd say the lion's share of the work is done.

Ros, you might want to comment on it.

ROS NG : The other thing, Andrew, I just want to comment on is that obviously in comparing the EBIT
change and the EBITDA change, the EBIT change obviously includes four months of equity account
results from gypsum which is (inaudible) after tax so I guess you've got to take that into account. So if you
gross that up for an EBIT comparison will actually improve probably more than what it's saying on the
slides.

DAVID LEITCH, ANALYST, UBS : David Leitch from UBS . My question's I guess for either Joe or Mike,
just whether you guys would expect concrete volumes to be up this year or not.

MIKE KANE : Joe.

JOE GOSS : David, the price (inaudible) no, we're saying that it's going to be relatively flat but there's going
to be a story of significant decrease in northern Queensland, more increase in Victoria with some increased
activity here in New South Wales, South East Queensland and WA.

Page240of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.JASON STEED, ANALYST, JPMORGAN : Afternoon, Mike. Jason Steed, JPMorgan . One question on
bricks, in two parts. Just the ACCC process seems to be taking longer certainly than I expected. Perhaps
you could shed some light on your timeframe on that.

And then the second question on bricks too, global bricks review, you've obviously made a decision about
Australia so what are you looking at in the US particularly around that position?

MIKE KANE : Look the issue of the timing of the decision out of the ACCC, it's not taking longer than we
expected. I think we sort of signalled that by the end of the financial year or the calendar year we expected
to have an answer. I still would hold to that. I think that's a reasonable expected outcome.

On the inside, the work we're doing, how we're responding to them, the kinds of questions they're asking,
we're doing a genuine review, I mean they're generally looking at the issue and particularly our counter
factual as to what position we're in if this deal doesn't go forward and so I'm encouraged by that process.

Had it been a quicker but negative result would obviously be negative for us. So we've laboured for years
in a declining brick market in Australia, a few more months is not going to change a whole heck of a lot and
I think what we're aiming for is the right outcome.

What does that say about North America? North America is challenged in very much the same way, the
brick industry, as the brick industry is here. Some interesting differences, one is underlying values of land
are not the same so you don't get that sort of boost as you exit the business as you do in Australia in the
brick business and frankly, the decline in (inaudible) share hasn't been as dramatic in the US. It's more flat
lined in the 16% to 18% level.

But the same process that we looked at with the bricks business here we're trying to figure out for the
bricks business in North America. There's a lot of activity as you will know and people know that there's a
lot of talk going on in the brick industry in North America and we're engaged in that process.

At this point we have nothing to announce and nothing to discuss and when we do we will but clearly you
need to understand that we're fully engaged in trying to understand how to make a better structure for us
so that we can find a pathway to a sustainable long term return on funds employed in that brick business,
because I would argue that it is the highest fixed cost, the most capital intensive and the most subject to
inflationary pressures of any business that we have anywhere on the planet and we've got to come up with
a solution and we're working on that right now.

There are multiple options we think to get an adequate result and we're trying to explore those right now.
It's going to take most of this year to do that.

JASON STEED: So we should be looking for an answer come February in terms of that review completing?

MIKE KANE : That might be a little optimistic but sometime in this financial year we'll have drawn a
conclusion.

JASON STEED: Okay. Thanks, Mike.

MIKE KANE : One more and I'll go to the call.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Hi, Mike. Glen (inaudible) from Macquarie. Just a quick question. You
provided guidance around your stay in business CapEx, I guess the expectation's about 78% of
depreciation. I understand in previous commentary around the I guess growth CapEx in gypsum, is there
any other further growth projects you've got in the pipeline at this stage?

MIKE KANE : Right now we have a dearth of growth projects. I've been stepping on capital now for so long
that I think they're afraid to bring growth projects to me right now but I can tell you that I don't have to look
too far to Joe Goss over here and there's a number of quarry replenishment activity that we need to
engage in and so we'll be doing that, probably not heavy expenditures in this financial year but certainly
(inaudible) so I see us making significant growth investments in our quarry base in Australia.

I think we're going to have to leg off the break a little bit in some of our expenditures particularly in the US
business because we've significantly dampened that down but there's a reason for what we've been doing.

You'll notice as we switch to a high stay in business CapEx we in fact are reinvesting in our business to
make sure that the property, plant and equipment doesn't fall over. We were down to unsustainable low
levels of SIB capital.
On average as a company it was in the 30's and that's just, you can't do that for too long or else things
stop working. Joe needs to buy new trucks and equipment's and mobile plant. You can't delay that when
they stop operating.

Page241of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.So for all those reasons we expect SIB to be at a very high level and select growth projects will probably
most significantly come in construction materials in Australia.

JASON STEED: So that would likely be up I guess year-on-year in financial year 2015 then (inaudible)?
MIKE KANE : It will. Our objective is to try to hold capital to AUD300 million again. We held it even lower
last year so we've got some, a little catch up to do but some of the growth projects like the Ho Chi Minh
and the Chinese (inaudible) are no longer in process and so that, that's complete.

Peppertree's done so we don't have any big slugs of growth CapEx. If we amp them back in and it will
particularly come in Joe's business, it shouldn't change that outcome much. We're on a AUD300 million
capital budget.

JASON STEED: Great, thank you.

MIKE KANE : Why don't we take the first question on the phone?

OPERATOR: Emily Smith from Deutsche Bank .

EMILY SMITH, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK : Good afternoon, Mike and good afternoon, Ros. I just had
a question about the balance sheet. Clearly you guys have done an excellent job in terms of reducing your
debt and the cash flow and the result was very strong.
I'm just wondering what your gearing targets might be and at what stage and what sort of gearing level you
think that you might be more aggressive in terms of capital management.
MIKE KANE : Well I'm going to let Ros answer that more technically and Emily I was surprised not to see
you be the first question here in the room but I'm glad you're the first question on the call.

We've got our gearing to a point, I think we surprised ourselves as to where we ended up. Ros?

ROS NG : Afternoon, Emily. I think in the past we've sort of had a range of gearing in Boral between 20%
to 40%. Obviously we're on the lower end coming into 18%. We did have a very strong cash flow.

We do want to maintain (technical difficulty) just to make sure that we continue to meet obligations but also
if there are (technical difficulty) opportunities so I think we're sort of comfortable within that low 20% sort of
gearing for the time being.

EMILY SMITH: Great. Thanks very much.

MIKE KANE : Next question?

OPERATOR: Andrew Peros from Credit Suisse .

ANDREW PEROS, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE : Thank you. Sorry, can I just get a clarification on that
last question, Mike or Ros? Would that suggest because you're leaning more towards M&A conscious of
your comments around pursuing a more geographically balanced portfolio (technical difficulty) pursuing
M&A , instead of pursuing capital management?

MIKE KANE : We have been very consistent over the last two years in making it clear that we don't
consider that we have a balanced portfolio geographically and in the fullness of time we've got to get that
right. That's not something that's going to happen by snapping our fingers or overnight.

So we're looking at all options. All options are on the table in terms of attractive growth investments outside
of Australia and capital management and we really haven't settled on an answer yet, which explains why
we haven't said anything about capital management today.

ANDREW PEROS: Okay then I might just ask my one question then. A question around the US. Obviously
you've closed two roof tile plants there and you've got plans to close one more.
Mike, I'm just curious if your longer term view on the US housing market has changed just conscious of
those moves there? And perhaps taking that one step further, if let's say housing activity in the US tracked
sideways for say another 12, 18 months, are there any other cost out or rationalisation opportunities there
whether it be in roof tiles and/or bricks?

MIKE KANE : I think we've, in terms of our current portfolio I think we've rationalised the asset base about
as much as we can do. These last things we did which was one concrete tile plant and one clay tile plant
and a brick paver plant in Georgia were probably the last key asset closures that we needed to do in the
USA.

Page242of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Now I don't want to preclude, if our review of the bricks business presents us an opportunity for some type
of consolidation as a possibility that other closures might not be a part of that process but in terms of our
current portfolio we've probably run the string on that and I don't see any further.

Now my long term view of the US housing market, if you can have a long term view of the US housing
market, after 40 years of living with this thing it's like you think you know something and it actually behaves
completely differently to everything you've ever seen. So I'm not sure what my previous experience is
worth at this point.

Here we are in 2014, Al Borm and I have been in this business together for many, many decades and if
he'd asked me in 2010 to bet a lot of money that by 2014 we'd be just coming through a (inaudible) housing
starts I'd have said, I'd have put a lot of money down and lost it. And I think everyone in the business would
have done the same thing.

The slow begrudging return of the housing market in the US is unprecedented but nevertheless it's coming
back and it's coming back in 100,000 and 200,000 increments.
I'm hoping and the projections are that it will be 200,000 this year but it's a long slug back to 1.5 million
housing starts and the genuine question of fact is, does it continue in that same sluggish way beyond 1.5
million housing starts? I believe it does. I believe it does because I think there's a significant pent up
demand for housing formation that needs to be met, it's a demographic necessity. So my view hasn't
changed despite the last 10 years of experience.

ANDREW PEROS: But I guess the point here is that these plants are not moth-balled, they've been
permanently closed.

MIKE KANE : Yes.

ANDREW PEROS: So I appreciate what you just said but presumably you've taken a more bearish view on
the longer term outlook given that these are permanently closed now.

MIKE KANE : Our problem in the US for several years now has not been capacity. As we've struggled to
meet our commitments and as we've struggled to be able to deliver on our expectations, as we've gone to
the cost lever one of the key levers there is taking down under-utilised assets. How hard would it be to
stand up concrete tile plant? Probably not much. I don't see us going back in to the clay products. I think
when you see us exit the paver plant and the clay roof tile plant these are not two areas that will rush back
in despite we're ever coming back. I'd much rather have price and profitability on my existing asset base
than to have too much capacity and we've had too much capacity for too long but I think we're done.

If you just look at, compare this to the fact that we took out 50% of our brick assets during the last five
years and you'd understand that was the reduction of almost 12 plants. We took 12 plants out of the
network and we were 25 plants at the time so that's big movement.

Onesies and twosies are just the final dregs that we finally kicked out of the barn and said you know what,
it isn't ever going to come back in a way we think it's going to come back and even if it does we'll be better
off being sold out early and often and at higher prices.

ROS NG : And if I can just add, Mike, to that, as Mike mentioned for roofing, for concrete we've got
sufficient capacity so even the last peak we weren't fully utilised. So I think a lot of work's been done with Al
and his team to actually be able to make the different products in the different plants so that allowed us to
close (inaudible) so that product is now moved to Lake Wales so I think that's been able to facilitate that
closure.

So I think we're not going to be at capacity constraint when the market moves back up in roofing and we'll
be in a better cost structure.

MIKE KANE : Our objective is to reach full capacity utilisation long before we reach the peak in the market
and we won't do that with excess assets that we don't need.

ANDREW PEROS: Thank you.

OPERATOR: (Inaudible) from Morgan Stanley .

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Thank you, just continuing on the US, the numbers I look at on an
annualized basis for the fourth quarter housing starts were around a million, yet as you indicated you
achieved a profitable quarter.
Given that you've got an additional $12 million of cost out coming in for fiscal 15, are you being a bit
conservative keeping a guide to the break even assuming 1.1 million to 1.2 million starts?

Page243of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.MIKE KANE : You're accusing me of undercooking things. You know you've also got to factor in that there
is inflation, however albeit low in the US market our inflationary impact. As these markets come back, our
delivery cost issues are going to be a challenge.
Trucking is a challenge, so I think that if we achieve our plans, and the market delivers the buy-in that we
expected, well we could do better than that. But at this point, after five years of slugging at the bottom of
this market, I think it's a mistake to over promise.

Last year we were expecting 200,000 housing starts when we only got 100,000. I think a lot of people,
when they looked at our performance, expected a worse performance in the second half of financial year
14 than they saw in the US.

That was largely done on the strength of cost reduction and head count reduction, we took 70 more people
out when I didn't think it was possible to take 70 people out. So we're a little jaded right now, over
promising it in the US market wouldn't have been a good thing for any time in the last six years.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Sure, I suppose just to follow on from that, are you assuming any price
increases in bricks in the year ahead?

MIKE KANE : There's significant volume of inventory throughout the bricks network in North America.
There's significant over capacity in that industry. We have several players, competitors in the brick industry
in the US, who I would argue are not focused on that business, but probably are focused on the fact that
they've got a lot of inventory and they'd like to get rid of it.

In that environment it's extraordinarily difficult to get pricing traction. We have seen a shift in volume toward
the Sun Belt and as you look at our various product offerings, when buy-in shifts to the South East, stone
is a good example; it's at a lower price point and a tighter margin than in other parts of our market.
So for a lot of reasons it's difficult to get margin expansion in the US market at even a million housing
starts.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Okay thanks Mike.

OPERATOR: Michael Ward of the Commonwealth Bank.

MICHAEL WARD , ANALYST, COMMONWEALTH BANK : Mike you've sort of made a lot of reference to
cost escalation across business, especially in Australia. I was just wondering if you can outline for us
maybe in a percentage term by division, sort of what that cost escalation is. If that's maybe too hard by
division, maybe if you can just do that regionally, sort of Australia versus the US?

MIKE KANE : Well it's real simple, if you just do a simple comparison Australia versus the US, the US
doesn't even show up on the radar screen in terms of profit inflation by comparison.
Wage costs, energy costs, capital costs, all costs, everything in Australia, land costs, are up. We face
what, about AUD100 million in inflationary cost pressures in the Australian market in total, I don't have that
number broken down by the two divisions, but recognize that the construction materials division is the bulk
of our business.

Most of those pressures are coming at the construction material division. So it's extraordinary on a global
scale, the inflationary pressures in this market, which drive the behaviour that you see in our efforts to
reduce cost dramatically. Ros do you have a --

ROS NG : -- just to add to that, I mean just to give some colour around that, I mean last year we saw an
average salary increase of around 2% for our salary, both in the US and in Australia. And you know, going
into financial year 15, Mike's been very generous and we're all looking at a sort of similar 2% to 2.5%
increase for our salaries.

So you know, I guess it goes towards, you know, really controlling the cost pressures, and in terms of
natural gas we did see a big increase last year when some of the contracts were up. Well New South
Wales and Victoria, they're locked in now until December 2015, but then we'll have to go back and look,
revisit those price increases to natural gas.
So on average we would have seen between AUD100 to AUD110 million just in inflation, across Boral .

MIKE KANE : And in the US, coming off a very low level, natural gas prices are moving up, and have
moved up in relevant terms close to 20%. But when they start out, some AUD4 for the BTU it's not as
painful.

Page244of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.MICHAEL WARD : So you expect that rate of cost inflation to be pretty similar in 2015 that you had in
2014, is that effectively what you're trying to say?

MIKE KANE : Yes.

MICHAEL WARD : Yeah okay thank you.

OPERATOR: Matthew McNee from Goldman Sachs .

MATTHEW MCNEE, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS : Thanks guys, just a question on the cash flow on
the debt, Ros can you give us an idea of what the current debt in the JV is, the US GJV?

ROS NG : In total for the joint venture is actually a positive. So you know, some countries we have just the
normal working facilities working capital facilities for certain countries, in certain countries where we're in
positive cash. So being overall we're positive.

MATTHEW MCNEE: That's similar to when the JV was established?

ROS NG : Yes, so when the joint venture established, we had a net cash position and to this very day we
still have a net cash position.

MIKE KANE : Our objective is not to have debt in this JV.

MATTHEW MCNEE: Okay no worries, also just on the, you know, you had a tax refund in the period, I
think it was about AUD14 million, obviously that was part of the dispute you had, can you just tell us what
the quantum of that amount was?
ROS NG : There was a, I think the dispute you were referring to, the AUD16 million that we reported in
significant items, that really was, you know, a provision that we were able to release following the
resolution of a tax matter.

In terms of the cash flow where we talk about the benefits of the lower tax instalment, obviously if you look
at our 2013 results, it's not as obviously strong as 2014. So we had a very low tax 2013, and we had some
timing of the tax instalments that were refunded during the year.

So we do foresee a catch up in financial year 2015.

MATTHEW MCNEE: So what sort of tax payment, or you know, I know it's not your effective tax rate, but
what sort of quantum of tax would you expect to pay?

ROS NG : Well I think you can probably have a look in our off strand results, and you know, you can
probably have a pretty good guess at what the tax we would have to pay for 14.

MATTHEW MCNEE: Yeah all right thanks.

OPERATOR: Emily Smith from Deutsche Bank .

EMILY SMITH: Thank you, just a quick one from me around the ROFE target that you're talking to Mike.
I'm just wondering, you know, what do you need to see to get to that target?

Obviously you've successfully taken costs out of the business, you're starting to get some market behind
you, both in Australia and in the US. You've seen some price increases in building products, what do you
need to see to get to that target from here?

MIKE KANE : Well I think you've mentioned many of the things. We need to see more price movement in
Australia.

We need to see price moment in North America, we need to see volume come across our plants in North
America, we need to see a final settlement on the asset base in building products in Australia, and frankly
draw conclusions on the brick business in North America as well.

But what really will drive this will come in several different buckets going forward. It will be price
appreciation, margin expansion and volume in North America, and the continued growth in the Asian
business.

I do believe that we need to invest in growth outlets in North America and in Asia, and that as we try to
rebalance our portfolio, more balanced across these three geographies, it's going to require investment in
both of those geographies.

Page245of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.When that comes, and the dimension of that are really unclear at this point, and I couldn't give you
anything more than just pure speculation. But clearly that's where it has to come. If you just objectively look
at our condition, we are overdone in Australia and underdone in those other two geographies.

EMILY SMITH: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Michael Ward from Commonwealth Bank.

MICHAEL WARD : Oh hi, just a quick question for Ros around the cash balance. I mean that appears
pretty high, close to AUD400 million, much higher than the PCP obviously, partly due to the USG sale, or
JV.

But can you talk through what you think a normal level of cash might be, and whether or not you'd expect
that to actually occur through FY2015?

ROS NG : I think if you look at the cash flow, if we just look at the operating cash flow, where we've seen
significant improvement. Obviously that was underpinned by the earnings improvement, we talked about a
significant improvement in working capital.

We try to highlight that, supporting that working capital improvement was also receipt of proceeds from
Quarrywest sale, as well as the timber, the AUD8.5 million that we received from the New South Wales
government.

So I think if you take those elements out, and then look at based on our outlook, based on that, you know
Mike's comment about capital expenditure to be that target of around less than 300 or so, I think you'll
probably still, you'll be able to calculate the cash flow going forward for financial year 2015.

MIKE KANE : One more question from the phone.

MICHAEL WARD : Sorry that doesn't really answer my question.

ROS NG : It doesn't?

MICHAEL WARD : No, I guess I mean it seems like a very high cash balance which doesn't earn a hell of a
lot of interest. I would have thought why don't you actually pay down the debt rather than leave it all in
cash?
ROS NG : I'm not sure if I understand the question.

MIKE KANE : We're in the position to pay off the debt.

ROS NG : We pretty much have paid off all the debt --

MIKE KANE : -- that we can pay off.

ROS NG : What we have left in the debt that we do have, the gross debt, you know, if you look at the
accounts I think we've still got a gross debt of about just over a billion, and really that's the capital notes
that we have in the US.
Obviously the next tranche that we talked about is the AUD200 million and that it's up for refinancing in
May 2015.
We actually did take the opportunity this year to pay off, there was AUD52 million that we paid off in May
2014, so that was paid off.

We don't have any bank debt at the moment, you know, I think one of slides in the back just talks, you
know, you can see the debt that we have , so you know, that is why we have the cash that we have, so.

MICHAEL WARD : Okay, great that's helpful, thank you.

MIKE KANE : One more question from callers. Okay? In the room yes.

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Ros, just following on from that, where do you think you can get
your weighted average cost of debt down to?
ROS NG : I think if you look at the AUD200 million that's up for refinancing, I think that's at about 5.4%.

So some of the more expensive debt that we have is actually not due for maturity until 2017, 2018. You
know, they were the tranche that the company issued back just before the GFC, so they're the high
tranches of 7%, 7.5%, so it will take a bit of time for that, for the 6% to come down.

Page246of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.But you know, if we refinance the AUD200 million, you've seen a lot of companies, they've gone abroad to
go back to the capital markets, and they're achieving the low 5%. So if we were to refinance the AUD200
million it would be well below the 5.4%.

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Just on the tax rate, it's been low for a while now and obviously
you're going to get a benefit from the equity accounting of Gypsum. So what's the normalized tax rate
going forward?

ROS NG : We sort of have given guidance of between 20% to 25%. The 17% is lower than I think in the
second, when we did the results in February, and a large part of that is to do with the PLDC, the AUD10
million that we talked about, obviously that's an after tax impact that we've taken into equity, through
equity accounts.

So that has actually bought the tax rate down to the 17%. So if you normalize that and gross that up, you're
probably sitting at 20% for this year.

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thanks.

ANDREW SCOTT: Sorry just a quick one, Andrew Scott again. Probably for Ros, but Mike feel free. Just
on Gypsum the equity (inaudible) component for the four month AUD10 million, from what I can see it
seems to be off AUD35 million of EBIT.

You commented earlier to Matt's question, there's no debt in there, just struggling to see how the AUD35
million becomes AUD10 million, are there one off items in there, or what else is stopping that from
coming through?

ROS NG : You know from memory I have to go back, and I can confirm that later or through Kylie but
obviously that's an after tax.
You know, we talk about the AUD30 million or so, from AUD67 million to AUD102 million as underlying
obviously what we've taken into account the AUD10 million, so 50% of an after tax number, and from
memory, and we can confirm that, I think in the last four months we also have some withholding taxes from
the dividends through our Thailand Siam business. So that actually increases tax there as well.

ANDREW SCOTT: Yeah that would make sense thanks.
ROS NG : So that probably came to a net AUD10 million.

MIKE KANE : Right over here in the front, Simon. You're getting your exercise.

SIMON THACKRAY: Mike, second question. Asphalt, that's always been a pretty good contributor at 24%
of constructions materials revenue down, down again, and the pricing outcomes at least the official data
yesterday from the ABS was very disappointing in terms of price for asphalt.

You've mentioned that you want to see some recovery in that business, and that's presumably self-help
rather than market. Can you tell me, or help me understand what the dynamics are, so the driving the
asphalt pricing at the moment, other than a falling oil price. And the competitive environment and what, you
know, what are you targeting? What are we looking at for improvement in asphalt in 2015?

MIKE KANE : Well the two key factors, one is to get our cost base right, and I think we've taken steps to do
some of that already, and that's some of the work we did in the fourth quarter.

The second is we need highway projects, we need some road projects to come forward, to suck up the
volume and take some of the competitive intensity on the marketplace. We've seen, and we've got Steve
Pyne here from Queensland, who is the poster boy for our asphalt issues. So why don't I just ask Steve to
come in on asphalt in Queensland, which is where we have our most pronounced issues.

STEVE PYNE, EXECUTIVE GM , BORAL CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & CEMENT: Thanks Mike. So
the challenge with asphalt infrastructure activities dropped off last year. So in Queensland we had a lot of
flood recovery activity through the first half of last year, and it tapered off towards the end.

The asphalt industry in Queensland had very strong growth through the, if you like, the previous Labor
Government infrastructure boom, and that activity has been sort of coming off, and we expect to see some
improvement in the market, but not in this coming year.

So we're doing preliminary work now for a lot of major projects, sort of the [16, 17] Toowoomba Second
Range Crossing and those sort of areas. There have been some new capacity come into the industry,
there's also some new capacity leaving the industry at the moment, because it's challenging. Our cost
position nationally is very good.

Page247of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Our point of difference, so Boral is, you know, we do asphalt, concrete and quarry, so we have very -- and
we're the only ones in the market that actually do that. So we're generally talking pretty early on most major
infrastructure projects coming up around your east west links, and your north connects, and right across
the east coast.

So we're sort of positive on the outlook on asphalt, but it's been a challenging year last year. We're
reducing costs and capacity in our own business in response to that. But this coming year will be
challenging, but the outlook looks okay beyond that, so.

MIKE KANE : It's probably the most effected by the decline in roads highways, and we've got to get
through this year before I think we're going to start to see what we hope to get out of that business.

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: (inaudible - microphone inaccessible)

MIKE KANE : Volume decline and just at the end of the last peak, a lot of competitive intensity showed up,
a lot of new competitors. It's a reasonably low barrier to entry competitive market place to come into the
asphalt business, and they came in and then they all started, and then as the rural recovery projects ended
up, they all jumped on to what was the remaining business in Queensland. And that had some pretty
damaging consequences to margin.

STEVE PYNE: Our cost position is still strong. We have quarries, so we self-supply, so we're the only sort
of company that can self-supply ourselves internally. So our cost position's good, but our margins have
been challenged, and capacity is leaving the industry now, so from a market perspective we're structurally
in a good shape, but we need some more activity to flow through, to see margins improve again.

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: (inaudible - microphone inaccessible)

MIKE KANE : Do we have any up-sizes in asphalt, perhaps New South Wales?

STEVE PYNE: Well look from a Queensland perspective, we expect to, well it will do double digit less
turnover, but we're expecting we're going to improve our results year on year. Okay so in terms of margins,
and then there's ups and downs across the asphalt business nationally, but Victoria is the same. Victoria
had a very large construction project which finished last year.
UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Victoria (inaudible) continues to be very soft, but we
have the Gateway project in WA, which is going to be really coming into stride in the coming months.

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: (inaudible - microphone inaccessible)
UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: (Inaudible) The balance of the portfolio looks strong. I'd
say to David's comment, we're not seeing a lot of lift coming from volumes, but it is a story of different
states.

So we're seeing certainly a lot of pull through in metro Sydney, yeah, that we think is going to be providing
significant contribution. We still have a lot of uptake in WA that's coming through. South East Queensland
is going to be coming through strongly, but you're coming from an extremely low base, and there needs to
be a lot of work done there to correct that market.

MIKE KANE : Anyone else? Well thank you very much.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this
web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon
current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those
stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more
specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and
believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the
assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results
contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF
THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE
AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR
INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO
WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE
COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE

Page248of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND
THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER
DECISIONS.]

CO bcsc : Boral Limited
IN
i242 : Cement/Ready-mix Concrete | ibuildpr : Building Materials/Products | icre : Real Estate/Construction
NS c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin :
C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter

RE usa : United States | victor : Victoria (Australia) | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :

Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | namz : North America

PUB CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
AN Document FNDW000020140829ea8q0012x

Page249of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.