Mining shares give market a lift as retailers struggle

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Mining shares give market a lift as retailers struggle

VESNA POLJAK
663 words
18 January 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
8
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

THE MARKETS

The Australian sharemarket finished the week barely changed, down 0.1 per cent in spite of featuring
the worst one-day fall since September 2013.

Shares clawed back Tuesday's 1.5 per cent loss, buoyed by renewed interest in mining stocks.

The S&P/ASX 200 Index closed at 5305.9 points on Friday, a fall of 3.2 points or 0.06 per cent.

The benchmark has started the year in subdued fashion and Australian stocks are down 0.9 per cent
since the beginning of January.
Paladin Energy posted a 25 per cent surge in value in the past five days making it the best performer in
the ASX 200. The miner achieved important debt refinancing on African mines over the period,
persuading investors it is better placed to meet its repayments. The stock closed up 7¢ at 56¢.
OZ Minerals was another outperformer, ahead 16.5 per cent. The company delivered an upbeat
production report that beat expectations and put the squeeze on short sellers who had bet its shares
would decline.

Dragging down the index over the week was Super Retail Group, the operator of Rebel, and Ray's
Outdoors, which reported weak sales numbers for the first half including the critical Christmas retail
period. The shares slumped 16.7 per cent to close at $10.79.

Fellow consumer discretionary retailer JB Hi-Fi fared little better, down 9.1 per cent for the week.

Widespread selling on the bourse on Tuesday threatened to derail a passive start to the year when
stocks shed $24 billion because the corporate reporting season in the United States would yield poor
results and comments from a Federal Reserve official that alluded to a hawkish outlook for monetary
policy. Anticipating and reacting to the Fed's actions was the dominant driver of global markets in 2013
and this year will likely be no different, said Paul Bloxham, HSBC chief economist.

"I still think the big story for 2014 is going to be watching the Fed, because it has implications for bond
markets, for equity markets, for what's happening with currencies," he said.

"We had a practise run at tapering in 2013 and what we saw is it can have some pretty massive
implications for a whole set of emerging economies that rely on foreign capital."

Mr Bloxham was referring to the behaviour of markets last May when the Fed dropped its first hint of a
reduction in its $US3 trillion-plus ($3.4 trillion) quantitative easing program.

As expectations of a change in policy mounted, markets seized up and foreign capital made a flash exit
from developing economies.

Page33of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."It's still the case that US financial developments dominate financial markets. I suspect China is going
to be very much in focus as well; they look as though they're in the process of reforming their economy
in a whole range of areas and that will probably be something that financial markets will respond to," he
said.

Consumer discretionary stocks are the weakest performing group on the ASX 200 over the past
fortnight, shedding 2.5 per cent.

They were among the biggest winners of 2013 when interest rates sat at record lows, and they face the
threat of policy tightening in 2014 as economies recover.

On Wednesday the World Bank upgraded its growth outlook for the global economy to 3.2 per cent, up
from 2.4 per cent in 2013. The World Bank too is betting the Fed will continue to unwind its stimulus
program over the course of the year.

In the week ahead, the Reserve Bank of Australia will release its December quarter inflation data, which
could reveal evidence that the Australian dollar is pushing up prices in areas such as petrol.

Mr Bloxham also highlighted that fiscal policy will play a greater role in the economy this year.

NS

RE
PUB
AN

c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat
: Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140117ea1i0004a

Page34of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.