Money can't buy happiness? I have never been happier!

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Money can't buy happiness? I have never been happier!

Sarah Arnold; Jill Main
1,618 words
22 June 2014
People
POPL
1; National
16,17
English
(c) 2014 Mirror Group Ltd.

EUROMILLIONS WINNER'S YEAR OF BLOWING CASH ON HIS WORLDWIDE WISHLIST

EXCLUSIVE

WHEN Matt Myles won a lottery £1million he vowed his life would never be the same.

Within 48 hours he had quit his job and was halfway across the globe - even though he had to get his
dad to pay for the ticket because his winner's cheque had not cleared at the bank.

And in the ten weeks since the lottery cash hit his account he has been living every young man's
fantasy.

Instead of a rented flat and 12-hour factory shifts he is staying in luxury hotels, quaffing vintage
champagne, driving supercars and enjoying plenty of female attention.

Ex-soldier Matt, 27, said: "I can't stop laughing about how incredibly my life has changed.

"From travelling the world to meeting celebrities I couldn't have made this up in my wildest dreams.

FUN: Pete, left, "They say money can't buy happiness but I have never been happier."
"I'm so grateful for my good fortune."

Bachelor Matt - who is currently travelling with his brother Pete, 26, and best pal Joe Wills - went on:
"I've never had trouble with women but winning has definitely improved my luck with the ladies. I'm living
the dream.

and the "Within days of my EuroMillions win being made public I was getting tweets and Facebook
messages from women of all ages across the world.

"And I've been shocked at their forwardness. I sometimes wish it was the 1950s when women were a bit
more demure, because you wouldn't believe the stuff they say now.

"There were even a couple of cougars who were interested in having fun.
"I said thank you very much but I'm going to have to let you down as you're the same age as my mum.
"I'm always really polite when I decline the invites."

But Matt, from Hereford, does not want to come over like a monk.
He said: "I'm a red-bloodied bloke who likes to enjoy himself.

"I've met some gorgeous girls on my travels so far and I have fun.

Page136of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."But I've turned down plenty of women after one of the boys has mentioned my millionaire status - or
dropped the M-bomb, as we call it.
"I don't like gold-diggers and don't want to be liked me for my money."

Electrical engineer Matt bought his EuroMillions ticket on April 8 at a supermarket as he waited for a pal.

He had only £135 to last him three weeks and was so short of cash he'd borrowed some from his dad.

Matt said: "I was working night shifts and was worried I'd have to move back home to save some money.
So it's fair to say I was down in the dumps. The ticket was a spur of the moment thing. I never for a
minute thought I'd win.

"I almost threw it away because my numbers didn't come up - but then I realised I had the first three
letters of the millionaire's raffle on the ticket.

"So I checked and it matched. I didn't believe it and kept checking. My heart was in my mouth."

Matt contacted pals holidaying on the Indonesian island of Bali and asked them to double-check the
numbers.

He said: "They were the only people I knew who'd be awake, because of the time difference. And they
went nuts.

"I called my parents and then Pete.

I said, 'I've won EuroMillions' but he didn't believe me.

"He said, 'F*** off.' and put the phone down.

"But then he got dressed and ran the two miles to our house.

"The first words he said was, 'You'd better not be lying.' "Joe & Ma' "And when I showed him the ticket
he was jumping round and hugging me.
10 days 10,000 on hotels and for me "Later I went to see my boss, who said, 'I'm delighted for you.' "
After resigning, Matt immediately decided he would tour the world with Pete - and pick up all their travel
bills.

boys. He said: "I won on a Tuesday, found out Wednesday, my win was validated by Camelot on
Thursday and on Friday morning I was on a flight to Bali.

"Because the money hadn't had time to clear I'd borrowed my dad's Visa card to pay for the tickets.
"When I stopped off at Hong Kong I made my first millionaire's buy - a £94 pair of Ray-Ban
sunglasses.

Money Money "I also checked my bank account and could not stop laughing when I saw all the zeros."
Matt, whose biggest personal purchase so far is an £8,000 Omega watch, went on: "In the first 10 days
I spent £10,000 on travel, hotels and nights out for me and the boys.

I"But I've set myself a limit of £100,000."

The most expensive binge to date was a night out at a celebrity haunt called the Potato Head Beach
Club in Bali.

Matt said: "It was one of the best nights of my life.

"We spent £3,500 on food and drink - mainly vintage Dom Perignon Champagne, though Pete also
ordered five bottles of Grey Goose Vodka. It was epic." After hooking up with Joe, 25, the trio flew to
Thailand, where they visited an animal sanctuary, did some island-hopping - and Matt got punched in the
face by a streettrader's monkey he tried to cuddle. He quipped: "It was my bizarrest experience so far."

Right now the boys are having a month in Brazil for the World Cup.
Matt said: "This year I vowed we wouldn't watch the games down our local so I'm paying for the three of
us to see every England game."

Page137of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Our pictures show them full of hope before England faced Uruguay in Sao Paulo on Thursday. At least
later they were able to drown their sorrows without fear of ending up skint.

In the coming months Matt plans to party in Ibiza, see the Inca city of Machu Picchu in Peru, go diving on
Australia's Great Barrier Reef, bungee jump from a helicopter over America's Grand Canyon, drive along
legendary Route 66 from Chicago to Los Angeles in a soft-top Ford Mustang, see in the New Year on
Sydney Harbour Bridge, canoe down the Amazon, visit the Great Wall of China and see the Great
Pyramids in Egypt.

He said: "I've also booked some villas in Ibiza for two weeks for a boys' holiday for friends I've known
since I was young. It's brilliant being able to let them enjoy my good fortune as well.
"But one of the things I'm most excited about is making my parents' life easier. They've worked hard all
their lives and it's nice to be able to treat them.

"I've got them a camper van each to go on holiday whenever they want."

Matt is chronicling his travels on social media and has attracted the attention of jet-setters such as US
venture capitalist and professional poker player Dan Bilzerian.
He said: "I tweeted him saying, 'Hi Dan, I've got my first million - what do I do next?' He replied, 'Call me
when you get to Vegas.' "We're hoping to party with him when we go Las Vegas later this year. Pete,
Joe and I will also do the £5,000 challenge, which involves starting with £5,000 in your pocket and
seeing who's left with the most by the end of a weekend's gambling. It's winner takes all."

But despite the partying Matt insists he is not going to blow the lot.
He said: "I've invested half and I've also just launched a property developing company with my brother
and a friend.

"I've always dreamt of flying Boeings so I plan to get a pilot's licence next year.

And at the end of the trip Pete and I intend to volunteer for three months for the charity Unicef in Africa.

"After all the epic good times I want to give something back. It's the right thing to do and that's important
to me."

He added: "While the next 12 months will be incredible, I won't change. I'll live as I always have - go big
or go home!" feedback@people.co.uk Voice of the Sunday People: Page 14

STILL TO DO Party in Ibiza, visit Machu Picchu in Peru, dive at Great Barrier Reef in Australia, bungee a
convertible Ford Mustang, see in the New Year at Sydney Harbour Bridge, canoe down Party in Ibiza,
visit Machu Picchu in Peru, dive at Great Barrier Reef in Australia, bungee a convertible Ford Mustang,
see in the New Year at Sydney Harbour Bridge, canoe down

jump off a helicopter over the Grand Canyon, drive the length of iconic Route 66 in the Amazon in Brazil,
visit the Great Wall of China and marvel at Pyramids in Egypt jump off a helicopter over the Grand
Canyon, drive the length of iconic Route 66 in the Amazon in Brazil, visit the Great Wall of China and
marvel at Pyramids in Egypt

In the first 10 days I spent £10,000 on travel, hotels and nights out for me and the boys

A couple of cougars wanted some fun. I had to tell them they were the same age as my mum

RE

PUB
AN

peru : Peru | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | lamz : Latin America | nswals :
New South Wales | samz : South America
Trinity Mirror Group PLC
Document POPL000020140622ea6m0009y

Page138of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.