$400m tower sale off

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
$400m tower sale off

Mercedes Ruehl
364 words
22 October 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
37
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

DEXUS Property Group and Perron Group 's Elizabeth Street tower in Sydney has been withdrawn
from sale.

Chief executive Darren Steinberg said a $400 million plus offer for the building at 201 Elizabeth
Street had not gone ahead. The tower was earmarked as having development potential.

"We had a number of off-market bids on that asset and, as a result, ran a campaign in which 10
parties participated," Mr Steinberg said at a group investor day and quarterly update on Tuesday.

"At the time there was one stand out price of $400 million. What has transpired since then is the offer
did not proceed."
Industry sources said China's Wanda Group made the high bid for the property. Underbidders
included Fosun Group and Far East Organization.
The demand for office buildings with residential conversion potential prompted the owners to run an
off-market campaign for the building.

At its full-year results in August, DEXUS said the building was in due diligence. But DEXUS and
Perron will now hold the 34-storey asset, which has views of Sydney Harbour, through the current
cycle as an office asset.
Mr Steinberg said the property was withdrawn despite two other strong offers above book value.
"We currently have two firm offers in excess of 10 per cent above book value. However, as a
long-term owner of Sydney CBD assets, and the fact that this is one of the key gateway sites in the
CBD, we have decided not to sell the asset at this point in time," Mr Steinberg said.
"We are currently reviewing our masterplan for the property and will hold it through the current
cycle," he said.

DEXUS did not detail the reason the initial high offer was withdrawn. However, parties close to the
negotiations suggested strict conditions to development were a key factor.
The building's height exceeds current planning controls aimed to ensure that Hyde Park is not
shadowed.
On one reading of the current development control plan, a change of use, to apartments or hotel,
would involve cutting the height of the tower.

In the process valuable floor space would be lost.

CO

dbrrrt : Dexus | dwgrcl : Dalian Wanda Group Company Limited | prrn : Perron Group

Page201of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles |
i8150206 : Closed-end Funds/Investment Trusts | i815020602 : Real Estate Investment Trusts |
i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ifinal : Financial
Services | iindreit : Industrial/Office REITs | iinv : Investing/Securities
ceffic : Corporate Restructuring | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c11 : Plans/Strategy
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141021eaam00001

Page202of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.