Australian farmers seek alternative markets after Russia bans food imports

HD Australian farmers seek alternative markets after Russia bans food imports
BY ABC rural reporters
WC 1,935 words
PD 8 August 2014
SN Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) News
SC ABCNEW
LA English
CY (c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation
LP

Australian beef and dairy producers are looking for alternative markets after Russia announced export
sanctions.
Australia's annual farm exports to the Russian Federation are worth $300-400 million.

TD

Russia will ban fruit, vegetables, meat, fish, milk and dairy imports for a year as it retaliates to sanctions
imposed over the the crisis in Ukraine.

Agriculture Minister Barnaby Joyce says the Australian Government can't really do anything about what
Russia, as a sovereign nation, decides to do, so instead he'll focus on finding other markets for Australian
produce.

"What I have to do on behalf of other people in Australia is make sure we have alternate markets," Mr
Joyce said.
"Last night and yesterday I was talking to the Indonesians about their capacity for the purchase of more
beef and dairy products.

"So we just try to work with these issues as they are presented to us, knowing that I can't really affect Mr
Putin and what Mr Putin decides to do.

"Most of the time I have a real struggle trying to affect my colleagues."

National Farmers Federation general manager of policy Tony Mahar says it could result in lower prices for
farmers.

"The complicating factor is, and we don't know what the impact will be, is these bans are also put in place
for the US and EU, so it will be interesting to see and we'll monitor the impact of the potential increase in
supply and what that means for prices globally.

"They have to go somewhere, so if there is a ban in place, then those products automatically go onto the
global market and everyone is competing to sell their products to other markets.

"Australians have to join that battle and make sure we find markets for our products."

Chief executive officer of the Tasmanian Farmers and Graziers Association, Jan Davis, agrees the
Russian bans will have a flow-on effect to some markets.

"What happens is the products that were going into Russia, and there's a lot of American stuff going in
there, will then back up into other markets, because it's got to find a home somewhere.

"And some of those markets will inevitably have a knock-on effect to us."

Southern NSW grazier and former president of the National Farmers Federation, Duncan Fraser, says
Russia's bans are significant.

He says he feels for both farmers involved in the export trade and the Russian people.

Page127of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."The Russian President enjoys a high degree of popularity in Russia because of his anti-western stance on
these things.

"He just sees this as a way, probably one of the few measures he can take, to get back at western
countries.

"It's for the 12 months, so it'll be interesting to see what happens on the political and trade negotiations
behind the scenes.

"I really think its going to be as much harm to Russian consumers as to Australian farmers."

Mr Fraser doesn't expect the ban will be extended to other agricultural products, including wool.
Dr Mark Melatos, an economics lecturer at the University of Sydney, predicts the sanctions could lead to
significant changes in global trade of farm products.

He expects the European Union will be worst affected by the food bans.
The EU's exports to Russia are worth about $15 billion a year and it also produces about a third of world
dairy products, with much of that sold into Russia.
"The stuff that Russia doesn't buy has to go somewhere," Dr Melatos said.

"With this reorganisation of exports, Australian farmers might find themselves competing against European
dairy farmers, for example, in markets where that competition didn't exist before."
Effect on dairy
One of Australia’s major dairy processors says Russian sanctions on agricultural products such as dairy
won’t have a direct impact, but the knock-on effect is a major concern.
Bega Cheese chair Barry Irvin says Russia and China are the world’s two major importers of dairy
products.

He says Moscow shutting the door will mean the European Union, which presently supplies much of
Russia’s dairy imports, will now be looking elsewhere to unload its product.
“It will see a major shift in global supply and demand. It is not good news for the Australian dairy industry,"
Mr Irvin said.

Processed beef was already banned

There has been no Australian beef exported to Russia since April, when the trade was disrupted over
concerns about import protocols and beef quality.

Meat and Livestock Australia chief economist Tim McRae says global demand for beef is very strong at the
moment, so exporters would easily be able to find other markets for their product.

Mr McRae says in the first four months of this year, Russia took just over 1,000 tonnes of Australian beef.

"That's a very small market in the scheme of things when you are exporting 120,000 tonnes a month.

"The Russian market for Australian beef is very small. There's been no beef exports to Russia since April
and even before that we were talking a very small volume.
"Simply on the basis that demand from a lot of other markets, be it China, the US, the Middle East, Korea,
Japan has been so strong, that it's just really attracted the beef."

News of the ban hasn't come as a surprise to a meat processor and exporter in northern NSW.
The Northern Co-operative Meat Company in Casino was one of a list of Australian exporters affected by
the temporary restrictions imposed in April, after an offal import ban imposed by Russia in January.
The company's chairman, John Seccombe, says it's disappointed that the negotiations to reopen that
market have now stalled.

"The main issue was with HGP (hormone growth promotants) product and we certainly working our way
through protocols to be able to send HGP-free product back into Russia," he said.

Page128of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."We used to send a lot of veal product, forequarter cuts and also it was a very good market for some of our
offal products.

"It was a very lucrative market but unfortunately since April we lost that so we've had to transfer those
products into other markets around the world."

Mr Seccombe says the other markets weren't as lucrative as Russia and the co-operative is feeling the
loss.

"Every meat exporter has had to do the same thing, find alternative markets," he said.
"Fortunately some markets have stepped up in the meantime, and obviously China's the big one that's
taken a lot of product from Australia, but we do miss that Russian market."

But Mr Seccombe says that Australia only counts for about 3 per cent of Russia's total beef imports.

"A lot of their imports come in from South America and I believe that this ban doesn't actually affect those
countries," he said.

"Importantly the meat going into Russia at the moment won't be affecting our traditional markets around
the globe."
Greenmountain Trading Company runs an abattoir at Cominya, west of Brisbane, specialising in veal.

It hasn't sent any product since Russia banned imports of Australian boxed beef in April.
Managing director David Scarrabelotti says the company had been looking forward to that ban being
lifted.

"Prior to that, we were sending significant volumes of high value products out of the veal to Russia to two
long-term customers that we've had there for probably 14 or 15 years.
"It wasn't a significant total impact on the business, but it was an impact on the return on the vealers, in
that those products probably had a movement of $4-5 a kilo in their value to what we'd be writing into the
Russian market.

"And if you look at that across a body, it'd probably be to the extent of $40, $50 a head."
Mr Scarrabelotti says the company was looking forward to the ban on Australian boxed beef being lifted.

"Our customers over there require the product and they were looking forward to it being lifted as well.
"I wouldn't say we're totally counting on it - the business is here, we have a cross-section of customers -
but every customer is important.
"Our Russian customers have a very good view of the Australian product that they buy and their
customers are the same, they look for the product. It's impacting them as much as it impacts us."

Queensland Minister for Agriculture John McVeigh says the cattle sector is unlikely to be affected.

“Russia’s been an expanding market for Queensland beef. We need to put that in perspective though.
“We’ve got Japan representing $1 billion for our industry, the US half a billion, South Korea being another
important market.

“So it’s not our most important market by any means."

Not everyone is so optimistic, however.

Charters Towers mayor Frank Beveridge says it’s a ‘blow’ for already-struggling producers.

“Russia may not be our most significant market, but it’s certainly relevant, and we have to remember that
this is a ripple effect.

“Any impact on the grazing industry at this time can only be bad.

“In the end, consumers will be suffering as well."
It’s a concern shared by rural advocacy group AgForce Queensland.

Page129of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Vice-president Ian Burnett says the sanctions could have serious implications for the industry.

“As far as beef goes, Russia had been emerging as a very significant and important export partner with
Queensland.
“There’s $178 million of beef exports to Russia. We’re talking significant numbers."

Reaction from other industries

Historically, Russia has been a significant buyer of Australian kangaroo meat.

But kangaroo exports to Russia were banned in 2008, and the industry says it's learned its lesson.
Macro Meats managing director Ray Borda says the company can't sell kangaroo to Russia, but there's
plenty of other buyers.

"We're lucky in the way that you can only get kangaroo from one place, and it's Australia. We have the rest
of the world to deal with, with a limited amount of product.

"It's not good for anybody, but personally we work fairly well ahead of ourselves and we'd wound down
reliance on Russia a fair while ago."

Even though it appears wool exports have escaped the current ban, some producers are expecting
Russia’s sanctions to drive the commodity lower.

New South Wales superfine grower John Ive believes the Russian announcement will have an impact.

“It certainly will, because that’ll affect overall confidence.

“If the beef market tightens up, then that causes a ripple through the whole economy and it’ll affect
people’s buying habits for even quality wool products."

While the prospective fallout from the sanctions has left Queensland beef producers with a sense of
uncertainty, the state’s $2 billion sugar industry is set to fare sweetly.

Queensland Sugar Limited, which exports 80 per cent of the state’s sugar produce, says Russia hasn’t
imported Australian sugar since the 1990s.

In horticulture, Growcom chief advocate Rachel Mackenzie says although exports ‘are not huge in the
grand scheme of things’, some fruit and vegetable growers will be ‘significantly affected’ by the decision.

“Obviously for those growers who rely on those markets, it’s a big dint to their income.

“Getting stuff into foreign countries is quite complicated, and then for them to go ‘oh’, for some political
reason, is quite challenging."

IN

i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming | ilsfarm
: Livestock Farming

NS c312 : External Markets | gtrade : Tariffs/Trade Barriers | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News

| e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gdip :
International Relations | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters
| nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter

RE russ : Russia | austr : Australia | auscap : Australian Capital Territory | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |

ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | eeurz :
Central/Eastern Europe | eurz : Europe | ussrz : CIS Countries

IPD russia
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN Document ABCNEW0020140808ea8800033

Page130of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.