Chinese investment in overseas real estate rises in Q1

SE
HD
BY
WC 273 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Real Estate
Chinese investment in overseas real estate rises in Q1

Xinhua News Agency

12 May 2014
Xinhua Business Weekly
XHBUSW
English
Copyright 2014. Xinuua News Agency. All rights reserved.

TD

SHANGHAI -- Purchases of residential housing land by institutional investors have bolstered the
momentum of Chinese overseas real estate investment, a report said May 6.
Figures released by real estate services firmJones Lang LaSalle (JLL) showed that Chinese institutional
investors poured 2.1 billion U.S. dollars into overseas real estate in the first quarter, 25% higher than the
same period last year.

Major Chinese housing developers have set their eyes on the overseas property market to cope with the
slowing trend in the domestic market as well as the economy, said David Green-Morgan, JLL's global
capital markets research director.
He said investment in residential housing land from Chinese investors rose to 1.1 billion dollars in the
first quarter, up 80% year on year.
Britain, Australia and the United States ranked as the top three favorite countries for Chinese institutional
investors, according to the report.
Investment in overseas commercial property has exceeded 1 billion dollars, the report said, noting that
the United States and Australia are the favorite commercial real estate markets for Chinese investors.

Investment in the U.S. market in the first three months jumped to 732 million dollars, a sharp rise from 51
million dollars a year ago, while investment in the Australian market also quadrupled to 400 million dollars
in the same period.
Office buildings remain the top choice for Chinese institutional investors, according to the report.
Although investment has been expanding, the transactions remain centered on a few metropolises such
as London, Sydney, Los Angeles and Chicago, the report said. (XBW)

CO
IN
NS
RE

lasp : JLL
ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i85 : Real Estate Transactions
ereal : Real Estate Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | usa : United States | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries
| dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America

PUB N.C.N. Limited of Xinhua News Agency
AN

Document XHBUSW0020140512ea5c00028

Page91of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.