Fosun International to Acquire Australia's ROC Oil

Overseas
Fosun International to Acquire Australia's ROC Oil

Stephen Leung

SE
HD
BY
WC 445 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY Gigabuck Group Limited
LP

17 July 2014
China M&A Review
CHIMAR
English

TD

Hong Kong-listed Chinese conglomerate Fosun International Ltd (复星國際) has agreed to acquire
Sydney-based Roc Oil Company Limited (ROC).
Fosun will pay around US$442 million (A$474 million) via cash payment, according to a company
announcement. The reason for Fosun International to enter into the agreement is to enable the group to
enter the upstream oil and gas industry as well as acquire oil and gas assets.

Fosun International will acquire all of the Australia-listed ROC's shares at A$0.69 cash per share,
representing a 10% premium to the closing price of ROC shares on August 1, 2014, the last trading day
before the announcement of the deal. The price equals to a 52% premium compared to ROC's closing
price on April 23, when another Sidney-based petroleum producer Horizon Oil Ltd proposed an all-stock
merger of equals between the two companies.
The Fosun offer will lead ROC to terminate the previous merger plan.
“The proposal to purchase all of ROC’s shares for cash is superior when considered against the
alternative merger of equals with Horizon and offers a significant premium to share price performance,”
says ROC Chairman, Mike Harding, in a statement.

The deal is expected to be executed on or before August 20.
Just a couple of days ago, a consortium controlled by Hong Kong-listed Fosun International agreed to
buy a 23.16% stake in Tom Tailor Group, a German fashion retailer currently owned by
Liechtenstein-based Versorgungs- und Förderungsstiftung.

The deal marks Fosun’s 4th investment in overseas fashion sector. Other foreign brands acquired include
US upscale female apparel brand St. John, high-end Italian menswear manufacturer Caruso and Greek
renowned fashion retail group Folli Follie. This is also the 7th overseas buyout deal for Fosun this year.
Fosun International has been listed on in Hong Kong since 16 July 2007. Fosun has established four
business engines comprising “insurance, industrial operations, investment and asset management”.
On 15 May 2014, Fosun officially completed the acquisition of 80% of the share capital and voting rights
of each of Fidelidade, Multicare and Cares, with its investible funds of approximately EUR 12 billion as at
the end of 2013. It thus formed the largest insurance group in Portugal. In end of June, Fosun assisted
this newly acquired group in kicking start, deal research and completion of its first strategic investment
project, which was an acquisition of 3.97% of the state-owned shares of Redes Energéticas Nacionais
(REN), a Portuguese power grid company, with an investment amount of approximately EUR 56.8
million.

CO blhol : Horizon Oil Limited | fosuni : Fosun International Limited | rocoil : Roc Oil Company Ltd
IN

i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1 : Energy | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | i8396 : Diversified
Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin
: C&E Industry News Filter

NS

Page130of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
IPD Overseas
PUB Gigabuck Group Limited
AN

Document CHIMAR0020140806ea7h00004

Page131of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.