FOR NEAR-ON two decades, Tamworth's velodrome has been

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

OTHER TOWNS
FOR NEAR-ON two decades, Tamworth's velodrome has been

357 words
19 December 2014
Northern Daily Leader
FNODAL
8
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

FOR NEAR-ON two decades, Tamworth's velodrome has been both a nursery of champions and a
target of derision.

Plagued by controversy since the day it was completed, the Peel St track has been branded a "white
elephant" by critics, who cite its prime CBD address and apparent lack of use.

The Tamworth Cycle Club has remained a staunch defender of the velodrome, claiming it is used
"substantially" during the track season from October to March.

But while it has long dominated the debate, how often the velodrome is used is immaterial.

The real issue is its location.

The looming arrival of a massive Woolworths/Dan Murphy's development across the road from the
track has changed the game at the Paradise end of Peel St, so long the domain of fast food outlets
and green spaces.

Money begets money and development begets development.

The opening of Woolworths will turn the tumbleweed section of Peel St into a more attractive
commercial precinct.

And, in tough fiscal times, it makes sense for council to realise the best value for its assets.

It also makes sense for our sporting facilities to be centralised as much as possible.
Senior council figures say the site is not being eyed off by Chinese company Everich, which has
recently purchased the Woolworths/Dan Murphy's block and has signalled its intention to build a
five-star hotel in Tamworth.

But it's hard to imagine a buyer won't be found in quick time for a spacious Peel St parcel of land.

Council and the Tamworth Cycle Club should be commended for making the tough decision to move
a part of history from the CBD to a more appropriate location.

The only missing piece of the puzzle is a few million shekels in state or federal funding to build a new
track at the Longyard.

But with the government suddenly thrust into a fight for the seat of Tamworth, securing funding might
just have become as easy as riding a bike.

RE
PUB
AN

nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FNODAL0020141218eacj0000l

Page139of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.