Meriton eyes development - EXCLUSIVE -

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Finance
Meriton eyes development - EXCLUSIVE -

LISA ALLEN, GREG BROWN
264 words
21 March 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
23
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

HARRY Triguboff's Meriton Apartments is eyeing off a key North Sydney development property
as the billionaire looks to consolidate his position in Sydney's northern suburbs.
Meriton is leading the pack to buy the residential development site, which has approval for an
18-level mixed use building, from industrial property investment group Ford Land Company.

It is understood that Meriton has tendered at a price of more than $50 million but the apartment
developer declined to comment yesterday.
The site has capacity for 190 apartments and is being sold through Knight Frank's Andrew Drury,
Peter Krieg, Brett Burridge and Dominic Ong. The agency declined to comment.
The site, at 225-235 Pacific Highway and 22 Angelo Street, has approval to be turned into an
apartment tower with a retail component.

The vendor won council approval for a design by Spence Pearson Architects.

This includes six three-bedroom apartments, along with 72 two-bedroom units, 97 one-bedroom
units and 15 studio apartments.
The site will be ready for construction in July, allowing a buyer to capitalise on Sydney's hot
residential market.
The move follows Meriton's purchase of a site in Sydney's Zetland for $47m, as revealed in The
Australian last week.
North Sydney has been targeted by local and international apartment developers this year.
In the most prominent deal, property billionaire Bob Ell cashed in on the Chinese investment
boom by selling an office tower in Milsons Point on Sydney Harbour for about $80m to mainland
developer Bridgehill via CBRE.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140320ea3l00059

Page269of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.