Tony Abbott has a Downton moment

By The Canberra Times

29 March 2014
Canberra Times
CANBTZ

HD Tony Abbott has a Downton moment
BY
WC 1,807 words
PD
SN
SC
PG B003
LA
CY
LP

English
(c) 2014 The Canberra Times

Tony Abbott has a Downton moment

'Abbott's against popular opinion on this issue.'

TD

I f John Howard, Australia's great conservative elder, thinks you're being a tad old fashioned, it is a sure
sign you are pulling some truly medieval moves. When Prime Minister Tony Abbott announced on
Tuesday he would reintroduce knights and dames to the Order of Australia honours system, as an
"important grace note in our national life", he was mocked in predictable quarters. His critics suggested
the Prime Minister had binge-watched too many episodes of Downton Abbey, a happy historical fantasy
where lords and ladies stroll across silently tended lawns and noblesse oblige defines the moral order. But
the implicit rejection of the innovation by Abbott's political father, the man who trounced the republican
movement and defined ageneration of Australian conservatism, a man who might conceivably be anointed
as a knight himself, was a surprise. The former prime minister told The Australian Financial Review his
views on knights and dames remained unchanged - that is, that he believed any move to restore them
would be "somewhat anachronistic". Howard's famous political nous remains sharp, it seems, but how
much of it has Abbott absorbed? While some saw the surprise announcement as a bizarre distraction that
sent a bad message about the priorities of the government, others interpreted it as intentional political
messaging. Having resoundingly won the last election, the conservatives are in charge - the nation is
theirs to form. The knights and dames announcement "upsets all the right people", asone minister put it.
During the Tuesday press conference when he announced the new honours to a stunned press gallery,
Abbott lookedas though he was having a thoroughly good time, as he did the next day in question time
when he referred to Bill Shorten as "the honourable leader of Her Majesty's opposition". As a staunch
monarchist and Anglophile, it was one fight the Prime Minister was very happy to pick. The fact that the
announcement came the day before Abbott's 20th anniversary as a parliamentarian wasa happy
coincidence. Despite the pre-budget work of the Economic Review Committee going on behind the
scenes, and important announcements like the confirmed sale of Medibank Private, the knights- n-dames
surprise dominated the political week, together with Attorney-General George Brandis' controversial
statement that "people ... have a right to be bigots", made in defence of his reforms to section 18C of the
Racial Discrimination Act, for which an exposure draft was also released this week. Bubbling away in the
political background was the backdown of Finance Minister Mathias Cormann over reforms to the
regulation of the financial advice sector (reforms he took carriage of after Senator Arthur Sinodinos
stepped aside as assistant treasurer due to his involvement in an ICAC hearing); the introduction of the
government's "red tape bonfire" legislation; and the government's promise to siphon billions of dollars
from the sale of Medibank Private into roads and other infrastructure, while rebuffing calls to pour the
money into healthcare. All of these moves tell us something about the kind of government Abbott wants to
lead - one which doesn't "police" what itscitizens say or think, one whichallows business to build
infrastructure and one which seeks to"get out of the way" of the relationship between business andits
clientele. It felt like the week the Abbott government lifted the veil on its vision for Australia. For the 45 per
cent of Australians whose primary vote was for the Coalition at the last election, this is a welcome picture.
For others, such as the Abbott haters who participated in the March in March protests of a fortnight ago, it
was the week the government turned into everything they always feared it was. But what did it represent
to those in between? Those who voted for Abbott but have reservations about his political style? Those
who voted against the dysfunctionality of the previous Labor government rather than in favour of the
alternative Abbott offered? Those who wanted grown-up government but didn't sign on for ideological

Page145of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.frolics like the reintroduction of knighthoods? Or the ethnic voters in marginal western Sydney seats who
are conservative byinclination but wonder about a government that rolls back anti-hate- speech
provisions? It is the middle dwellers who decide elections, and while there is no federal poll for the
government to fret about, the Liberals are vulnerable

in the Western Australian senate byelection, where they are by no means guaranteed to keep the three
seats they won in the now-voided 2013 election result. Also, the fact that Labor managed to cling to power
in South Australia has spooked many Victorian Liberals, who face a state election next year, and the
prospect that Denis Napthine's government might end upbeing a one-term one. "What the Abbott
government would like to do is get down to matters of policy," says Dr Nick Economou, senior lecturer in
politics at Monash University. "But it cannot get any policies of substance - the [abolition of] the carbon tax
and the mining tax, its deregulation policy - through the Senate until after July 1. There is a vacuum, so
they can't do anything substantial yet. Into the vacuum have come all these trivial issues." The Coalition
MPs and ministers contacted by Fairfax for this piece were unfazed by the Prime Minister's honours
announcement, saying it was only the twitterati getting in a tizz over it, and pointing out that the New
Zealand government also reintroduced knighthoods (although, in an interview with News Ltd last year
Abbott ruled out following the New Zealand example). Communications Minister and republican Malcolm
Turnbull lightly mocked the announcement, and Liberal Senator Sue Boyce, also a republican, said it was
disappointing Abbott hadn't taken the decision to cabinet. In an interview with journalist Michelle Grattan,
Abbott said the matter was between him and the Queen. Abbott's turnaround, and the timing of the
announcement - late on Tuesday afternoon, not long before the all-important nightly news went to air - has
raised eyebrows, as has the fact that he bypassed cabinet. It may have been long planned, but

it looked like the sort of cobbled- together announcement the previous Gillard/Rudd government used to
churn out to feed the daily news cycle. The kind of thing Abbott, whopromised calm, methodical
government with "no surprises", was supposed to stand against. As one Liberal elder put it: "This is classic
Tony. He has had this idea in his mind for ages. "He was always going to do it, so he just went and did it."
The reaction against the announcement was particularly strong on social media - a form of voter
engagement often disdained by the conservative side of politics, but one which can provide a fast insight
into the zeitgeist. Unlike other anti-Abbott complaints over asylum seeker policy or possible changes to
Medicare, this time the government was being ridiculed, a theme which was pickedup in question time by
the opposition, who were so loose in their merriment they were chastised by Speaker Brownyn Bishop for
laughing too much. "Humour can be so devastating," says Economou. "When people get angry and
splutter, like in the asylum seekers debate, Australian people are not interested. But if you can hold people
up to ridicule ... suddenly now his critics have got something to lampoon him with." While Abbott's
government has afirm majority of seats, Labor strategists believe support for the Prime Minister himself is
shallow, with his disapproval rating hovering

around 50 per cent. These strategists within the opposition's party machine say that voter perception of
Abbott as a person is hugely negative, with people distrusting his agenda. "People have underestimated
what a terrible drag Julia Gillard was on the Labor vote. The conservatives are realising it's not going to be
as easy asit was during the three years of opposition," Economou says. John Warhurst, a professor of
political science at the Australian National University, believes the knighthoods announcement "does
reveal an appetite for cultural wars within the government". "They are taking a punt though, on community
attitudes towards it. That remains to be seen," Warhurst says. "All of this is part of a freedom
conservatives are feeling. They can get away with this stuff. Whether ornot the public is behind them, they
feel emboldened by political success." But there are signs some government MPs are nervous overthis
muscular display of conservatism, particularly when it comes to the debate over changes tosection 18C of
the Racial Discrimination Act. Under the proposed reforms, released by Attorney-General George Brandis
this week, it would no longer be unlawful to offend, insult or humiliate someone on the basis of their race.
It would be unlawful to vilify or to intimidate on the basis of race, but not if you are doing so in the course
of public debate - an exemption critics say is far too wide. According to a cabinet leak

published by this newspaper on Thursday, Senator Brandis was forced to soften his original proposal,
resulting in the exposure draft beingreleased, as opposed to the legislation in its final state. This wriggle
room means the government's position can remain "fluid". Ethnic groups have united in their opposition to
the changes and the Prime Minister's indigenous advisor, Warren Mundine, was this week vocal in his
criticism. Abbott was unable to name a single ethnic group that supported the changes, and Mundine
pointed out that the optics of the issue were very bad. "I just find it funny that ... on one side you've got all
the Jewish community, you've got the Aboriginal community, you've got the Chinese community, you've
got Muslims ... and then on the other side you've got [Freedom Commissioner] Tim Wilson ... you've got
the Attorney- General ... and you've got Abbott," hesaid. "To me, that's a clear visual thing about this
whole debate." Abbott, it seems, is lined up against popular opinion on this issue. A recent survey of 2100
people by the University of Western Sydney found three-quarters agreed with protections against
humiliation, insult and intimidation on the basis of race, culture or religion. Closer tohome for Abbott,
Liberal backbenchers, particularly those inmarginal western Sydney seats with large ethnic populations,

Page146of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.are reportedly nervous from the backlash in their electorates. The week may have provided an insight into
Abbott's Australia, but it was merely a curtain-raiser before the main act: the May budget. A government's
first budget is its most powerful statement on the kind of administration it wants to be, and the kind of
Australia it envisages. As one minister put it this week: "Itis the main game. It is what will setthe course."

55402414

RF
CO medpv : Medibank Private Ltd
IN

i82 : Insurance | i82003 : Non-life Insurance | i8200301 : Health/Medical Insurance | ifinal : Financial
Services | ihmo : Health Maintenance Organizations | iprivhea : Private Health Insurance
ghonl : Honours List/Decorations | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations |
gpol : Domestic Politics
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South
Wales

NS

RE

PUB Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty Ltd
AN Document CANBTZ0020140328ea3t00023

Page147of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.