Primewest goes troppo

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Primewest goes troppo

Matthew Cranston
463 words
9 April 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
39
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

West Australian syndicate Primewest is buying the Port Village Shopping Centre in Port Douglas,
far north Queensland, in a deal worth more than $25 million.

The move provides further evidence of the rebounding investment in Queensland's coastal
property.

The purchase of the 6358 square metre village is one of the biggest deals in the area since the
co-founder of former ASX-listed Excel Coal, Chris Ellis, snapped up the Port Douglas marina for
$11.6 million from developer Russell McCart in January.
That followed listed Singaporean hotel operator Hotel Grand Central's purchase of the Novotel
Palm Cove for $10 million.

Primewest director John Bond said the investment was the first the syndicate had looked to make in
the tourism region of Queensland.

"We did not specifically target Port Douglas. We targeted a certain criteria of investment and the
Port Douglas village just happened to matched that," Mr Bond said.

He said Primewest was starting to have doubts about other property classes such as office towers
and that it was a lot more confident with neighbourhood shopping centres, even in regional areas
such as north Queensland.

"We do have concerns about some property classes at the moment," he said. "However, this is the
third neighbourhood shopping centre we have purchased this year. We have confidence in them."

Anchored by a strong performing Coles supermarket, as well as a Target and 18 speciality
tenancies, Port Village was given a $10 million redevelopment in late 2010, which doubled the
village's size.

Primewest's deal was struck on a yield of 8.5 per cent with a fully leased forecast income of
$2.1 million per year. A private family was the vendor.

JLL's Jacob Swan and Sam Hatcher negotiated the deal but declined to comment.

After suffering during the global financial crisis, north Queensland's commercial property market has
started to show signs of life. Deloitte's latest tourism and hotels report noted that the lack of new
development in the past five years positioned the area well for an upswing.

"With no supply increases in the near term pipeline, the outlook for occupancy rates in tropical north
Queensland is for continuing improvement over the next three years," the report said.

Page74of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Unlike Primewest, the majority of property plays in the area have been made by private individuals
looking to capitalise on bargains.
Coal entrepreneur Paul Darrouzet has snapped up Abell Point Marina at Airlie Beach for
$27 million last year while other privates such as Chinese-born media and mining tycoon William
Han is spending up to $200 million revamping his Lindeman Island in the Whitsundays.
More recently, Sydney-based Chinese investor Fullshare purchased the Marina Mirage at Port
Douglas, buying out developer David Mariner.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

hotgc : Hotel Grand Central Ltd
ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i66 : Hotels/Restaurants | i665 : Lodgings |
i6651 : Hotels (except Casino)/Motels | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality | itourm : Tourism
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140408ea4900032

Page75of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.