Chairman hails NQBE’s recent international delegation visit as ‘extremely positive’

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Chairman hails NQBE’s recent international delegation visit as ‘extremely positive’

272 words
23 April 2014
Herbert River Express
HERBRE
HerbertRiver
3
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

NORTH Queensland Bio-Energy have played host to an international delegation from China with a
strong interest in the region’s proposed $520 million multifunctional sugar facility.
The group was the second Chinese delegation to visit following Nanning Good Fortune Heavy Industries
Company Limited trip last October when a memorandum of understanding was signed.

NQBE Chairman Robert Carey said the latest group visited Brisbane, Sydney and Ingham earlier this
month for a series of “intense due diligence meetings”.

They met with Federal and State government departments, banks, consultants and other parties involved
or associated with the NQBE project.

“The meetings were fairly intense, productive and the response from the visiting delegation was
extremely positive,” Mr Carey said.

“In particular, the visitors were very impressed with the large number of NQBE shareholders who
attended a meet and greet function in Ingham on April 11.” While in Ingham, the delegation also enjoyed
a tour of the Herbert River district, including a visit to the proposed NQBE site on Como Road and the
Lucinda Bulk Sugar Terminal.
NQBE general manager of operations Ken McIntosh flew to China on Monday for further discussions
regarding design of the NQBE facility and other technical matters.
Mr Carey will also travel to China in early May for discussions in relation to the project’s equipment
financing, equity and other matters.“The due diligence investigations being undertaken by the
international delegation and the return trips overseas by Ken McIntosh and myself are part of finalising
matters to ensure a commencement of operations by June 2017,” Mr Carey said.

RE

china : China | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
austr : Australia | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries |
dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document HERBRE0020140422ea4n0000g

Page24of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.