STAG Beef's float schedule tweaked

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
STAG Beef's float schedule tweaked

Joyce Moullakis
591 words
9 January 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
13
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Delays in due diligence on rural properties will likely see Keith De Lacy-chaired Staples and
Agricultural Global Beef Investment, or STAG Beef, hit the local boards in late January or February.
STAG, supported by broker BBY, had initially targeted a sharemarket listing in late 2013 amid a flood
of companies seeking to float while the appetite for offerings remained healthy.
The company is understood to be seeking to raise about $70 million to acquire several Northern
Territory cattle stations and their accompanying breeding herds. However, the due diligence on some
properties got pushed back and is still occurring, moving the slated listing firmly into 2014.

STAG is chaired by former Queensland treasurer Mr De Lacy, who also formerly chaired Macarthur
Coal.

A pathfinder or draft prospectus has already been lodged with the Australian Securities and
Investments Commission, sources told The Australian Financial Review.

The float will mark the largest local agribusiness initial public offering since PrimeAg Australia in 2007.

A November roadshow is thought to have piqued a lot of interest in STAG from institutional investors
in China, Japan and Indonesia, but winning over retail and institutional investors in Australia remains
a challenge.
From a macro-economic perspective, the company is banking on rising demand for Australian beef
from Indonesia, China and Korea, while beef prices are favourable.
STAG has previously said it is looking to purchase properties at a time when the average price of
property per animal grazed is at its lowest level in 13 years. It is also trying to remove pricing risk by
entering into a 12-month contract for the purchase of live cattle and narrowing the focus to breeding
and rearing cattle until about the age of 18 months.

But the industry is also hamstrung by weather conditions, including a heatwave in parts of Australia in
early 2014 which tends to see more cattle put to slaughter. Australia is the world's third-largest beef
exporter.

According to the Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics and Sciences (ABARES),
the local weighted average saleyard price of beef cattle is forecast to average 3 per cent higher at
$3.05 a kilogram (dressed weight) for 2013-14.

"Higher beef export demand, particularly from emerging markets, and an assumed lower Australian
exchange rate are expected to result in improved prices for heavy steers," ABARES said in its
December 2013 quarterly report.

Page149of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.However, ANZ Banking Group senior agriculture economist Paul Deane this week warned of the
possibility that Brazil would regain access to Saudi Arabia and China – two of Australia's
fastest-growing beef markets.

His research also noted that Australian beef prices remained cheap relative to the Americas.

Still, local investors are treading carefully in the sector and are closely assessing new offerings. "The
agriculture space has delivered mixed returns for investors in recent years in particular with the
concerns around the beef industry," Wilson Asset Management chief investment officer Chris Stott
said.

The industry has commanded attention in the past six months, more recently with the emergence of
Kaplan Partners on the shareholder register of beef giant Australian Agricultural Company (AACo), of
which it now owns more than 5 per cent.
Despite a turbulent few years, AACo's balance sheet was strengthened by September's equity raise.
But it is still hunting for a new chief executive.

STAG's managing director is Alain Pillay, while Geoff Wagstaff, who has more than 40 years'
experience in the industry, will manage day-to-day operations.

sgbeef : The Staples and Agricultural Global Beef Investment Limited
i4122 : Meat Processing | i412 : Animal Slaughtering/Processing | i010010501 : Beef Cattle Farming |
i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
mlvstk : Livestock/Meat Markets | c1711 : Initial Public Offerings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
c02 : Corporate Changes | c14 : Stock Listings | c17 : Funding/Capital | c171 : Share Capital | cactio :
Corporate Actions | m14 : Commodity Markets | m141 : Agricultural Commodity Markets | mcat :
Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E
Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | nterry : Northern Territory | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140108ea1900009

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page150of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.