China 's broken growth model will change Australian business : CMR

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

China's broken growth model will change Australian business: CMR

Allan Swann
1,281 words
6 May 2014
ARN (Australian Reseller News)
IDGARN
English
(c) 2014 IDG Communications Pty Ltd All Rights Reserved

China Market Research Group (CMR) believes the reorganisation of the Chinese economy will
dramatically affect the Australia tech sector.
Managing director and founder of CMR, Shaun Rein, said western myths surrounding the Chinese
economy are outdated, and that modern concerns, such as pollution, demographics and supply chain
trust are key to trading in the market.

One of the key initial changes is demographics, the stereotype of the Chinese being prodigious savers
is rapidly changing. While the older generations are still saving more than 40 per cent of their income -
lessons learned during hard times, such as the cultural revolution, those under 30 save nearly zero and
are "extraordinarily optimistic" about the future of their country.
This is a market where car consumption passed the US for the first time with 21 million cars sold last
year. It is also now the largest market in the world for Porsche and Ferrari.
There were 25 million credit cards in circulation in China five years ago, that number is now 340 million.
China's youth have some of the highest revolving rates on credit card payments in the world.

Wages are also rising at a staggering rate of around 15-20 per cent per year, for both blue and white
collar workers. Rein said this is putting pressure on manufacturers margins, and driving low cost
production offshore to countries such as Vietnam and Thailand - Nike being a notable example.
Chinese companies' biggest growth hurdles are now retaining staff, with a 30 per cent turnover rate for
staff in white collar industries. By comparison, the US is 11 per cent - similar to Australia.
This means for any businesses targeting China, traditional western business practises, such as
targeting baby boomers as the big spenders doesn't work. That generation is not spending in China,
despite its government's best efforts. Rein advises any technology business to adjust their targeting
downwards by 20 years in terms of demographics.
To put it in perspective, the average age of a BMW owner in China is 39. It remains 50 in the USA.
The major concern, which is causing a generational shift in the Chinese political class' management of
the economy has been the pollution 'bombs' that have wrecked its air quality.

In January 2013, Beijing reached 755 on the Air Quality Index. 100 is deemed unhealthy, 400 dangerous
- 500 is meant to be the maximum. Rein says the culture now is to check mobile apps every morning
before taking kids to school, or even determining whether its safe to go outside. The citizens have had
enough, and the Chinese government is responding - but it will take time.

Visible price of progress

Twenty years of a manufacturing based, heavily export dependent economy has shown the visible price
of progress, and this is cancelling out the advantages of this newly wealthy young generation's spending.
"They're saying, who cares if I can buy a Louis Vuitton bag if the air is going to poison me?" he said.

Page158of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Interestingly, this is driving a huge growth in online shopping - this is hurting the Main Street, while malls
seem to do well. When people want to come out of their 'Cocoons' they need to be in a fully functioning
environment, with shops, movies, food and playgrounds for kids. Twenty per cent of this online retail is
now mobile lead.
This is also driving a huge rise in Chinese external tourism and migration, as families look to give their
kids clean air, cheap housing and a nicer lifestyle - something Australia has certainly benefitted from.

"It's not all about the bling they can show off," Rein said.
Rein also said this re-engineering of the Chinese economy to deal with pollution, combined with high
wages, means that the country is rejecting permits for energy and water intensive factories. These low
end businesses are being driven offshore.

While this is of concern for the west, and Australian businesses looking to get their low-end gear built in
China, it also means that Chinese manufacturing is moving up the value chain.

It also means that they are bringing their weight to bear in terms of innovation, and no longer simply
looking to imitate western trends and steal IP.

Low hanging fruit

Venture capitalists are also coming around to this way of thinking. In the past, VC firms would throw all
their money at Chinese companies producing Chinese versions of western properties - for example,
Baidu, the ChineseGoogle: "They want to pick the low hanging fruit."
Rein said Chinese innovators have been stifled by this period of capitalism, and as these markets
approach saturation, VCs are looking to support Chinese innovation. The next big tech market disruptor
will come out of China, he believes.

WeChat, a new Whatsapp style data based SMS system, that also combines shopping has been
disrupting the CHinese telcos SMS revenues. It is already valued at $130bn. China's eBay Alibaba has
been mentioned as listing at $168bn.
CMR interviewed 5000 Chinese business people across 15 companies, and compared the results to
the same survey five years ago. Back then 85 per cent preferred foreign brands, because they believed
that local brands cut corners. This year that number has dropped to 75 per cent.
Various food scares and low quality electronics made the Chinese middle and upper classes wary of
trusting local brands. Major western brands such as KFC and New Zealand dairy exporter Fonterra
have had scandals, and it has tarnished their reputations.
Already some top Chinese companies have seen the holes in the market, such as infant formula, and
advertise the fact that they cost 50 per cent more than the competition as a positive, because their
supply chain is reliable. Technology is the same.
This has lead to a corresponding rise in the prominence of Chinese homegrown brands, such as
Lenovo, Huawei and Xiaomi, products which are high quality by any markets standards.

"The west is no longer light years ahead," said Rein.
A 3M representative told Rein that 5 years ago, the company would've considered itself 10-20 years
ahead. Nowadays Chinese firms have caught up, not just in terms of quality and price, but innovation.
Its no longer a knock off game.

Lenovo is now the world's largest PC manufacturer, and continues producing high quality devices.
Xiaomi mobiles, which are middle to high end smartphones, are set to be launched in North America,
alongside ZTE and Huawei who have made market share in the low end.

Ericsson spends $5bn in R&D, Huawei is just behind on $4.9bn, and has picked up several key
contracts in Ericsson's home turf, such as Deutsche Telekom. Rein said that Cisco executives have told
him 'we're not that much better than Huawei anymore'.

"We are hearing the same thing in category after category," he said.
Part of the key to this innovative surge has been the 'bamboo ceiling'; the perception amongst China's
youthful elite that they can't be senior executives in western corporations. This leads China's best and
brightest back home to drive growth in their home corporations, and we're seeing the effects now.

Page159of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.One of the key advantages we still have left is that brand trust, which Australian tech businesses should
take advantage of - and quickly, because its an advantage that's rapidly eroding.
Three Tips for Breaking the Chinese Market

<ol>
Make sure you build brand trust in China - play on safety, quality
Make an authentic brand position build - don't knock off someone else
Be conservative - don't do anything to damage your brand's trust.</ol>

IN
RE

PUB
AN

i3302 : Computers/Electronics | icomp : Computing | itech : Technology
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
IDG Communications Pty Ltd.
Document IDGARN0020140506ea5600005

Page160of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.