| UP AND AT IT: Friday, October 17

SE popular
HD | UP AND AT IT: Friday, October 17
WC 2,675 words
PD 16 October 2014
SN Inverell Times
SC FINVRT
LA English
CY Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.
LP

TD

9am: That's another Friday morning done and dusted. Have a wonderful day and an even better weekend!

8.45am: On the national news front, a former Howard Government minister has quit the Liberal Party and
slammed the Abbott Government

8.40am: A Tamworth breast cancer survivor says Pink Ribbon Day is a time for remembrance and
rejoicing. Debbie Willmott will again be supporting the breast cancer fundraiser with a stall outside Ray
Walsh House in Peel Street. Click here

8.15am: Here is a snapshot of some front pages from the Fairfax stable today.

8.05am: On the national news front, a string of recent political scandals has seen Bronwyn Bishop lose her
bid to lead the Inter-Parliamentary Union, an organisation of parliaments that promotes democracy. Click
here for more

8am: A public meeting will be held in Manilla at the end of the month for Namoi Valley landholders that may
be impacted by a bulk transfer of water from Split Rock Dam to Lake Keepit. Click here for more.

7.55: Good luck to all the HSC students. This morning's exams across the state of Dance, Engineering
Studies and Modern Greek. Click here to read about one Moree student who has spent her Friday and
Saturday nights studying.

7.47am: How is this for heavy hitting? James "Bean" Tull has staked a claim for the record books with a
mammoth 341 runs off just 130 balls In a Brisbane competition. Click here to read more

7.45am: Petrol prices are a hot topic at the moment. Looks like we're paying too much. Anyone surprised?

7.30am: The Greens have revealed a Glen Innes teacher will be their candidate for Northern Tablelands in
next March's state election. Click here

7.15am: This week Tenterfield revealed its Oracles of the Bush legend for 2015. Each year a local is
selected for the honour ahead of the annual festival early in the new year:
http://www.tenterfieldstar.com.au/story/2627093/ex-serviceman-joins-rank-of-legends/?cs=1514

7.10am: Your weather

Looks like it will be a sunny day for the North West Slopes and Plains today. Light winds becoming south to
southwesterly 15 to 20 km/h in the late afternoon then tending south to southeasterly in the evening.
Daytime maximum temperatures 23 to 28.

In the Northern Tablelands it will be mostly sunny. Light winds becoming east to southeasterly 15 to 25
km/h in the evening. Daytime maximum temperatures between 18 and 26.

For all those TV buffs out there, the furore stirred up by Network Ten's ill-advised and sexist questions on
Wednesday night's Family Feud is just the latest chapter in the rich history of infamous, embarrassing and
just plain dumb moments produced by game shows over the past 60 or so years.

Page18of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.There seems something uniquely calculated about the genre to produce these talked-about incidents in
super-abundance.

Click here for our pick of some of the classics of the genre from more than 60 years.
6.55am: WARRNAMBOOL: A consortium hoping to buy dozens of south-west dairy farms aims to operate
"on a scale not considered in Australia before," a spokesman says.
Linear Capital managing director Troy Harper said the consortium, which has links to Chinese investors,
aimed to be a major new player in the regional dairy industry and be "vertically integated" with its own
dairy processing plants and training facility.

Mr Harper said Warrnambool, Colac and Mount Gambier were among locations being considered for
processing plants. Read more.

6.50am: DUBBO: New NSW Deputy Premier Troy Grant has vowed to continue fighting for the Dubbo
electorate despite a significant increase in his workload now that he has been elected as leader of the
NSW National party.

Mr Grant could also retain his current portfolios of Hospitality, Gaming and Racing, and the Arts or take on
a new role but said he would continue to give his all for those who gave him his start in politics.
"I'm more than confident that I have demonstrated I can represent the people of Dubbo while handling
other duties," Mr Grant said. Read more.
6.45am: ILLAWARRA: The NSW government is considering a new residential development on the shores
of Lake Illawarra.

When the government scrapped the Lake Illawarra Authority last year, it outlined plans to take control of 32
hectares of waterfront land at Warrawong, along King Street and Northcliffe Drive.
The prime development site, known as Kully Bay, was transferred in May and was the only land retained
by the government.

A long list of other, more costly, former LIA lands was to be transferred to Wollongong City Council, even
though councillors have said they will not accept these assets unless the government guarantees future
lake funding. More here.

6.40am: TASMANIA: Beekeepers have tapped into a new market of live bee exports to countries where
pests have destroyed hives.

Earlier this year Tasmanian beekeepers, including Australian Honey Products at Sheffield, sent 14 palettes
of bees - 9.8 tonnes of live insects - to Canada.

Tasmania's season finished in February before Canada's season started, and many of the bees exported
from Tasmania would have died anyway.

Each palette shipped this year had 500 1.4-kilogram packets, each with drones, workers and a queen.
Read more.

6.35am: GRIFFITH: A family has been left shaken and distraught after their house was destroyed by fire.

Fire crews were called to the two-bedroom home on Cutler Avenue at around 3am Tuesday, but upon
arrival the house was fully alight and could not be saved.

The owners said three generations of their family had lived at the house. More here.

6.30am: PORT MACQUARIE: The body of Sydney man William Lam has been recovered in Wallis Lake.
Mr Lam's body was located near Regatta Island two kilometres from where he disappeared.

The 32-year-old from Berala got into difficulty when he entered the water at Wallis Lakes to retrieve his
child's shoes just before 2pm Wednesday.

Emergency services were alerted when he failed to surface. Read more.

6.25am: NEWCASTLE: Her Australian speaking tour included how to train a service submissive and how
nice guys learn to spank strong women.

Page19of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.But when former dominatrix Kali Williams spoke in Newcastle, there was neither whips nor leather.
Drawing on her experience working with bondage, discipline, dominance, submission and sadism, she
discussed professional communication in the male-dominated tech industry.

Communication, negotiations, gender and power dynamics happen everywhere, not not just in the
dungeons I have worked in, Ms Williams said, in a keynote address at Newcastle's DiG " Design
Innovation, Green Tech " festival. Read more.

6.20am: BLUE MOUNTAINS: It is one year since a devastating bushfire that claimed almost 200 properties
in the lower Blue Mountains region in New South Wales.

It is unknown what sparked the blaze, which tore through Springwood and Winmalee on October 17,
destroying 193 homes and partially damaging about 200 more. Photos and video here.

6.15am: BUNBURY: Dylan Thomas may have been through an ordeal which has horrified a lot of people "
but he's keen to commemorate the experience so it can never be forgotten.

Dylan is hoping his mates will chip in for a spider tattoo which will cover his chest similar to Spiderman's
famous suit.

He may be joking about whether he'll develop "superpowers" but on the weekend he was experiencing a
"searing sensation" as a spider that had made its way into his abdomen through an old appendix scar,
crawled underneath his skin, all the way up to his sternum. Read more.

6.10am: MURRAY BRIDGE: Jockey Caitlin Forrest has died after a four-horse fall at the Murray Bridge
Racecourse.

The 19-year-old crashed to the turf and was collected by the pack of horses behind her when riding in the
race before the Murray Bridge Gold Cup.

Forrest was semi-conscious and responsive when airlifted to hospital, but her condition deteriorated and
she died from her injuries

Her boyfriend, Scott Westover, paid tribute to the former Strathalbyn High School student on Facebook.

"Today has been the worst day of my life. I lost the love of my life Caitlin Forrest," his post read. "I know
there will be an angel up there watching me everyday and riding with me." Full story here.

6.05am: NOWRA: A paramedic on the Ambulance Helicopter that rescued the pilot of a crashed plane
west of Nowra has told of the man's miraculous escape.

Paramedic David Zids was part of the rescue team that located the 22-year-old at the wreckage of a 1970s
Cessna 206 in bushland near Touga in the Morton National Park around 1pm.

The man was treated at the scene and was airlifted to Wollongong Hospital with minor injuries including a
cut above his eye. More here.

6.00am: REGIONAL: Let's start your day with a spin around Fairfax newspaper front pages today. Click
here.

" A University of Sydney academic involved in the national curriculum review, Barry Spurr, has reportedly
described Prime Minister Tony Abbott an "abo-lover" in an exchange of emails.

"Abo Lover Abbott and [Australian of the Year] Adam Goodes are Siamese Twins and will have to be
surgically separated," Professor Spurr wrote in an email published on the New Matilda website.

The university said an investigation into the report was underway.
In a series of different email exchanges, he used the terms "Mussies, Chinky-Poos, bogans and fatsoes,"
labelled Archbishop Desmond Tutu a "witch doctor," and Nelson Mandela a "Darkie," according to the
website.

Professor Spurr was employed by the independent review into the national curriculum, commissioned by
the federal government, as a specialist consultant to review the English curriculum. Read more.

" Medibank Private managing director George Savvides has said Australians overpay for common
surgeries such as hip replacements and caesarean sections, as the health insurer ramps up its campaign
to put a lid on private hospital costs before its $4 billion-plus float. Read more.

Page20of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved." Public servants want isolation units set up in Canberra to quarantine government officials returning from
Ebola-stricken regions of Africa.

The demand comes as the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade confirmed its top doctor had visited
Australian diplomatic posts in African nations hit by the epidemic to "discuss key issues arising from the
outbreak."

The departmental staffers accuse their bosses of "dereliction of duty and failing to show respect to
employees and the Australian public" by not being upfront about plans to cope if an Australian official
contracts the disease. More here.

" A bump in the take-up of smoking among women in the early 1980s is now being echoed in lung cancer
rates, which are rising for women while falling for men.

The state's first comprehensive report on lung cancer, released by the Cancer Institute of NSW on Friday,
shows that it is the number one killer among cancers. Only 18 of every 100 people diagnosed survive
beyond five years.

Chief Cancer Officer and Cancer Institute chief executive David Currow said tobacco consumption had
dramatically decreased since the 1970s, when 70 per cent of the adult population smoked. Details here.

" A day of Caulfield Cup carnage has seen two horses scratched and another two facing vet inspections on
Friday.

Racing Victoria veterinary stewards will examine two of the main hopes in Gai Waterhouse's The Offer and
star Japanese stayer Bande ahead of Saturday's $3 million race.

Gris Caro and last year's second placegetter Dandino were scratched on Thursday, with Dandino's racing
career now in jeopardy. Read more.

" Dan Lee watched his two daughters grow from curly-haired little girls to young women in the time
Canberra's famous lake went from a trickle of water to a large expanse.

The changes have been captured in three precious family portraits of the trio, each snapped by Mr Lee's
wife Nancye, over 50 years.

They have made a point of posing for the same photograph every 25 years to document their changing
faces and also the transformation of Lake Burley Griffin. Read more.

" The Texas hospital where two nurses were infected with the Ebola virus said it followed federal guidelines
to protect against the spread of the deadly pathogen, as Dallas County officials called an emergency
meeting to consider asking Governor Rick Perry to declare a local emergency.

The move comes after two registered nurses, Nina Pham and Amber Vinson, were diagnosed with Ebola
infections after treating Liberian Thomas Eric Duncan, who died October 8 at Texas Health Presbyterian
Hospital.
Controversy continued to swirl over why Ms Vinson flew on commercial flights to Cleveland and back to
Dallas while she was among dozens of healthcare workers who had been asked to monitor and report
potential Ebola infection signs and symptoms. More here.

" Australian Speaker Bronwyn Bishop has lost her bid for the presidency of an international democracy
group, with a string of recent political scandals contributing to the defeat.

The Speaker was in the running to lead the Inter-Parliamentary Union, an organisation of parliaments that
promotes democracy.

Ms Bishop came second to Bangladesh's Saber Chowdhury in the second and final round of voting at the
IPU's assembly in Geneva. There were also candidates from Indonesia and the Maldives " meaning
Australia was competing against a trio of Muslim states. More here.

" Apple has unveiled a thinner iPad with a faster processor and better camera as it tries to drive excitement
for tablets amid slowing demand.

The iPad Air 2, at 6.1mm "thin", also adds many of the features previously available on iPhones.

That includes the ability to take burst shots and slow-motion video and the inclusion of a fingerprint ID
sensor for use instead of a passcode. More here.

Page21of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved." Investors rushed into the safe haven of US bonds overnight on a wave of disappointing economic data
only to exit it just as fast, causing a massive intra-day swing in the yield on 10-year US treasuries, which at
one point dived as much as 14 per cent.

Overnight, US 10-year treasury yields dropped from a high of 2.17 per cent to a low of 1.86 per cent in just
over an hour, only to recover back to 2.15 per cent late in the trading session as investors took profit and
sold off bonds. Bond yields move inversely to prices.

"It was out and out carnage on the bond market," said National Australia Bank global co-head of FX
strategy Ray Attrill. Details here.

" Mystery surrounds the whereabouts of 176 people, including three women, who were on a people
trafficker's boat that left Bangladesh.
There are fears traffickers intend to sell those on board to fishing trawlers or factories as slave labour in
Malaysia and Indonesia.

Bangladesh officials are travelling to southern Thailand to interview 134 suspected victims who say they
were on the boat with the 176 others. Read more.

" Did you see this?

It is a decision 10-year-old Lucy Pierpont is confident about, but has her mother Kate very nervous - the
World's Greatest Shave.

Lucy has been closely affected by cancer. Last year a member of her family was diagnosed, her uncle also
died from the disease in 2011.

"I was in Broken Hill and we were talking about my uncle and I decided it would be a nice thing to shave
my head for my uncle. I thought it would be the right thing to do," Lucy said.

She started researching and found even more people who had been affected.

"I also found out that one of my friend's grandmas had cancer as well and my aunty also had cancer."

Without any hesitation, the Dubbo girl told her mum she wanted to participate in the World's Greatest
Shave. Read more.

CO iparu : Inter-Parliamentary Union
NS gout : Outbreaks/Epidemics | gpol : Domestic Politics | gcat : Political/General News | ghea : Health | gpir :

Politics/International Relations

RE austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | tasman : Tasmania | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz :

Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
PUB Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
AN Document FINVRT0020141017eaag00001

Page22of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.