Media Release: Sino Group of Hotels

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Media Release: Sino Group of Hotels

950 words
11 June 2014
AAP MediaNet Press Releases
AAPMPR
English
© 2014 Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

AAPMEDIA RELEASE PR57008 Sino Group of Hotels Unveils The Pottinger Hong Kong
HONG KONG, June 11, 2014 /PRNewswire-AsiaNet/ --

New Boutique Hotel in the Heart of Central Celebrates Hong Kong's Heritage
Sino Group of Hotels, the hospitality management arm of Sino Group and an affiliate of Sino Land
Company Limited (HKSE: 083), operates and manages a growing portfolio of hotels, a yacht club,
serviced apartments and residential food and beverage club houses. Sino Group of Hotels announced
today the opening of The Pottinger Hong Kong, a 68-room luxury boutique hotel that rises in Hong
Kong's oldest historic stone slab street. The Pottinger Hong Kong is where East meets West, where
Modernity meets Heritage. This icon of timeless elegance welcomes visitors to experience the dynamic
and vibrant neighbourhood of Central, while feeling like home.

(Photo: http://photos.prnasia.com/prnh/20140529/8521403075-a )
(Photo: http://photos.prnasia.com/prnh/20140529/8521403075-b )

(Logo: http://photos.prnasia.com/prnh/20140529/8521403075LOGO )
The Pottinger Hong Kong offers 68 luxury guestrooms and suites, ranging from 23 square metres to 68
square metres. The Pottinger Suite and six cosy suites, named after the streets around the Central
neighbourhood, feature a bespoke decor with a touch of oriental flavour and celebrates Hong Kong's
romantic rich heritage and reflects the wealth of its diverse culture. Room rate starts from HK$1,880.
Standing on the historic Pottinger Street, a Grade I historic place graded by Antiquities Advisory Board of
Hong Kong, The Pottinger Hong Kong is just a 5 minutes' walk from Central MTR Station. The Hotel
makes an ideal starting point to explore the unique 'firsts' of Hong Kong. It embraces pioneering spirits;
the art pieces and select decorative accessories in the hotel help interpret the history of Hong Kong and
Central, they intrigue guests to venture out to search for the romance and the spirit of Hong Kong.

Legendary and world-acclaimed photographer, Fan Ho, a photographer and film director who spent
decades with his most beloved camera since his early teen, captured the best lights and scenes of Hong
Kong. Many of his images were taken in his most favourite place -- Central, Hong Kong. These most
treasurable frames have taken a new residence in the rooms and passageway of The Pottinger Hong
Kong and invite every guest and visitor to experience some of the fondest memories of Hong Kong at
their leisure. Mr. Ho, now 83, loves Central and his hometown Hong Kong and graces his first-ever
collaboration in a hotel setting, The Pottinger Hong Kong.

With its diverse dining choices and a comforting ambience that highlights a sense of classic elegance, the
hotel is set to elevate the guest experience to new heights. The refined atmosphere has been created
under the consultancy of Australian interior designer Suzy Annetta, founder of Studio Annetta and a
specialist in hospitality projects. Annetta is highly regarded for her use of colour and for interiors
characterised by refined surfaces and beautiful materials. Realised from her highly developed artistic
sense and holistic understanding of design, The Pottinger Hong Kong exudes the splendour of Hong
Kong and offers guests an unforgettable stay in the heart of the city.

Page219of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Riding on the success of Sino Group in developing and managing an award-winning, widely diversified
portfolio, Sino Group of Hotels strives to expand its development in Hong Kong and regional gateway
cities, and consistently delivers quality services and new additions to the portfolio. The launch of The
Pottinger Hong Kong signifies a strategic phase of development in Sino Group of Hotels that will
synergise positively and enhance promising and better results for Sino Group.
The Pottinger Hong Kong
Address: 74 Queen's Road Central, Central, Hong Kong
Hotel Main Entrance: 21 Stanley Street

T: +852-2308-3188

F: +852-2308-3198

E: info@thepottinger.com

www.thepottinger.com
About Sino Group of Hotels
Established in 1994, Sino Group of Hotels is the hospitality management arm of Sino Group and an
affiliate of Sino Land Company Limited (HKSE: 083). It operates a number of properties on Hong Kong
Island and in Kowloon, as well as a resort-style hotel on Hong Kong Gold Coast.
Its portfolio covers The Royal Pacific Hotel & Towers, City Garden Hotel, Hong Kong Gold Coast Hotel,
Island Pacific Hotel, The Johnston Suites (serviced apartments) and Gold Coast Yacht & Country Club.
While each property on its portfolio offers a unique guest experience, which share common values in
providing best possible services and facilities. A trusted brand in the hospitality industry, the hotels and
yacht club cater to both business and leisure travellers while celebrating the local communities.

www.sino-hotels.com
About Sino Group
Sino Group is one of the leading property developers in Hong Kong with core business in developing
residential, office, industrial and retail properties for sale and investment. The Group is also a major
player in hotel investment and management, club management, property management, car park
operations as well as environmental and security services. With a 11,000-strong team of dedicated
professionals, Sino Group strives to consistently deliver quality properties and services that surpass the
expectations of our customers.
A committed corporate citizen, Sino Group has been actively participating in community services and
green activities as well as art and culture events over the years. The Group's corporate social
responsibility efforts are four-fold: Sino Care, Sino Green, Sino Art and Sino Heritage. Sino Land
Company Limited (083) has been a constituent member of the Hang Seng Corporate Sustainability Index
since September 2012 for its continuous efforts in promoting sustainability.

www.sino.com
SOURCE: Sino Group of Hotels

CO
IN

NS

RE

sinol : Sino Land Co Ltd | sinor : Tsim Sha Tsui Properties Ltd
i6651 : Hotels (except Casino)/Motels | i66 : Hotels/Restaurants | i665 : Lodgings | ilea :
Leisure/Arts/Hospitality | itourm : Tourism | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | ireest : Real Estate
gtour : Travel | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | npress : Press Releases | gcat : Political/General News
| glife : Living/Lifestyle | ncat : Content Types
hkong : Hong Kong | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric
: BRIC Countries | china : China | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz
: Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

PUB Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd
AN

Document AAPMPR0020140611ea6b000gp

Page220of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.