Timber company eyes-port facility

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

popular
Timber company eyes-port facility

Barbara Sibley
251 words
26 February 2014
The Islander
FISLAN
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

Kangaroo Island Plantation Timbers recently announced the purchase of a parcel of land at Smith
Bay on KI, considered suitable for the development of a bulk log export facility.

They have also entered into a memorandum of understanding with other timber plantation owners on
KI, with a view to working co-operatively in the development of an export facility, so that plantation
timber can be harvested and exported.

In consultation with the community, and with due regard to the high level of environmental standards
needed, this is good news for residents who have waited several years for something to happen to
these blue gums.
John Sergeant, a director of Kangaroo Island Plantation Timbers said, "it is envisaged that a
cost-effective timber export facility will be of benefit to the people and the economy of Kangaroo
Island, generating much-needed employment and economic activity, while hopefully also providing a
facility for the import and export of other bulky goods and commodities".
"The plans would include a long jetty, allowing us to utilise deep water, and the site would allow for the
stock-piling of logs. This timber would be suitable for chipping or peeling and the markets available to
us include China, Japan, India and possibly Korea," Mr Sergeant said.

The major timber plantation owners expect to move as fast as possible on this project, with a decision
to be made within the year.

CO
IN
RE
PUB
AN

ausgrw : Kangaroo Island Plantation Timbers Ltd.
i0 : Agriculture | i02 : Forestry/Logging
saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FISLAN0020140227ea2q0000g

Page4of60©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.