Willis Group Names Leader of Political and Trade Credit Risks Practice in Australia

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

CO

IN

NS
RE
PUB A.M. Best Company, Inc.
AN

Document AMBEST0020140624ea6o0005l

Willis Group Names Leader of Political and Trade Credit Risks Practice in Australia

Fran Lysiak
357 words
24 June 2014
Best's Insurance News
AMBEST
English
Copyright 2014 (c) A.M. Best Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

LONDON (BestWire) - Willis Group Holdings plc said it named Bill Froggatt to lead a political and trade
credit risks practice in Melbourne, Australia.

Froggatt joins Willis from the banking sector, where he held various senior positions over the past 30
years, including head of trade finance for Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd., global head of commodity trade
and transaction services for ANZ Banking Group, and most recently, head of Northern Hemisphere
Trade for the Westpac Banking Corp.

Over the past five years, the Australian loan market has accounted for about a third of total Asia-Pacific
loan volumes (excluding Japan), ranking higher by loan volume, than Hong Kong, India, China and
Singapore, Willis Group (NYSE: WSH) said.

"We have long held the view that the Australian financial market has not been as well served in the
political and credit risk insurance arena as it could be, a situation which we are now able to remedy,"
Paul Davidson, chief executive officer of Willis Financial Solutions said in a statement.

Froggatt will report to the financial solutions Asia-Pacific operation, headquartered in Singapore.

The London-based Willis Group Holdings Ltd. is the third-largest global insurance broker, based on 2012
total revenues of $3.48 billion, according to Best's Review's annual ranking.
Willis started operating in Melbourne, Australia, in 1958. Today, the company has nine offices across
Australia and New Zealand.
In May, Willis Group said it would acquire a controlling stake of about 75% in an employee benefits
adviser in Sweden for $205 million in a move it said strengthens its operations in that country. The
revenue from the stake in Max Matthiessen would make the combined business the largest risk adviser
and broker in the Nordic region and the largest international adviser in Sweden, Willis Group said (Best's
News Service, May 27, 2014).

On the morning of June 24, Willis Group's stock was trading at $43.65 a share, down 0.14% from the
previous close.

(By Fran Matso Lysiak, senior associate editor, BestWeek: fran.lysiak@ambest.com)

aanzb : Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited | mizucb : Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd | wilf :
Willis Group Holdings PLC | wstpac : Westpac Banking Corporation Limited | mizfin : Mizuho Financial
Group, Inc
i82 : Insurance | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial
Banking | i832 : Insurance Brokering
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

Page47of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Page48of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.