Farmers' market goes to town

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Lifestyle
Farmers' market goes to town

1,275 words
9 March 2014
Straits Times
STIMES
English
(c) 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

From now until March 30, gourmands can also head to the event plaza at Marina Bay Sands, where
farmers' market PasarBella will be holding a pop-up event.

Called PasarBella & Friends Go To Town, it not only showcases some of the market's existing
vendors, but also independent ones that do not have stalls at the Bukit Timah marketplace.

The three-week-long pop-up, which will occupy some 22,000 sq ft near the waterfront, is one of the
complementary events at i Light Marina Bay, a biennial festival that showcases artwork and
installations with the theme of environmental sustainability. It is presented by the Urban
Redevelopment Authority and managed by Pico Art, an integrated branding and event organiser.

There will be 26 vendors, selling everything from gourmet burgers and artisanal lemonade, to
organic fruit and antipasto platters.

Only 12 of the participating vendors are current tenants of PasarBella. The rest are a curated list of
external vendors, some of whom were recommended by friends of friends, while others are vendors
who have been eyeing spaces at PasarBella's permanent market.

While the offerings of each individual are unique, what each of them have in common, PasarBella's
managing director Charles Lin, 25, says, is a similar belief and passion in selling specialist, quality
products; an ethos that the farmers' market proudly subscribes to.
He says Pico Art approached the group last November about the opening of a PasarBella pop-up to
coincide with i Light.

He says: "We felt that i Light, with its focus on sustainable art, was very much aligned with our views
and ideals. We see our vendors at PasarBella as artists, from the execution of their homecooked
food, to the passion behind the products they offer. As such, we thought it would be very fitting to
participate in the festival.

"In essence, we wanted to share our concept."

Stalls at the event plaza will be housed in containers, and alfresco seating will be interspersed with
plants and flora.
There will be an array of food options including burgers from Omakase Burger; Steak & Cheese pies
from The Gourmet Pie Company; and Japanese eats from Tomo, which is behind Japanese
restaurants such as Tomo Izakaya.

Other epicurean highlights include a Caribbean pulled pork bun from Sea Salt Caribbean Deli; hearty
bar bites from B Bar by Bacchanalia, a modern European restaurant in Coleman Street; and grilled
steaks and a spit-roasted lamb (the spit roast is available from 7pm on weekends only) from James'
Butchery & Co.

Unwind and dine with artisan beers and soft drinks from Australian brewery Blue Sky and New
Zealand food and beverage company All Good, knock back beers from local microbrewery Jungle
Beer, or sip on something a little stiffer such as an Old Fashioned cocktail at B Bar.

Page171of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The independent vendors tell SundayLife! that they hope taking part in the event will create more
awareness for their businesses and more exposure for their products and offerings.

Bacchanalia's co-founder Alex Chew, 29, says: "We want to showcase what we do, and show
people the accessibility of B Bar, as well as the quality of drinks and food that we can offer at these
prices."

Its cocktails at the pop-up are priced at $15, while the same cocktails at the bar cost $18++ to
$23++. The same Bacchanalia Burger at the restaurant is priced at $25, but here, it will be sold at
$18 instead.

Other participants, such as Vespucci & Sons International Grocers, an integrated retail and
distribution, and Cold Front Co., which specialises in artisan beverages from New Zealand, are using
the event as a launchpad for their new-to-market products.

Both companies started about two months ago.

Mr Brent Oddson, 33, founder of Vespucci & Sons, will be offering beers from Blue Sky Brewery in
Cairns, Australia. The Singapore-based American entrepreneur, who used to work in the finance
industry, says: "Deciding to take part was a no-brainer for me. It gives exposure to more brands like
myself, and exposure for the brands out there that one wouldn't normally see."

PasarBella's Mr Lin says he hopes the exposure will also draw people to its gourmet farmers' market
at The GrandStand.

He adds: "We will be here for the next three weeks, and we want to show people, be they locals or
tourists, our concept, and then entice them to come back and visit us at PasarBella."

Rebecca Lynne Tan

PasarBella & Friends Go To Town is at Event Plaza, Marina Bay Sands, along the waterfront,
Bayfront Avenue, until March 30, 4.30 to 10.30pm (weekdays) and 10am to 10pm (weekends).
Admission is free but pay for food and drinks. Call 6887-0077 (extension 110) or go to
www.pasarbella.com for more information.

EVENT HIGHLIGHTS
B Bar by Bacchanalia

Modern European restaurant Bacchanalia in Coleman Street is serving some of its signature eats
and drinks from its bar.

Feast on dishes such as fish and chips ($15), kombu-laced fries ($5) and the Bacchanalia Burger
($18), a 350g patty with house-dried tomatoes, pickles and smoked cheese, among other
ingredients.

Cocktails ($15) offered include Old Fashioned, Moscow Mule and South Side.

Swirls

The cupcake shop in Rodyk Street in Robertson Quay has more than 100 cupcake flavours on
rotation. At its pop-up at Marina Bay Sands, it will be selling nine of its signature flavours, including
Red Velvet with cream cheese frosting; Milk Chocolate, a chocolate cupcake with vanilla
buttercream and M&Ms; and Oh So Cocoa, a chocolate cupcake with chocolate buttercream
frosting.

The shop will also sell its mini cupcakes, known as "tinies". Prices for regular-sized cupcakes range
between $3.95 and $4.30 each, while tinies are priced between $2.50 and $2.80 each.

Cold Front Co
This company specialises in importing artisanal beverages from New Zealand. These include soft
drinks by New Zealand food beverage company All Good, such as Lemmy Lemonade, Gingerella
Ginger Beer and Karma Cola ($5 each).

The stall will also serve sodas made with syrups by Six Barrels Soda, in flavours such as Hibiscus,
Celery Tonicand Raspberry Lemon ($4 for a glass, $25 for a bottle of syrup). There will also be
Quina Fina tonic water and Bitter Lemon.

Page172of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Blue Sky Brewery

Three artisan beers from Blue Sky Brewery in Cairns, the tropical Australian city that is closest to
The Great Barrier Reef, will be making their debut at this pop-up event. The beers are being
imported and distributed by Singapore-based Vespucci & Sons International Grocers.

The three beers are: Cairns Gold, FNQ Lager and Blue Sky Pilsner.

The stall will also be selling ciders by Kopparberg in various flavours. Beers are priced at $8 each
between 4 and 6pm, or $35 for a bucket, and at $10 each, or $45 for a bucket at other times.
The Gourmet Pie Company

Tuck into freshly baked Australian meat pies in a variety of fillings. Expect about seven or eight
flavours each day. Popular ones include Steak & Cheese, Chicken & Mushroom and a Shepherd's
Pie made with lamb.

The pies ($4 to $5 each for an 8cm pie) are served warm and diners can help themselves to
condiments such as Dijon mustard, ketchup, chilli, barbecue sauce and mango chutney. The
Gourmet Pie Shop has a cafe in Circular Road and a takeaway kiosk at myVillage in Serangoon
Garden, and will be opening a cafe at China Square Central later this month.
Red Velvet with cream cheese frosting (above). -- PHOTO: SWIRLS
cbrand : Branding | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | nz : New Zealand | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Singapore Press Holdings Limited
Document STIMES0020140308ea390007x

ART
NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page173of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.