Benefits will far outweigh the downsides

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

TheNation
Benefits will far outweigh the downsides

ADAM CREIGHTON
648 words
18 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
7
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

An open letter to Alan Jones on why he need not worry about the China FTA
Dear Alan, I heard you berate Tony Abbott yesterday for agreeing to a landmark trade deal with China,
suggesting it would accelerate the feared sell-off of the Australian farm, especially in Tasmania, and
leave Australians with no more rights to buy property in China than they have now.

Your concerns are shared by many Australians: new trade deals tend to prompt more anxiety than
celebration. And you are certainly right that Chinese investors will have more freedom to invest here
than Australians will in China, and they will use these rights to invest in more Australian farms and an
array of other businesses.
But I believe the prospect of greater Chinese money flowing into Australia is a win for us regardless,
enabling us to sustain a higher economic growth rate than we would otherwise. Australians have never
saved enough to finance the investments that have made us among the world’s most prosperous
people. Australians in 2013, notwithstanding their new-found, post-GFC thrift, saved enough to finance
only 85 per cent of the $400 billion worth of investment. While Chinese investors are filling a growing
part of that gap, the total value of their Australian investments here, at $32bn, is still dwarfed by Japan’s
at $131bn and Britain’s $563bn.

Your championing of Australian farms and farmers is well known. But you need not, at least yet, worry
about Chinese domination of Australian farmland. The Australian Bureau of Statistics’ says at most 1.1
per cent of Australia’s 132,000-odd agricultural businesses are foreign owned, and around 1.3 per cent
of 3800 businesses in Tasmania. Dairy farming, apparently, is the least foreign-owned of the farming
sub-sectors. And Chinese investors own less than 1 per cent of it, according to a recent
KPMG-University of Sydney report.
Neither of us is probably too thrilled the state-owned companies, with potentially unorthodox business
goals, will make up the bulk of incoming Chinese investment. But they will be subject to the same
competition, tax, industrial, planning, development and environmental laws that apply to all other
investors. And while some of their revenue will flow back to Shanghai and Beijing, much of it will be
spent here on wages or buying supplies from other local businesses.
You singled out Chinese investors’ growing interest in buying Tasmanian dairy farms. But the higher
prices the Chinese are willing to pay to Australian farmers for these assets is at least helping prop up
Tasmania’s economy. And most of the 400-odd dairy farms there are still Australian-owned.
Even if China’s growing presence in Australian farming were a bad thing, it’s very possible the greater
access obtained for other Australian wine, beef and seafood producers, for instance, to China’s rapidly
growing economy could outweigh the cost. And that ignores the benefits to services, where the real
action is: farming makes up about 3 per cent of Australia’s economy and rural exports a little over 10
per cent of our goods and service exports. Services meanwhile, are around two-thirds of the economy,
and Australian banks, lawyers, universities, engineers, architects and urban planners, among many
others service sectors, will soon be able to do business easier in the China.

Page167of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Finally, you’re right China isn’t giving Australians commensurate rights to buy farms, but it denies this
to its own citizens too. ‘Buyers’ and ‘sellers’ in China are really exchanging leases, since all land is
ultimately owned by government. In this, China is shooting itself in the foot.Countries that stifle inward
investment can grow rich for a time, but ultimately their economies will stagnate. Japan is a good
example, and China might yet face the same fate.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
china : China | austr : Australia | tasman : Tasmania | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141117eabi0004a

Page168of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.