Roc shareholders fail in merger vote

HD
CR
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Roc shareholders fail in merger vote

AAP
504 words
11 July 2014
16:05
adelaidenow.com.au
NLADLW
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

ROC shareholders have failed to change the constitution to allow investors to vote on its $800 million
merger with fellow energy player Horizon Oil.

MAJOR Roc shareholders Allan Gray and Hostplus Superannuation forced a special resolution to amend
the energy company's constitution, but it was defeated at a fiery extraordinary meeting on Friday.

A total of 51.5 per cent of shareholders voted in favour of the proposal which required 75 per cent of votes
to pass.

Still, Roc shares rose 4.4 per cent to 59 cents at 1530 AEST following a fresh takeover offer for the
company this week.

The Australian Shareholders Association said Roc chairman Mike Harding and the board should be
ashamed of themselves for not allowing Roc shareholders to vote on the merger proposal.

"The issue here is the board really not doing the right thing," ASA representative David Jackson told the
meeting on Friday.

"The Horizon shareholders have had the opportunity to vote and we will be taking this up with the ASX in
order to get these listing rules strengthened."

He said it was "terrible" that the board would go to such lengths to get an exemption from ASX listing
rules."

Mr Jackson added that the board would have had its merger defeated if a vote had been put to the
company's annual general meeting in May.

He also said the early 9am meeting time had precluded some shareholders from attending the meeting.

Mr Harding said he was not ashamed of himself or the board and a 9am start felt "fine".

"We've done everything by the rules and if you don't like the ASX listing rules you should take it up with all
of the other people that have complained," Mr Jackson said.
Simon Marais, the managing director of fund manager Allan Gray which owns a 19 per cent stake in Roc
Oil, said it was inappropriate that Roc shareholders were unable to vote on the deal.

Horizon welcomed the shareholder decision on Friday and said it meant the proposed merger remained
on track.

"The merger will bring together two highly complementary companies, creating a leading Asian-focused
upstream oil and gas company that will provide a platform for significant potential growth and value
realisation," Horizon said in a statement.
Roc Oil is now the target of a second takeover offer, separate to an approach made by an unnamed party
late in June.
But the fresh takeover offer announced this week complicates plans for the $800 million merger between
Roc and Horizon.

Page207of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Horizon and Roc Oil have proposed a merger that would create a company with assets across China,
Papua New Guinea, Malaysia, Myanmar, Australia and New Zealand.
The company would not publicly reveal who was behind the takeover bids.
Horizon shareholders will own about 58 per cent of the merged company, and Roc Oil shareholders the
remaining 42 per cent.

Horizon shareholders will vote on the proposal at a meeting on August 7 in Sydney.

CO
NS

aurhld : Australian Shareholders' Association
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document NLADLW0020140711ea7b0005o

Page208of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.