PARTY PARADE

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

S
PARTY PARADE

By Jo Casamento
892 words
4 May 2014
Sun Herald
SHD
First
22
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

WHAT The Australian Ballet's Opening Night of Chroma

DEETS Northern Foyer, Sydney Opera House

RSVP Sarah Murdoch, April Rose Pengilly, Akira Isogawa, Edwina McCann, Kerri-Anne Kennerley,
Charlotte Holmes a Court, Luke Sales

THE VERDICT A welcome push by the Oz Ballet to give some celebrity-fuelled pizzazz to its opening
night was met with applause by those lucky enough to see Chroma. This high-energy, heart-pumping
and erotic production has been described as "Mozart meets the White Stripes, classical meets
contemporary". The after-party, with a menu by Matt Moran, a candy bar inspired by Chroma and DJ
Jamie Whiteside on the decks, didn't disappoint either. It was a far cry from the usually stiff collar-tie and
mothball-smelling crowd that can intimidate even the most seasoned of opening-night-goers. In
trademark form, KAK was the first to jump into the booth with a bunch of dancers, and blogeratti Tanja
Gacic also had fun taking snaps. Murdoch, an avid ballet-lover and deputy chairwoman of the company,
acknowledged the Australian Ballet was pushing the boundaries this year with its mix of diverse
productions. She said that while "400,000 kids in Australia currently dance", she's keen to see all of
Australia up and dancing. Looks like the ballet is set for a revival, and we can't wait. Bring on the
razzle-dazzle.

WHAT Ultraceuticals Brightening Event

DEETS The Stables, Surry Hills

RSVP Dr Geoffrey Heber, Sara McLean, Leigh Campbell, Nicky Champ

THE VERDICT A pop-up lab highlighting your skin flaws before breakfast would be enough to put most
people off their cereal, but not this crowd of beauty eds and skin aficionados, who were thrilled to
experience Ultraceuticals' newest brightening synergistic skincare system pre-coffee. Guests were
treated to personalised skin analysis using Ultraceuticals' hyper-pigmentation cameras and then given a
treatment, formulated by founder and director Dr Geoffrey Heber and scientist Patrick Stamford, to
diminish problem areas. Guests left for the office with The Real Visible Results 90-Day Challenge and a
goodie bag full of products to trial.

WHAT Sydney Comedy Festival's Cracker Night

DEETS The Enmore Theatre, Enmore

RSVP Cam Knight, Tom Ballard, Felicity Ward, Ray Badran, Craig Hill

THE VERDICT The city's biggest night of comedy saw a mix of international and local comedy stars take
to the stage at the Enmore, the Seymour Centre and the Metro, as well as nights in Chatswood and, for
the first time, the Riverside Theatre in Parramatta. The much-loved annual extravaganza is one of the

Page88of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.festival's most popular events and each of the five venues were sold out. It's the 10th anniversary for the
Sydney Comedy Festival, which continues until May 17 across more than 30 venues. Go on. Have a
laugh.

WHAT Sky Zone Launch
DEETS Sky Zone Trampoline Park, Alexandria

RSVP Georgie Gardner, Kylie Gillies, Rochelle Fox, Ellie Gall, Pip Edwards

THE VERDICT The young and young at heart converged at Sky Zone Alexandria to swap their shoes
with trampoline socks and be the first in Sydney to experience anti-gravity. Guests jumped high and
learnt to fly, happily leaping into pits full of foam, bouncing off the walls and challenging each other at
fast-and-furious games of dodgeball. A Peters Ice-cream Mash Up Station offered sweet treats all night
long, much to the thrill of kids on a midweek school-night high.

WHAT The Outnet.com Fifth Birthday Celebration

DEETS Simmer on the Bay, Dawes Point, The Rocks

RSVP Jess Blanch, Alexandra Carlton, Rachel Sharp, Alyssa McClelland, Donny Galella.
THE VERDICT The world's most fashionable online fashion outlet and sister site to net-a-porter.com
hosted its first Australian event last night in celebration of its fifth birthday. Guests let their hair down as
they got carried away by the night's festive atmosphere and unseasonably balmy weather, sipping on
iced hibiscus cocktails and prosecco as they swapped tips on bagging the best bargains and bragging
about past purchases, including including a Marc Jacobs skirt for $1. Many lamented about the ones
that got away (as in, sold out in a flash). Note to self: Must get online - who knew what I was missing out
on?

WHAT La Fete des Meres at Ananas Bar & Brasserie

DEETS Ananas Bar & Brasserie, The Rocks

RSVP Kylie Gillies, Lizzie and Piper Morrissey, Michelle Bridges, Jane Gazo

THE VERDICT This hatted French restaurant hosted a sophisticated Mother's Day luncheon as an ode
to all the mums, with a dash of Mediterranean glamour.

WHAT Sunday Somewhere X Rumi Neely Fashiontoast Launch
DEETS Barrio Chino, Potts Point

RSVP Caitlyn Paterson, Pip Edwards, Samantha Wills, Nikki Phillips, Tanja Gacic

THE VERDICT Global blogging sensation (is there any other kind?) Rumi Neely and homegrown
high-end eyewear brand Sunday Somewhere came together to create a range. With a Mexican-inspired
backdrop, guests sipped margaritas and supped on Mexican street food with indie-rock band I Know
Leopard creating a relaxed vibe.

WHAT Samsung Curved Ultra High Definition TV Launch
DEETS Hordern Pavilion, Moore Park

RSVP Shelley Craft, Sally Fitzgibbons, Israel Folau, Samantha Jade

THE VERDICT Notorious for making a splash and spending the bucks, this lavish event didn't
disappoint, with a performance by Samantha Jade.

RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SHD0000020140504ea540003s

Page89of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.