Rinehart lifts beef interests

HD
CR
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document NLADLW0020141219eacj0008e

Rinehart lifts beef interests

AAP
263 words
19 December 2014
18:45
adelaidenow.com.au
NLADLW
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Mining magnate likely second-largest Wagyu producer in Australia after buying 3000 head of cattle.

Mining magnate Gina Rinehart's foray into the beef industry has expanded with the purchase of a major
Wagyu herd in western NSW.

A company associated with Ms Rinehart's Hancock Prospecting has struck an agreement to buy two
grazing properties near Dubbo and about 3,000 head of cattle, including 1,600 Fullblood Wagyu females.

"This is part of Gina Rinehart's commitment to invest in Australian agriculture and ensure the country is
positioned to meet the demands of our northern neighbours," a spokesman for Hancock Prospecting said.

The deal would likely make Ms Rinehart the second largest Wagyu producer in the country, behind
Australian Agricultural Company, which exports the majority of its high quality beef to northern and south
east Asia.

Ms Rinehart is also understood to be close to finalising the acquisition of four more beef cattle stations in
the Kimberley region of Western Australia, after Hancock Prospecting acquired the Liveringa and Nerrima
stations in July.

Australia's richest person also recently reached agreement with the Queensland Government over a $500
million dairy export deal into the Chinese infant formula market.

Hope Dairies, majority owned by Hancock Prospecting, will produce pharmaceutical grade infant formula
and UHT milk at a Queensland processing plant, and buy 5,000 hectares of south-east Queensland
dairy land.
Ms Rinehart plans to create one of Australia's largest dairy farms, producing an estimated 30,000 tonnes
of infant formula for export to China every year.

austag : Australian Agricultural Co Ltd | hkpros : Hancock Prospecting Pty. Ltd.
i0 : Agriculture | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c312 : External Markets | c31 : Marketing/Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

Page122of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.