Treasury Wine Estates Ltd Annual Shareholders Meeting - Final

HD Treasury Wine Estates Ltd Annual Shareholders Meeting - Final
WC 11,067 words
PD 15 December 2014
SN CQ FD Disclosure
SC FNDW
LA English
CY © 2014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.
LP

TD

Presentation
PAUL RAYNER, CHAIRMAN, TREASURY WINE ESTATES: Good afternoon ladies and gentleman, and
welcome to the Annual General Meeting of your Company. My name is Paul Rayner and I'm delighted to
address this meeting as your Chairman. In the event of an emergency we kindly ask for you to remain
calm, and follow the instructions of the Melbourne Recital Centre front of house staff, who will advise
patrons of the necessary action and guide patrons accordingly. Exit signs are clearly visible throughout the
venue, and all Melbourne Recital Centre staff are first aid trained.

As today's meeting is being webcast live, I also extend a warm welcome to shareholders who are joining us
online. The Company Secretary informs me that we have a quorum present, and I therefore declare the
meeting open.
Let me start by introducing my fellow Board members, as well as our Chief Financial Officer and General
Counsel and Company Secretary, who are all present today. On my immediate right is Mike Clarke, our
Chief Executive Officer, who you will hear from later today. Next to him are Warwick Every-Burns, Garry
Hounsell who is the Chairman of our Audit and Risk Committee, Ed Chan and Tony Reeves -- who is our
Chief Financial Officer.
On my immediate left is Paul Conroy our Company Secretary, and next to him are Lyndsey Cattermole,
thanks Lyndsey, Peter Hearl who is the Chairman of our Human Resources Committee, and Michael
Cheek. Also in attendance is Paul McDonald who is the lead audit partner from KPMG, and he is available
to answer any questions regarding the conduct of the audit and the preparation and content of the Auditor's
Report that pertains to the accounts for the year ended 30 June, 2014.
Scott Hudson, and other representatives of Computershare, the Company's share registry, are also with
us today. Scott will act as returning officer for the polling that will take place and Paul McDonald will act as
the scrutineer. Before we commence with the formal part of the meeting. I would like to make a number of
points regarding the Company and its future.
I will then invite the CEO, Mike Clarke, to provide an overview of the Company's businesses, its products
and brands, and strategies future growth and development. As most of you are well aware, the last
financial year was an extremely eventful one for TWE, with a considerable number of external events, and
internal changes that impacted the Company's performance.
Despite this volatile operating environment, I strongly believe that the Company today is in a much
stronger, and more focused, position, with an enhanced management team and with some genuine signs
of improvement in our financial performance. I am confident that in fiscal 2015 we are better positioned to
execute the Company's strategic roadmap and deliver sustainable profit growth for shareholders over the
longer term.

Given the context of a reduced EBITs result against the prior year, our fiscal 2014 performance was
disappointing. However, EBITs of AUD184.6 million for the year, or AUD193 million after adjusting for
foreign exchange rates that underpinned our guidance range that was announced January 30, 2014, were
delivered despite a number of operational and trading headwinds.
The underlying strength of TWE's viticultural capability and the appeal of our exceptional wine brands
provided a positive foundation for the Company's financial performance. Fiscal 2014 showed, once again,
that TWE wines consistently beat the competition for awards and trophies at the world's leading wine
shows, and within the world's leading wine publications.

Page135of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.This very month Penfolds Grange holds pride of place on the front cover of probably the world's most
prestigious wine magazine, Wine Spectator.
The Board and executive management are taking the tough, but necessary, steps to drive improvements
in the Company's performance by tackling barriers to growth by making change to our structure, and
making changes to our operating model and our cost base.

Despite the difficulties presented by taking action on aged and excess inventory in the United States, and
the impairments required as a result of historical prices paid for pre-demerger acquisitions and the decline
in market growth rates for Commercial wine globally, the Company is now investing behind its brands, in
order to establish strong foundations from which to sustainably grow in all of our regions.

It is also imperative to stress that despite many challenges, and the distraction caused by external interest
in TWE, the Company's full year financial results met the revised earnings guidance that we provided to
the market back in January. Mike will speak more on this matter in his address, but it is clear that the
process of resetting the Company's foundations to deliver improved shareholder returns will continue to
gather pace in fiscal 2015.
The Board remains confident in the future, and I am pleased to report a final dividend of AUD0.07 per
share unfranked, to give a full year dividend of AUD0.13 per share which is unchanged from last year.

Fiscal 2014 was also a year in which we were very pleased to appoint Mike Clarke as our new Chief
Executive Officer. Despite obvious pressures to appoint a new CEO quickly, the Board oversaw a robust
and rigorous process which we completed ahead of our own stated timeline, and at the end of it we were
delighted to secure someone of Mike's undoubted capability, international experience and talent.
I would also like to thank Warwick Every-Burns for stepping in as our Company's interim CEO, and
keeping the team motivated and the Company in good shape, until we had secured Mike's appointment. A
key challenge for TWE remains to deliver a strong set of financial results in all four regions over a single
fiscal year.

However, differing consumer dynamics, retail environments and economic conditions, across Australia and
New Zealand, Europe, Middle East and Africa -- or EMEA as we call it -- and Asia, and the Americas,
reinforced the challenges of achieving this objective whilst also reinforcing the benefits of the truly global
nature of TWE's operations.

Trading conditions in ANZ and Asia were tough in fiscal 2014, but particularly so during the first six months.
However, efforts by current management to bolster relationships with our major trading partners provide a
source of optimism for fiscal 2015 and beyond.
It was pleasing to see signs of progress for our Company in the Americas. Whilst a lot of hard work
remains to be done the fundamental strengths of this market, and our presence in it, are now becoming
visible.
Set against the backdrop of a weak European economy TWE's operations in EMEA also look promising.
Our capital management program allowed the Company to increase the average duration of debt, and
further diversify funding sources, over the course of the fiscal year. The successful negotiation of a US
Private Placement for the equivalent of $250 million in December 2013, was an integral part of this
strategy.

New banking facilities further reinforced the strength of our balance sheet, and enabled greater operational
flexibility for your Company. Together with low levels of debt, these developments should continue to
provide shareholders with confidence in the Company's financial foundations.
I now want to provide some detail on recent attempts by two private equity bidders to purchase the
Company and the steps the Board took to ensure the right outcome occurred for all of our shareholders. A
lot has already been written on this matter, and unfortunately some of it inaccurately, so I do think it is
worthwhile to step you through the Board's role in this process and why, ultimately, a transaction did not
occur.
Firstly, the Board rejected the initial conditional proposal from KKR, of AUD4.70 cash per share, because
we were clear that such a price significantly undervalued the Company. This was subsequently reinforced
in discussions with our major shareholders who wholeheartedly endorsed the approach of the Board.
However, some major shareholders indicated at that point that they expected the Board to engage with a
bidder were they to come forward with an offer in excess of AUD5.00 cash per share. Given shareholder

Page136of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.feedback, and expert advice we received from our advisors, we agreed to engage in non-exclusive due
diligence with both bidders once they had submitted conditional proposals at AUD5.20 cash per share.

Due diligence coincided with our fiscal 2014 annual results process, and this provided an opportunity for
shareholders to obtain a much clearer understanding of the Company's strategic roadmap. And it also
enabled our executive management to pressure-test the Company's strategic plans and assumptions in a
manner which perhaps would not have otherwise been impossible.

Ultimately it should be noted that due to regulatory hurdles for one bidder, and the other's inability to
support a transaction on terms and at an acceptable price, meant that the Board did not receive a formal
offer at AUD5.20 cash per share. So, in the end, there was no need for the Board to take a decision or to
make a formal recommendation to you, the shareholders. However, I can assure you that the clear
feedback from almost every major shareholder indicated that they believed a price of AUD5.20 per share
undervalued the Company.
I would also like to make it crystal clear that throughout the bid, the Board only sought to act in the best
interests of shareholders, and I am confident that we did what was right at every step of the process. Now
that this process has concluded the Board is focused on the road ahead and working with management to
deliver the value and growth that our shareholders expect.
As a Board we remain committed to a remuneration regime, and incentive structures, that provide an
appropriate mechanism to ensure that management and shareholder interests are aligned. Linking pay with
performance is a principle that will continue to underpin the Board's approach to remuneration.
Given the difficult financial results over the course of fiscal 2014, and in recognition that the Company's
first half performance, in particular, was challenging, there were no base fee or wage and salary increases
for directors or key management personnel unless they had been promoted. In line with market practice,
the only exception to this was to bring the Chairman's fee of the Human Resources Committee in line with
the fees for the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee.

In addition, based on fiscal 2014 results, no payout was made on our Short-Term Incentive Plan for staff.
There was some limited vesting of fiscal 2012 Long Term Incentive Plans -- or LTIPs -- the first such plans
issued by TWE, at 35%, due to total shareholder return performance being above the median for the three
years leading up to that. However, the overall approach to remuneration remains both measured and
responsible.

Later in today's proceeding I will be asking for shareholders to vote for the adoption of the Remuneration
Report that is contained in the Directors' Report for the financial year ended June 30, 2014. There is also a
separate resolution asking shareholders to approve a number of long term incentives for our Chief
Executive Officer, Mike Clarke.

On these, I strongly ask for shareholder support. Mike has already demonstrated considerable capability,
and delivered a number of transformative changes, in a very short time as our CEO. He is certainly an
executive with an exemplary track record on the global stage.

I would like to thank those shareholders, and proxy advisors, who have already indicated their support for
our remuneration framework. I would also like to stress that an EPS hurdle of 15% CAGR, which equates
to 52% growth over three years, is very stretching. Why -- it's right at the top end of growth targets for ASX
listed companies that retain EPS as a component of their long-term incentive programs.
Secondly, due to the challenges in our industry and the business historically operated by TWE, our
earnings performance has, since the demerger, been generally flat to declining.

And third, an EPS hurdle of 15% CAGR is extremely competitively positioned considering all the resetting
and fixing required within the base business. The metric is further challenged by our planned 50% plus
increase in catch-up investments being made in consumer marketing that will deliver returns in the future
years.
Fourth, current management are determined to drive sustainable behaviours and to re-set the business so
that it is healthier in the longer term. When looked at as a package, I am clear that our approach to
remuneration is in keeping with the best practice that is adopted by other leading ASX listed companies.
Further to, and in keeping with the above, the Board remains committed to the highest standard of
corporate governance, ensuring that TWE is a positive contributor to the communities in which we work,
and an industry leader in areas relating to the responsible consumption of wine.

During the year, TWE defined the key pillars of our corporate responsibility program with an enhanced
focus on three priority areas -- responsible consumption, sustainable sourcing, and community

Page137of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.engagement. The role of alcohol within our society continues to generate understandable concerns within
governments and communities where the Company operates. TWE fully supports targeted and
proportionate intervention to address the minority of individuals who consume alcohol in an irresponsible
manner.

However, we also remain committed to championing the positive social, economic and cultural contribution
of the alcohol beverages industry, and we will continue to defend the rights of the overwhelming majority to
consume our wines in an appropriate and responsible manner.
The health and safety of the people who work for, and on behalf of, TWE was another priority for the Board
and it was pleasing to see a continuance of the reduction in the Company's lost time injury frequency rate
--- that is the lost-time injuries per million hours worked, and we achieved that in fiscal 2014.

Before closing, I would like to sincerely thank all Directors for their many and varied contributions over the
last fiscal year. Later in this meeting I will ask you to endorse the re-election of Lyndsey Cattermole and
Peter Hearl as Non-Executive Directors, a move the Board very strongly supports.

In conclusion, I remain incredibly excited by both the opportunities that lay ahead of us, and in the potential
of this great business. I am also confident that the challenges faced in fiscal 2014, together with the
actions now being taken to address them, have set TWE up for future financial success.
You have my assurance that the Board remains totally focused and committed to helping TWE achieve its
strategic objectives and deliver improved shareholder returns.

My thanks go to Mike, all the senior management team and TWE staff for their efforts in what has been an
eventful year. In particular, I want to acknowledge the huge amount of work that was put in with industry
challenges and the distraction of the private equity bids. Despite all of these issues, the Company remains
on track and management deserves considerable credit for this.

Finally, my sincere thanks go to you, our shareholders, for your ongoing support, confidence and
investment in our business. I will now hand over to Mike, for a more detailed breakdown of business
performance over the Company's financial year.
MIKE CLARKE, CEO, TREASURY WINE ESTATES: Thank you very much Paul, and good afternoon all. It
gives me great pleasure to address you today as your Chief Executive Officer.
As I said back in April when I first joined the Company which was about ten days after taking on the role of
CEO, I am thrilled to be a part of Treasury Wine Estates. This is truly a unique Company; it is a Company
that has prized assets, a fabulous portfolio of brands and more importantly, a team of very talented and
passionate people.
Given the events of the past six months, notably the interest in our Company by two private equity firms, I
believed it was important to be highly communicative with our shareholders throughout the entire process.

As such, I have been very transparent about our strategic roadmap and the plans that are now in place to
drive our Company forward and to deliver improved returns to our shareholders. You have already heard
me talk about 2015 as a re-set year. In order to deliver sustainable returns over time, we are required to
think about, and do things differently.

Probably our biggest challenge is to get all stakeholders to recognise the work involved in resetting and
fixing the base earnings whilst also trying to grow our earnings per share by 52% over the next three years.
Unfortunately, some stakeholders do not fully understand the inherent conflict between aggressively
chasing short-term numbers versus fixing base earnings and resetting business for a long-term
sustainable growth.
At our 2014 result announcement, I presented Treasury Wine Estates strategies, as depicted on this slide.
Your Board and the team at Treasury Wine, firmly believe that value will be delivered over time through
our renewed, strategic focus on how we will manage our brands, how we will operate in key markets and
channels, and how we work with all our partners going forward, and importantly how we will address
business models to embed sustainability in everything that we do.
At the epicentre of our strategy is the vision to become the world's most celebrated wine company, one
that enriches peoples' lives with quality wine brands. We will realise our vision by transforming our
Company from being an agricultural company to a branded, marketing led organisation.
For too long, our Company's financial performance has been impacted by trading practices which have led
us to becoming an order taker rather than an order driver, which in turn, has underpinned some short term

Page138of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.trading behaviour and hence, volatile earnings. I, together with my leadership team, am managing your
Company for the long-term.

I have gone on record saying that I will not engage in any behaviour to drive short term outcomes at the
expense of longer term value. I am confident that the plans and strategies that we have in place will deliver
on this commitment.
Let me start with the work we have done, and are doing, with our brand portfolio. In June of this year, we
announced a 50% increase in our consumer marketing investment, funded by a AUD35 million reduction
in our overhead expenses.

I am pleased to report that the cost reduction program is largely complete, with further cost savings
expected. This is a muscle that we have developed in our business, that we will constantly take costs out
of the business going forward. Just like fine wine, consumer marketing dollars are scarce and should be
allocated as such.
While optimising our total brand spend, our one-time 50% step-up in consumer marketing in fiscal 2015 is
focused on driving consumer demand for our flagship growth brands including Penfolds, Wynns, Beringer,
Wolf Blass, Lindeman's, Etude, Chateau St Jean, Matua, Stags' Leap and Souverain. These are brands
that have the opportunity to become truly global brands.

These are brands that are flexible and can be scaled to grow globally, not just in one market or channel.
This will accelerate our top line growth sustainably going forward. While I don't believe it is truly yet a global
brand, Penfolds is an ideal example of a flexible, scalable model where grapes are not necessarily
sourced from a particular vineyard or from an appellation, but rather, the grapes are sourced from a basket
of regions in Australia. Not only does this provide the brand with protection against weather-driven
vineyard and vintage variation, the model enables Penfolds to be scalable.

Having scale allows TWE to grow and expand Penfolds in regions and channels around the world. The
scalable and flexible supply model for Penfolds across multiple appellations and vineyards is designed to
always give consistent quality to consumers. Out of our portfolio of about 80 brands, around 15 brands
have the potential to be scalable, flexible and what we call global umbrella brands. To give you an
example, Etude is a premium, Californian Pinot Noir. The brand is not linked to a particular vineyard or to
an appellation, rather, its provenance is varietal-based.
We have already leveraged this brand by introducing a New Zealand-sourced Etude and consumers in
Australia will see this outstanding pinot noir brand on shelves in the back half of this financial year. We
also have plans to launch Etude in Asia and Europe going forward.

Investing in targeted global brands will enable our next tier of brands in our portfolio, what we call the
international brands -- of around 20 brands -- to slipstream behind the global portfolio, and grow these
brands not only in existing markets, but also in selected new markets and new channels.

Looking further across our portfolio, we have around 20 local brands which we will use tactically or offer as
exclusives to our retailer and distributor partners around the world. We simply cannot invest consumer
funds across all 80 brands. The brands do need to be marketed and treated differently as we go forward.
The final part of the portfolio is the non-priority Commercial brands, which we are looking at addressing
either by retiring them or alternatively doing a deal with a third party and therefore owning those in a joint
venture structure.

Moving now to our market and channel priorities. While Australia is our home market, the US and Asia,
particularly north Asia, are our growth markets. By north Asia, I refer to China, Japan and Korea. I believe
that our business in north Asia is underdeveloped, we sell a narrow portfolio into narrow routes-to-market.
Expanding our route-to-market in China has been a key priority for us over recent months.
In this context, I am pleased to report that we have now diversified our distribution model in China by
adopting a three-pronged approach. We are now distributing our brands via a leading on-premise
distributor as well as going directly to key accounts and via regional wholesalers. Having the right
route-to-market in one of the world's largest and fastest growing wine consuming markets is critical to
TWE's vision of being a truly global wine company.
Like China, the US wine market represents a significant growth opportunity for our Company. It is in
growth, and it is premiumising. I have been very public about our commitment to this region. I believe that
with the right portfolio, TWE can grow and win in the United States and I will talk more about our business
in the United States shortly.

Turning now to partners, building collaborative relationships with our retailer and distributor partners in all
our regions is a key priority. As I said earlier, by underinvesting in our brands, TWE has been an order

Page139of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.taker which has increased the risk in volatile earnings. We are now firmly focused on building better, and
stronger and more collaborative relationships with our retail and distributor partners around the world. We
are working with them to develop plans to drive category growth where TWE, its customers and consumers
share in this growth.
The Penfolds wine cabinet promotion in Australia is a great example of the virtuous cycle of investing in
our brands, working collaboratively with our customers and delivering an outstanding proposition to our
consumers.

Not only did we deplete inventory in the channel ahead of the new Penfolds collection release in October,
but we are now working with our customers on more campaigns of this type going forward.

The more we collaborate and work with our partners around the world, the better we can be at reducing the
earnings and inventory risk that we have in our business when we act as an order taker.
Moving now to business models. Very early on in my role, I learnt that when it comes to regional business
models in a global wine company, one size does not fit all. In June, we announced a separate focus on
the Australian Commercial portfolio versus the Luxury and Masstige portfolio. The evolution of our
Company -- from being part of a beer company and through various acquisitions -- has resulted in the
potential for an averaging of costs across our Commercial, Luxury and Masstige portfolios.

By separating the portfolios, we are discovering that the average cost of our brands in each of these
portfolios might have been punitive on our Australian Commercial portfolio and therefore on its margins.
What we hope to drive is positive tension between the two segments, where excess costs are removed,
better commercial decisions are made and ultimately margin accretion is realised. Improved Commercial
brand margins can either be banked as profit or reinvested into marketing our portfolio.

While scale in Australia, in my opinion, does not provide a competitive advantage given the concentrated
retail landscape that we have here in Australia, scale in the US is critical to maintaining share of mind with
our distributor partners. Therefore, until such time that our Luxury and Masstige portfolio in North America
is of sufficient size and scale, maintaining our Commercial portfolio in the US is important.

That said however, I have made it very clear that our strategy in the US is to build and grow our Luxury and
Masstige portfolio to service not only the US market, but other growth regions, like north Asia. We have a
strong brand portfolio at the premium end. The Masstige segment of the US wine market is in double digit
growth and TWE is driving much of that growth with brands like Beringer, Chateau St Jean, Souverain,
Sledgehammer, Matua and 19 Crimes.

Moreover, the Luxury category is also in double digit volume and value growth but unfortunately, our
participation in that growth is being constrained by our supply constraints. While we don't necessarily need
more brands, access to increased amounts of quality wine supply could step up our US portfolio, both in
the United States and also in north Asia.
Sourcing luxury fruit or wine on the bulk and spot market in the US is costly and variable and long term
contracts for luxury fruit are scarce. Therefore, we should consider securing supply inorganically and this is
something we have been working on.

Also in the US, we are exploring opportunities to address the non-priority Commercial part of our portfolio.
Comprising approximately 2 million cases, this segment represents a significant drag on our core portfolio
and needs attention if we are to successfully step change our US business model going forward.

While addressing improving our sustained profitability, we are also looking at ways to further strengthen our
balance sheet and to also light weight our capital requirements, thereby improving our return on capital
employed.
In closing, fiscal 2015 is a big year for Treasury Wine Estates as we re-set the business and position it for
sustainable, profitable growth moving from an agricultural company to a branded marketing led company,
by doing the following things -- changing our Penfolds release date to October of every year going forward,
stepping up our consumer marketing by greater than 50%, removing AUD35 million of central overhead
costs, driving a separate focus on our Commercial, and our Luxury and Masstige portfolios in Australia,
driving supply chain savings and efficiencies, focusing on growth in north Asia and the Americas, and
increasing value growth in Australia.

I am pleased that our performance over the first half of fiscal 2015 is, to date, on plan and ahead of prior
year. This is driven by changes in our Penfolds release date but, importantly, it is also as a result of the
actions that we are taking to reset, fix and invest in our business in order to deliver future sustainable profit
growth across all of our regions.

Page140of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In addition, I am delighted to share with you today that we have restructured our distribution model in north
Asia, and have changed the agreements and distribution model for China, Taiwan and Korea. This will
allow TWE to step-change our growth in north Asia in future quarters, and I will provide more detail on this
and the progress we are making in north Asia at our H1 results announcement in February.
I would like to thank you, our shareholders, for your ongoing support of Treasure Wine Estates. I feel
confident that the necessary steps required to turn around our business are being taken and I look forward
to delivering on our goals and ultimately, delivering value to you, our shareholders.

Thank you very much.

PAUL RAYNER: Thanks Mike. Ladies and gentleman this now brings us to the formal part of the meeting.
There are a number of procedural matters which I wish to draw to your attention. This is a shareholders'
meeting, and only shareholders, their attorneys, proxies and authorised company representatives are
entitled to speak, and to vote, at the meeting.
The Notice of Meeting circulated to shareholders in November listed five items of business on the agenda,
and I will take that Notice of Meeting as read. All resolutions other than item 2 are presented as ordinary
resolutions, that is they require a simple majority, that is more than 50%, to be passed.

Item 2, the Remuneration Report, is an advisory vote only, and needs to avoid a vote of 25% against this
resolution in order to prevent a third strike. When you registered your attendance today you will have
received a coloured card. This would be an orange voting card if you are a shareholder, or a pink card if
you are a proxy holder. Holders of those orange or pink cards are entitled to vote on the items of business
set out on the agenda.

Visitors and other non-voting shareholders will have received either a white or blue card, and holders of
those cards are not entitled to vote on resolutions. As I indicated earlier, and as our constitution allows,
voting today will be conducted by way of poll for all motions. Details of the proxy votes will be displayed at
the appropriate time, and the final results of the polls will be announced to the ASX this afternoon. And they
will also be posted on our website.
As explained in the Notice of Meeting, wherever applicable in respect of the items of business today, the
Company will in accordance with the provisions of the Corporations Act or the ASX Listing Rules,
disregard votes cast on any resolution by any person to whom the item of business applies or that
person's associates or closely related parties.
However, the Company does not need to disregard such a vote if it is cast as a proxy for a person who is
entitled to vote in accordance with the directions on the proxy form. In relation to item 2, to the extent that
any open proxies are held by me as Chairman of the meeting, I will cast these proxies in favour of those
resolutions, as was indicated in the Notice of Meeting.

You will find voting instructions printed on the reverse side of each orange or pink admission card. As each
item will be subject to a poll, you may wish to complete your voting progressively as each resolution is
discussed. I'll now go through the procedures for completing the voting papers. If you are a proxy holder
and hold only directed votes for and or against as shown on the summary of votes attached to your
admission card, all you need to do is print your name and sign the voting paper.

If you are a proxy holder with open votes you need to mark a box beside each motion to indicate how you
wish to cast the open votes in respect of that item. Shareholders voting in their own right will also need to
mark a box beside each motion to indicate how they wish to cast their votes. If you wish to cast some of
your votes for the motion and some of your votes against, write in the for and against box the number or
percentage of votes you are casting for each motion.

The sum of votes cast for and against a motion must not exceed your voting entitlement or 100%. Please
ensure that once you've completed your voting instructions you print your name where indicated and sign
the voting paper. At the end of the meeting please lodge the voting papers in one of the ballot boxes you'll
find near an exit. For anyone who has any difficulty in completing the voting papers during the course of the
meeting, there will be time at the end of the meeting and Computershare staff will be available to provide
assistance, if it is required.
Returning now to the business at hand. There will be sufficient time for shareholders to ask questions
regarding each item of business as I introduce each one. I would ask that any questions relating to the
remuneration report be held over until we come to that item, which is the second item on the agenda.

All questions need to be addressed to myself as Chairman of the meeting, although I may ask someone
else to answer on my behalf. If you're a shareholder and wish to ask a question or to make a comment,

Page141of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.please move to a microphone, show your orange shareholder card or your pink proxy holder card to the
attendant who will note your name and introduce you when it is your turn to speak.

Please limit yourself to one question at a time to give other shareholders a chance to be heard. If you wish
to ask a second question please take your place at the end of the queue at your particular microphone so
that all shareholders have an equal opportunity to be heard. Now, shareholders were invited to submit
questions in advance of the AGM and I now propose to address the more frequently asked questions that
were raised.
The first question was why wasn't a takeover proposal from private equity put to shareholders? Now, it's
not surprising that this was a frequently asked question in the lead up to this meeting. I've already touched
on the topic earlier in the meeting. The decision the Board took regarding the private equity takeover
proposals was informed by discussions with the Company's major shareholders but taken in consideration
to the best interests of all shareholders.
However, as I said earlier, in the end the Board did not receive a formal offer at AUD5.20 cash per share,
so there was no need for the Board to take a decision or to put a formal recommendation to the
shareholders.
The second question, what is the status of the disclosure litigation commenced against the Company?
There are currently two claims against the Company. One commenced in the Victorian Supreme Court
and one in the Federal Court, although it is possible the Cross-Vesting Rules will allow these two matters to
be heard concurrently in the same court at some point in the future. Unfortunately, the commencement of
these types of private actions as opposed to action by a recognised regulatory body have become a
business opportunity for certain law firms and litigation funders in Australia and the Company is currently
awaiting judgment in its claim that the action commenced in the Victorian Supreme Court is an abuse of the
court process.

In light of the proceedings on foot, I do not propose to comment in detail, other than to say the actions are
described in note 33 to the accounts, are still at an early stage in the court process and have not been
quantified. TWE strongly denies any allegations of wrongdoing and continues to defend these proceedings
vigorously. Neither the Board nor management are prepared to allow these cases to distract them from
their focus on core operations for the business and the Company remains focused on the delivery of our
FY15 plans and our long term strategic roadmap.
The third question most commonly asked was what is the Company doing to address the challenges of
climate change? Neither I nor the Company express a view on the potential causes of climate change, but
do note that we have observed over recent decades changes in climatic conditions that impact our
viticultural practices and as a result TWE has been active within the wine industry on planning for and
dealing with the challenges of climate change. We've worked with both the CSIRO and the University of
Melbourne here in Australia to model the potential impacts of increased heat on our vineyards and sourcing
regions and undertaken similar work in other regions where we operate.

In addition to a range of leading edge viticulture practices undertaken to help mitigate the impacts of
temperate increases and more effectively manage the allocation of precious water resources, TWE has
also actively diversified its grape sourcing requirements to include a greater supply from cooler climate
growing regions such as Tasmania.

I have now addressed the more frequently asked questions. If you believe there are other questions that
need to be addressed you have the opportunity to ask these shortly or you can write to the Company
Secretary.

As mentioned earlier, Paul McDonald of KPMG our auditor is present and is ready to respond to relevant
questions from members. It is a requirement of the Corporations Act that members attending an AGM have
a reasonable opportunity to ask the auditor questions relevant to the conduct of the audit, the preparation
and content of the Auditor's Report, the accounting policies adopted by the Company in relation to the
preparation of the financial statements and the independence of the auditor in relation to the conduct of the
audit.

May I remind members to restrict their questions to the auditor to these issues please. I would also like to
remind members that it is the Directors who are responsible for the preparation and presentation of the
Financial Report. The auditor's responsibility is to conduct an audit and give an independent opinion of the
Financial Report taken as a whole.

Accordingly I ask that questions be addressed to me in the first instance, so that I may promptly assess
whether it's a question that more appropriately should be addressed by me or one of the Directors in
management instead of the auditor. I should also add that the auditor may decline to answer any question
that he determines to be outside the areas listed.

Page142of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Now, moving on to the items of business of this meeting. Item 1 which is the financial statement and
reports. The first item is to receive and consider the consolidated Financial Report of the Company as well
as the reports of the Directors and the auditors for the year ended June 30, 2014.

The item does not require resolution to be put to the meeting, but does provide an opportunity for
shareholders to ask questions or make comment on Company matters. I now declare the first item of
business open for discussion. Are there any questions?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Mr. Chairman, we have a question from [Steven Ander].

PAUL RAYNER: Thank you.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Thank you Chairman. Steve Ander is my name. To the best of your
knowledge, does this Company make any contributions to any kind to any political organisations?

PAUL RAYNER: To the best of my knowledge, I don't think we do.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Do you make any contributions to [Yooralla]?

PAUL RAYNER: To sorry, to where?

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: To [Yooralla].
PAUL RAYNER: I'm advised that we don't.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: I just wanted to make a comment, yes. When you introduced the directors,
the only one to stand up was Lyndsey Cattermole. Good on you Lyndsey. The others seem to be too tired.

PAUL RAYNER: I can assure you they are well awake. But thanks for the comment.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Thank you Chairman.

PAUL RAYNER: Thank you very much for your question. Number one.

OPERATOR: Mr. Chairman we have a question from Geoff Reid.

GEOFF REID, SPOKESPERSON, AUSTRALIAN SHAREHOLDERS' ASSOCIATION: Thanks, Mr.
Chairman. Geoff Reid representing the Australian Shareholders' Association, 450 members have given me
their proxies today so I'm representing them. Every year we come here and we hear the story of more write
downs, more write offs and downward revaluations. Are we expecting any more in the next year Mr.
Chairman and can you see an end to this practice?

PAUL RAYNER: Thanks for the question Mr. Reid, it's a good question. I agree we have had some lumpy
write downs in recent years. All I can say is that I hope and think that the worst of it is behind us. I'm not
aware of any major write downs that are impending. Obviously if there was anything there we'd have an
obligation to say so.
We will continue as Mike said to reset, restructure the business, get the base right. There might be some
minor material items as a result of that. But I would hope that in relation to impairments of brands, many of
which were historical and date back many years and associated plant and equipment, that over the last two
or three years, the write downs we've incurred represent the bulk of what's required and I certainly hope
that there aren't many more going forward.

GEOFF REID: So the problems in the Americas are behind us and the old and aged and downgraded
inventory has been disposed of or otherwise destroyed?

PAUL RAYNER: The inventory that need to be destruct and destroyed that has happened. We are still
working through depleting the aged inventory which we provided for and that will continue to happen over
the next six months.
As Mike said, we feel very strongly that the Americas business has got a strong future. It's a vigorous
market, a growing market. We think we have some great brands. We could do with some more quality fruit
and juice because we've got the brands. So we look forward to hopefully continued success in the
Americas. But we're still working through depleting some of that inventory that we provided the provision for
in the previous financial year.

GEOFF REID: Thanks, Mr. Chairman.

Page143of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.+++presentation

PAUL RAYNER: Thank you. Any other questions? Okay thank you. As there are no more questions I will
move to Item 2.

The second item of the agenda today is a non-binding advisory vote for the adoption of the Remuneration
Report that is contained in the Director's Report for the financial year ended June 30, 2014. The Board and
the Human Resources Committee reviews the Company's remuneration strategy and structure on an
ongoing basis, taking account of business appropriateness, market suitability and shareholder and other
stakeholder feedback.
During fiscal year 2014 we undertook a detailed review of the Company's remuneration structure to ensure
it's broadly aligned to the Company's key business drivers and market practice. The key outcomes of the
review that I would like to mention are in relation to the Short Term Incentive Plan and the Long Term
Incentive Plan and I'll briefly outline the key outcomes respectively.

On the STIP or the Short Term Plan, the objective of the STIP redesign was to ensure that the plan
represents a meaningful incentive to participants in terms of quantum achievability and line of sight to the
performance measures. The plan will assess participants against measures which balance short term
profitability with long term sustainable Company performance.

The main changes to the FY15 STIP are the introduction of a balanced score card to ensure there is
combined focus on both financial and strategic and operational objectives, the removal of the 5% global
EBIT's growth hurdle for all participants, a reduced number of eligible participants and greater focus on our
performance. The individual performance multiplier range has been expanded initially from 0.7 to 1.2 in
FY14 and now it's 0.5 to 1.5 in FY15 once threshold performance is achieved.

Introduction of a cap on payments. The balance scorecard multiplier is capped at 100% -- 120% and
individual performance multiplier is capped at 150%. Overall payments are capped at 180% of the STIP
target opportunity.

On the LTIP or the Long Term Incentive Plan, the vesting schedules for the FY15 LTIP have been revised
such that both measures now vest at 35% for threshold performance, an increase from 0% for EPS and a
reduction from 50% for TSR. The Board believes that this rebalancing of the schedules will better meet the
interests of shareholders and participants.

The volume weighted average price of the 90 days preceding the performance period will be used to
determine the number of units allocated under the FY15 LTIP. The Board believes this will help to smooth
out any share price volatility leading up to the performance period. The full details of the changes are
provided in the FY14 Remuneration Report. The underlying remuneration strategy and philosophy remains
unchanged and continues to apply at TWE, governing remuneration proposals and decisions.
As stated in the Notice of Meeting, this is an advisory and non-binding resolution, although the Board's
Human Resources Committee will take discussion on this resolution into account when it's considering the
future remuneration arrangements of the Company. The Directors recommend that shareholders vote in
favour of this resolution.

Do I have any questions? Yes, number one?

OPERATOR: Mr. Chairman, we have a question from Geoff Reid.

PAUL RAYNER: Thank you.

GEOFF REID: Thanks again, Chairman. I suppose this question relates to long-term incentive plan which
is presently set at three years as a performance review period. Our association would like you to extend
this to a four year performance period and our logic for this is that three years by our definition isn't long. I'll
just expand that argument for a second.

If I was to plant a vineyard today, the first fruit appears in four years. It's not a balanced vineyard until it's
between 10 and 20 years old. If you harvest some grapes today with the view to produce a bottle of
Grange, that Grange will be on the market in five years' time. So to say that long-term is three years to our
association seems a year too short and we'd like you to change to a four year performance period. Thank
you.
PAUL RAYNER: Thank you Mr. Reid, and I'm well aware of your requests in this area. Look, all I can say
is, I mean we continue to keep LTIP under review from year-to-year and certainly take input from
shareholders and stakeholders. We currently think three years is the appropriate time period. It correlates
with our strategic plan. Despite everything you said, I mean, we do do a three year strategic plan.

Page144of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.We also want to stay very much in line with the marketplace, which I've mentioned earlier in my speech. On
all the research we've done, greater than 50% of the ASX companies who use this measurement do it over
three years. So we think it's actually appropriate for our business at this point in time but I will take your
views into account.

GEOFF REID: Thanks Mr. Chairman, and might I just add that BHP and CBA think long-term is five years.

PAUL RAYNER: Well, they are a lot different to us.

GEOFF REID: Thank you.

PAUL RAYNER: Thank you.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: (Inaudible - microphone inaccessible).

+++presentation

PAUL RAYNER: So are we. You look at the cash flow last year. Any other questions?

Okay, there have been no more questions. I now put the motion as displayed on the screen that the
remuneration report of the Company, as contained in the Directors' Report for the year ended June 30,
2014 be adopted. Details of the proxies received in respect of this resolution will now be displayed on the
screen.

You may now wish to complete your voting card for this item. Based on the proxy details received it is likely
that the resolution will be passed.

I'll now move on to Item 3, which is the re-election of director. The next item is the re-election of Lyndsey
Cattermole as a non-executive director. Details of Lyndsey's qualifications and experience are set out in
the Notice of Meeting and in the Company's annual report. Before I put the motion regarding Mrs.
Cattermole's re-election, is there anyone who wishes to speak to this item? Number one, thank you.

OPERATOR: Mr. Chairman, we have a question from Geoff Reid.

PAUL RAYNER: Thank you Mr. Reid.

GEOFF REID: Thanks again for your patience, Mr. Chairman. Ms. Cattermole is the longest serving
director on the Board of Treasury Wine Estates and she has -- because of her previous tenure with the
Foster's group which she commenced in 1999, which was last century.
I suppose, Mr. Chairman, what I'm requesting is that in view of Mrs. Cattermole's tenure which now
between two companies extends to 15 years, would the Board please produce a policy on the tenure of
directors and the tenure of chairmen for shareholders to peruse?
PAUL RAYNER: Thanks Mr. Reid. Look, I think that every Board needs a combination of youth and
experience. I'm talking Company memory, not age, in this regard. So we're very fortunate, extremely
fortunate, to have on the Board someone who knows the history of this business. I mean, I really feel very
strongly about that.
We are only three years old and if we didn't have Lyndsey on the Board we'd have no Company memory
on the Board. All good teams require this sort of blend, require a diversity. I think that's what Lyndsey gives
us so I think it's really important and she's very valuable and makes a fantastic contribution to this
Company.

In relation to tenure, I mean, we've only been going for three years as I say. My strong preference is to
vigorously review the performance of directors when they come up for re-election and make sure they're
making a contribution, which we do through Board reviews and internal discussions, and make sure that
we have on the Board people who are contributing and we have a Board that has a diversity of both
gender, which we can improve on over time, geographical experience, geographical background, industry
background, functional background.

So that we get varied input from all people. I don't think the policy on tenure is appropriate for us, certainly
not at this point in time, but thanks very much for your suggestion.

GEOFF REID: Thanks Chairman.

PAUL RAYNER: Sorry, number two?

OPERATOR: Mr. Chairman, we have a question from Mr. [Andrew Caro].

Page145of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PAUL RAYNER: Thank you.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Mr. Chairman, I echo Mr. Reid's sentiments. I also welcome the
revitalisation of a change of management with Mr. Clarke. I think from the sounds of it he is well informed,
he has got the connections.
Lyndsey Cattermole, I think that 15 years associated with wine and beer is probably getting towards to the
end of the tenure that one would expect in a three year old company. Her attributes, according to the
Notice of Meeting, include IT and communications.

Some of the problems in America over overstocking, how did that happen? Was it a poor failure of the
communications systems or how does one explain it? Were the Board not talking to each other? I don't
know. I'm just a poor shareholder who has suffered the ups and downs and I look for more ups. A little bit
of revitalisation I feel may be justified at this stage.

PAUL RAYNER: Thank you. Is that the finish of your question? Thank you. Look, I think I've answered in
relation to Lyndsey Cattermole. I think you mentioned her experience and qualifications in IT, and I would
add that is also something that the Board gets great value from.

I think in relation to the problems in America, I mean they've been addressed at length in last year's AGM.
I'm not going to go into those again. It's well covered in the annual report and we have taken actions to
address those and we move forward. But the Board strongly endorses the re-election of Lyndsey for the
reasons which I outlined to the previous questioner. But I appreciate your comments, sir, thank you very
much.

Number one?

OPERATOR: Mr. Chairman, we have a question from [Steve Ander].

PAUL RAYNER: Thank you.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Thank you Chairman. That Lyndsey has been with us and with Foster's for
such a long time just indicates how valuable she is to us. When you show the proxies, would it be possible
to also indicate the number of shares on issue and what the percentage of the number of shares that are
issued that have been voted? Not just the percentage of the proxies that have been received but what
percentage of the total number of shares of the Company [are on issue]?

PAUL RAYNER: Yes, I will show that. The information you're getting includes not only the proxies but the
shareholders themselves that have voted and is a percentage of -- the percentage you're seeing are the
percentage of both proxy and shareholders who voted directly.
As to what percentage that represents of the overall shareholder base, I might just get the Company
Secretary to comment on that when we get to the next resolution, sir.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: So how many shares are on issue?

PAUL RAYNER: I suppose 600 and --
UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: 645 --
PAUL RAYNER: --million shares on issue and --

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Sorry, I can't hear you.
PAUL RAYNER: 645 million shares on issue and 76.8% of those have voted prior to the meeting.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: They have been voted already? Thank you.

PAUL RAYNER: Thank you. Number two.

OPERATOR: Mr. Chairman, we have a question from Mr. [Henry Burley].

PAUL RAYNER: Thank you.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: My name is Mr. Henry Burley. I've never asked questions or made
comments at any annual general meeting. I've held shares in this Company and many others for many
more than 15 years. I go back to the Southcorp days.

First of all let me state I absolutely approve of the appointment of Mrs. Lyndsey Cattermole. I don't know
her as a person. I don't belong to any group that I know of that she belongs to.

Page146of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.But I just want to make an observation generally on the appointment of directors because I have a fair bit of
experience with mining companies and engineering companies that may have on their boards people who
have practised and have expertise in fields like mining and engineering.
I raise the question that probably most of us here drink wine but I don't think we really know the duties and
tasks and craft and art of a winemaker. Yet there have been companies, like Petaluma that have such and
they've exceeded exceedingly well.

So I just raise that perspective for the future. I absolutely approve of the appointment of Mrs. Cattermole.

PAUL RAYNER: Look, thank you very much Mr. Burley. I mean, I would add, and I agree with your point, I
mean we do have an experienced winemaker on our Board in the name of Garry Hounsell, and we do
have people who've worked in the wine industry for a large part of their career, in terms of Mike Cheek,
and we do have people who have worked in consumer goods industries and drinks industries and
understand the marketing issues associated with wine. But I take your comment and thanks very much for
your input and thanks very much for your support of Mrs. Cattermole, appreciate that.

+++presentation

PAUL RAYNER: Any other questions? Doesn't look like there are. Thank you.
Well, if there's no further questions and before I put the motion, I advise that the Board, with the exception
of Mrs. Cattermole, unanimously supports the re-election of Mrs. Cattermole as an Independent
Non-executive Director.

I now put the motion as displayed on the screen, that Lyndsey Cattermole, who retires in accordance with
Rule 26.7 of the Company's constitution, and being eligible, offers himself for election -- offers herself for
election -- typo there but I got it, though -- be re-elected as a Non-executive Director of the Company.
Okay. Details of the proxy voting on Mrs. Cattermole -- on her re-election are shown on the screen behind
me.

Again, you may now wish to complete your voting paper in respect of this item before we move on to Item
4. And based on the proxy details received it is apparent that the resolution will be passed. So
congratulations on your re-election, Lyndsey.
LYNDSEY CATTERMOLE, NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, TREASURY WINE ESTATES LIMITED: Thank
you. Thank you [for being here].

PAUL RAYNER: I now move onto Item 4, which is the re-election of Mr. Peter Hearl as a Non-executive
Director. Details of Mr. Hearl's qualifications and experience are set out in the Notice of Meeting and in the
Company's Annual Report. Before I put the motion regarding Mr. Hearl's election, is there anyone who
wishes to speak to this item?
Okay. I don't think there's any questions, so before I put the motion I advise that the Board, with the
exception of Mr. Hearl, unanimously supports the re-election of Mr. Peter Hearl as a Non-executive
Director. And I now put the motion, which is displayed on the screen, that Peter Hearl, who retires in
accordance with Rule 26.7 of the Company's constitution and being eligible, offers himself for re-election,
be elected as a Non-executive Director of the Company.

Details of the proxy voting on Mr. Hearl's election are shown on the screen behind me. Again, you may now
wish to complete your voting paper in respect of this item before we move on to Item 5.

And based on the proxy details received, it is apparent that the resolution will be passed. So
congratulations on your re-election, Peter.
PETER HEARL, NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, TREASURY WINE ESTATES LIMITED: Thanks, Paul.
Thank you.

PAUL RAYNER: I will now move on to Item 5 of the Agenda, which is for the grant of performance rights to
the Chief Executive Officer. ASX Listing Rule 10.14 provides that shareholder approval is required in order
for a director to be issued securities under an employee incentive scheme. Accordingly, approval is sought
for the grant to our CEO Mike Clarke of 764,216 performance rights under our long-term incentive plan,
which represents the maximum [title] of two times his total fixed remuneration.

A summary of the proposed grant, including the specific hurdles for each performance condition, are set
out in the explanatory notice to the Notice of Meeting. The Board believes that the performance conditions
represent challenging targets. They are appropriate to drive long-term business performance and that it is

Page147of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.the interests of the Company and its shareholders for Mr. Clarke to participate in our long-term incentive
plan on the terms set out in the explanatory notes of your Notice of Meeting.

And the Directors, other than Mr. Clarke, recommend that shareholders vote in favour of the proposal. The
matter is now open for discussion. Are there any questions? Again, make your way to a microphone and
give your name to the attendant. Number two.

OPERATOR: Mr. Chairman, there is a question from Mr. [Henry Burley].

PAUL RAYNER: Thank you.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Yes, Mr. Chairman, I have one further question.

PAUL RAYNER: Yes.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: We were told at the beginning of this meeting, and in print various times,
that AUD5.20 undervalues the Company. We've also been told during this meeting that AUD4.70
significantly undervalues this Company.
So I simply ask, I'm an academic and I'm interested in numbers, why is the value AUD4.4445 used as the
basis of valuation of the number -- in valuing the number of performance rights? Is that really fair by
shareholders?

PAUL RAYNER: Yes, it is very fair, but it's a good question. I think when it comes to LTIPs you need to be
consistent in the basis upon which you calculate the allocation of shares, and we use the 90-day weighted
average price up to June 30. And we also use that price when we come to determine the vesting schedule
for total shareholder return.

We intend to consistently use that year after year after year. If you used a higher figure, as you suggested,
AUD5.20, then you'd also have to use that figure to be fair when it came to calculate what the appropriate
vesting would be for the LTIPs that were vesting that year.

You can't use one number in relation to calculating the number of shares that are going to be issued and
another number for calculating the vesting, it would be completely unfair and inconsistent so we stick to the
90-day weighted average share price, up to June 30.

And the other thing I would point out, I do think this is important, a number of companies on the ASX don't
apply the share price when calculating the number of LTIP rights to be issued, they use it based on a fair
value. A large percentage of ASX companies do that. The fair value of a right is substantially less because
of the risks associated as to whether the right's going to vest than the share price. We don't do that.

So I actually think what we do is quite conservative compared to a number of other ASX companies, and I
certainly think it's appropriate and consistent. And to jump around and choose a price because it was the --
part of an offer which actually never came to fulfilment, okay, they offered AUD5.20 conditionally but were
never able to come up with a firm offer -- would be totally inappropriate.

+++presentation

PAUL RAYNER: Any other questions? Okay, thank you. I now put the motion that is displayed on the
screen, that approval be given for the grant of 764,216 performance rights to acquire shares in the
Company to the Chief Executive Officer Michael Clarke in accordance with the rules of the Company's
long-term incentive plan -- long-term incentive scheme on the terms summarised in the explanatory notes.

You may wish to complete your voting paper in respect of this item. The proxy voting in respect of this item
of business is shown on the screen. It's actually not yet -- there it is. Based on the proxy details received, it
is likely that the resolution will be passed.
Ladies and gentlemen, that brings us to the end of business that may be conducted as part of this
meeting. I thank you for your attendance and participation and hope this has been an opportunity for you to
learn a little more about your Company and its exciting future.

Please be sure to drop your completed voting papers into one of the boxes you will find near the exit. There
will be a Computershare staff member at each box if you have any questions regarding the completion of
your voting paper.

Don't all get up, the exciting bit is yet to come. If there are no further questions in relation to voting, voting
will close at the closure of the meeting. I have been informed by the Company Secretary that based on the
proxy details received and the number of shares that are represented by shareholders present here today,

Page148of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.it's clear all resolutions will be passed. As mentioned earlier, the final outcome of the polls will be declared
by notice to the ASX this afternoon and placed on our website.
Refreshments, as well as a wine-tasting hosted by our Director of Fine Wine and Direct-to-Consumer Mr.
George Samios will now be served in the foyer, where the Directors will be available to introduce
themselves to you. I now declare the meeting closed. Thank you.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this
web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon
current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those
stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more
specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and
believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the
assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results
contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF
THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE
AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR
INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO
WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE
COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE
BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND
THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER
DECISIONS.]

CO trzwn : Treasury Wine Estates Ltd
IN

i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i426 : Wine | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge :
Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods

NS ntra : Transcripts | c1511 : Annual Meetings | c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | ccat :

Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter |
nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter

RE usa : United States | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :

Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | namz : North America

PUB CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
AN Document FNDW000020141218eacf000dx

Page149of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.