Asia's Energy Producers Focused on Long Game -- Barron's Asia

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Asia's Energy Producers Focused on Long Game -- Barron's Asia

By Robert Guy
1,025 words
5 December 2014
20:37
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

Shock and awe: that's an apt description of Joko Widodo's approach to shaking up Indonesia's energy
industry.

Having warmed the president's chair for less than two months, Joko has moved quickly to stamp his
authority on Indonesia's national oil company, Pertamina, as part of the new government's plan to
reform the corruption-riddled oil and gas industry and underwrite the energy security of the world's fourth
most populous nation.

The blood-letting has been quick - and brutal. Pertamina's entire board of directors was dismissed, while
long-time cement industry executive Dwi Soetjipto has been parachuted in as new chief executive and
charged with reviving the fortunes of the national oil company at a time when Indonesia's production of
oil and gas has fallen. It's hard to believe that the one-time member of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries (OPEC) has become an increasing larger importer of foreign oil. Having barely
settled into the job, Dwi announced plans during the week to build new refineries and upgrade existing
facilities to reduce Pertamina's fuel imports to zero by 2019. If successful, Pertamina will play a
substantial hand in reining in the country's hefty current account deficit.
But the sharpened focus on energy policy is not unique to Southeast Asia's largest economy.
Policymakers across the region are addressing all aspects of energy policy, be it fuel subsidies, the
need to boost production of oil and gas, and the embrace of new technologies to bolster energy
efficiency and combat pollution. The need to increase oil and gas production remains a focus for many
countries in the energy hungry region. While the slump in oil prices to a four-year low has prompted the
gnashing of teeth and a lot of handwringing in the Middle East and the U.S. shale industry, many Asian
companies - both state-backed and publicly listed - continue to push ahead with projects that will ensure
longer term energy security.
Given the forecast for Asia's longer term energy demand, it's little surprise that many Asian companies
are continuing to invest despite the weak price environment. The International Energy Agency expects
China to overtake the U.S. as the world's largest oil consumer by 2030, with India and Southeast Asia
emerging as growing sources of demand. On a shorter term horizon, JPMorgan expects Asian oil
demand growth of around 500,000 barrels a day in 2015, a similar level to 2014 as rising demand from
China, India and Southeast Asia offsets weaker demand in Japan. The broker is forecasting Chinese
demand growth of around 300,000 barrels a day, driven mainly by rising demand for petrol amid
increasing car ownership in the world's second largest economy. India's oil demand is expected to grow
between 3% and 4% next year.

The robust demand outlook helps explain why many Asia-based producers are pushing ahead with new
projects or deals, a stark contrast to the ongoing debate about who will blink first and cut oil production,
Middle East oil producers or U.S. shale players. Over the past couple of weeks, we've seen PetroChina
(857.HK) and its partners commit to investing over $4 billion to drilling for shale in the China's
Southwestern municipality of Chongqing. Meanwhile, the partners in Australia's massive North West
Shelf Project liquefied natural gas project have committed $1.2 billion to the development of the
Persephone gas field. This is the third major gas development in six years for the country's largest
operating oil and gas project. Two of the joint venture partners include BHP Billiton (BHP.AU) and

Page117of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Woodside Petroleum (WPL.AU), the latter being the operator of the NWS, which has exported LNG to
Asia for 25 years.
Meanwhile, India's Oil and Natural Gas Corp (500312.IN) is set to extend its reach well beyond the
borders of the world's second most populous country. The company, which was recently analyzed by
Barron's Asia's Thomas Streater, is expected to ink an agreement next week to take a stake in two
Siberian oil fields. Timed to coincide with the visit by Russian president Vladimir Putin to India, the deal
involves Rosneft (ROSN.RU) selling a 10% stake in the Vankor field, the largest field to have been
brought into production in Russia over the past 25 years. The deal comes quickly on the heels of an
agreement to sell a 10% stake in Vankor to China's CNPC in early November.
But to be clear, not all Asian energy producers are immune to the pain being inflicted by low oil prices.
Malaysia's national oil company, Petronas, has delayed a decision on its proposed Pacific Northwest
LNG terminal due to concerns about the project's high costs at a time when its revenues are being
squeezed by lower oil prices. Meanwhile, Australia's Santos (STO.AU), which is developing a major LNG
project in the Australian state of Queensland, continues to be brutalized by investors. The stock plumbed
to a 10-year low this week after the company announced it had pulled a EUR500 million hybrid capital
raising and said it would review its spending plans for 2015.

While the low price environment will weed out those projects with dubious economics, longer term
investments in Asian energy make sense given the robust outlook for demand. It is a point well
appreciated by the many of the region's energy companies, especially those with political masters who
see the value in long term energy security. Energy stocks may be on the nose among investors, but
seeking out those producers who can withstand the short term pain of lower prices in order to benefit
from the gains provided by strong Asian demand over coming years could reward patient investors over
the long term.

---

Comments? E-mail us at robert.guy@barrons.com

---

Comments? E-mail us at asiaeditors@barrons.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 05, 2014 04:37 ET (09:37 GMT)

CO
IN
NS

RE

petmin : PT Pertamina (Persero)
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
gengsc : Energy Security | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncmac :
Commodities Asset Class News | nenac : Energy Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News
| gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters
austr : Australia | china : China | eurz : Europe | india : India | indon : Indonesia | russ : Russia | apacz :
Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eeurz :
Central/Eastern Europe | indsubz : Indian Subcontinent | sasiaz : Southern Asia | seasiaz : Southeast
Asia | ussrz : CIS Countries
PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020141205eac50011w

Page118of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.