Woolworths' growth dilemma

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Woolworths' growth dilemma

Michael Smith
1,421 words
25 August 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
44
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

There has always been a degree of conservatism around the Woolworths boardroom table, but the
caution has been amplified by the blowout of its push into hardware, the supermarket group's biggest
strategic move in years.

With the worse than expected losses in the Masters hardware division out in the open ahead of this
week's annual result, it is worth stepping back to look at the Woolworths empire in total.

Hardware has dominated the headlines for chief executive Grant O'Brien for some time. The expected
$169 million loss from Masters in 2014 is not material in the context of an expected $2.4 billion annual
profit.
However, it has raised concern about the billions of dollars in capital being sunk into a business that is
years away from breaking even and puts a lot of pressure on O'Brien and the board to get the next big
strategic move right.

Like rival Wesfarmers-owned Coles, Woolworths needs to expand and diversify. Woolworths is still
aggressively rolling out new stores as it narrows the gap with Coles in terms of same-store sales growth
for the first time in years. But both supermarket giants, which dominate the $85 billion grocery market,
still need to expand outside their core business.
Woolworths pulled the plug on plans to spend up to US$3 billion on Hong Kong supermarket chain
PARKnSHOP last year. International expansion is part of the strategy, but the risks are high.
Woolworths also still harbours ambitions to expand into the $16 billion pharmacy market but remains
restricted by legislative hurdles.

O'Brien is also not ready to give up on hardware, despite the mounting losses. Comparisons are being
made internally to the same flak the company got when liquor failed to make a profit for years after it
acquired a handful of suburban liquor stores called Dan Murphy's in 1998.

The difference with liquor, which is one category where Woolworths outshines its competitor, is that
those results were hidden behind the supermarket results for years, whereas Masters is out in the open.

The overall Woolworths business is performing well and O'Brien – who worked his way up the ranks
from a shelf-stacker in a Woolworths-owned supermarket in Tasmania – to chief executive three years
ago, still has the benefit of the doubt.

But it does mean he cannot afford any strategic slip ups. The board, headed by chairman Ralph Waters,
is unlikely to sign off on any radical moves for some time.High margins in food and liquor
When the company reports full-year earnings on August 29, high margins in food and liquor are
expected to offset a weak result from Big W and the Masters losses.There are early signs efforts to
finally match or beat Coles on same-store growth for the first time in years are working.

Page159of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Everyone in the industry knows the story. Coles dropped the ball for years until it was sold to
Wesfarmers in 2007 and new management staged a spectacular recovery. After a decade of
double-digit profit and sales growth, Woolworths was unprepared for its strong competitor and growth
stalled in 2011. O'Brien implemented a five-year plan to retake the lead with cost cuts, lower prices,
more global sourcing and investing in new stores.

In the March quarter this year, Woolworths matched Coles with a 3.5 per cent increase in same-store
sales. More recently, it has been changing store formats, adding things like sushi bars and baristas, and
reviving old marketing campaigns to get more customers through the door.

Woolworths is investing heavily in new stores, which has put it in the competition regulator's sights,
while widening the gap between sales growth and space growth.

Australia's grocery market is dominated by Woolworths, with almost 40 per cent market share, and
Coles. But new players like ALDI and Costco are making an impact and neither can afford to drop the
ball. UBS expects growth at 3 to 5 per cent a year.
Analysts will be keeping a close eye on the company's internal capital in this week's annual result. Citi
analyst Craig Woolford notes that Woolworths has sunk $2.6  billion into home improvement, 5 per
cent of the company's enterprise value. The capital will rise to $3 billion as more stores are opened.

"This is the risk for Woolworths shareholders and should be considered in light of the defensive nature
of its supermarkets business," Woolford says.

Hardware is important because supermarkets have been under pressure for some time to find new
revenue streams. Woolworths has been doing this by expanding into private label, liquor, petrol
retailing, insurance and telephony. Coles has had success with insurance and financial services.

Pharmacy is an obvious path for Woolworths to take, but it is hamstrung by federal government policy
that pharmacies must be owned by pharmacists. Behind-the-scenes, Woolworths has been making a
play for the sector without any progress. It has registered a pharmacy trademark covering the sale of
medical products and has lobbied for change on competition grounds.

But at this stage the Community Pharmacy agreement means its chance of success are low and
management has no plans for that area. The arrival of discount retailer Chemist Warehouse into the
market means it may already be too late. Chemist Warehouse has already cut the margins out of the
business, which is something the supermarkets would have done well.

Growing offshore has also been on the radar but, like Wesfarmers, there is a shortage of low-risk
opportunities for the right price in what are far more competitive markets than Australia. Still, the
rewards are potentially huge for a company like Woolworths if it could break into a market like
Guangdong in China where PARKnSHOP has a presence. It has also looked at India, but a retail
partnership there with Tata ended prematurely in 2011. International expansion is still on the agenda,
although investors will prefer to see excess capital returned to shareholders at this stage.Priority focus
on four areas

O'Brien's immediate strategic priorities focus on four areas. Securing a leadership position in food and
liquor tops the list, and online is an important part of this strategy. Woolworths is Australia's biggest
online retailer and will post more than $1 billion in online sales for the 2014 financial year. Woolworths
acquired New Zealand's EziBuy last year for $306 million.

There will also be a lot of talk at the results about managing its portfolio for shareholders. Like Coles,
Woolworths has turned to the United Kingdom to hire new management talent. British retail veteran
Alistair McGeorge was brought in earlier this year to replace Julie Coates as managing director of Big
W. This followed the appointment of another Brit, Matt Tyson, to head the home improvement business.
Surprisingly for a man who has worked at Woolworths for 26 years, O'Brien has replaced every
divisional head, and many of those came from outside the company. The only gap left to be filled is
Coates, who quit suddenly in July , apparently unhappy in her new role overseeing a supply and
logistics transformation program called Mercury 2.

Mercury 2 is another strategic priority, though it will not be able to generate the kind of returns that past
programs like Project Refresh under former chief Roger Corbett did. That program generated strong
returns for a decade when Coles was falling apart.
Woolworths is also close to a decision on the potential $650 million sale of pubs and liquor stores.
Advisers UBS and Goldman Sachs have been looking at whether to sell or float the portfolio. ALE
Property Group and Charter Hall are potential buyers.

Page160of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Like Richard Goyder at Wesfarmers, O'Brien's investors want surplus cash returned to shareholders
without sacrificing future growth opportunities.

It is a delicate juggling act, one made more difficult for Woolworths until it can show signs that progress
is being made with hardware. Analysts believe Masters may not break even until 2018 – nine years after
Woolworths announced its plans to compete head on against Wesfarmers' Bunnings in the big-box
home improvement market.

Woolworths' engine room is sound, though there are risks. Investors believe food and liquor margins will
be flat over the next five years and food inflation will accelerate in the next 12 to 24 months, according
to a survey of investors by UBS this month.

michael.smith@afr.com.au Twitter @MikeSmithAFR

Michael Smith

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

wsfrm : Wesfarmers Ltd | hydhpt : Hydrox Holdings Pty Ltd | wolwth : Woolworths Limited
i6411 : Supermarkets/Grocery Stores | iretail : Retail | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i641 : Food Retailing |
i654 : Specialty Stores | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
c1513 : Sales Figures | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | reqrre : Suggested Reading Retail | c15 :
Performance | c151 : Earnings | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140824ea8p0000f

Page161of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.