Satori clinches Aurizon role

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Satori clinches Aurizon role

Bridget Carter
291 words
6 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
30
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Takeovers: While boutique China-based advisory firm Satori Investments has clinched the role of
Aurizon’s lead adviser on the $1.4 billion takeover offer for Aquila Resources, a deal led by China
steel giant Baosteel, it is not thumping its chest.
Satori’s executive chairman Paul Glasson is keen to stress his Shanghai firm is working with Aurizon’s
other investment banking adviser, UBS.

“We’re working as a team,” Glasson told Data Room.

Founded in 2000 and named in honour of Glasson’s mother’s family, Satori has forged close ties with
all the principal parties involved in the takeover bid.
Four years ago Satori was the sole adviser to Baosteel on a $1.8bn acquisition of an Australian
mining asset.
A year earlier it advised Baosteel on a $US85 million joint venture with iron ore miner Fortescue.

Satori and Aurizon’s relationship dates back four years. Since 2008 Aurizon has sought co-investment
opportunities with firms outside Australia that buy Australia’s natural resources.
Aurizon sought out Satori because of what it saw as strong relationships with some of China’s biggest
consumers of Australian coal and iron ore, such as Baosteel.

If the Aquila takeover succeeds, Baosteel could end up with as much as 85 per cent of Aquila’s stock
and Aurizon 15 per cent.Aquila’s shares closed up 89c at $3.34. The Foreign Investment Review
Board will have to approve what is in effect Baosteel’s acquisition of Aquila, albeit with a significant
Australian partner that wants to develop a 432km heavy-haul rail line in Western Australia from
Aquila’s iron ore deposits in West Pilbara to a new deep water port at Anketell Point.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

aqures : Aquila Resources Ltd. | dorval : Aurizon Mines Ltd | hclamn : Hecla Mining Co
i831 : Financial Investments | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | i211 : Metal Ore
Mining | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140505ea560005y

Page170of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.