CBD

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business - CBD
CBD

Colin Kruger
673 words
25 July 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
22
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Tinkler denies own goal at Jets

Has Nathan Tinkler (right) scored an own goal with the sporting team that he still owns, the Newcastle
Jets?

Just a week after the football club announced its new naming rights sponsor - Tinkler's sand mine
business Castle Quarry Products - someone noticed that receivers had been appointed by
Commonwealth Bank to sell its nine-hectare mine site. Not to worry, we are told.
"The Tinkler Group says this has no impact on Castle Quarry Products," a company spokesman said.
He added that the group was not involved with the management of the company in receivership - BD
(NSW) J001.

Documents lodged with the Australian Securities and Investments Commission show the bank is owed
$2.15 million, secured against the "sand mine, property, plant and equipment" now for sale.

CQP replaces Tinkler's Hunter Ports as the Jets' name sponsor, but fans might be hoping the Wilkie
Creek deal gets across the line in case a back-up sponsor is needed.

Not much to show

ANZ was always going to have trouble topping 2012's Asian investor tour to Jakarta, which treated the
assembled hacks and analysts to a police escort from their hotel rooms to the ANZ offices, and back
to the airport.
But this week's event in Hong Kong was a lot less flash in other regards, too. BBY's Brett Le Mesurier
was underwhelmed by the lack of detail from ANZ on how its business is performing in the region it is
so keen to spruik.

"In some ways it's easier to report on this by not attending," said Le Mesurier, who did precisely that
and declined the invite.

"We are continually forced to feed on scraps of detail that are provided on occasions such as these ...
There is a comment on the bottom of page 5 that the current ROE [return on equity] exceeds the cost
of capital, without mentioning what that cost is, or how much it has been exceeded."

Our analyst suspects ANZ boss Mike Smith may be unwilling to open the kimono and reveal these
figures as it will show "the extent of the achievement is minor".

Macquarie told off
While Commonwealth Bank has been drawing all the flak, Macquarie Group reminded investors at its
annual meeting on Thursday that its wealth management unit had also drawn the wrath of the
corporate pup. Macquarie Private Wealth was the subject of an enforceable undertaking in January

Page287of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.last year focusing on the "effectiveness of compliance, in particular processes, controls and systems
previously in place in MPW, such as record keeping, monitoring and supervision".

Macquarie says the unit has completed "three of the four phases of the implementation program",
which is subject to the independent oversight of ASIC and independent expert KPMG.

At least Macquarie avoided CBA's sin of appointing its auditor as independent expert to oversee its
initial compensation process for aggrieved wealth customers.
Property dance
Property executives will kick their heels up in the name of charity on Friday evening, when more than
600 luminaries gather at the Sydney Hilton for the annual Property Industry Foundation's ball.

Billed as "Once Upon a Time in Shanghai" - sans brothels presumably - it is setting out to beat last
year's $200,000 raised for homeless youth.

The invite list for the Gannellan-sponsored event includes GPT chief Michael Cameron, Investa's
Campbell Hanan and Bob Johnston, who is minding takeover target Australand.

Others enjoying Shanghai delights include Leighton Properties boss Mark Gray, Charter Hall heads
David Southon and David Harrison, Centuria's Nick Collishaw, and Stephen Conroy, the local boss of
JLL, not the pollie.

CORRECTION

CBD's early-noughties nostalgia with Alan Jones and Kath & Kim in Thursday's column inadvertently
dragged our shock jock back to his former employer - 2UE. Jones did in fact pack up his mike and
move offices to 2GB that year, where he has been ensconced ever since.

Got a tip? ckruger@fairfaxmedia.com.au

RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140724ea7p0003u

Page288of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.