Falling Coal Prices may Hit Adani, GVK's Australian Projects

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies
Falling Coal Prices may Hit Adani, GVK's Australian Projects

SHUCHI SRIVASTAVA MUMBAI
586 words
30 May 2014
The Economic Times - Mumbai Edition
ECTMUM
English
Copyright © 2014. Bennett, Coleman & Co., Ltd.

Coal demand also hit as US opts for shale gas and China moves towards renewable energy
Multi-billion dollar investment by Adani Power and GVK Power in Australian mines could hit a dead
end and may force the companies to consider distress sales as global coal prices and demand have
fallen, analysts said although the companies say their projects can withstand turbulence.

Coal is being replaced by shale gas in the US and is likely to lose out to renewable energy in China.
In India, the Narendra Modi government is keen to accelerate mining to unlock indigenous coal
reserves of 200 billion metric tonnes.

Another dampener for demand outlook is the possibility that Japan may consider restarting nuclear
reactors that were shut down after the accident at its nuclear plant.

All this has significantly changed the logic of developing mines abroad, industry experts said."These
mine acquisitions were made when coal prices were high there has been a secular decline in
international coal prices since then.

The prices will remain under pressure due to ramp up in shale gas production in US, Japan re-starting
its nuclear plants and major importers like China and India focusing on improving domestic production,"
said Debasish Mishra, senior director, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India."At the prevailing coal prices,
these projects will find it difficult to achieve financial closure, where nearly $5 to $8 billion of debt will
be needed in each one.

Some promoters may decide to exit these investments even booking losses," he added.

These projects lack critical environmental approvals.
Last week, Deutsche Bank said it will not fund Adani's coal project in Australia because there was no
consensus between the Australian government and UNESCO over the environmental impact.
The projects in question are the Adani group's coal and rail project in the untapped Galilee Basin in the
Australian state of Queensland, which it acquired from Linc Energy in 2010 for close to $3 billion.
The GVK group which is in a joint venture with iron ore billionaireGina Rinehart's Hancock
Prospecting is also active in this area and wants to ship out millions of tonnes of thermal coal from a
planned new complex of mines in the Galilee Basin.
GVK had acquired Hancock Coal for $1.26 billion in 2011 in a deal which offered the
Hyderabad-based energy major up to 20 million tonnes of coal every year.
A GVK spokesperson said: "The mining techniques available to us as a result of the large, shallow and
very flat delineation of our coal assets deliver a free-on-board price that ensures our mine is
comparatively immune to the volatility of cyclical coal prices." "But, even in the current market
conditions, our Galilee Basin coal assets are differentiated from other mines due to their projected low
production costs, sought-after coal quality, we are continuing to take our projects to a point where

Page4of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.construction can commence and we wouldn't be doing that if we thought the projects weren't viable,"
the spokesperson added.
Tim Buckley Director of Energy Finance Studies, Australasia, Institute for Energy Economics and
Financial Analysis disagrees."It will be hard for Adani and GVK to go to their shareholders to ask for a
massive injection of additional equity capital to fund these high risk greenfield developments as these
projects are uncommercial given the already oversupplied nature of the seaborne thermal coal market."
shuchi.srivastava@timesgroup.com

adnpwl : Adani Power Limited | gvkpoi : GVK Power & Infrastructure Ltd | adexns : Adani Enterprises
Ltd
i163 : Electric Power Generation - Alternative Energy | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16101 : Electric
Power Generation | ieutil : Electric Utilities | iutil : Utilities | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs :
Business/Consumer Services
mcoal : Coal Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | mcat :
Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E
Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | mumbai : Mumbai | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric
: BRIC Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | india :
India | indsubz : Indian Subcontinent | mahara : Maharashtra | sasiaz : Southern Asia
Bennett, Coleman & Co., Ltd.
Document ECTMUM0020140530ea5u0000n

CO

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page5of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.