Home away from home Down Under

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Home away from home Down Under

Bloomberg
843 words
7 August 2014
China Daily
CHNDLY
13
English
Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Company. All rights reserved.

Buyers from the Chinese mainland acquire Australian property for the education of their children and a
better environment, reports Bloomberg
Ausin Group (Finance) Pty, which offers property and mortgage broking in Australia to Chinese
buyers, expects to sell two-thirds more homes and to double the amount of loans it arranges as
demand from the Chinese mainland surges.

The company forecasts A$1.5 billion ($1.4 billion) in sales of new residential properties in the year
ending June 30, compared with A$900 million over the previous 12 months, Sydney-based Managing
Director Joseph Zaja said in an interview on Tuesday. The value of mortgages the closely held
company arranges through Australian banks is expected to climb to A$500 million in the 2015 calendar
year, he said.
Ausin is benefiting from surging demand from China, where the housing market is faltering. Chinese
purchasers overtook Americans to become the biggest buyers of real estate in Australia in the 12
months through June 2013, plowing A$5.9 billion into commercial and residential property, up 42
percent from the previous 12 months.

"I don't see the trend slowing down," Zaja said. "It's here to stay."
Real estate is the biggest short-term risk to the Chinese economy, Markus Rodlauer, mission chief for
China at the International Monetary Fund , said last week. Authorities are trying to avert a collapse of
the real estate market after data showed housing prices fell in 55 of 70 cities in June from May, the
most since January 2011 when the government changed the way it compiles the statistics.
The Chinese buy in Australia to educate their children and to live in a clean environment, CLSA
Asia-Pacific Markets economist Andrew Johnston wrote in a report on Wednesday. Mitigating economic
risk is also a higher priority for Chinese investors than returns, he said.
Ausin sources projects from local developers, including Stockland and Mirvac Group , marketing them
in China where it has 11 offices and 280 staff, Zaja said. The average price of the properties Chinese
buy in Australia is A$630,000, according to the company.
Developers including Lend Lease Group , Mirvac and Goodman Group will benefit from the surge in
apartment projects resulting from the demand, according to CLSA.
When Zaja and a partner based on the Chinese mainland, whom he declined to identify, set up Ausin
in 2009, banks would only finance developments where less than 30 percent was sold to overseas
buyers, he said.

"Now, that's up to 100 percent in some cases," he said. "The larger banks had the view that overseas
buyers were a much higher risk than local buyers. But we've been able to provide them with statistics
that less than 1.5 percent of all our purchasers cannot complete their purchases."

Page194of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Ausin last year began operating as a mortgage broker and now arranges home loans through local
banks for about 93 percent of its buyers, Zaja said. The average borrowing is 70 percent of a
property's value, or about A$440,000, according to Ausin.
Ausin has a client who buys about 10 properties through the company every year and now owns about
40, Zaja said. The client has been able to negotiate a better rate and a higher loan amount, he said.
The company, which also offers immigration services to Chinese wanting to move to Australia, is
setting up a fund targeting those from the mainland applying for a Significant Investor Visa , he said.
The visa allows foreigners investing at least A$5 million in Australia to qualify for residency.
Chinese nationals accounted for 91 percent of applications and 86 percent of grantees as of the end of
June, according to the office of the assistant minister for immigration and border protection.
For Chinese seeking to emigrate, Australia is second only to Canada, which in February implemented
restrictions on foreign investment and immigration, Johnston wrote.
"Some 45 percent of the 70 million people in the top income bracket in China express an intention to
emigrate," Johnston said.

Ausin has seen a 300 percent increase in demand for its immigration services over the past six months,
the company said in a release last week.
Concerns by locals that overseas investment in Australian real estate, particularly from China, is
driving up prices and reducing affordability has prompted a parliamentary inquiry into foreign buying of
domestic property. The report from the inquiry will be released in October.
Overseas purchasers bought 10.2 percent of new properties in the second quarter, falling from a
record 13.9 percent in the first quarter, according to National Australia Bank Ltd .
These buyers accounted for 7.2 percent of purchases of existing properties, compared with 9.5
percent earlier.

Home prices across Australia's state and territory capitals rose 10.2 percent over the year through July
from a year earlier, according to the RP Data-Rismark Home Value Index. Sydney and Melbourne led
the gains, with values climbing 14.8 percent and 11 percent, respectively.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

ereal : Real Estate Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
China Daily Information Company
Document CHNDLY0020140806ea870001q

Page195of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.