ONE of the largest dairy operations in the south-west

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

ON THE LAND
ONE of the largest dairy operations in the south-west

352 words
12 June 2014
The Warrnambool Standard
FWARST
15
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

ONE of the largest dairy operations in the south-west has been turned over to a quarantine
operation following its sale to Landmark Global Exports.

The 1600-hectare operation, consisting of two separate dairies, formerly owned by Kauri Coast
Properties, went on the market late last year after the company went into receivership.

The properties are a 500-hectare farm on Slatterys Road, west of Woolsthorpe, and a second
property of 1059 hectares created by consolidation of smaller farms near Hawkesdale.

Nick Allen, of selling agents Charles Stewart, said he was not free to disclose the name of the
buyer or the purchase price due to a confidentiality agreement.

However, independent sources have confirmed that Landmark Global Exports bought both
properties. The properties were expected to bring around $12 million, but the actual sale price
has not been disclosed.
In the lead up to the sale the properties were leased and used for raising dairy heifers for
export.
Landmark Global Exports, which is partly owned by Chinese interests, bought the properties
and will use them to quarantine stock prior to export.
The company already owns a 700-hectare quarantine property, Winberack, on the
Woolsthorpe-Ballangeich Road.
The farms were converted to dairying eight years ago. Each has an 80-unit rotary dairy, 33,000
litre vat and extensive silos.

Both have milked more than 1000 cows in recent years but neither will be used for dairying in
the short term.

However, Mr Allen said he believed the dairies would eventually be put back into production.

"There is some very good infrastructure in place but it needs some work. I believe this will be
put to use the long term."
Landmark Global Exports is the export division of Landmark Operations Ltd whose agents give
it access to Australia's largest livestock sourcing network.
It has supply chains into China and Russia and nine other countries and is a major player in the
dairy heifer export market.

shynes@fairfaxmedia.com.au

IN

i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy Products | icnp
: Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products

Page159of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE
PUB
AN

victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FWARST0020140611ea6c00015

Page160of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.