Philanthropic Mexican franchise to open in Queenstown

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Press Release
Philanthropic Mexican franchise to open in Queenstown

Southern PR
824 words
24 November 2014
13:16
Scoop.co.nz
SCCONZ
English
Copyright 2014, scoop.co.nz All Rights Reserved.

Philanthropic Mexican franchise Zambrero and Remarkable Physios to open at Queenstown's The
Landing

Australian-owned Mexican franchise Zambrero is the latest new business to announce it will open at
Queenstown's The Landing next year alongside well-known health providers Remarkable Physios and
an ethnic grocery specialist.

Zambrero is a quick service restaurant franchise that sells healthy, fresh and nutritious Mexican food to
support humanitarian projects in Africa, Asia and the Americas and most recently Australia.

Queenstown local Yevrah Ornstein, former co-owner and manager of the resort's Matakauri Lodge, first
came across the company during regular visits to the Gold Coast.

"One day I was in the queue with maybe 20 others, when I overheard two businessmen say "I would
eat this everyday if I could". I knew then I had to bring this concept to Queenstown," said Mr Ornstein.

"I loved the food so much, I bought a franchise," he laughs.

"I saw The Landing was opening and I knew then I had found the perfect spot to open. The premium
location has such potential."

Zambrero will occupy 100sq m and offer take-out and dine in options, with seating inside and outside in
a sunny courtyard with all-day sun.
"The company's philanthropic practices also fit well with my personal beliefs.

"It's tragic that millions of people still live in starvation yet most people would love to do their bit to help
- and now Queenstowners and visitors can help, every time they choose to eat at Zambrero," said Mr
Ornstein.

This is achieved via the Plate 4 Plate charity initiative. For every burrito or bowl (all the goodness of a
burrito without the tortilla) sold at any Zambrero restaurant, another meal goes to someone in need
around the world.

Formed in 2005 in Australia by young entrepreneur, medical doctor and philanthropist Dr Sam Prince,
the 45-plus Zambrero restaurants have provided millions of meals to those living in poverty around the
world through the Plate 4 Plate initiative.

Zambrero customers can see exactly what's in their meals catering for all types of food tastes and
allergens, using meats sourced from quality producers, while salads and salsas feature fresh
vegetables and herbs and handmade guacamole.

"Serving food that's both nutritious and great tasting is equally important to selling food that funds the
elimination of world hunger. It's feel good food for both purchaser and seller.

Page109of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."Bold, nutritious and modern Mexican food - just how it should be," said Mr Ornstein.
Well-known local health provider Remarkable Physios will relocate its Remarkables Park clinic to The
Landing in April next year, occupying a sought-after ground floor corner location in the development.

Remarkable Physios has been running since 2002, with treatments aimed at getting patients back to
full pain free function as quickly as possible, using techniques such as manual therapy, acupuncture,
pilates, k-taping, massage, and work conditioning.

With four private treatment rooms and a fully-equipped rehabilitation gym, Remarkable Physios will
offer a complete package of care for clients.

Managing director and principal physiotherapist Melissa Davidson said the clinic would continue to offer
quality ACC and private care for all types of injuries and medical issues by their highly qualified
physiotherapists.

Employing only experienced and skilled staff is important at Remarkable Physios, with Melissa leading
the way having recently completed her research masters in pelvic floor health at The University of
Melbourne, with plans on starting her PhD early in 2015.
"The Landing is in a highly visible location and we're excited to be moving into a ground floor site that
gives our patients easier access and parking directly outside," she said.

"We're looking forward to being part of the expanded retail shopping, close to the new High School,
planned Conference Centre, and other growth in the area."

"We'll also retain our CBD clinic in the centre of Queenstown for the convenience of locals and visitors
at that end of town," said Ms Davidson.

A Christchurch-based ethnic grocery specialist will also open in April 2015 offering a large range of
fresh and packaged foods from around the world in its 450sq m store.
"Specialising in Asian foods from China, Japan, Korea, Malaysia and the Philippines, the
yet-to-be-named store, is run by three directors who specialise in this area of the food market," said Mr
Jinman Nan speaking on behalf of the directors.

The venture started out in Christchurch, where the extensive range of fresh exotic vegetables and
produce from around the globe has "proved popular with locals".

After their first visit to the area four years ago, Mr Nan and his associates thought Queenstown's "fast
and growing business district" was the ideal forum for their second business venture.

"We're very excited to join Queenstown's newest business community at The Landing," said Mr Nan.

ENDS

IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

i64 : Retail/Wholesale
c335 : Franchises | cprdop : Facility Openings | c24 : Capacity/Facilities | c33 : Contracts/Orders | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Scoop Media Limited
Document SCCONZ0020141124eabo0008w

Page110of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.