Rocky road response

SE
HD
BY

WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

inside views
Rocky road response

Michael Smith - Michael Smith is a senior business writer and columnist for The Australian Financial
Review.
1,170 words
19 September 2014
Financial Review Smart Investor
FRSINV
First
20
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

TRANSPORT

Despite a challenging year, rail transport companies have tightened their belts and it's paying off, writes
Michael Smith.

There are buying opportunities locked away in the nation's transport companies.
While the end of the mining boom, weak commodity prices and a lacklustre global economy have
made life difficult for rail freight firms such as Aurizon and Asciano, it is not all bad news.

A period of aggressive cost-cutting and radical restructuring under new management or owners mean
value is now being unlocked in the firms tasked with transporting commodities and other products
around the country and offshore.

But the make-up of the listed transport sector looks radically different from it was a decade ago. A
former market darling, logistics outfit Toll Holdings, has fallen from grace after years of acquisitions. QR
National was taken out of the Queensland government's hands and floated in 2010, while Asciano
brought in new management to get costs under control, and it is now looking at selling its ports
business.
Meanwhile the new kid on the block, McAleese, had a disastrous ASX debut when a fatal oil tanker
crash saw the company's Cootes division losing key contracts.
Aurizon (formerly QR National) and Asciano, with market capitalisations of $10 billion and $6.3 billion
respectively, dominate the listed transport sector and look like solid buys despite some tough market
conditions. Both are at the tail end of sweeping restructures. The focus has been very much on costs
rather than growth but there are signs that headwinds are abating and the hard work is about to pay off.
Neither company is without risks though, and some analysts are dubious about Asciano's and
Aurizon's bullish growth forecasts given the tough economic conditions. Both are asset rich, though with
the potential for higher shareholder returns if they offload stakes in port or rail businesses.Confident
despite difficult year

It was not an easy year for rail group Aurizon, which reported a 43 per cent fall in annual earnings for
2013-14 to $253 million. Although underlying earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) rose 13 per cent
on the previous year to $851 million due to stronger coal and iron ore haulage volumes, Aurizon did
not take as much cost out of its business in the second half as forecast. Chief executive Lance
Hockridge remains confident the company is a growth story because weak commodity prices do not
necessarily have an impact on volumes.

Page4of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Hockridge has said in the past he would like to the double the size of the group every five years. He has
met that target to date, overseeing the company's transformation from an inefficient government entity
into a modern and more nimble operation.
But a repeat performance looks unlikely. Uncertainty surrounds many of the big mining projects the rail
freight group is looking at, while the threat of potential industrial action and bad weather in Queensland
are also risks.

Analysts have started asking if the dividend payout ratio is sustainable. Aurizon is forecasting cost cuts
of up to $300 million over two years from a target of $230 million. Since privatisation, Hockridge has
got the efficiency ratio down from 91 per cent to 77.7 per cent, and aims to get this down to 75 per cent
by the end of the current financial year.

While a lot of the low hanging fruit has gone, Aurizon wants to use assets more effectively by improving
the productivity of train crews, payloads and roster changes. Hockridge has proved he is good at
stripping out inefficiencies so should be able to meet his new targets.

There are mixed views on Aurizon's prospects, with 11 buy recommendations on the stock compared
with seven holds and one sell. The stock is trading at around $4.70, well above its 2010 IPO price of
$2.55. The shares hit a high of $5.27 on April 29 and have recovered from a low of $4.49 in September
last year.Volume growth opportunity
Importantly, Aurizon expects coal volumes of between 210 million and 220 million tonnes this year
compared with 210.4 million last year, suggesting plenty of prospective growth.

Deutsche Bank analyst Cameron McDonald, who has a buy rating on the stock, says there is material
upside potential and notes that the increased cost out guidance underpins growth of 14 to 20 per cent
earnings before interest and tax in 2015.

There are risks, though. Aurizon is also looking to build new rail networks in Western Australia's Pilbara
region and Queensland's Galilee Basin. It needs to pay for these and one option is the possible sale of
a 49 per cent stake in its Queensland tracks business, which could fetch up to $2 billion.
Asciano is also looking at potential divestments, with the partial sale of its Patrick ports business up for
grabs at the right price. Patrick, which operates container terminals in Sydney, Perth, Melbourne and
Brisbane, is being eyed by Chinese conglomerate China Merchants. A partial sale could net up to
$2.5 billion.

Asciano shares hit their highest level in October after the rail freight group beat forecasts with a 5 per
cent rise in pre-tax earnings, increased its final dividend by 36 per cent and forecast stronger earnings
growth this year.

Analysts have 10 buys, six holds and one sell on the stock, which hit a high of $6.612 in August
compared with a low of $5.13 in April. Healthy dividend likelyHigher coal haulage volumes have
underpinned the result while port container lifts also increased. With business and volumes improving at
a time when costs have fallen and capital spending in decline, the company is expected to have a solid
year.

The result marked a turnaround for CEO John Mullen who has been through a tough couple of years.
Asciano has been a cost-cutting story for some time but now the focus is on what it does with Patrick.
Mullen is tipping about 10 per cent underlying earnings growth a year for the next two years and a
healthy final dividend should keep investors happy. A lot of this is to do with cuts and restructuring
rather than the external environment which remains challenging but is showing signs of bottoming.

"With dividends increasing and returns improving, we believe Asciano will continue to re-rate
irrespective of any corporate activity around the ports business," Citi analyst Anthony Moulder says.
Global logistics firmToll Holdings is also going through a restructure as it cuts its business divisions to
six from five. It has warned operating conditions remain difficult and wants to cut an additional
$50 million in costs. Broker views, however, remain more divided, with analysts placing seven holds,
three buys and six sells on the stock which is trading at around $5.81 compared with $6.02 in late
August.

CO

IN

qrntnl : Aurizon Holdings Limited | tolhld : Toll Holdings Ltd | dorval : Aurizon Mines Ltd | hclamn : Hecla
Mining Co
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i71 : Railroads | i77002 : Freight Transportation Arrangement | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | icargo : Freight/Cargo Transport | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | imet :
Mining/Quarrying | irailtr : Road/Rail Transport | irfrght : Railroad Freight | itsp : Transportation/Shipping

Page5of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FRSINV0020140918ea9j00004

Page6of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.