Ausdrill pedal power: a story of lycra, rain and $50 notes

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Ausdrill pedal power: a story of lycra, rain and $50 notes

765 words
28 May 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
Second
2
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

Ausdrill chief financial officer Jose Martins is a mad keen cyclist who leads a team of fellow execs at
the mining services outfit pedalling around the Hills on a weekend.

Once a year this lycra-clad clique gets really serious and does a four-day ride home from the
management retreat from Ausdrill boss Ron Sayers’ Peaceful Bay holiday property.

Since setting out last Friday the weather has not been kind, buffeting the hardy cyclists each day with
wind and rain. To their credit, they didn’t chuck it in.

And there was a bizarre reward of sorts for their efforts when they set out for the Canning Vale HQ
from Waroona on Monday morning.

As they pushed on for the city, the cyclists kept coming across $50 notes lying about the roadside.
About $1200 in all. It turns out the cash had fallen from a vehicle used in a bank robbery in Waroona
that day, reported in this journal and elsewhere.

The execs, being the honest fellows that they are, handed the loot to police.

NOT FORGOTTEN

Len Buckeridge was not shy in his dealings with unionists, as most would know. So it was in keeping
with that image that the late billionaire dealt with a flare-up at the construction site of BGC
Contracting’s new building in Osborne Park.

Speaking at the building’s opening last night, son Sam Buckeridge said when the CFMEU once tried
to block the site with a car, Len reacted typically. A forklift was directed to remove the offending
vehicle. The unionists, Sam said, quickly decided to drive it out of the way.

Len also succeeded in persuading the City of Stirling to relax its two-storey limit on the site by adding
another 10 floors.

Len’s widow Tootsie and Resources Minister Bill Marmion did the honours last night, unveiling a
plaque dedicated to Len with a remote-controlled model dump truck. BGC Contracting chief executive
Greg Heylen handed over a cheque for about $116,000 to non-profit FIFO Families .

Last night marked the first public event for the Buckeridge family since putting Len to rest in March.

HASLAM OUT

Former Territory Resources boss Andy Haslam is back on the hunt for a new full-time gig, having
parted ways with Chris Ellison’s Mineral Resources .

While the rock-kicking whispering set was quick to suggest Haslam’s departure might be the first sign
of a new price-led apocalypse among Pilbara’s iron ore producers, Ellison played down any
suggestion Haslam’s departure was linked to the metal’s price plunge this month.

Page167of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The MinRes squillionaire said Haslam was hired in 2012 to bring the company’s Pilbara projects into
development, and with the job now mostly done it was an appropriate time to say farewell.

Haslam couldn’t be contacted.

The Bull’s sources suggest he is a trifle disappointed he won’t get to play with MinRes’ new shiny red
Chinese-built train set, with first locomotives arriving in Perth this week and wagons about to begin
rolling off the wharves shortly.

While the end of the MinRes gig leaves Haslam looking for a new full-time role, it may make his
non-executive director’s life at BC Iron a touch easier. With both companies at pains to ensure there
was no leakage across the two rivals, sources suggest Haslam was sometimes forced to spend
almost as much time in the corridor as in BC board meetings.

PILBARA VIRGIN

Just two weeks after handing fly-in fly-out specialist Alliance Aviation its biggest contract, BHP Billiton
has shared the love with Virgin Australia .

Qantas’ archrival yesterday revealed it, too, had won an initial three-year FIFO contract from BHP to
carry workers to and from the Barimunya and Coondewanna airports in the Pilbara. Virgin is keeping
mum about the value of the deal.

The Flying Kangaroo, meanwhile, is also thought to have picked up some of BHP’s frequent flyers,
with Qantas’ announcement due anytime.

IN THE CHAIR
Cheryl Edwardes on Monday took up the chair at the Andrew Forrest -backed Energy & Minerals
Australia , sans any equity in the uranium hopeful.

If only she had bought some EMA stock when she was announced as chairman in February and the
shares were worth 3¢.
This month came news of Forrest’s $12 million cash injection at 3¢, which sent EMA’s stock above
8¢. The stock closed at 5.3¢ yesterday.

With Peter Williams, Nick Evans

and Sean Smith

CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140527ea5s00001

Page168of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.