Yancoal $2.8b raising in doubt after ruling

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Yancoal $2.8b raising in doubt after ruling

Peter Ker
586 words
16 December 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
15
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Troubled miner Yancoal's plan to raise $US2.3 billion ($2.8 billion) through a controversial rights
offering has been thrown into doubt, after the Takeovers Panel upheld concerns from minority
shareholders that the plan was "unacceptable" and likely to be "highly dilutive".
Loss-making Yancoal had sought to raise the $US2.3 billion by issuing convertible notes, under a
plan that would have used seen much of the money used to repay debts owed to its 78 per cent
shareholder, Yanzhou Coal of China.

The ruling is a major blow for Yanzhou.
The company has now failed twice in the space of 18 months to buy the 22 per cent of Yancoal that
it does not own.
Minority shareholders in Yancoal, including Noble Group and Hong Kong hedge fund Senrigan
Capital, feared the plan was another attempt to dilute them out of the business, given Yanzhou
could have raised its stake in Yancoal to more than 98 per cent if it was the only participant in the
raising.

After complaints by Senrigan, the Takeovers Panel declared on Monday that the circumstances of
the rights offer were unacceptable.

It said that insufficient steps had been taken to minimise the "control effect" of the rights offer.

The panel said the subordinated capital notes created under the offer would not be attractive to
shareholders beyond Yanzhou.

While the rights offer can still go ahead, Yanzhou can only convert the notes into Yancoal shares so
long as its ownership does not grow beyond its 78 per cent share.
If Yanzhou wanted to convert sufficient notes to grow its stake in Yancoal beyond 78 per cent, it
would require approval from more than half of the minority shareholders.

Given Noble, which owns just over 13 per cent of Yancoal, has previously opposed attempts by
Yanzhou to take Yancoal private, it appears unlikely that minority shareholders would approve such
a conversion.

"As far as practicable, the holders of the ordinary shares in Yancoal to whom the [subordinated
capital notes] are being offered, other than Yanzhou, do not have a reasonable and equal
opportunity to participate in any benefits,'' the panel said in its findings.

The scathing response by the Takeovers Panel is at odds with the approval that independent
directors of Yancoal gave the plan prior to it being announced on November 10.

Page48of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The independent directors include Greg Fletcher, Dr Geoff Raby, Vince O'Rourke and Huaqiao
Zhang and

The independent directors contacted on Monday declined to comment on the Panel's findings. In
July 2013 Yanzhou offered the minority shareholders CHESS Depositary Receipts in its Hong Kong
stock, which analysts said valued Yancoal shares at around 69¢ each.

Yancoal shares were fetching around 71¢ at the time, but in recent weeks have traded as low as
11¢.

The stock was unmoved at 14¢ on Monday.
Yancoal lost $832 million in 2013 and a further $192 million in the first six months of 2014 under
depressed coal prices.
Yanzhou has vowed to ensure that the company remains solvent under a deal with the Australian
government. The December 2013 agreement excused Yanzhou from having to reduce its stake in
Yancoal below 70 per cent.

In a statement released to the ASX, Yancoal said it would consider the ruling before deciding
whether to proceed with the raising.
"Yancoal is currently considering the Takeovers Panel's decision and its next steps," the company
said.

Noble Group declined to comment on Monday.

CO

IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

yaptyl : Yancoal Australia Limited | yankua : Yankuang (Group) Corp | ynzmn : Yanzhou Coal
Mining Co Ltd
i112 : Coal Mining Support Activities | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141215eacg0001u

Page49of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.