FED:Gina Rinehart's beef interests grow

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

FED:Gina Rinehart's beef interests grow

258 words
19 December 2014
Australian Associated Press Financial News Wire
AAPFIN
English
(c) 2014 Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

RINEHART SYDNEY, Dec 19 AAP - Mining magnate Gina Rinehart's foray into the beef industry has
expanded with the purchase of a major Wagyu herd in western NSW.
A company associated with Ms Rinehart's Hancock Prospecting has struck an agreement to buy two
grazing properties near Dubbo and about 3,000 head of cattle, including 1,600 Fullblood Wagyu
females.

"This is part of Gina Rinehart's commitment to invest in Australian agriculture and ensure the country is
positioned to meet the demands of our northern neighbours," a spokesman for Hancock Prospecting
said.

The deal would likely make Ms Rinehart the second largest Wagyu producer in the country, behind
Australian Agricultural Company, which exports the majority of its high quality beef to northern and
south east Asia.

Ms Rinehart is also understood to be close to finalising the acquisition of four more beef cattle stations
in the Kimberley region of Western Australia, after Hancock Prospecting acquired the Liveringa and
Nerrima stations in July.

Australia's richest person also recently reached agreement with the Queensland Government over a
$500 million dairy export deal into the Chinese infant formula market.

Hope Dairies, majority owned by Hancock Prospecting, will produce pharmaceutical grade infant
formula and UHT milk at a Queensland processing plant, and buy 5,000 hectares of south-east
Queensland dairy land.
Ms Rinehart plans to create one of Australia's largest dairy farms, producing an estimated 30,000
tonnes of infant formula for export to China every year.

AAP dmc/krc

CO
IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

austag : Australian Agricultural Co Ltd | hkpros : Hancock Prospecting Pty. Ltd.
i0 : Agriculture | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c312 : External Markets | c31 : Marketing/Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd
Document AAPFIN0020141219eacj001up

Page131of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.