Apache's $2b Wheatstone sale whets majors' appetite

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Market Wrap - Street Talk
Apache's $2b Wheatstone sale whets majors' appetite

Edited by Sarah Thompson, Anthony Macdonald and Gretchen Friemann
461 words
1 September 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
16
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Apache, the US independent oil company, has drawn a wide field for its minority slice in the $29 billion
Wheatstone liquefied natural gas project off the coast of Western Australia, with Malaysia's Petronas
among a host of international heavyweights eyeing the assets.

As first revealed on Financial Review Sunday, Apache has set a brisk pace on the sell-down, estimated
to fetch close to $2 billion, and hopes to complete a deal by the end of the year.

A preferred candidate is expected to emerge by mid October under the first-past-the-post bidding
structure.
According to sources, Chinese national oil giant PetroChina numbers among the contenders, as does
Woodside, and another minority holder in Wheatstone, the Kuwait Foreign Petroleum Exploration
Company , or KUFPEC. Middle Eastern energy investment outfit IPIC is taking a look too, though the
firm would need to form a partnership to operate Apache's upstream assets. So far 10 parties have
signed confidentiality agreements, yielding them access to Wheatstone's data room. On the block are
Apache's 13 per cent stake in the project as well as its 65 per cent holding in two gas fields in the
Canarvon basin, the Julimar and Brunello reserves. The fields account for 20 per cent of Wheatstone's
LNG commitments and are expected to unlock 2.1 trillion cubic feet of gas.

Macquarie Group is advising Apache, which is under pressure to sell international projects from an
activist shareholder, but declined to comment on the process.
Despite the strong line-up, the Houston-based company faces a relatively uphill battle.

For a start, few majors jump at minority stakes in projects led by a rival – in this case Chevron .

Secondly, Wheatstone's gas is largely contracted out to Japanese buyers limiting the upside typically
targeted by large energy players. That may dilute Woodside's interest given the Perth-based
company's preference for growth-generating acquisitions.
It's harder to discount Petronas. The energy behemoth's rampant expansion plans may help transform
Malaysia into the world's biggest LNG supplier.

Petronas executives jetted into WA's capital recently, although sources claimed the visit is related to
meetings on another joint venture, the offshore gas resource, Evans Shoal.
But even with the inclusion of Apache's upstream Wheatstone assets, many view the sale as a financial
play. This means suitors like the Abu Dhabi-owned investment vehicle, IPIC – Temasek 's LNG
subsidiary, Pavilion Energy, is also a logical candidate – will base their bids largely on the future
direction of oil prices.

Asian LNG contracts are tied to this commodity, making them vulnerable to spikes in crude prices.

Page19of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO

IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

kfpeck : Kuwait Foreign Petroleum Exploration Company | apche : Apache Corp | ptrnas : Petroliam
Nasional Berhad | kpc : Kuwait Petroleum Corp
i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas Upstream Operations | i1 : Energy | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction |
i1300005 : Support Activities for Oil/Gas | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction | iioil : Integrated Oil/Gas
ceffic : Corporate Restructuring | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c11 : Plans/Strategy
austr : Australia | malay : Malaysia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140831ea9100008

Page20of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.