THE site of one of Port Fairy's most prominent businesses

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

NEWS
THE site of one of Port Fairy's most prominent businesses

anthony brady
363 words
1 November 2014
The Warrnambool Standard
FWARST
10
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

THE site of one of Port Fairy's most prominent businesses is on the market.
The former Sou'West Seafoods building is listed for sale with the plant processing equipment
also to be sold.

Sou'West Seafoods closed its doors last October having operated as an abalone canning
plant.
The company started production in 1980 and has 45 shareholders.
Proceeds of the sale of the building and equipment will be split up between the shareholders.

The business was shopped around as a going concern but failed to attract any interest.

The decision was then made to close the business and provide a redundancy package to the
15 employees.

Sou'West Seafoods had a strong export market but the double hit of a high Australian dollar
and an abalone virus reduced its profitability significantly.

Gary Kenyon is a former general manager of the business and has now been employed by the
shareholders' board to guide the sale.
"The closure of the company has been handled well, the decision was made to finish up
before being forced into receivership," Mr Kenyon said.

"Federal and state government had been approached for a loan to keep the business going
but those requests were not entertained.
"The company could have been ran into the ground but it wasn't and everyone was paid what
they were entitled and there was no outstanding debt.

"I think everyone can hold their head high that the right thing has been done."

Sou'West SeaFoods started life as a co-operative formed by local abalone divers and then
grew into a successful company.
Before the abalone virus hit eight years ago the company supplied export markets in Asia. At
its prime had an abalone quota of 240 tonnes and employed a staff of 35.

Mr Kenyon said the quota was cut to 40 tonnes after the virus hit, while the slowing down of
the Chinese economy was another significant blow to the long-term future of the business.
The property is for sale with Warrnambool agents SKB Real Estate.

Page159of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE
PUB
AN

victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FWARST0020141031eab10000k

Page160of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.