PPK Group: Acquisition of MONEx Electronic Engine Management System

PPK Group: Acquisition of MONEx Electronic Engine Management System

HD
WC 368 words
PD
1 July 2014
SN
Resources News (RWE)
SC
RESNEW
LA
English
CY
Copyright 2014 RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
LP

TD

Sydney - Tuesday - July 01 (RWE) - PPK Group Limited (ASX: PPK) announces it has entered into
Binding Heads of Agreement to acquire full ownership of the MONEx Electronic Engine Management
System (EMS) technology, associated intellectual property, manufacturing line and existing inventory for
$2.8 million.

The MONEx EMS is an integral part of the PPK Coaltram flameproof and explosion proof
Load-Haul-Dump (LHD) multi-purpose vehicle manufactured by PPK Mining Equipment at its Tomago
production facility.

This technology was developed specifically for the PPK Coaltram and PPK had some shared ownership
in parts of the technology and intellectual property in the MONEx EMS.
The acquisition of full ownership of the MONEx EMS will allow PPK to act as the sole Original
Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) for all Coaltram products and remove some confusion from the market
place.
PPK Executive Chairman Robin Levison stated: "PPK believes the acquisition of full ownership of the
MONEx EMS will create a superior customer service and support experience for existing and future
Coaltram users.

It will also give PPK the opportunity to both potentially re- power other underground flameproof and
explosion proof vehicles with the MONEx EMS technology and to export to both the Chinese and South
African markets initially".

The transaction is subject to satisfactory due diligence and certain conditions precedent.
Settlement terms provide for initial payment of $1.4 million with the balance of $1.4 million payable by
12 equal monthly instalments following close of the transaction.
The acquisition of the MONEx EMS continues the strategy outlined by PPK at the November 2013 AGM
to rotate away from its portfolio of industrial and development properties, loan book and share
investments to investing in the mining services sector which PPK believes to be at the low quartile of
valuations.
This strategy was further embedded with the recent sale of the company's Arndell park property for
$12.24 million announced last week.
Other recent positive developments include receipt of an order from BHP illawarra Coal for two new
Coaltrams and opening of the new PPK Mining Equipment Port Kembla service and support facility with
the first customer vehicles arriving for servicing last week.

CO plaspa : PPK Group Ltd
IN
NS

i483 : Plastics Products | iindstrls : Industrial Goods
c18 : Ownership Changes | cacqu : Acquisitions | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin
: FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd

Page213of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document RESNEW0020140701ea710000u

Page214of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.