Land and Environment Court approve Ashton expansion

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

popular
Land and Environment Court approve Ashton expansion

Louise Nichols
614 words
27 August 2014
Singleton Argus
FSINGA
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

Residents and supporters who gathered at the Camberwell Common to hear the result of the appeal
against the approval of Ashton South East open cut coal mine were left despondent as the verdict was
passed through to them via mobile phone.

The NSW Land and Environment Court rejected their appeal and have approved the mine with the
conditions yet to be announced.

"We have been fighting this mine for 14 years and now with this court decision my family has no choice
but to leave the once beautiful Camberwell village," said a bitterly disappointed Deidre Olofsson.

"No way can we stay in our home it will be surrounded by mines and the health impacts added to the
blasting and noise means our Australian dream of living in the home of our choice is over.

"People have to realise what will be left of the Singleton and Muswellbrook communities once the
mining is finished " nothing that's what will be left."

The legal challenge to the approval of the 315 hectare mine expansion next to the village of
Camberwell, near Singleton, was mounted by the Hunter Environment Lobby, represented by the NSW
Environment Defenders Office (EDO). The proposed mine expansion, proposed by the Chinese
companyYancoal, l would extract 16.5 million tonnes of coal over seven years.

The court judgment states that: "On balance I consider that approval can be granted but that approval
must be subject to adequate conditions about which a number of issues of clarification and possible
alteration remain."

The judgment also stated that a number of conditions still need to be finalised including those relating
to air quality, water resources and acquisition of properties.

The court found that the mine expansion would have negative economic impacts on neighbouring rural
properties including a farm which has been in the same family since the 1830"s, one of the oldest
farming families remaining in the Upper Hunter.

EDO NSW principal solicitor Sue Higginson said: "While the prospect of this mine being approved is
disappointing for the Camberwell community, the wine growers and farmers downstream of the mine,
there is still some scope for setting conditions designed to minimise adverse impacts on air and water
quality and prime agricultural land."
The battle to stop the $83 million Ashton South East open cut coal mine has been a long one
between its proponents and those opposed to its development on the grounds of its expected adverse
effects on water sources and the community's health.

In December 2011 the NSW Planning and Assessment Commission (PAC) rejected the project based
on concerns it had about the adverse impacts the mine was likely to have on water and health.

The mine's owners appealed this decision in the NSW Land and Environment Court and in October
2012 the original PAC decision was overturned and the mine was given the go-ahead.

Page55of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Hunter Environment Lobby started legal action in the New South Wales Environment Court in
January 2013.

Determined to continue the fight against the mine was Wendy Bowman who described the court
decision as leaving the local community in limbo.

"They have approved it but we still have to negotiate the conditions "what does that mean and how
long will that take," she said.
Mrs Bowman's property that front Glennies Creek contains about 60 per cent of the coalYancoal
hopes to extract.

"I'll fight them all the way because if I don't what happens to Glennies Creek and all the water users
downstream " Pokolbin, Broke and further down the valley," she said.

RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FSINGA0020140828ea8r00003

Page56of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.