Shell's Wheatstone exit sets industry pattern

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Finance
Shell's Wheatstone exit sets industry pattern

PAUL GARVEY, ENERGY
561 words
22 January 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
18
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

ROYAL Dutch Shell's decision to offload its interests in the $US29 billion ($33bn) Wheatstone
liquefied natural gas project to Kuwait's state-owned oil producer is another example of the broader
change sweeping through Australia's oil and gas sector, as cashed-up national oil companies snap up
project interests from listed oil majors that are under increased pressure to pull back their spending.

Shell on Monday announced it would sell its 6.4 per cent interest in the Wheatstone LNG project, plus
its 8 per cent stake in the Wheatstone and Iago gas fields, to the Kuwait Foreign Petroleum
Exploration Company (Kufpec) for $US1.135bn.

International oil giants such as Shell are bowing to calls from shareholders for the rationalisation of
their portfolios, and newly appointed Shell chief executive Ben van Beurden has pledged to maintain a
firm financial discipline.
The trend for oil and gas heavyweights to exit minority positions in non-core development projects was
illustrated in a series of recent deals at the proposed Browse LNG project off northern Australia. US
giant Chevron handed its 17.5 per cent stake in that project to Shell as part of an asset swap that
included a $US450 million payment to Chevron, while BHP Billiton last June sold its estimated 12 per
cent stake in Browse to Chinese state-owned giant PetroChina for $US1.63bn.
Wood Mackenzie analyst Chris Graham said Shell's Wheatstone exit was another example of an oil
major tidying up its portfolio and selling off a minority position to focus on more material opportunities
elsewhere.
``Shell have been looking to sell for a while. It's a non-operated position, it's a small stake for them, so
it was a clear candidate for divestment,'' Mr Graham told The Australian.
He said shareholders were increasingly pressuring the oil majors to focus on more material growth
opportunities.

``There is a lot of focus on portfolio restructuring at the moment, particularly among the majors,'' Mr
Graham said. ``They're facing greater shareholder scrutiny and looking to prioritise projects with higher
returns, perhaps offloading any interests that aren't as important to them.''

Shell has shown a preference for operating projects, meaning minority interests such as that in
Wheatstone are among the first to be put up for sale.

In contrast, smaller minority positions can be particularly appealing to the state-owned majors looking
for a smooth entry into new jurisdictions.

Keeping operator status in the hands of the international groups can appeal to the state-owned
companies given the project experience and strong cost focus within the listed companies.
The acquisition by Kufpec will lift its stake in the Wheatstone LNG project to 13.4 per cent.

Page92of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Graham said the extra interest in Wheatstone was a ``natural move'' for Kufpec. ``They are already
in the project and understand it well,'' he said. Wheatstone is operated by US giant Chevron, which
owns 64.1 per cent of the project.

Shell's exit will see it focus on its other larger Australian development projects, such as its Prelude
floating LNG project, the 25 per cent-owned Gorgon LNG development, the Browse gasfield and its
Arrow Energy coal-seam gas joint venture.
Mr van Beurden said that Shell would ``remain a major player in Australia's energy industry''.

CO

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

kfpeck : Kuwait Foreign Petroleum Exploration Company | rnlp : Royal Dutch Shell PLC | kpc : Kuwait
Petroleum Corp
i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1 : Energy | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | i1300005 : Support
Activities for Oil/Gas | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
c411 : Management Moves | cslmc : Senior Level Management | c41 : Management Issues | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive
News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140121ea1m00024

Page93of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.