Mystery Roc offer clouds horizon

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Mystery Roc offer clouds horizon

BARRY FITZGERALD, MERGERS
416 words
26 June 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
20
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE $800 million merger plan between Roc Oil and Horizon Oil could yet be derailed if a mystery
third party follows through with a formal takeover bid for Roc alone.

Shares in the Sydney-based Roc climbed 4c or 7.1 per cent to 60c in response to its revelation about
the potential interloper, while Horizon shares weakened 2.5c or 6.5 per cent to 35.5c.

Roc shares are trading 32 per cent higher than when the agreed combination with Horizon was first
announced on April 29.
The company said it had “received a confidential, unsolicited, indicative and incomplete proposal in
relation to the acquisition of all the issued share capital’’.

“There is no certainty that the proposal will develop into a formal offer,’’ Roc said.

Horizon said it did not have any further information in relation to the identity of the other party, the
material details of the approach, or whether discussions were continuing between Roc and the third
party.

“Accordingly, it is unclear whether this approach will eventuate or affect the timing of the proposed
merger,” the company said. “If a competing proposal does emerge, Horizon will assess its position.’’
Apart from the emergence of the mystery third party, Roc has felt heat from fund manager Allan Gray,
which speaks for 19.5 per cent of the company, from the day the merger was announced.

It labelled the merger as “crazy” and “stupid’’ and was annoyed that Roc would not be asking for
shareholder approval for merger, even if it was not required to do so by the regulators.

The fund manager has since proposed a mechanism which would give Roc shareholders a vote. That
is by way of a proposed change to Roc’s constitution at an extraordinary meeting scheduled for July
11.
The proposed change — strongly opposed by Roc — would limit the ability of the company to issue
shares which amount to more than 30 per cent of the number of shares on issue without the approval
of shareholders by ordinary resolution.

Roc has previously recommended that shareholders vote against the resolution proposed at the
meeting.

Under the planned merger, Horizon shareholders are to receive 0.724 Roc shares for each Horizon
share. Horizon shareholders will hold 58 per cent of the merged company and Roc shareholders the
remaining 42 per cent.The merger combines oil and gas production and exploration interests in
China, Papua New Guinea, Malaysia and New Zealand.

CO

rocoil : Roc Oil Company Ltd

Page177of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140625ea6q0002p

Page178of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.