How the staples can stabilise a portfolio

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Portfolio
How the staples can stabilise a portfolio

James Dunn
1,787 words
5 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
25
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Commodities Investing in wheat, corn, oil or gold may lower your risk if rates jump.

Australian investors like to think they have good exposure to commodities: after all, BHP Billiton and Rio
Tinto are heavyweights of both the global commodities world and the Australian sharemarket. The
theory is BHP and Rio deliver great exposure to the China story, and all the commodities exposure an
investor would need.

The problem is that despite being big, diversified miners – and a petroleum producer in BHP's case –
the pair don't give access to the return from commodities as an asset class, says Jodie Gunzberg,
global head of commodities for S&P Dow Jones Indices, who was in Australia on a roadshow in
October.
"The dry bulk commodities like coal and iron ore are not yet part of the global futures markets that
make up the asset class," Gunzberg says. "Nor do these companies produce agriculture. Their
correlation to the commodities asset class is actually quite low.

"There is a great barrier to overcome the perception the Australian sharemarket is highly correlated to
global commodities."

Surprisingly, Gunzberg says, the US sharemarket is more than three times more correlated to
commodities than Australia's.

This has implications for diversification – the major attribute that commodities investment delivers as an
asset class (meaning investment in a commodities index that covers the futures markets for
commodities). The other main reason for using commodities is as an inflation hedge.

"Commodity prices themselves are very sensitive to inflation. With things like 'soft' commodities, for
example, the reason why bread gets more expensive over time is because commodity producers are
able to pass prices on to the consumer," Alex Vynokur, managing director of exchange-traded fund
(ETF) issuer BetaShares, says.

By including them in a portfolio in the form of an ETF, investors have the exposure to the underlying
commodities and benefit as prices of those commodities rise with inflation, he says.

Vynokur says global commodity indices give different protection from local inflation in different markets,
and while Australia's inflation protection is not as strong as that for Europe or the US, Australia still has
an inflation beta of more than 10 to the S&P GSCI commodity index.

"That means that a $10 investment in a commodity index ETF that follows that index can give you close
to $100 worth of inflation protection in the Australian market," he says.

"Which means a 10 per cent allocation to commodities could shield the whole portfolio from inflation
risk."

Page161of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Traditionally, Australian investors have sought commodity exposure through stocks, Tim Bradbury,
executive director of ETF Consulting and Portfolio Solutions, says .

"That has been largely broker-driven, and brokers tend to think about stocks when they think of a
commodity. For example, if they like the idea of gold, they might buy a gold stock, but while that does
give you exposure to gold, there are a whole lot of considerations that are specific to that stock:
management, business risk, mine life, hedging policy, geopolitical risk, etc. It's by no means precise
exposure."

Nor is an actively managed fund that buys and holds resource stocks: like all active funds, it could
certainly outperform the market, but can also underperform.

Exchange-traded products (ETPs) have given investors a simple, cheap and transparent means of
gaining exposure to commodities, through a single listing on the ASX. The first Australian ETP, the
Gold Bullion Securities (ASX code GOLD), launched by ETF Securities in March 2003, was the world's
first exchange-traded commodity, allowing retail investors to buy securitised ownership of gold, without
having to own actual bullion. Each GOLD security gives the investor ownership of one-tenth of an ounce
of gold bullion, held in the London vaults of custodian bank HSBC Bank USA. The price of a GOLD unit
is one-tenth of the $A gold price.
The GOLDs were quickly followed onto the ASX by the Perth Mint Gold Quoted Product (PMG), which
give the investor the right to buy one-hundredth of an ounce of gold on, or before, 31 December, 2013.
The PMGs trade under the ASX code of PMGOLD: at any time, their price is simply one-hundredth of
the $A gold price.
Investors find these "trackers" more simple to use than bullion and less risky than gold company
stocks: there are no company-specific factors like mine life, resource security or hedging activity to
complicate matters. The stocks simply track the $A gold price very closely, and may be sold at any
time on the ASX. There is normal brokerage on the purchase or sale, and the management expense
ratio (MER) of the investment is 40 basis points (0.40 per cent) a year. The next step was ETPs over
physical silver, platinum, palladium and a basket of the three, plus gold. But the development that really
fostered the view of commodities as an asset class was the introduction in 2011 of "synthetic" ETPs,
which use derivatives – for example, indices over futures contracts or swaps – to generate returns.

Vynokur says synthetic was the only way the "broad asset class" of commodities could be accessed.
"You can do the precious metals through ETPs, because it's possible to physically hold the gold or
silver, for example, to back them. But in most of the commodities that make up the major commodity
indices – the agricultural commodities, the industrial metals, the energy commodities – a retail investor
cannot own the physical commodity, so you have to do it through derivatives.

"You can't own and store the agricultural commodities – wheat or corn or soy beans, or even livestock –
and that's why you get exposure through commodity futures, and that's why they're called "synthetic".
Same with the energy commodities: it would be totally cost-prohibitive to deal in the physical
commodities, to take delivery of cargoes and store them. But having those commodities is what gives
your portfolio the diversification and the protection against inflation," he says.

Andrew Spence, senior investment adviser at Hillross CBD in Sydney, uses the BetaShares
broad-based currency-hedged ETP (with the ASX code QCB) – which gives exposure to energy,
agriculture, industrial metals, livestock and precious metals – as a portfolio diversifier and inflation
hedge.

"We have it in our 'alternatives' bucket, where we put anything that shows low or negative correlation to
the core building blocks of the portfolio, which are equities and fixed-interest. We were getting that
exposure through a long-short fund, but we found that didn't deliver, and we were looking for something
that was more simple, cheaper and more diversified," he says.

Most of Spence's clients are SMSFs, but the portfolio also serves non-super wealth accumulators.

He says Hillross wants an "alternatives" allocation that will "hold the portfolio together", and make it
more robust in a downturn or a left-field event like the GFC.

"The story for us is one of low-to-negative correlation, and protection from inflation. We don't expect the
current low-interest-rate environment to prevail much longer: we wouldn't pretend that we could pick
when, but at some point in the near future, interest rates will start to rise, and we think commodities will
give some protection from that," he says. "We've got a 'best-of-breed' portfolio and we're using the QCB
in that, currently about 3 per cent of the portfolio." Over the past 18 months the return from the strategy
has been negative, he says, but he expects that when US interest rates start to rise it will come into

Page162of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.its own. "We'd expect to look at lifting that allocation when that happens," Spence says.

Bradbury of ETF Consulting and Portfolio Solutions says this kind of use is "what ETPs were built for",
but it's "still rare" in the Australian market.

"There's a lot of choice of ETPs in the commodity space, but really, there has not been a lot of take-up.
There are 22commodity ETPs listed, with a bit over $500 million of assets, but of that, $430 million is
in the GOLD ETP. It is one of the exposures people across the board understand better than most, and
there is a pretty strong attachment to gold on the part of a lot of investors. Apart from that, there's not a
lot of interest spread across the other products." The major problem, he says, is that the education on
how to use them "doesn't seem to have penetrated to the right parts of the buying market".

"The variety of exposures is certainly there, but it's hard to get investors to take some of them up.
They're all valid exposures, but they probably tend to be more of a trading-type exposure – you can slice
into a whole range of precious metals, industrial metals, gas, oil, agricultural commodities, but they
probably look more like short-term trading ideas or portfolio 'tilts' than perhaps a long-term allocation."

Advisers need to understand how ETPs might be used, he says. One, they need to have an asset
allocation that caters for commodities, they have to understand how to use those products, whether it's
strategic long-term or tactical – the tactical advisers tend to be more broker-oriented, and they're often
coming out of morning meetings with a trading idea based on the in-house research. They then look for
the tool to implement that and in many cases the ETP is the best one.

"The long-term story, of diversification and inflation protection, is not as well-understood as it should be
– because broad-based commodities exposures have a role to play in portfolios," Bradbury says.

Vynokur says the conversation about commodities is a "pretty timely one".

"We're finding a lot of adviser interest in the broad commodity-basket products, with asset flows starting
to pick up, coming off a couple of quiet years on that front. The key things that advisers are starting to
see is low correlation to equities and fixed income. If you allocate 5 per cent to 10 per cent of the your
portfolio to commodities, we say you will see a significant improvement in risk-adjusted return, with
lower volatility."

Inflation expectations are also driving interest, he says.

"We've gone through a very significant period of quantitative easing, of very accommodating monetary
policy, the US has just ceased but Japan is still pumping money into the system, and one of the natural
consequences of that is inflation." Whether it's as a diversifier or as an inflation hedge, he says
commodities "fit the picture".

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC | rtz : Rio Tinto PLC
i22472 : Precious Metals | i22 : Primary Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141104eab50002y

Page163of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.