Jetstar Japan launches international services

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Jetstar Japan launches international services

499 words
5 December 2014
ENP Newswire
ENPNEW
English
(c) 2014, Electronic News Publishing. All Rights Reserved.

Release date - 04122014

Jetstar Japan, the largest low cost carrier operating in Japan, has announced it will commence an
international operation with the first offering flights between Osaka’s Kansai International Airport and
Hong Kong* from 28 February 2015.

Jetstar Japan will operate a daily service between Kansai (Osaka) and Hong Kong* with its fleet of
Airbus A320 aircraft.

Jetstar Japan Chief Executive Officer Miyuki Suzuki said the announcement of international services was
a major milestone in the growth of Jetstar Japan.

‘The announcement of international services is a very positive next step in the evolution of our presence
in Japan as the country’s largest low cost carrier,’ Ms Suzuki said.

‘Just like low fares have transformed how Japanese consumers travel domestically, we are excited to
stimulate new travel demand to Japan from Hong Kong and provide our Japanese customers new
international options.

‘These services build on the international network of other Jetstar branded airlines operating to Japan.’

Jetstar Japan will operate a fleet of 20 A320 aircraft by the end of 2014 and currently services 11
domestic ports with more than 100 flights daily. The carrier is now the second largest Jetstar branded
airline in the Group after Jetstar Airways in Australia and is on track to carry seven million passengers by
the end of this year. Jetstar Japan already occupies almost 60 per cent of the domestic low cost carrier
market.

Ms Suzuki said international services will make an important contribution to the strengthening of the
carrier’s operations and financial performance.

‘Japanese travellers have embraced low fares travel domestically since our launch in 2012.
Internationally, LCCs only represent 4.4 per cent of the market showing us there is a lot of room for
international services to grow,’ she said.

Kansai International Airport was the first international Japanese port for Jetstar with Jetstar Airways
commencing services from Queensland to the city in 2007.
Currently Jetstar Airways operates services from Cairns and the Gold Coast to Kansai and Jetstar Asia
operates services to Kansai from Singapore via Taipei and Manila. Jetstar Airways also operates
international services from Tokyo (Narita) to the Gold Coast, Melbourne and Cairns.
Jetstar Asia operates up to three daily services between Singapore and Hong Kong. Jetstar Hong Kong
is awaiting regulatory approval to establish a locally based low cost carrier.
Customers can purchase flights on the service from Kansai to Hong Kong in Japan from today, with
tickets to go on sale from Hong Kong early next year.

Jetstar Japan is a joint venture between major shareholders Qantas Group and Japan Airlines as well as
Mitsubishi Corporation and Century Tokyo Leasing Corporation.

Page113of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Qantas recently announced a new codeshare with Jetstar Japan. From mid-January, Qantas customers
will be able to travel on Jetstar Japan services from Narita to nine new destinations in Japan Sapporo,
Fukuoka, Oita, Okinawa, Osaka, Takamatsu, Matsuyama, Kumamoto and Kagoshima.

[Editorial queries for this story should be sent to newswire@enpublishing.co.uk]

CO
IN

NS

RE

oxair : Jetstar Airways Pty Ltd | qntas : Qantas Airways Ltd
i75 : Airlines | i7501 : Scheduled Passenger Airlines | iairtr : Air Transport | ilowair : Low Cost Airlines |
itsp : Transportation/Shipping
npress : Press Releases | c22 : New Products/Services | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
jap : Japan | austr : Australia | hkong : Hong Kong | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | china : China | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

PUB Electronic News Publishing Ltd.
AN

Document ENPNEW0020141205eac5000h1

Page114of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.