Pointcorp chases the big one

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Pointcorp chases the big one

Matthew Cranston
368 words
21 October 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
51
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Queensland residential property developer Pointcorp is buying a prime waterfront development
site in South Brisbane from QM Technologies founder and reclusive multimillionaire Neville
Morgan for a price that could reach $40 million.
Pointcorp co-managing director Chris Vitale said the group had started conducting due diligence
on the site at 117 Victoria Street.

"It is an amazing site and we are trying to find iconic sites for development," he said.
"We want to work through our due diligence on site."
He scuttled rumours that he was in talks with Chinese real estate giant R&F Properties to onsell
the site and a nearby site which he purchased from DEXUS Property Group last year.
Mr Morgan and business associate Frank Youngleson purchased the property in 1999 for
$4.7 million.
The pair sold their QM Technologies business into the $6.5 billion-listed technology company
Computershare, which is leasing the building on Victoria Street.
The market for residential development sites in Brisbane is heating up.
The Hong Kong-listed R&F Properties set the market alight when it agreed to pay $46 million for a
former TAFE college in south Brisbane in September.
The vendor, Metro Property Group, paid $22 million for the site when it purchased it from the
state government less than a year ago.
Local developer, Cornerstone Properties, also sold an inner-city development site to tycoon Koh
Wee Seng's Singapore-listed Aspial Corporation for a price believed to be about $36 million.

The $36 million price tag was nearly twice what Cornerstone paid late last year when it bought the
site from listed developer Devine.

Half-a-dozen prime development sites have now come to market including two huge waterfront
sites owned by the state government which are being sold through agents JLL.
For Pointcorp, the purchase of Victoria Street could be a long-term development play.

It has already achieved some very strong off-the-plan sales success at its $70 million, eight-storey
luxury apartment tower Highgate.
Pointcorp used celebrity chef Neil Perry to help market the property and the developer believes it
could start construction of the tower earlier than expected.

Page49of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

dbrrrt : Dexus Property Group | gzrfpc : Guangzhou R&F Properties Co Ltd
ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles |
i8150206 : Investment Trusts/Funds | i815020602 : Real Estate Investment Trusts | ifinal :
Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141020eaal0000d

Page50of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.