Rinehart reveals Roy Hill trials and tribulations

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Rinehart reveals Roy Hill trials and tribulations

Nick Evans
319 words
16 April 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
Second
1
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

Gina Rinehart has told her bankers Roy Hill could have been twice as big had it not been for the
financial troubles suffered by her family’s companyHancock Prospecting after the high-grade iron
ore deposit was pegged in the early 1990s.

At a formal function in Singapore yesterday to celebrate last month’s signing of Roy Hill’s $US7.2
billion debt deal — sealing funding for the 55 million-tonne-a-year mine, rail and port development
— Mrs Rinehart used the occasion to open up about the early history of her involvement with Roy
Hill.

“Times were pretty tight for our company in the 1990s as our company was in financial difficulty
with debt to repay,” she said. “Iron ore was of interest to no one. We could not afford to maintain all
the rental and exploration requirements and unfortunately we lost about half the area we had
originally pegged.”
The iron ore magnate thanked Roy Hill’s 30 per cent equity partners — POSCO, Marubeni and
China Steel Corporation — for their support through the marathon debt funding negotiations, saying
their 2012 decision to come on board was one the project’s most significant moments.

Hancock retains 70 per cent.

“We arranged this investment without any investment bank assistance, without Federal government
assistance and despite the negativity of MRRT (mining tax), carbon tax and city media.”

While praising a number of her employees, Mrs Rinehart hinted at how intimately involved she had
become in the project, referring to the opening of Roy Hill’s headquarters near Perth International
Airport.

“During my speech on this occasion I thanked the architect and building manager, Reuben
Kooperman, not just for the finished product but for putting up with me during many weekends and
nights while we drafted, redrafted and finalised the ‘H’ outside the building, and many interior
details,” she said.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

chnstl : China Steel Corporation | hkpros : Hancock Prospecting Pty. Ltd.
i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i22 : Primary Metals | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i211 :
Metal Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying | isteel : Steel Production
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140415ea4g0001h

Page20of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Page21of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.