Tracking foreign funds a good step

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CommercialProperty
Tracking foreign funds a good step

CALLAM PICKERING, COMMENT
525 words
29 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
40
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

The public’s concern about foreign investment in Australian residential real estate is summed up
early in the report handed down by the parliamentary committee examining the issue.
“There is no accurate or timely data that tracks foreign investment in residential real estate. No one
really knows how much foreign investment there is in residential real estate, nor where that
investment comes from.” The report itself supports the push for greater transparency. That was the
glaring problem with the present system, which should have worked quite well but hopelessly failed to
measure and monitor foreign purchases.

The committee recommends retaining the current foreign investment framework applying to foreign
purchases of residential real estate. The same existing restrictions on purchasing established
dwellings would apply and foreign investment would be directed towards increasing Australia’s supply
of new housing.
But the processes within the Foreign Investment Review Board have to change. There’s no point
having a good framework without the capacity or willingness to enforce and monitor these rules. The
committee recommends putting in place “appropriate processes for the purpose of audit, compliance
and enforcement of the foreign investment framework”.

The committee recommends introducing “a modest administrative fee to the current screening for all
foreign purchases of residential real estate”. That doesn’t sound too restrictive or unreasonable,
though admittedly that depends on the size of the fee.

More controversial will be the committee’s recommendation that the government introduce civil
penalties for breaches of the foreign investment framework. This includes penalties to the buyers
themselves — probably calculated as a share of the property value — but also to any third party who
knowingly assists a foreign investor to breach the framework. They also propose introducing a criminal
penalty for third parties, including a maximum fine of $85,000.
Given several real estate agents have set up Chinese-based websites selling established property,
that’s got to sting. It also runs the risk of appearing overly draconian. Ultimately, it depends on the size
of the penalties: if real estate agents can still make a fortune from foreign clients and the penalty is
small, then they will treat the threat of fines as merely the cost of doing business.

Where would these fines go? The committee recommends that they be directed towards the
Treasury’s Foreign Investment and Trade Policy Division to fund audit, compliance and enforcement
activities. The committee proposed that Australia’s foreign investment policy be amended to require
temporary residents — who are allowed to purchase established property on a temporary basis — be
required to sell that property within three months once it ceases to be their primary residence.

It also recommended that the federal government, combined with the states and territories, should
establish a national register of land title transfer, which record the citizenship and residency status of
all buyers.

Page272of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.From a transparency perspective, this is a clear step in the right direction. For this to work, the
government needs to introduce a system that alerts them when temporary visas are about to expire.

Callam Pickering is economics editor at Business Spectator. businessspectator.com.au.

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

irreal : Residential Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest
: Real Estate
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141128eabt0006s

Page273of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.