Asian invasion just hot air

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

RealEstate
Asian invasion just hot air

THE MARKET, TIM McINTYRE
556 words
15 February 2014
Daily Telegraph
DAITEL
TelegraphRE
2
English
Copyright 2014 News Ltd. All Rights Reserved

If you believe what you hear from some excitable commentators, every capital city in Australia is under
attack from billionaire Chinese investors, who fly over from Beijing for the weekend, buy up properties
and then head home to plan where to spend their next $50 million.
The claim is that they are pushing property prices through the roof and leaving Australian families
homeless.

Much of the hype is based on anecdotal evidence from real estate agents about high numbers of “Asian
buyers” bidding at auctions. Real estate agents are no doubt well aware of what is happening on their
turf, but unless they have some numbers on actual foreign citizens buying residential property, it is
dangerous to make generalisations.
The numbers being reported, include that Chinese investment in Australian property tripled between
2007 and 2012; and $4 billion in foreign real estate investment was approved by regulators in 2010-11.
These are misleading, as they do not differentiate between commercial and residential real estate.
Commercial includes factories, farms, office blocks and retail outlets, which cost much more than an
average three-bedroom house in the suburbs. A good example is the Sydney Opera House car park,
which went to market last year with a potential $80 million price tag.
Colliers International director of investment sales Steam Leung identified commercial real estate as the
most popular investment choice for foreign buyers.

“We’re receiving interest across a range of asset classes from farmland and wineries through to
retirement, hotel, retail and large office building assets,” Mr Leung said. “The most common are seeking
commercial offices and residential sites.” Residential real estate has different rules. Foreign
investment in residential property is regulated by the Foreign Investment Review Board (FIRB), which
outlines the government’s policy as follows: “Foreign investment in residential real estate should
increase Australia’s housing stock … the policy seeks to channel foreign investment in the housing sector
into activity that directly increases the supply of new housing and brings benefits to the local building
industry and its suppliers … all residential real estate applications are considered in light of this
overarching principle.” Under FIRB regulations, foreigners can only buy: a new dwelling, which must be
purchased directly from the developer and cannot have been previously occupied for more than 12
months; a vacant block of land for residential development, and construction must commence within 24
months of approval; or vacant land for the development of multiple dwellings.
The only way foreign investors can buy an established property, is if they knock it down and develop
multiple residences on the site.
If the property is uninhabitable, they can replace it with a single residence. In either case, the properties
cannot be rented out prior to redevelopment.

Page177of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Because foreigners can only purchase brand new or off-the-plan, we can assume the “Asian packed”
auctions of established houses in Chatswood, Eastwood and Epping are actually auctions full of
Australians, who happen to have Asian ancestry.
If you have been granted residency or citizenship in this country, you should be able to buy a home or
investment property.

Modern Sydney is an ethnically diverse city.I am yet to hear anything about Italian buyers in Leichhardt,
the British in Bondi, or the Vietnamese uptake of affordable homes in Cabramatta.

NS

ereal : Real Estate Markets | greest : Real Estate/Property | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators |
ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document DAITEL0020140212ea2f00004

Page178of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.