X2 RESOURCES ANNOUNCES THAT IT HAS SECURED UP TO $3.75 BILLION OF COMMITTED AND CONDITIONAL EQUITY CAPITAL

HD

WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

X2 RESOURCES ANNOUNCES THAT IT HAS SECURED UP TO $3.75 BILLION OF COMMITTED
AND CONDITIONAL EQUITY CAPITAL
920 words
31 March 2014
16:43
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
English
(c)2014, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved

LONDON, March 31, 2014 /PRNewswire/ --

NOT FOR RELEASE, PUBLICATION OR DISTRIBUTION INTO OR IN THE UNITED STATES,
CANADA, AUSTRALIA, JAPAN, MEMBER STATES OF THE EUROPEAN ECONOMIC AREA OTHER
THAN THE UNITED KINGDOM OR ANY OTHER STATE OR JURISDICTION IN WHICH SUCH
RELEASE, PUBLICATION OR DISTRIBUTION WOULD BE UNLAWFUL. PLEASE SEE THE
IMPORTANT NOTICE AT THE END OF THIS ANNOUNCEMENT 

X2 Resources Announces That it has Secured up to $3.75 Billion of Committed and Conditional Equity
Capital
X2 Resources announces it has secured US$2.50 billion of committed equity capital funding and up to a
further US$1.25 billion of conditional equity capital funding, from a group of five investors (the "Club
Investors"). The committed equity capital is available for immediate draw down and will be used to
finance the creation of a new mid-tier diversified mining and metals group.

The Club Investors, who have contributed in equal amounts, comprise Noble Group, TPG Capital,
sovereign wealth and pension fund investors.

Today's announcement represents a critical milestone and enables X2 Resources' investment activities
to commence.

X2 Resources is in discussions with a further select group of potential investors who are also seeking to
benefit from opportunities in the natural resources arena.

Mick Davis said:

"We have attracted a very prestigious core group of large scale, high quality investors who share our
vision of building a new mining group with the potential to generate attractive returns through the cycle.
We believe the timing for this venture remains very opportune and we will now focus increased attention
on starting the investment process." 

Goldman Sachs International is acting as placement agent to X2 Resources in connection with the
fundraising.

Contacts

X2 Resources

Caroline Yates

+44(0)207-389-9500

info@x2resources.com

Aura Financial

Page75of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Michael Oke, Andy Mills

+44(0)207-321-0000

http://www.aura-financial.com

Goldman Sachs International

Brett Olsher

Christos Tomaras

Stephen Withnell

+44(0)20-7774-1000

Notes to Editors:

About Noble Group  

Noble Group (SGX: N21) manages a portfolio of global supply chains covering a range of agricultural and
energy products, as well as metals, minerals and ores. Operating from over 140 locations and employing
more than 70 nationalities, Noble facilitates the marketing, processing, financing and transportation of
essential raw materials. Sourcing bulk commodities from low cost regions such as South America, South
Africa, Australia and Indonesia, the Group supplies high growth demand markets, particularly in Asia and
the Middle East. In order to ensure the integrity of its supply chains, the Group has a portfolio of interests
in strategic logistics and processing assets which form an integral part of facilitating its key trade flows.
Noble is ranked number 76 in the 2013 Fortune Global 500. http://www.thisisnoble.com

About TPG  
TPG is a leading global private investment firm founded in 1992 with over $59 billion of assets under
management and offices in San Francisco, Fort Worth, Austin, Beijing, Chongqing, Hong Kong,
Houston, London, Luxembourg, Melbourne, Moscow, Mumbai, New York, Paris, São Paulo, Shanghai,
Singapore and Tokyo. TPG has extensive experience with global public and private investments
executed through leveraged buyouts, recapitalizations, spinouts, growth investments, joint ventures and
restructurings. The firm's investments span a variety of industries, including a wide range of energy
sector businesses, as well as industrials. For more information visit http://www.tpg.com.

The distribution of this announcement in certain jurisdictions may be restricted by law. No action has
been taken by X2 Resources Partners LP Inc. (the "Partnership") or any of its affiliates that would permit
possession or distribution of this announcement in any jurisdiction where action for that purpose is
required. Persons into whose possession this announcement comes are required to inform themselves
about and to observe any such restrictions. 

This announcement does not constitute or form part of any offer or invitation to sell or issue, or any
solicitation of any offer to purchase or subscribe for any limited partnership interests in the Partnership
("LP Interests"). Neither this announcement nor any part of it shall form the basis of, or be relied on in
connection with, any contract to purchase or subscribe for LP Interests. 

Neither this announcement nor any copy of it may be taken, transmitted or distributed, directly or
indirectly in or into the United States, Canada, Australia, Japan, member states of the European
Economic Area ("EEA") other than the United Kingdom or any other state or jurisdiction in which such
action would be unlawful. Any failure to comply with this restriction may constitute a violation of United
States, Canadian, Australian, Japanese, EEA or other applicable securities laws.

The Partnership is registered by the Guernsey Financial Services Commission (the "Commission") as a
registered closed-ended investment scheme pursuant to the Protection of Investors (Bailiwick of
Guernsey) Law, 1987, as amended (the "POI Law") and the Registered Collective Investment Scheme
Rules 2008. Neither the Commission nor the States of Guernsey Policy Council takes any responsibility
for the financial soundness of the Partnership or for the correctness of any of statements made or
opinions expressed with regard to the Partnership.

This announcement is provided for information purposes only. Any investment in the Partnership or
contract or subscription will be made solely on the basis of the final form of a confidential private
placement memorandum, the limited partnership agreement relating to the Partnership and the
subscription agreement related to the acquisition of LP Interests.

Page76of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO

IN

RE

tpgpar : TPG, Inc. | gldmns : The Goldman Sachs Group Incorporated | guyfsv : Guernsey Financial
Services Commission | euecar : European Economic Area
i814 : Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal :
Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
austr : Australia | cana : Canada | chnisl : Channel Islands | indon : Indonesia | jap : Japan | lux :
Luxembourg | namz : North America | safr : South Africa | singp : Singapore | uk : United Kingdom | usa :
United States | africaz : Africa | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | benluxz :
Benelux Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz :
Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | souafrz :
Southern Africa | weurz : Western Europe
FINANCE

IPD
PUB The Press Association Limited
AN

Document PRESSA0020140331ea3v0015p

Page77of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.