Special taxes considered by parliamentary inquiry into foreign real estate investors

Special taxes considered by parliamentary inquiry into foreign real estate investors

By business reporter Michael Janda

HD
BY
WC 1,159 words
PD
27 June 2014
SN
Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) News
SC
ABCNEW
LA
English
CY
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation
LP

TD

Federal MPs appear to be considering increased charges on foreign buyers of Australian real estate to
address public concerns about rising overseas investment.

Federal parliamentarians appear to be considering increased charges on foreign buyers of Australian real
estate to address public concerns about increasing overseas investment.

Earlier this year, Federal Treasurer Joe Hockey tasked the House of Representatives Economics
Committee with looking into the issue of foreign ownership of Australian real estate.
A key theme of the inquiry to date has been the lack of data on exactly how much real estate is owned by
non-residents and temporary residents.
The latest Foreign Investment Review Board (FIRB) figures for the nine months to March show approvals
jumped 93 per cent to a record high of $24.9 billion, or about 13 per cent of total Australian real estate
turnover.

At a previous hearing, the FIRB said its data could not be relied upon as a complete measure of foreign
purchases, as it only measures approvals - some of these approvals do not translate into sales but, on
the other side of the ledger, some foreign buyers flout the rules by failing to seek approval and thus do not
show up in the figures.
Friday's hearing received various estimates from property industry figures that appear to show that these
two factors currently roughly cancel out, making the latest FIRB data roughly accurate.

"In Melbourne we're at 15 per cent that would sell to foreign investors requiring FIRB, in Sydney we're
12.5 per cent and in Brisbane we're around 5 per cent," said Justin Brown from global real estate agency
CBRE.

"For the financial year 2012-13, 13 per cent of our sales we're taken up by foreign buyers," concurred
Meriton's national sales direct James Sialepis.

"Funnily enough it's actually down from 22 per cent the financial year before."

First home buyers have 'no guts, no money' says Triguboff

Meriton's founder Harry Triguboff, who has been developing apartments for around 50 years, says
demand for real estate has generally eased off a little over the past couple of months.

"In the last two months the prices have not gone up, they've stopped," he told the committee members.
"It's not a mad rush to invest in property here by the foreign people."

Mr Triguboff was critical of the focus of the inquiry on foreign buyers, saying local government approvals
processes, state fair trading departments and a requirement for underground car parks all played a large
role in pushing up apartment prices.

He says there are actually very few people being locked out of home ownership by current prices,
especially with interest rates finally being lowered to what Mr Triguboff sees as reasonable levels.

Page33of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."The young ones that can't buy in the area they want, it's not many people by the way," he argued.
"They talk a lot. Why they talk a lot? Because they would like to buy cheap and sell dear, but they haven't
got the guts and they haven't got the money."

Mr Triguboff also says that foreign investment is positive for locals because it boosts the supply of homes
for them to rent.

"People are given places where they can rent, because even though the foreigner might own the
apartment, the person renting is a local person," he added.

Apartments built for foreign investment
The issue of foreign investment in residential property is heated because people are concerned that
Australian residents, and first home buyers in particular, are being priced out of the market.

At just over 12 per cent of owner-occupier loans being issued, and less than 8 per cent of the overall
home loan market, the proportion of first home buyers is around record lows.
However, the Reserve Bank's head of economics Christopher Kent says it is likely that foreign property
buyers are actually helping to boost the supply of new apartments, which may keep a lid on further price
rises.

"Liaison suggests that often what's happening is a foreign developer is managing to get pre-approvals
from foreign buyers, so something that hasn't yet been built," he explained.

"The foreign buyers say, 'Yes, we'll build in that development', and that has helped to get certain large
projects off the ground which might not otherwise have been proceeded with in recent years."
However, real estate research firm RP Data's Tim Lawless says the current prevalence of foreign
investment in certain inner-city areas, especially in Sydney and Melbourne, means much of the
apartment supply that is being built may not suit most local first home buyers.

"I think that stock that's being built in the $500,000 to $600,000 mark, it is being built very purposely for
foreign investment, I think you'll find, and there'll be quite a difference between what a first home buyer
would be seeking and what a foreign investor will be seeking," he told the committee.

"So you're probably looking at one to two bedroom units max, with a very small square meterage,
whereas a typical first home buyer for example would be seeking something more substantial, probably
with a larger area."

Foreign buyer taxes?

Committee chair, Liberal MP Kelly O'Dwyer, repeatedly asked witnesses about what the possible effects
of a special tax, fee or increased stamp duty on foreign buyers may be.

CBRE's Justin Brown said an increase in charges for foreign buyers in cities including Singapore and
Vancouver had changed the investment preferences of international real estate investors.

"We have seen increased demand for Australian product [housing] when Singapore tightened its reins
and when Vancouver tightened its reins," he observed.

The RBA's Dr Kent was was less emphatic.

"I can't speak for the bank as a whole, [but] would it have an impact? One would imagine at the margins
that it would," he responded.

The fact that both Liberal and Labor members of the committee asked witnesses about the possibility of
special charges being imposed on foreign buyers shows it is under consideration.

Such a move would make domestic political sense in that it would raise extra revenue and dampen
overseas property demand without affecting Australian voters.

However, it might face a backlash from local companies that are rapidly expanding overseas with
Chinese language real estate websites and sales tours advertising Australian properties.

The more certain outcome of the committee's inquiry appears likely to be recommendations that extra
data be collected around whether buyers are citizens, permanent residents, temporary residents or
overseas investors.

Page34of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RP Data's Craig Mackenzie says he has a relative simple cost effective suggestion of how to do it.
"More data about the purchaser - including their nationality, their residency status - could be captured at
the time the property is transferred," he said.

NS

ereal : Real Estate Markets | ecat : Economic News | e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | e11 :
Economic Performance/Indicators | e21 : Government Finance
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
IPD House
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCNEW0020140627ea6r000gp

Page35of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.