Wilmar will need to sweeten deal

By The Canberra Times

HD Wilmar will need to sweeten deal
BY
WC 783 words
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

29 April 2014
Canberra Times
CANBTZ
B012
English
(c) 2014 The Canberra Times

Wilmar will need to sweeten deal

Twitter: @eknightofficial

TD

T here are a few hurdles to overcome for the Asian consortium of Wilmar and First Pacific in its quest to
buy one of Australia's oldest food manufacturers, Goodman Fielder, starting with price. Goodman owns
brands including Meadow Lea, Praise and White Wings and has been a chronic underperformer for many
years, well before many other food companies hit troubles associated with high costs, low margins and
the stubbornly high dollar. Plenty of shareholders would welcome the opportunity to be taken out of
Goodman at a reasonable price but many consumers will not like the local company falling into foreign
hands. Any public relations backlash might be enough for Treasurer Joe Hockey to take a more forensic
look at the deal on public interest grounds. While plenty of Australian agribusiness and food processing
groups have been acquired by overseas interests - including Wilmar's $2.3 billion purchase of CSR's
sugar assets - the government's rejection of Archer Daniels Midland's bid for GrainCorp sets a more
recent precedent. At the time the bid was blocked Hockey talked about competition concerns but only last
week revealed ADM's not being of good character was behind the decision. He suggested more would
come out over time. It's worth noting that ADM is a 16per cent shareholder in Wilmar - a company that
has extensive agribusiness interests around the world. Whether this has any influence on Foreign
Investment
Review Board approvals remains to be seen. Although it shouldn't. Having sold its "open-for- business"
credentials and just completed a round of free trade negotiations in Asia, it would appear strange to block
a foreign takeover of Goodman Fielder, which has no vital infrastructure assets. But, even if there are no
regulatory roadblocks, the Singapore-based Wilmar and Hong Kong-domiciled First Pacific will first need
to reconsider their offer price which, while pitched at 27 per cent above Goodman Fielder's
average-weighted trading price

since April 2, is clearly capitalising on the negative sentiment over a profit downgrade on that day. It
represents an 18 per cent premium to last Thursday's closing price, which appears to have been boosted
by 9.6 per cent on larger than usual volume. Let's hope the corporate regulator is taking a look at that
one. ASIC said on Monday: "We would consider any price movement ahead of corporate news as part of
our regular market monitoring activities." While the suitors may increase the $1.8 billion cash bid, the
price is not wildly shy of the mark. Not
surprisingly, the Goodman Fielderboard immediately branded it opportunistic. Interestingly it failed to
respond to the First Pacific- Wilmar request for due diligence and exclusivity. But those in the know
suggest Goodman won't be lifting its skirts unless the offer is improved. Because the cash offer is
structured as a scheme of arrangement, the bidders will move into shareholder lobby mode. Wilmar
already owns 10 per cent of Goodman Fielder but will need its largest shareholders, Perpetual and James
Packer's former investment
vehicle, Ellerston, on board. Both will probably push for a higher price but be keen to ensure the bidders
don't walk away from the negotiating table. The bigger question is what First Pacific (part of the Salim
group that owns the big Indonesian Indofood) and Wilmar want with Goodman Fielder. The answer
appears to be its New Zealand dairy operations. In a letter to Goodman chairman Steven Gregg on

Page178of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Sunday, Wilmar and First Pacific said the deal would "create a leading Asia Pacific agricultural and
consumer staples joint venture with strong financial resources and Asian understanding." Citi analyst Gino
Rossi has a slightly different take. He noted that synergies with Wilmar and First Pacific are minimal
following the sale of Goodman Fielder's edible oils, fats and grains and the company's small presence in
Indonesia. "However, plans to fast-track Goodman Fielder's expansion into Indonesia and leverage
IndoFood's distribution reach are attractive to First Pacific." For its part Goodman Fielder takes the view
that the timing of this offer is particularly interesting. The structure of its NZ dairy business is under
review and is likely to lead to enlisting a joint venture partner to finance much-needed capital expenditure.
This business had a particularly bad year after a spike in farm gate milk prices. Incidentally, Australian
wheat prices also played havoc with this year's earnings. While these had a potentially one- off impact on
Goodman Fielder's earnings they are not the company's only weak spots.

RF
CO
IN
NS

56253879
fdgl : Goodman Fielder Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods
c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty Ltd
AN

Document CANBTZ0020140428ea4t0000o

Page179of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.