Debate on whether new Chinese coal rules will hurt Australian exports

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Debate on whether new Chinese coal rules will hurt Australian exports

By national resources reporter Sue Lannin
939 words
17 September 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) News
ABCNEW
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

The coal industry, Federal Government and some analysts have disputed predictions that new Chinese
coal regulations will dent exports.
The Chinese Government plans to impose restrictions on local production and imports of dirty coal which
have high levels of ash, sulphur and other chemicals.

While national restrictions are relatively loose, China is imposing tighter standards for several of its large
coastal cities.

The Federal Government says Australian producers will benefit from the ban, but Macquarie and ANZ
analysts warn tens of millions of tonnes of Australian thermal coal exports - used for generating power -
could be hit.
The Australian coal industry and the Federal Government have disputed predictions that coal exports will
be hurt by a crack down on pollution in China.
The Chinese Government plans to impose restrictions on local production and imports of dirty coal which
have high levels of ash, sulphur and other chemicals.

The Federal Government says Australian producers will benefit from the ban, but Macquarie analysts
estimate that some Australian thermal coal exports - used for generating power - could be hit.
China's National Development and Reform Commission has released draft restrictions on coal imports
which have already hit the price of thermal coal.
China will ban the mining and sale of coal which has an ash content of more than 40 per cent and a
sulphur level of more than 3 per cent.

The bans would take place from January next year, and there are fears the anti pollution measures in
China's coastal cities could hurt Australian miners.

There are tighter restrictions in the northern regions of Beijing, Tianjin & Hebei, the Yangtze River Delta
(which includes Shanghai in the east) and the Pearl River Delta in Guangdong in southern China.
These areas will be banned from burning coal with more than 16 per cent ash and 1 per cent sulphur
content.
These are the three largest economic regions in China.

Regulations 'far milder than feared'
In a research note, analysts from investment bank Macquarie observed that prices for coal out of the port
of Newcastle rose on the news because the nationwide controls were not particularly restrictive, but there
is concern about the crackdown in big cities.

"The stricter local controls remain a concern, as it supplants the looser national limits for those important
regions," the note said.

Page139of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Investment house Citi forecast in a research note that domestic Chinese producers would be hit more
than imports.
"The regulations are far milder for coal imports than the market had feared," Citi analyst Ivan Szpakowski
said.
"In fact, they are likely to have a greater impact on domestic supply, supporting Chinese prices."

In a note before the regulations were released, Macquarie analyst Stefan Ljubisavljevic forecast that the
greatest impact of a blanket ban prohibiting all coal imports with an ash level above 15 per cent would
"undoubtedly be on the Australian coal industry."
"We estimate that almost all of the thermal coal Australia ships to China does not fit the cut-off," he said.

In a note published after the regulations were released, ANZ estimates that restrictions on burning high
polluting coal in Chinese coastal cities could potentially affect as much as 30 million tonnes of Australian
coal exports.

However, Greg Evans from the Minerals Council of Australia says he does not think Australian producers
will be affected.
"The industry is confident it can meet the requirements as specified in the information from China," he
said.
"Australia is very fortunate to have some of the highest quality coal in the world."
Federal Industry Minister Ian Macfarlane believes the Chinese restrictions could help Australian
producers.
"We have some of the best coal in the world in terms of low ash, particularly low sulphur," he told
reporters.
"In the longer term, I think the value of Australian coal compared to some of our competitors, will actually
see
Australian coal reap a premium."

Hunter Valley and Galilee will be hurt: analyst
However, Tim Buckley from the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis says mines in the
Hunter Valley in New South Wales and Queensland's Galilee Basin will be hit.
"Australian exports of thermal coal to China are definitely going to be materially affected, far more so
than many of our international competitors such as Indonesia," he told the ABC in an interview.
"80 per cent of the exports from the Hunter Valley are thermal coal rather than coking coal."
Mr Buckley says coal from the Galilee Basin has a high ash content.

BHP Billiton's Mt Arthur mine is in the Hunter Valley and Rio Tinto also has mines in the Hunter Valley.
In a statement, BHP Billiton's head of coalDean Dalla Valle says the company expects to be able to
meet the Chinese regulations.

"We support efforts to improve environmental standards," he said.

"We expect to be capable of meeting the proposed NDRC regulations, which stipulate a range of quality
limits for both domestic and imported coal, should they be finalised and implemented, and do not
anticipate a material impact to our business."
Rio Tinto also says the new regulations will have "little to no impact" on the company.

Tim Buckley says local producers could limit the impact of the pollution restrictions.
"Individual mines can address this issue by putting in a wash plant, a coal handling wash plant," he
explained.
"If the coal mine doesn't currently wash their coal that will be a serious impediment."

Page140of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Australia was the second biggest importer of thermal coal into China behind Indonesia from January to
July this year.

NS

RE

c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
exports

IPD
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCNEW0020140917ea9h0000k

Page141of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.