Slow movers, power couples, big numbers

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Domain
Slow movers, power couples, big numbers

LUCY MACKEN
1,822 words
13 December 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
6
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

TITLE DEEDS
To celebrate a big year in prestige real estate, Title Deeds presents the highlights of 2014.

Angela Fleming's sale of her Bellevue Hill mansion for $19 million to Bank of America Asia president
Matthew Koder and his wife Shanyan marked a strong start to 2014.

A week later Caledonia Investments co-founder Michael Darling and his wife Manuela
Darling-Gansser went one better with the $20.5 million sale of their nearby Rovello estate to steel
engineering company boss Rupert Henry and his wife Sarah.
And then nothing. Sydney was left all dressed up with more than $1 billion in ultra-prestige stock to
sell, and only the odd $12.5 million waterfront apartment sale by David Gonski to get excited about.

The real trophy action didn't take place until the second half of the year, but meanwhile there was
much excitement down the price chain to keep Title Deeds busy. Cate Blanchett became a pin-up star
for Kippers everywhere (kids in parents pockets eroding retirement savings) when Title Deeds
revealed in January she and husband Andrew Upton bought a $1.92 million investment apartment
for their sons in Elizabeth Bay.

Celebrity chef Pete Evans put expression to his new lifestyle with a paleo diet and a move to Malabar,
where he bought a three-bedder for $1.27 million in March.

Lara Bingle put on a good show when she listed her Darling Point one-bedder with no less than two
photo shoots to get things just right. She then went holidaying in Italy with boyfriend Sam Worthington,
which made post-auction negotiations awkward when she was not contactable. But at least she later
snagged a buyer at more than $865,000.

Point Piper highlights
It wasn't until June 2 rolled around that the first of Sydney's most expensive slow-movers finally sold.
The daughter of the late Peter and Ruth Simon, Marion Richmond, had long said her bottom line for
the family waterfront on Wolseley Road was $40 million. Then $35 million. Ultimately she would not
sell for a cent less than $30 million. And so it was that Global Renewables chief David Singh and his
wife Belinda bought into Sydney's most expensive suburb.

It was enough to set some sort of benchmark for waterfront values and a week later another waterfront
mansion was put out of its for-sale misery at $37 million when Ron Medich sold to aged-care industry
boss Peter Wohl and his wife Jennifer.
The Wohls then sold their clifftop home in Dover Heights for $9.5 million to technology investor Kevin
Bermeister and his wife Beverley, and in turn they sold their Rose Bay home last week for $27 million
to Hunters Hill businessman Frank Geng.

Page239of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Charles and Maria Scarf were the next Point Piper locals to sell their non-waterfront estate for more
than $30 million to Hunters Hill local fund manager Nick Langley and his wife Lorraine.

The Langleys are trading up from their Hunters Hill waterfront Windermere, which was bought by Kui
Zhang Guo for $11.45 million just in time for his up-coming 50th birthday celebrations.
Sophie Chen was the fourth big-ticket buyer into Point Piper, laying down just over $30 million for the
1970s waterfront mansion of the late Salvatore Paino.

Julia Ross had already agreed to sell her non-waterfront prize Villa del Mar earlier in the year for $39
million to a buyer from China, but that deal was scotched when the bank valuation came in at much
less than that amount.
Chinese billionaire Xu Jiayin was not so easily put off. Word from the art world is Ross refused to
throw in her prized Snow Leopard print by artist Peter Hickey to sweeten the $39 million deal. No
matter. The chairman of real estate developer Evergrande flew into Sydney on his private jet in
October during the Chinese holiday break known as Golden Week, and flew out having exchanged on
this year's highest sale.
Liquor baron John Piven-Large came close to hitting the $30 million mark when he sold his
Edwardian-era waterfront mansion. All fingers are pointing at local Bruce McWilliam as the buyer,
although the Network Seven commercial director dismissed such talk as odd when contacted by Title
Deeds.
Then there was the $32 million on the Darling Point waterfront of the late Sir William Tyree. The
half-exchange arrangement (known as a put-and-call option) with yachtie Matt Allen was widely
reported the year before, but the full exchange didn't take place until March.

The power couples

The power couples were also out in force this year. Media slashies Jennifer Byrne and Andrew Denton
scored well on their Double Bay home, taking $4 million ahead of their June auction, and renting in
Elizabeth Bay while they finalise their $4,025,000 purchase of a split-level penthouse in Surry Hills' St
Margarets complex.

Lachlan and Sarah Murdoch got real about the price expectations on their former Bronte home, selling
for more than $10 million although on rather long and boring settlement terms.

Former High Court judge Michael Kirby and his partner Johan van Vloten didn't dally around either,
selling their Rose Bay modernist classic for more than $10 million in less than three weeks with a
caveat on the property indicating the buyer to be Faina Stolyar, who has owned the $6.75 million
apartment in The Bondi since 2009.

Aussie John Symond, accompanied by his girlfriend Amber Keating, picked up a lovely investment in
Double Bay, formerly home to Trent Nathan, for close to its $4.8 million guide.
Nick and Kathryn Greiner celebrated an end to 40 years of marriage selling their Centennial Park
home for close to $6.5 million.

Sydney University chancellor Belinda Hutchinson and her husband Roger Massy-Greene banked
more than $7.5 million for their Darling Point mansion thanks to barrister and former Liberal MP
Maurice Neil, QC and his lawyer wife Natasha Goulden, who are now selling their Spanish
mission-style home in Double Bay, the Taj.

North snore

Talk of Rachel Griffiths and her artist husband Andrew Taylor quietly listing their Palm Beach
weekender earlier in year finally proved right when she conceded as much to Title Deeds in spring,
and was paid $2.25 million 10 days later.

Bec and Lleyton Hewitt were similarly inspired to sell their Palm Beach retreat, although it took eight
months to get over the line. They eventually took more than $4.6 million for their former love nest
when it was bought by Avalon Beach locals Sasha Carrel and David Gibson, of racing car transporter
Gibson Freight.

Kyle Sandilands was late to this year's fun, only listing his St Ives home two weeks ago for about $3
million, with a possible sale looming as Title Deeds went to print.

Page240of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The busiest wheelers and dealers were Jennifer Hawkins and her husband Jake Wall, who bought a
double waterfront block in Newport for $4 million in March. That then prompted them to sell their
former North Curl Curl home in July for $4.1 million to Fortescue Metals non-executive director
Elizabeth Gaines, who in turn sold her Berowra Waters weekender to climate change activist Cate
Blanchett for $1,495,000.

Family matters
The Jacenko family tree was busy trading property stocks. PR diva Roxy Jacenko and her
stockbroker husband Oliver Curtis sold their not-for-sale Woollahra home in an off-market deal worth
more than $8 million.
Jacenko's parents Nick and Doreen took $15.6 million for their half-complete home on the Vaucluse
waterfront from Canberra Data Centres chairman Ken Lowe and his wife Maree.

And miner Nick Curtis and his wife Angela are said to have taken to a certain converted warehouse in
Surry Hills having off-loaded their Woollahra residence for $10.65 million to Rupert Murdoch's eldest
daughter Prue MacLeod and her husband Alasdair.

Record makers
Bondi Beach proved an apartment winner when former Multiplex chief executive Andrew Roberts paid
about $25 million for his yet-to-be-completed double penthouse.
Vaucluse's high for the year was fairly humble compared with previous years, at $15.45 million for the
home of former ragtrader Izhar Ronen, who then splashed $6.35 million for his Point Piper
penthouse.
It beat the $14 million that newlyweds Jacques and Lulu Kurdian took for the family home and the
$12.75 million paid by Westpac's incoming chief executive Brian Hartzer and his wife Georgiana.
Mosman only did marginally better topping the year at $16.3 million for the waterfront home of
Graphite Energy chief Nick Bain and his wife Katherine when it was bought by Hong Kong-based
expats Brand Loyalty boss Philip Spanton and his wife Kate.
Restaurateurs Frank and Rima Criniti sold their Glenhaven home Petalinda for $9 million on
Tuesday, setting a record for the Hills District.
The inner west excelled itself setting an all time high of about $12 million for the Balmain East
waterfront of former lawyer Rob Bryden. The off-market sale isn't expected to settle in time for
Christmas but rumour has it the buyer is Todd Buncombe and his art collector wife Paris Neilson, the
daughter of Kerr Neilson, Australia's 10th richest person according to this year's BRW rich list.

TOP 20 SALES OF 2014

Houses & Apartments
1. $39 m in October

Wolseley Road, Point Piper

Ross to Xu (vendor to buyer)

2. $37m in June

Wolseley Road, Point Piper

Medich to Wohl

3. $32m in March

Lindsay Avenue, Darling Point

Tyree to Allen

4. *$30m+ in August

Wentworth Street, Point Piper

Scarf to Langley

Page241of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.5. *$30m+ in October

Wolseley Road, Point Piper

Paino to Chen

6. $30m in June

Wolseley Road, Point Piper

Simons to Singh

7. *$29.7m in October

Wunulla Road, Point Piper

Piven-Large to Unknown

8. *$27m in December

Dumaresq Road, Rose Bay

Bermeister to Geng

9. *$25m in November

Bondi Pacifi c, Campbell Parade Bondi Beach

Litver/Linz to Roberts

10. $20.5m in March

Ginahgulla Road, Bellevue Hill

Darling to Henry

11. *$20m in July

Coolong Road, Vaucluse

Mayo to Malek

12. $19m in March

Drumalbyn Road, Bellevue Hill

Fleming to Koder

13. $18m in September

Wharf Road, Vaucluse

Blundy to McKinley/Rowe

14. $16.3m in September

Curraghbeena Road, Mosman

Bain to Spanton

15. $16m in September

Burran Avenue, Mosman

Morgan to Whitford

16. $16m in September

Ginahgulla Road, Bellevue Hill

Votraint (Sariaatmadja) to Longmuir

Page242of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.17. *$15.8m in November

Loch Maree Place, Vaucluse

Jacenko to Lowe

18. $15.6m in April

Carrington Avenue, Mosman

Paulsen to Brehn

19. $15.45m in May

Vaucluse Road, Vaucluse

Ronen to Jing

20. $14.5m in April

Wallaroy Crescent, Woollahra

Yeldham to Winten

(* Yet to settle)

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

cldn : Caledonia Investments PLC
irreal : Residential Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest
: Real Estate | i831 : Financial Investments | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020141212eacd000a2

Page243of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.