Hang up the streamers and put on the party hats — the start of the new financial...

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Hang up the streamers and put on the party hats — the start of the new financial...

494 words
30 June 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
First
2
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

Hang up the streamers and put on the party hats — the start of the new financial year is
something to celebrate.

But before the party, it’s time for those playing the sharemarket to look at how those stock picks at
the start of the year have played out.

All but one of the 20 industry subsectors across the ASX grew in 2013-14 with the outlier, the food,
beverages and tobacco manufacturing down by 25 per cent.

Those investing in diversified financials did far better — the sector rose 34.6 per cent.
And the financial year ended with the banking sector worth about $450 billion — the single
biggest part of the ASX.

After a couple of quiet weeks, there is plenty of data.

The avalanche begins today with May private sector credit figures from the Reserve Bank, TD
Securities’ monthly inflation gauge and the Housing Industry Association’s new home sales .

It continues with the first day of the 2014-15 financial year, when the Reserve Bank board holds its
monthly meeting.

The situation is getting more interesting. There are obvious concerns about holding official interest
rates at a 64-year-equal record low of 2.5 per cent, particularly given the heat it is pumping into the
property market.

While March quarter economic growth was strong, the bank and most analysts, know it was one
swallow. An economic spring is some time off.
There are still issues being generated between the slowdown in the mining sector and the pick-up
in the non-mining sector.

Then there is the strong Australian dollar, which has pushed up beyond the US94¢ mark even as
iron ore prices remain well below $100 a tonne.

As the Reserve Bank board starts its meeting, RP Data will release its monthly read on house
values .

Through its daily index, RP has picked up an increase in prices through most of June.

On Wednesday the Reserve’s assistant governor, Guy Debelle , will be able to explain in more
depth the bank’s thinking when he speaks in London.

The next day in Hobart, Reserve governor Glenn Stevens will address the Australian Conference
of Economists .

Page286of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.There’s plenty of data out on Thursday including May building approvals, May retail trade and
June new car sales .

Overseas, tonight we will get a look at US pending home sales for May and the ISM manufacturing
index for June .

An up-tick is expected for both.
Tomorrow, the China purchasing managers index will be released. There are tentative signs of
improvement, which will be reflected on equity markets.

Also, US car sales for June are due.

On Wednesday evening, the US ADP employment measure is out — it should show private sector
jobs up about 205,000 for June.
On Thursday, attention turns to China’s services index and, hours later, the measure of US
services activity .

NS
RE
PUB
AN

ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140629ea6u00042

Page287of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.