Sydney's buildings tell the story of where we have come from

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Extra
Sydney's buildings tell the story of where we have come from

547 words
25 May 2014
Sun Herald
SHD
First
33
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

EDITORIAL
In Point Piper, among the most expensive residential real estate in Australia, the majestic mansion
Craig-y-Mor has been reduced to rubble. Demolition began last week. It was sold in 2008 for $32.4
million to Chinese buyers who are redeveloping. Nearby, the historic Italianate waterfront property
Altona, which sold for $52 million last year to another Chinese buyer, could also become a demolition
job. A heritage assessment has recommended against a heritage order on the property. Even the
distinctive fame and grandeur of Paradis Sur Mer at the tip of Point Point turned out to be too valuable
not to redevelop.

Many buildings which had the air of permanence or history have been flattened for Sydney's
permanent state of reinvention. With real estate in the CBD, the harbourside and beach suburbs
among the most expensive in the world, there is a mania to replace or renovate to maximise market
value and return on investment. Look how impermanent even the large-scale Sydney Convention and
Exhibition Centre turned out to be. Opened in 1988, it barely lasted 24 years.

There is a constant battle in Australia's oldest and largest city between heritage conservation and
property rights. That battle extends right down to advertising signs on the side of buildings. At a certain
point in the life of an ad, it evolves into cultural heritage. The old Chesty Bond singlet ads are perhaps
the most classic and nostalgic of this genre. Very few such signs have survived in Sydney.

We support efforts to protect as many of these remaining vestiges as possible to conserve the city's
sense of its past, no matter how modest they seem. It is especially pleasing to see the conservation of
the work of cartoonist Syd Miller, who created the Chesty Bond character in 1938, taking place at the
old Bond's factory in Hampshire Lane, Camperdown, which has been redeveloped and reinvented as
the Sydney Nursing School. As we report today, the heritage-listed Chesty Bond sign is being given a
conservation make-over to bring the picture back to life.

Other venerable advertising signs are being preserved around the city even as the buildings on which
they have been placed are torn down. The current wave of preserving old signs on new buildings has
been given a name - ghost signs - thanks to the work of Stefan Schutt, of Victoria University. After
finding a trove of decades-old jobsheets from the Melbourne signwriting company Lewis & Skinner in a
building under demolition, he has archived them so they can be used for conservation.
People are entitled to develop their own property in accord with their own tastes and needs but we
would hope there is a respect for conserving signposts from our past whenever possible. Advertising
tells a story. It tells us who we were, what society consumed, what was popular. Even small gestures
offer a window into the generations that went before, and on whose shoulders we stand.

More importantly, Sydney's unique heritage buildings tell us the story of where we've come from and on
whose cultural and architectural foundations this great city has been built.

Conservation matters.

Page55of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

irreal : Residential Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest
: Real Estate
gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SHD0000020140525ea5p0007i

Page56of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.