Village Roadshow: Fresh vision draws fans with plenty of thrills

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Village Roadshow: Fresh vision draws fans with plenty of thrills

Madeleine Heffernan
958 words
19 April 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
3
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

The leisure group's successes and new market-friendly ways are drawing plenty of notice, writes
Madeleine Heffernan.

Village Roadshow was once one of the ASX's most impenetrable big companies, known for its
oversize executive pay cheques and a reputation for running itself with the secrecy of a family
business.

But it is now starting to win over investors, helped by the tearaway success of its Wet'n'Wild theme
park at Prospect in Sydney's west, growth in higher-priced cinema tickets and a widening perception
among analysts and fund managers that the company is shedding its old introverted ways. Gone is
also the trademark long hair of long-time co-executive chairman Graham Burke.

There's also the smash film The Lego Movie, which Village says shows the strength of its vertically
integrated business model. That is, the movie, which follows Emmet the Lego construction worker,
generates returns across the empire.
Lego is "great news, because we enjoy it in our theatres, we enjoy it in our distribution company, the
DVD release will be enormous, and we also enjoy it as a half-owner of the copyright in our production
company", Burke said.

And buoyed by the hundreds of thousands of thrillseekers passing through the turnstiles of Village's
water theme park since its December opening, Burke also foreshadowed "significant
announcements" in relation to Chinese theme parks over the next few months. He has previously
indicated the entertainment company was weighing up six possible theme park sites there.

"At the risk of being cliched, it's that old classic duck ... on the lake, looking very calm and the legs
are going like hell underneath," he said.
Burke said Village had been looking at China "for probably more than a decade in one way or
another, but it's been brought to a crescendo in the last two years". He and co-executive chairman
Robert Kirby had made about 24 trips to China over the past three years.
There was "no doubt" huge numbers of Chinese were itching to go to theme parks. "We will be
involved in international-style products and I don't think that that area will be crazily competitive."

And Burke declared Village's share price, which has dropped almost 5 per cent since the start of the
year, as "undervalued" after a bumper 2013. However, he dismissed any chance of another selldown
by the private company that looms large on its register.
Village Roadshow Corporation - the private company controlled by Burke, Robert Kirby and John
Kirby (the latter the sons of Village founder Roc Kirby) - sold down its 51 stake last year to 44 per
cent in a bid to increase Village Roadshow's "free float". The move was designed in part at making
the stock more liquid, an important consideration for potential big investors.

Page165of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Like the towering SkyCoaster ride at the Sydney park, an investment in Village's shares have not
been for the faint hearted. But in recent years there has been mostly upside. At the start of 2009, they
were languishing at about 55¢. On Thursday they closed at $7.11. Analysts have a 12-month target
price on Village Roadshow of mostly above $7.80.

Asked by BusinessDay whether another selldown was likely, Burke replied: "Simple answer, no."

Asked to what he attributed the wild moves in Village's share price, he replied: "The simple answer is
one never knows. I think currently they're under-priced, relative to their real value, especially given
that we've got some very exciting developments we're working on in China and south-east Asia."

Ord Minnett analyst Nicholas McGarrigle for one, believes, the next catalyst for Village Roadshow will
be "anything they do in Asia".

In February, Macquarie described Village Roadshow as a "well-run business with an enviable leisure
portfolio" which had "taken steps to improve its governance" in the past few years after a "poor"
governance track record in relation to its treatment of minority shareholders and "dealings around a
potential management buyout".

Village Roadshow Corporation launched a privatisation bid in 2009, but withdrew it in part due to an
inability to arrange financing.

Macquarie continued: "Village Roadshow now have a separate corporate governance committee.
One positive sign is that in the recent announcement of Robert Kirby becoming joint-CEO, there will
be no overall change to remuneration, with the CEO's bonus to be split between the two CEOs."

McGarrigle said Village Roadshow had improved its disclosure and investor presentations over the
past couple of years, and pleased by "cutting pay, selling assets, giving cash to shareholders and
investing in things such as Wet'n'Wild Sydney". He said the business was previously "probably too
complicated" and analyst coverage had increased in line with its growth in earnings.

Regarding its cinema business, Burke joined rival Hoyts in tipping a return to growth this year. Last
year box office takings across the industry fell by 2.3 per cent to $1.1 billion, according to Motion
Picture Distributors Association of Australia figures.

Burke said 2014 "will be a very good year, and I think '15 will be a remarkable year". He described
the films that will soon be released as "extraordinary".

Even so, to offset flat revenue or declining audiences, companies such as Village are rolling out
products such as Gold Class and supersize screens which will generate more revenue at the box
office.
Burke said the company's higher-priced Gold Class and Vmax tickets "add a pixie dust effect over
the whole spectrum, because it says we're moving with the times, that there's exciting things
happening".

RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | fra : France | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | medz : Mediterranean | nswals : New South Wales
| weurz : Western Europe
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140418ea4j0000x

Page166of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.