It's a knock down! $54 million Sydney mansion destined for the wrecking ball to claim Australia's most expensive demolition

SE
HD

BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
It's a knock down! $54 million Sydney mansion destined for the wrecking ball to claim
Australia's most expensive demolition
DANIEL MILLS
694 words
26 May 2014
11:46
Mail Online
DAMONL
English
© 2014 Associated Newspapers. All rights reserved

* The Altona in Point Piper would surpass the record by more than $20 million
* The Craig-y-mor mansion, which holds the knock-down record, sold to Chinese investors for $32
million in 2008

* A $5 million rebuild is currently underway on that land

* Sydney's east home to many expensive historic knockdowns and contemporary rebuilds

A $54 million waterfront mansion located in an exclusive Sydney suburb is set to become the most
expensive Australian property to be knocked down.

The Altona residence in Point Piper, located just metres back from Sydney Harbour, will smash the
current record for a demolition property by more than $20 million if a decision to move the wrecking
ball in gets approved next month.
The fate of the 1960s estate is in the hands of Sydney's Woollahra Council, which will need to
assess whether the benefits of building a more contemporary estate on the site outweighs the
current property's heritage listed significance.

A heritage assessment report compiled for the council recommends against the knockdown of the
Victorian Italianate residence, but the report only lists the original features of the two-storey
residence as being a parapet, two chimneys and a tower.

The same council blocked a previous application for the current record knockdown, the Craig-y-mor
mansion in the same suburb in 2008, only for it to get approved by appeal in the Land and
Environment Court.
It was sold to Chinese investors for $32 million in 2008.

Should the Altona suffer the same fate as is its non-waterfront neighbour, it will surpass the
Craig-y-mor knockdown price by $22 million.

The Craig-y-more home was demolished in favour of a $5 million rebuild, and like many before it,
investors are opting to go with more contemporary housing rather than preserve the history of older
buildings on exclusive parcels of land.

Many of the historic homes which have suffered a similar fate lie in Sydney's east, area's where their
reputations have been built on high-end housing.

Point Piper itself is is home to the millionaires row and is no stranger to passing a record or two when
it comes to demolitions.

Page39of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The waterfront estate Paradis sur Mer was a high-profile knock down and rebuild in 1990, and not
only because it was sold for a then record high $19.2 million in the late 1980s by Sir Frank and Lady
Susan Renouf.

Built in 1937 for the Radford family, it was knocked down to make way for two houses at the end of
the peninsula, one called Paradis sur Mer II, which is owned by the wife of businessman David
Gonski, and the second home called Radford.
A third smaller residence has been built on the former slipway on the site, which is for sale for about
$15 million.
Ken Jacobs, of Christie's International, who sold the property in 2008, said investors are looking to
snap up the best positions and put properties on them which will get the best return.

'The best positions are always the first to go and so it is in Sydney where you have these
extraordinary vantage points, and buyers who want the position but not necessarily the house that
stands on it,' he told Fairfax Media.

'The reality is that some of these properties, although not all, are highly under-capitalised.'
In Watsons Bay, a 1928-built Spanish villa, Villa Porto Rosa, sold in 2008 for $28.1 million and within
months of the sale, the home had been leveled and work was under way to rebuild the beachfront
mansion.
In Elizabeth Bay, the waterfront mansion Cardigan was sold for $8.5 million in 1996 to the East Asia
Property Group, after it had already been approved for demolition to make way for seven
apartments.

Some of Sydney's grand old mansions do often survive the wrecking ball to be converted into
apartments.

Two examples include homes Babworth House in Darling Point, and Kilmory, in Point Piper.

RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
Associated Newspapers
Document DAMONL0020140525ea5p0008k

Page40of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.