Buyers vie for Shell assets as BP mulls sale

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Buyers vie for Shell assets as BP mulls sale

Angela Macdonald-Smith, James Chessell and Sarah Thompson
1,137 words
8 January 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
13
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Private equity firm TPG is in the final stages of a $3 billion auction for Royal Dutch Shell 's refining
and retail business in Australia along with a consortium involving Macquarie Group .
There is also speculation a third party – potentially an Asian energy business – is also vying for the
Shell assets, including its refinery in Geelong, several import terminals and a network of 900 branded
service stations.

BP is also thought to be mulling the sale of its downstream business in Australia as the oil majors
seek to channel investment into higher-returning businesses in oil and gas production and bigger
growth markets.

"Production growth or lack thereof is the key focus of investors in the super-majors and, therefore,
money is always going to be ushered more and more upstream away from the downstream," said
Credit Suisse analyst Mark Samter.

Shell and BP have declined to comment on speculation about the potential sales. But a BP spokesman
said that only in December the British parent company had sanctioned $US150 million ($168 million)
of investment for 2014 in the Australian retail business, while maintenance work due this year at its
Kwinana refinery is expected to cost tens of millions of dollars.

Australian refineries have delivered sub-standard investment returns in the past five years. However,
there is speculation an Asian energy business such as Thai-owned PTT might be interested.

The Geelong refinery, which produces 110,000 barrels a day, has previously attracted attention from
Chinese interests in the sale process run by Merrill Lynch .

It is believed Shell's retail partner in Australia, supermarket chain Coles, is monitoring the
negotiations.Refineries hard to sell

Analysts said the distribution and retailing end of the majors' Australian businesses would be of
significant interest to new investors, particularly private equity, but the refineries would be more
problematic to sell.

"Now Australia is a net importer of fuel, we are very attractive from the point of view of regional and
international investment in the Australian market for those companies, unlikely BP and Shell which are
really upstream companies rather than downstream marketers," said Nic Moulis, chief executive of the
Australian Convenience and Petroleum Marketers Association.
He said Mobil had kicked off the trend several years ago for energy majors to exit the "chips and
chocolate" business of fuels retailing in Australia to focus on exploration and production, and it was
unsurprising Shell and BP were thinking of following suit.

Page192of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Samter said petrol and diesel importing and retailing was a "very obvious market for private equity
to be looking at" given "enormous synergies" on offer from parts of the business.

"There's a serious appetite for these types of assets, they are very high quality, defensive, pretty high
visibility; It's a competitive market but it's a rational market," he said, noting Australia stands out among
developed countries as still having growth in fuels retailing.

Australia's fuels production and retailing sector has seen massive change over the past decade, with
the closure of two refineries and a third to be closed next year, and changes in the ownership of petrol
stations.Pace of change accelerates The changes have accelerated in the last 18 months, with the
entry of giant commodities trader Trafigura into petrol retailing in Australia through more than
$800 million of acquisitions by its Puma arm, owned 40 per cent by Angolan state oil company
Sonangol.
That was preceded by the takeover of Freedom Fuels by Japan's Idemitsu Kosan , while a sale
process of another independent fuels marketer, United Petroleum is under way, in addition to the Shell
transaction.
The Australian sharemarket has also seen the entry of a new listed fuels retailer, Z Energy, formed
from the old Shell retail business in New Zealand, which was taken over by New Zealand
Superannuation Fund and Infratil.

Caltex Australia , the only locally listed refiner and marketer, is in the middle of a major transformation,
with its Sydney refinery to be converted into an import terminal this year and an increased focus on
importing, distribution and marketing.
Caltex last month revealed its refining business would lose about $175 million in 2013, with the deficit
focused on the Kurnell plant in Sydney that is slated for closure, while the Lytton plant in Brisbane
remained in the black.
Australia's small, outdated oil refineries have become increasingly uncompetitive against new
mega-plants coming into production in China and India, while the strong dollar and high costs have
added to their pain. The combined capacity of Australia's remaining six refineries is smaller than India's
Jamnagar refinery in a business where economies of scale are crucial.Commitment to buy
Sources have signalled that under pressure from potential buyers, Shell widened out its sale process
for the Geelong refinery, which it put up for sale in April, to include the rest of its downstream business
in Australia. The refinery comes with a commitment by Shell's marketing business to buy the
production.

"Refining is tough in Australia and it will only get tougher from a relative cost advantage versus other
big refineries in Asia so I'm not surprised it is a struggle," Credit Suisse 's Mr Samter said.

"If someone wanted Geelong as an import terminal, then they're probably not willing to pay anything to
get the site because they know they've got the costs of conversion."
Converting the site could cost similar to Caltex's costs for Kurnell, which involves $430 million of
closure costs and $250 million more to switch the plant to an import terminal.
Selling the Australian downstream assets fits with Shell's plans to sell about $US15 billion of assets
worldwide in the next two years. That asset sale drive is also expected to include the major's
remaining 23.2 per cent stake in Woodside Petroleum , worth about $7 billion.

Mr Moulis said he expected different types of investors would be interested in the Shell and BP
downstream portfolios given their differing structures, with Shell's retail business mostly involving
co-branded sites owned by Coles, while BP's involves more company-owned sites, a broader
distribution network and two refineries.

"Once the Geelong refinery is either closed or sold, it seems to me that the Shell business would be
reasonably attractive in its returns for a private equity investment or a Macquarie-type investment
process because you've got a large well-known tenant in the majority of your retail sites," he said.BP in
November signalled it would cut about a quarter of its staff at its Australian headquarters in Melbourne,
involving the loss of about 300 jobs, as it sought to revive its competitiveness in the tough fuels
retailing sector

CO
IN

mcqbnk : Macquarie Group Limited | bp : BP PLC | rnlp : Royal Dutch Shell PLC
i652 : Gasoline/Service Stations | iretail : Retail | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i654 : Specialty Stores | i1 :
Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas Upstream Operations | i814 : Banking | i831 : Financial

Page193of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv :
Investing/Securities | iioil : Integrated Oil/Gas
ceffic : Corporate Restructuring | c182 : Physical Asset Transactions | cacqu : Acquisitions/Mergers |
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | reqrre : Suggested Reading Retail | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c18 :
Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Shareholdings | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | redit : Selection of Top
Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140107ea1800008

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page194of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.