SOCIAL NETWORK START-UP TICKS ALL THE BOXES

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
SOCIAL NETWORK START-UP TICKS ALL THE BOXES

JOHN BEVERIDGE
592 words
4 June 2014
Herald-Sun
HERSUN
HeraldSun
24
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

IN THE BLACK VALUING a technology company is always difficult, particularly in the very early
stages.

Revenue is sketchy, the ideas sound amazing and the future is all blue sky. However, the downside
risks are just as real so the best you can probably do is make sure the people involved are the real
deal, the technology works, partners are good and potential markets are large.

Social network Mig33, which will later change its name to MigMe, can tick all of those boxes as it
prepares for a backdoor listing through Latin Gold.

Chief executive Steven Goh has a solid reputation after establishing online broker Sandford
Securities and helping Bell Potter with Belldirect before getting bored with broking and entering the
start-up technology company space.

The rest of the incoming board also have some impressive credentials in the online gaming,
monetisation and social media space.

The world’s biggest electronics manufacturer Foxcon Technology — best known for making most
Apple products — is also on board with a 19.9 per cent stake.

The big opportunity here is to have Mig33’s application pre-installed on phones before they are
delivered to its main markets of South East Asia, the Middle East and Africa.

Then there is the product itself, which is perhaps best described as a social entertainment platform
that includes blogs, chatrooms, music, virtual gifts and games.

Using interaction with celebrities and games, Mig33 has managed to make substantial inroads
across markets that contain 3.5 billion potential customers.

And while sending someone a digital kiss, hug or even — believe it or not — poo in a variety of
consistencies doesn’t seem like a recipe to print money, those small micropayments can really add
up.

In Indonesia, one popular singing duo are now making more money from Mig33 than they are from
selling their music and that is becoming a familiar theme in markets where music piracy is rife.

Celebrities obviously won’t mind building their profiles on social media and making some serious
money on the side.

Once the platform is further improved, Steven is convinced that it has the potential to be as
successful as companies with massive market capitalisations such as Hong Kong’s Tencent
Holdings and China’s YY.

Page41of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It is a tough investment call at this stage because current Latin Gold shareholders will be diluted
when the company restructures but it is worth throwing a digital hug, kiss and speculative buy.

QUICKSTEP Holdings is rapidly becoming a serious world player in the manufacture of hi-tech
carbon fibre panels.

With revenue doubling, chairman Tony Quick has joined the executive ranks so that executive
director Philippe Odouard is freed up to drive the growth of new products and stock up the executive
team.

At the moment Quickstep is best known for supplying parts for a variety of fighter jets and transport
planes.

However, now that the Quickstep process has been well proved in demanding situations, the big
opportunity lies in the automotive sector.

With most car manufacturers desperately trying to cut weight to improve fuel economy, carbon fibre
parts are an obvious answer, being half the weight of steel and 30 per cent lighter than aluminium.

Initially the panels will appear in high-end sport cars but as costs fall, production will include
everyday cars.
A speculative buy with $40 million of firm orders and plenty of room to grow.The Herald Sun
accepts no responsibility for stock recommendations. Readers should contact a licensed financial
adviser.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document HERSUN0020140603ea640003c

Page42of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.