Cameco doubles down on Yeelirrie’s potential

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Cameco doubles down on Yeelirrie’s potential

Peter Klinger
389 words
25 November 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
First
4
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

Cameco has dismissed the scope of BHP Billiton’s erstwhile ambition for Yeelirrie as unviable and
inefficient as it steps up its own efforts to advance the uranium project near Wiluna.
On the same day as uranium miner Paladin Energy launched yet another capital raising — this
time for $205 million — to try to fix its balance sheet, Cameco asked the WA Environmental
Protection Authority to rip up earlier approvals given to BHP.

Cameco wants to process twice as much uranium ore as BHP had intended, describing the mining
giant’s now-redundant Yeelirrie plan as “not . . . efficient or economically viable”.
The change of Yeelirrie’s scope, focused on doubling the processing capacity to 2.4 million tonnes
a year for annual output of 7500t of uranium peroxide, prompted Cameco yesterday to re-start the
environmental approval process.
Cameco has time to develop Yeelirrie, WA’s biggest uranium project which it bought from BHP for
$430 million two years ago.

Under a State Agreement, Cameco has until mid-2018 to submit a development proposal.
But with the uranium price displaying a few green shoots — the spot price has risen from a
historically low $US28 a pound to $US38/lb over the past four months — Cameco will want to get its
approvals in place to be ready to cash in on the hoped-for revival for the nuclear fuel.
Market expectations of an eventual uranium price recovery are of little help to Paladin, which
yesterday launched its now- annual raising to deal with debt at its loss-making Langer Heinrich mine
in Namibia.
Paladin has to repay $US300 million ($345 million) of bonds in a year’s time.
The raising comprises a $61 million placement at 42¢ a share to HOPU Clean Energy, a
Singapore-based China-focused private equity firm, and a one-for-two entitlement offer at 26¢,
underwritten by JPMorgan.
It is four months since Paladin received $US190 million from China National Nuclear Corp for
selling a 25 per cent stake in Langer Heinrich, another measure by the Perth miner to address its
balance sheet problem.
Paladin has trumpeted the HOPU placement, which gives the firm a 15 per cent stake in the Perth
miner, as struck at a substantial premium to its last share trade of 38¢.

CO

palrs : Paladin Energy Limited | bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | smdc : Cameco Corp | bltplc : BHP Billiton
PLC

Page56of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | iuran : Uranium Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020141124eabp00008

Page57of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.