Big Aussie miners act cool over Chinese coal shoulder

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Big Aussie miners act cool over Chinese coal shoulder

JOHN DAGGE
428 words
18 September 2014
The Advertiser
ADVTSR
Advertiser
52
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

AUSTRALIAN coal miners have played down the impact of proposed Chinese measures to ban
imports of low-quality coal, with Whitehaven saying the rules will ultimately benefit the local sector.
Australia’s coal industry is poring over the finer points of a Chinese government draft that is set to
ban the import and local sale of coal with high impurities from next year.

The crackdown comes as Chinese authorities move to tackle air pollution. China accounts for a
quarter of Australia’s thermal coal exports – used in energy production – buying about 50 million
tonnes last year.
Of key concern to miners are measures to ban the import of coal with ash content greater than 16
per cent and sulphur content greater than 1 per cent in China’s three biggest economic regions.

These cover the coastal areas of Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou, which accounted for 42 per cent
of China’s thermal coal imports, according to investment bank Citi.
Energy research group Wood Mackenzie has estimated that no local thermal coal exports would
currently meet the new conditions – a claim disputed by the Minerals Council of Australiamining
lobby group.
Morgan Stanley says about 40 per cent of thermal coal exports could run afoul of the new regulations
but notes only a proportion of these shipments go to China.
Rio Tinto yesterday said the new rules would have “little if any impact” on the company while BHP
Billiton said it did not expect a material impact on its business.
The Victorian State Government, which is trying to develop a brown coal export industry, said the
ash and sulphur content of the state’s coal was far below any of the proposed requirements.
Analysts also say miners can reduce coal’s ash content by washing or blending it with higher grades,
although this may be prohibitively expensive for a sector already struggling with low prices.
Just how far-ranging the ban will be is yet to be clarified, with the Minerals Council saying coal-fired
power stations with pollution systems in place in coastal areas – key users of thermal coal – could be
exempt.
Whitehaven Coal chief Paul Flynn said local coal producers would, in the long run, benefit from the
new rules as Australia’s coal was of higher quality than international rivals.

Whitehaven shares closed 2.5 per cent lower at $1.775.However, Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton shares
climbed 0.4 per cent to $62.03 and 0.3 per cent to $35.84.

NS

gcat : Political/General News

Page86of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

PUB
AN

china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document ADVTSR0020140917ea9i0002m

Page87of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.