Weekly Broker Wrap: Commodities And Equities in 2015, Banks and Media

HD Weekly Broker Wrap: Commodities And Equities in 2015, Banks and Media
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

By Greg Peel
1,099 words
19 December 2014
FN Arena
FNAREN
English
Copyright 2014. FN Arena Ltd.

TD

Commodities in 2015
After a decade of cost inflation and currency headwinds for the Australian mining sector, costs and the
Aussie are now starting to follow commodity prices down, Deutsche Bank notes, albeit on a lag. While
commodity price falls are hurting higher cost producers, lower cost producers are the greatest
beneficiaries of a lower cost curve. The falling oil price is contributing to lower costs.

Deutsche expects the Aussie to fall to US70c by 2016. Those mining stocks best exposed to the falling
Aussie and oil price, in the broker's view, are Alumina Ltd ((AWC)), OZ Minerals ((OZL)), Rio Tinto
((RIO)), BHP Billiton ((BHP)), Whitehaven Coal ((WHC)), Independence Group ((IGO)) and Regis
Resources ((RRL)).
The hardest hit commodities in 2014 have been iron ore, thermal coal, copper and oil, Deutsche notes.
Aside from lower costs and currency, the broker sees 2015 as being a year of M&A and asset sales in the
sector as the gap between low and high cost producers widen. Price-wise, the bulks should begin to
rebalance and base metals strengthen. Deutsche' top sector picks for 2015 are Rio, BHP, Alumina,
Independence, Sirius Resources ((SIR)), Sandfire Resources ((SFR)) and PanAust ((PNA)).
The broker is bullish base metals but especially nickel, zinc and aluminium/alumina. Copper will remain
in surplus but the impact will be dampened by falling grades in some of the world's biggest mines. Bulk
commodities remain in oversupply so market rebalance will take some time.

Morgan Stanley has downgraded its long term commodity price forecasts substantially heading into 2015.
Iron ore and the coals (thermal and met) see 26-33% reductions while base metal reductions are a more
modest 5-12%.

The broker notes that market commentary around commodities, in the wake of 2014's big falls, is
"overwhelmingly bearish", with China's moderating demand growth the primary cause of concern.
Morgan Stanley nevertheless highlights that relentless supply growth sparked by higher prices in the
boom has come home to roost, and once rebalancing starts occurring, opportunities will emerge in
commodities markets.
Morgan Stanley likes metals. China's multi-decade, materials-intensive cycle is maturing in a way that
requires less bulks and more metals, the broker suggests, and this demand will compete with demand in
an improving US economy. The broker prefers nickel, copper and zinc.
Equity Strategy

2014 was a year featuring outperformance of defensive stocks in the Australian market, UBS notes, and
high-yielding defensives in particular, albeit the banks lagged on capital concerns. Beyond the yield story,
foreign currency earners also performed well, with defensive healthcare a particular favourite. Those high
yielders have for the most part now run up against the broker's target prices.

Resource sector stocks and resource sector service providers made up 14 of the bottom 20 places,
performance wise, for the ASX100 in 2014, UBS notes. No surprise there. But the broker believes 2015
offers better prospects for a price "basing" in base metals and oil, particularly if global growth can show
some signs of life.

Page132of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.UBS believes Bluescope Steel ((BSL)) and Sims Metal Management ((SGM)) are the best positioned
resource-related companies for a turnaround in 2015. Among the yielders, Spark Infrastructure ((SKI))
still offers upside in the broker's view, while Aristocrat Leisure ((ALL)) is offering positive earnings
momentum among the foreign currency earners. Among local industrials, UBS believes Crown Resorts
((CWN)) is oversold.

The Banks

It could have been a lot worse, suggests Macquarie, in reference to the Murray Inquiry. The banks
copped one specific capital impost in the form of higher mortgage risk weightings but avoided a direct
impost on a "too big to fail" (TBTF) basis. However, the more vague recommendation that Australia's big
banks should maintain capital ratios within the "top quartile" of international bank ratios creates its own
problems.

ANZ Bank ((ANZ)) and Westpac ((WBC)) were the two banks most likely to be hurt if a specific TBTF
buffer were applied given Commonwealth Bank ((CBA)) is already well capitalised and National Bank
((NAB)) has the luxury of being able to sell assets. But all the banks will be needing some $6-7bn of
additional capital as it is, Macquarie suggests.

The problem with "top quartile" is that it is potentially a moveable feast of a measure, dependent on what
the rest of the world's banks are up to. Thus while specific TBTF buffer would have hurt, at least it would
be a "known". Macquarie believes the vague "top quartile" guideline will create great uncertainty.

Of course it's all just recommendations at this point.

And it is still uncertain exactly how the regional banks will be impacted, Deutsche Bank suggests. The
broker's base case is for a capital benefit to the smaller banks, bringing their return on equity measures
into line with, or to a premium over, the big banks.

What we do know is that the individual litigation clouds hanging over each of the big two regionals have
now parted. The Federal Court has approved a settlement between bank of Queensland ((BOQ)) and
investors in Storm Financial and the Victorian Court has approved a settlement between Bendigo &
Adelaide Bank ((BEN)) and investors in Great Southern.

Media

Advertising data suggest a flat first half of FY15 to date, with mid-single digit improvement noted in
November driven by digital and a lumpy jump in outdoor, JP Morgan notes. Metro TV booking have
declined by 4.4%, FY-to-date, and newspaper/magazines have declined by around 10%. Metro radio is
up 5.7%.

Traditional media revenue trends remain subdued, JP Morgan suggests, and there remains downside risk
to consensus earnings forecasts among stocks in the sector. The broker is Overweight Carsales.com
((CRZ)), Seven West Media ((SWM)) and Prime Media ((PRT)) and Underweight Fairfax Media ((FXJ))
and Ten Network ((TEN)).  

Find out why FNArena subscribers like the service so much: "Your Feedback (Thank You)" - Warning this
story contains unashamedly positive feedback on the service provided.

FN Arena is building the future of financial news reporting at www.fnarena.com . Our daily news reports
can be trialed at no cost and with no obligations. Simply sign up and get a feel for what we are trying to
achieve.

Subscribers and trialists should read our terms and conditions, available on the website.

All material published by FN Arena is the copyright of the publisher, unless otherwise stated.
Reproduction in whole or in part is not permitted without written permission of the publisher.

RF
CO

IN

RE

949E8E16-DD31-F80B-20D2E6E3D93FA9B2
golpla : OZ Minerals Limited | jowell : Regis Resources Limited | whcmpl : Whitehaven Coal Limited |
dwitd : Morgan Stanley
i83103 : Commodity Contracts Dealing | i831 : Financial Investments | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv :
Investing/Securities | i1 : Energy | i111 : Coal Mining | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i814 : Banking | i83101 :
Investment Banking | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | ibnk : Banking/Credit | igoldm : Gold Ore
Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

Page133of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB FN Arena Ltd.
AN

Document FNAREN0020141219eacj00003

Page134of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.