Sunland new owner of $61m Lakeview

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CommercialProperty
Sunland new owner of $61m Lakeview

KYLAR LOUSSIKIAN, RESIDENTIAL
348 words
4 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
38
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

QUEENSLAND-based developer Sunland Group has confirmed it has purchased a 41.9ha site on
the Gold Coast for $61 million, as both local and offshore developers target the tourism market
previously decimated by the  financial crisis.

In a deal foreshadowed by The Australian on Thursday, Sunland told the Australian Securities
Exchange it had bought the Lakeview site on the corner of Bermuda Street and Nerang-Broadbeach
Road, one of the last remaining undeveloped pockets of Mermaid Waters, 5km south-west of Surfers
Paradise.

Also this week, Chinese development giant Wanda announced it had received Foreign Investment
Review Board approval to invest in the $900m triple-tower Jewel project at Surfers Paradise.
The hotel and apartment project is being developed in a joint venture with Chinese-backed Ridong.

Sunland said approvals were already in place for 1425 houses, with an estimated end value of $850m
on the Lakeview site.
The property was sold by the Melbourne-based Schleinberg family through Colliers International,
and has an existing retail precinct that generates an income of about $1.3m per year.

Sahba Abedian, Sunland’s managing director, said that he expected work to start next year, with the
project — a mix of houses, townhouses and medium-density towers, including commercial space —
being delivered over a decade.
“The Lakeview acquisition adds to the quality of the group’s development pipeline and represents a
substantial residential opportunity in a prime Gold Coast location,” he said.
“It has also increased Sunland’s development pipeline by 27 per cent, to now total 6845 residential
housing, urban development and multi-storey products, with an estimated end value of $4 billion.”
Sunland has acquired a number of sites in the past month, paying Harry Triguboff’s Meriton Group
$18m for a 3ha block in Sydney’s northern beaches. Meriton paid $5m for it five years ago.
At the time, Mr Abedian said the property in Warriewood was slated for an $80m townhouse
development.The company also owns a 6ha site in nearby Ingleside.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141003eaa40004r

Page159of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.