Glencore has fighting chance of completing rumored Rio Tinto merger

Exclusive
Glencore has fighting chance of completing rumored Rio Tinto merger

SE
HD
BY
Angela Kean
WC 1,558 words
PD
9 October 2014
SN
SNL Metals & Mining Daily: West Edition
SC
SNLMMDW
VOL Issue: 82516
LA
CY
LP

English
Copyright 2014. SNL Financial LC

TD

Industry commentators have a bit to say on the rumors surrounding a potential merger between Glencore
Plc and Rio Tinto, and there is suggestion that it would not take much for Glencore to get a potential deal
off the ground.

Bernstein Research senior analyst Paul Gait told institutional investors during an Oct. 7 conference call
that it appears to be an "eminently doable kind of deal."

Meanwhile, Fat Prophets analyst David Lennox told SNL Metals & Mining that Glencore would have a
good starting base for a possible merger if it is able to convince Rio Tinto's largest shareholder, Aluminum
Corp. of China, or Chinalco, to sell its 9.8% stake in the company.

While both Glencore and Rio Tinto have hosed down speculation that the pair are in fresh talks regarding
a possible deal, Glencore did not completely close the door on the option, saying Oct. 7 that it reserves its
rights to make an offer in the future.
Glencore contacted Rio Tinto in July regarding a potential US$160 billion merger of the two companies.
However, Rio Tinto knocked back the offer, saying it was not in the best interests of its shareholders.

Overall, the consensus seems to be that a merger between the two companies makes sense and would
be positive for the mining industry.
Gait said a merger would essentially give the world's best mining real estate to the management that has
the most coherent and well-articulated strategic vision for the mining industry.
"It would essentially enable the company to create the world's largest must-own mining stock, with all of
those kinds of rerating potentials inherent in that, and at the same time the deal would be earnings
accretive," he said. "So what's not to like from an industrial perspective in putting these two companies
together?"

According to Gait, a merged Rio Tinto and Glencore would displace BHP Billiton as the "must-own"
mining stock.
"You would have in NewCo, pretty much the perfect mining company from a commodity exposure
perspective," he said. "You would have all of the major commodities covered — copper, iron ore, coal,
nickel, zinc — as well as having significant optionality around some of the other minor commodities — the
ferroalloys and so on and so forth."

Citi said in a research note to clients, cited by The Australian on Oct. 7, that it is a positive potential deal
for Glencore and for the sector given the long list of potential rationales.
"The big question is at what price would Rio shareholders agree, if at all, given we are at the lows of iron
ore prices based on our house view," Citi said.

Lennox agreed it would come down to dollars and cents and what Glencore is willing to offer to effect a
merger.

Page253of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."It would obviously have to be an offer that would show value greater than what shareholders think that
the current structure of Rio Tinto could deliver and that's really going to be the key," he said.

An attractive target
The lure of Rio Tinto for Glencore is extremely high given the recent volatility in the iron ore price and the
impact this has had on Rio Tinto's share price.

"Rio Tinto is now looking about as cheap as it ever has from a Glencore perspective," Bernstein's Gait
said.
The company has lost nearly 20% of its relative value compared to Glencore over the past few months as
the iron ore price hit fresh five-year lows of less than US$80 a tonne.

The long-term price outlook for the steelmaking ingredient is also grim, with analysts forecasting a price of
less than US$100 a tonne.
However, the expectation for base metals is well-supported, according to Gait, with copper, zinc and
nickel all forecast to rise.

"If we look at the average commodity portfolio, so the average price that the Rio Tinto portfolio is exposed
to, that is basically going to trade flat, [with] some growth in aluminum and copper offsetting the very
significant declines in iron ore," Gait said.
"On the other hand, if we look at what Glencore is exposed to, it's essentially thermal coal, zinc, nickel
and copper — commodities everybody expects to do well into the medium and long term, and it's this that
has given rise to the disparity between both the multiple that the companies trade on and also the recent
share price performance."

J.P.MorganCazenove also sees the "credible strategic rationale" behind a combination of the two
companies.

Analysts said in a note cited by Mineweb on Oct. 7 that Glencore's approach to Rio Tinto in July affirmed
its view that Glencore has a "strategic appetite" to pursue a tie-up with Rio Tinto.

"In our view, [Glencore's] management are attracted by the physical commodity trading opportunities
potentially afforded by [Rio Tinto's] iron ore business, a commodity where [Glencore] has negligible
exposure," analysts said.

Positives outweigh negatives

Fat Prophet's Lennox said a combination of the two companies would give Glencore greater exposure to
actual mining operations, while at the same time lowering the company's trading exposure inside its
own operations.

He also noted that Rio Tinto has a very strong balance sheet, which could be leveraged up prior to any
merger, and very strong cash flows, and that any merger would give Glencore significant exposure to key
commodities, particularly iron ore.
"Not only would they be a significant miner of iron ore, but they would be a significant trading house in it,"
Lennox said. "That would really complement their trading business. From Glencore's point of view, you
can probably see why they've been sniffing around [Chinalco]."
Any potential deal would see better management of Rio Tinto's iron ore business, which could enhance
the value of the company's Pilbara assets, according to Gait.
"I think for me, it's painfully clear that the strategies of the large iron ore majors have not worked," he told
institutional investors. "For every 1% additional volume growth that we're pushing into the market, the
price of iron ore comes down by about 2%.

"This is not value-maximizing, it's not even earnings-accretive, let alone value-maximizing, and the better
management of the iron ore industry would mean that for every [US]$1 a tonne of improved price on the
back of superior capital discipline, the value of the Pilbara assets goes up by about [US]$1.5 billion."
A merger could also allow for the acceleration of around US$50 billion in capital returns through the more
aggressive use of Rio Tinto's balance sheet, as well as deliver a possible US$35 billion rerating of the
company.

Possible offer price

Page254of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Among the questions surrounding potential merger rumors is the price Glencore would pay for Rio Tinto,
and some believe a substantial premium would not be on the table and any bid would likely be a mix of
cash and scrip.

Gait suggests Glencore may consider up to a 20% premium via an offer of £16.40 and 6.3 shares for
every Rio Tinto share held.

"I think the most likely situation rather would probably be to see more paper than that involved in any
offer, but there is certainly a very significant potential for a cash element in any deal," he said.
Meanwhile, another big question is whether or not Chinalco would consider any offer put forward by
Glencore.

Media reports that say Glencore has been sounding out Rio Tinto's shareholders as a precursor to a
possible merger has many speculating whether major shareholder Chinalco will even look at a potential
bid.
Fat Prophet's Lennox thinks Chinalco would be more interested in a share deal.
Meanwhile, Bernstein's Gait surmises that the Chinese aluminum major may be frustrated by the lack of
progress with Rio Tinto's Simandou iron ore project in Guinea, the development of which was one of the
reasons Chinalco invested in the major mining house.
"Chinalco paid £60 a share to buy its 9.8% stake in Rio Tinto and that was predicated on essentially the
development of the Simandou project and greater board representation for Chinalco, neither of which
have really progressed," he said.
"One of the issues that we're dealing with here is, essentially, Chinalco may be very frustrated with the
amount of progress that has been made so far and would in actual fact like to see a further development
of Simandou.
"It is entirely possible that Glencore could make the decision simply to give those tenements to Chinalco
as a condition for their support for the deal."

While many believe Glencore stands a good chance of completing a merger deal and can see the
strategic rationale behind such a combination, J.P. MorganCazenove analysts are of the view that a tie-up
is unlikely in fiscal 2015.

Rio Tinto has now reportedly turned to Macquarie Group for assistance in protecting itself against any
potential bid by Glencore.

Sources told The Australian Financial Review that Macquarie would retain a role focused on maximizing
"shareholder value" in the event that Glencore makes a another push to create the world's largest mining
house in 2015.

CO almcor : Aluminium Corporation of China Limited | march : Glencore PLC | rtz : Rio Tinto PLC | rtzcra : Rio

IN

NS

Tinto Group | craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i22 : Primary
Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | i2245 : Aluminum | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs :
Business/Consumer Services
cmerg : Mergers | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu :
Acquisitions | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
IPD Rumored Transaction
PUB SNL Financial LC
AN

Document SNLMMDW020141014eaa90000u

Page255of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.