Oakajee dumped, heat’s on Padbury

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Oakajee dumped, heat’s on Padbury

ANDREW BURRELL, DEALS
490 words
1 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
17
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

PADBURY Mining has abandoned its widely ridiculed plan to revive the $6.5 billion Oakajee port
and rail project, but the company still faces an investigation by the corporate regulator into whether
it misled the market over its botched funding deal.

The Perth-based junior explorer said yesterday it had torn up an April 8 funding agreement with
companies connected to colourful Sydney entrepreneur Roland Frank Bleyer, who told The
Australian last week he would find the $6.5bn in the Cayman Islands.

But Padbury has yet to answer a string of concerns raised about its disclosure by the Australian
Securities & Investments Commission and the Australian Securities Exchange.

It is understood that shares in Padbury — which soared when the Oakajee deal was announced to
the market — will remain suspended until it satisfies the ASX that it is complying with its disclosure
obligations.

ASIC is also understood to be conducting an investigation into whether Padbury’s deal with Mr
Bleyer was genuine and whether the market was misled.
Padbury managing director Gary Stokes did not return calls last night. Sources in the Perth iron
ore industry said Mr Stokes’s decision to go into business with a figure such as Mr Bleyer had
destroyed his credibility.
Padbury said that Mr Stokes had withdrawn from a mining conference he was scheduled to attend
today.

Mr Stokes said he was “greatly encouraged” by comments by West Australian Premier Colin
Barnett about the renewed interest of Chinese companies in developing the Oakajee project.

Mr Barnett said yesterday it took him “about 30 seconds” to work out that Padbury’s plan was
unrealistic and he was backing cashed-up Chinese companies to fund the infrastructure.
Padbury said on April 11 that it had raised 100 per cent of the equity needed to build Oakajee
through an agreement with an unnamed entity, later revealed to be a company controlled by Mr
Bleyer.

But after being quizzed by the ASX and ASIC over the bona fides of the deal, Padbury went into a
trading halt and was never able to disclose the ultimate source of the funding or whether any
security arrangements were in place.

The Padbury announcement sparked scrutiny of Mr Bleyer’s past business dealings amid
Continued on Page 18 Continued from Page 17 revelations of a string of failed business deals as
well as civil and criminal cases brought against him in the US.

Page288of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Padbury said yesterday it had signed a deed of termination agreement with companies linked to Mr
Bleyer.

It said the effect of the deed was to release and discharge the parties from any claims arising under
the agreement or its termination.

“Padbury will continue to actively explore all available opportunities to exploit its existing intellectual
property with respect to the Oakajee project,” it said.The Oakajee infrastructure has been promised
in vain by various parties over 30 years.

rivgol : Padbury Mining Limited
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources |
imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140430ea51000cq

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

Page289of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.