Panel rebuffs Yancoal plan

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Panel rebuffs Yancoal plan

Peter Ker
454 words
16 December 2014
Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
21
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Resources - Minority shareholder concerns upheld
Troubled miner Yancoal's plan to raise $US2.3 billion through a controversial rights offering has
been thrown into doubt, after the Takeovers Panel upheld concerns from minority shareholders that
the plan was unacceptable and was likely to be "highly dilutive".

Loss-making Yancoal had sought to raise the $US2.3 billion ($2.79 billion) by issuing convertible
notes, under a plan that would have used much of the money to repay debts owed to its 78 per cent
shareholder Yanzhou Coal, of China.
Minority shareholders in Yancoal, including Noble Group and Hong Kong hedge fund Senrigan
Capital, feared the plan was another attempt to dilute them out of the business, given Yanzhou could
have raised its stake in Yancoal to more than 98 per cent if it was the only participant in the raising.

After complaints by Senrigan, the Takeovers Panel declared on Monday that the circumstances of
the rights offer were unacceptable, and that insufficient steps had been taken to minimise the
"control effect" of the rights offer.

The panel said the subordinated capital notes created under the offer would not be attractive to
shareholders beyond Yanzhou, and while the rights offer could still go ahead, Yanzhou could
convert the notes into Yancoal shares only if its ownership did not grow beyond 78 per cent.
If Yanzhou wanted to convert enough notes to increase its stake in Yancoal beyond 78 per cent, it
would require approval from more than half of the minority shareholders.

Given Noble, which owns more than 13 per cent of Yancoal, has opposed previous attempts by
Yanzhou to take Yancoal private, it appears unlikely minority shareholders would approve such a
conversion.

The scathing response by the Takeovers Panel is at odds with the approval independent directors of
Yancoal - including Greg Fletcher, Dr Geoff Raby, Vince O'Rourke and Huaqiao Zhang - gave the
plan before it was announced on November 10.

The independent directors contacted on Monday declined to comment about the panel's findings.

The ruling is a blow for Yanzhou, which has failed twice in 18 months to buy the 22 per cent of
Yancoal it does not own.
Yancoal lost $832 million last year and another $192 million in the first six months of this year
under depressed coal prices. Yanzhou has vowed to ensure the company remains solvent under a
deal with the Australian government that excused Yanzhou from having to reduce its stake in
Yancoal to less than 70 per cent.

Page50of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In a statement released to the ASX, Yancoal said it would consider the ruling before deciding
whether to proceed with the raising. Noble Group declined to comment.

CO

IN
RE
PUB
AN

yaptyl : Yancoal Australia Limited | yankua : Yankuang (Group) Corp | ynzmn : Yanzhou Coal Mining
Co Ltd
i112 : Coal Mining Support Activities | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020141215eacg0004f

Page51of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.