Chinese developer to buy school

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Chinese developer to buy school

Chris Vedelago, Aisha Dow
912 words
21 December 2014
Sunday Age
SAGE
First
7
English
(c) 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Wealthy Chinese property developer Wang Hua has been revealed as one of the overseas investors
behind a last ditch bid to take over failing private school Macedon Grammar.

Mr Wang, who has a net worth of about $400 million, is negotiating to acquire the licence and assets of
the Christian school, which was declared insolvent last month.

Fairfax Media understands the entrepreneur and his partners are hoping to expand Macedon Grammar
into a boarding school that will cater for the children of China's wealthy and politically connected.

But the "investment syndicate" and its local representatives have taken extraordinary steps to conceal
their involvement in the mooted deal.

Mr Wang came to public attention last year amid claims from a former business partner that he
employs ruthless business tactics and uses his private jet to transport suitcases of cash from China to
Australia, where it is allegedly invested locally.
The school is the latest in a series of Australian assets sought by the Chinese
national-turned-Australian resident, whose interests have included several residential developments, a
winery, golf course and two Toorak homes.

Macedon Grammar School was put into external administration in late November in the wake of
growing financial problems at the prep to year 12 campus. The school had been served with a "show
cause" notice by state education authorities over concerns about its governance, educational
leadership, declining enrolments and financial viability.

On the day the school was due to close its doors, a $250,000 donation from a mysterious benefactor
allowed the non-profit educational cooperative to remain open for the rest of the year. Parents were
told the money came from Mountain Properties, a company funded by an unnamed Chinese investor
interested in reviving the school.

An application has since been lodged with the state's education accreditation authority to continue the
school's licence to operate.
Michael Landy, a partner at accountancy firm Eagle Financial Services, is the sole director and
shareholder of Mountain Properties, which was registered on the day the donation was announced. Mr
Wang's name does not appear on any documents lodged with the corporate regulator. It is also
understood that the identities of those involved in the investment syndicate were not provided in the
application to the state government.

But sources close to the deal have identified Mr Wang as key to the offer to acquire the school's
licence and assets, which includes nearly 37 hectares in the Macedon Ranges. It is unlikely the
property could be commercially developed because of planning and environment restrictions.

Page62of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.A central player in the planned revival of the school is its proposed new chairman and former Macedon
Ranges mayor, Noel Harvey, who served on the school's board for 18 months before quitting in June
over concerns about the school's incomplete financial records and whether it was trading while
insolvent.

Mr Harvey said he believed Mr Wang wanted to take over the running of the school because there was
prestige in being able to provide Chinese students with an Australian education through its
International Baccalaureate program.

"If you have an Australian education it opens the door to the world. Victoria is seen as the best
education you can get," Mr Harvey said.

Parents have been told should the state government approve the proposal the school's operation and
curriculum would remain virtually unchanged next year. Mountain Properties, a for-profit company that
would own the school's assets, is hoping to build boarding facilities and boost international enrolments
in 2016.

Mr Landy initially denied Mr Wang has any relationship with Macedon Grammar, saying he was instead
acting on behalf of an undisclosed overseas investment syndicate. He later admitted Mr Wang had
been involved in meetings about the future of the school, but said he was only "one of the delegates" of
the syndicate.

"We will reveal what we reveal when it's time to reveal it," he said.

Last year, Mr Wang became embroiled in a legal dispute over control of the exclusive Heritage Golf
and Country Club in Chirnside Park, which he hoped to use to entertain associates from China.

His former partner in the venture, Guo Zhao "Sunny" Sun, madeaccusations in court documents about
Mr Wang, including that he employed ruthless business practices and used his private jet to move
large amounts of cash out of China.

The fight was settled out of court, but the club collapsed under massive debts. It was eventually bought
by what appears to be a foreign company represented by a Melbourne "private wealth" consultant
operating from the same address as Mountain Properties.

Sources close to Mr Wang said he is the ultimate owner of the Heritage Golf and Country Club.

In the wake of media coverage about the court case, Mr Wang resigned as a director of six of his
investment companies on the same day, leaving his wife in control.
Mr Wang was also believed to be behind a bid to buy the lease to the Albert Park Golf Course in 2013,
and was considering development plans that would add an indoor driving range, reception centre and a
hotel to the public course.
The lease was later sold to a company owned by China-based entity Shenzhen City Zhuojia
Converging Wisdom Invest Co Ltd, the ownership of which is unknown.

cvedelago@theage.com.au

aisha.dow@fairfaxmedia.com.au

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gprive : Private Education | gscho : School | gcat : Political/General News | gedu : Education
china : China | austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SAGE000020141221eacl00010

Page63of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.