Cochlear Smartphone Feature Gets U.S. Nod -- Market Talk

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Cochlear Smartphone Feature Gets U.S. Nod -- Market Talk

1,486 words
16 September 2014
09:17
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

2317 GMT [Dow Jones] Cochlear (COH.AU) shares may get a boost after U.S. regulators approved a
key function of its latest-generation Nucleus 6 hearing implant, allowing the device to connect wirelessly
with smartphones. Cochlear's revenue has come under pressure in recent months, as customers held
out for the full range of technological functions to become available. Analysts, including at J.P. Morgan,
had warned approval delays for the wireless function were widening rival Advanced Bionic's advantage
over Cochlear. Coincidentally, the Federal Drug Administration's approval comes as Apple Inc. prepares
to release its latest iPhone device. COH was last at A$67.23. (Ross.Kelly@wsj.com)

2307 GMT [Dow Jones]--Bell Potter downgrades Australian listed fund managers to underweight due to
recent legislative change that will reduce a planned increase in pension-fund contributions from
employers. The broker warned of "vulnerable momentum" in the sector in April. "I believe there are now
valid reasons for 'strategic' caution after a major legislative change that should see price to earnings
(relative to the market) fall in the sector as forward earnings growth is harder to generate," Bell Potter
executive director Charlie Aitken says. "These are major changes to the rate of growth of compulsory
superannuation contributions which in my view means Australian fund managers will have to rely on
market based growth rather than structural inflow growth for the next six years." Mr. Aitken continues to
favor AMP (AMP.AU). (david.rogers@wsj.com; Twitter: @DavidRogersWSJ)
2302 GMT [Dow Jones] Now that it has sold its main Australian assets, the focus for Karoon Gas
(KAR.AU) turns to Brazil, where UBS hopes the coming Kangaroo-2 well will provide a "share price
bounce" when it's drilled between September and December. Karoon and joint venture partner Pacific
Rubiales (PRE.T) have already had some success with the Kangaroo-1 and Kangaroo West wells and a
further oil discovery would help prove up the quality of the resource. Although the drilling program is
risky, UBS notes Karoon's US$600 million sale of Australian assets to Origin (ORG.AU) provides
A$2.44/share of cash backing, offering considerable protection if well results disappoint. The shares
could also benefit from a further sell-down of Karoon's stake in the promising Brazilian assets, UBS
says, applying a buy recommendation and A$5.50 price target vs. Karoon's last trade of A$3.74.
(Ross.Kelly@wsj.com)

2255 GMT [Dow Jones] The realignment of Johnson Controls' building efficiency business unit includes a
management shakeup as part of separating the unit's service and HVAC products businesses. Dave
Myers, president of the building unit, resigned after 20 years with JCI. He has been replaced by Bill
Jackson, who worked in JCI's automotive business after joining the company in 2011. Trent Nevill will
continue as vice president and general manager in charge of building efficiency's service business,
which accounted for 45% of building efficiency's $3.9 billion of revenue in 2013. Building efficiency has
become a more important business to JCI as the company scales back its automotive business in
search of better margins and a higher stock price. JCI ended down 1.2% at $46.02.
(robert.tita@wsj.com)

2252 GMT [Dow Jones] Johnson Controls JCI is splitting the service and products businesses of its
building-efficiency unit, a move that JCI hopes will give the businesses more room to expand and focus
on customers. "I think it's going to make us a better company," says CEO Alex Molinaroli in an interview.
"Both of these businesses are very important to our future," he says. The service business has 120
branches that install, repair and maintain heating and air conditioning systems in commercial buildings.
The products side of the buildings business builds York-brand HVAC equipment and recently entered

Page70of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.into a joint venture with Hitachi for variable refrigerant technology. JCI ended down 1.2% at $46.02.
(robert.tita@wsj.com)

2252 GMT [Dow Jones] Australia's central bank will publish minutes of its September policy meeting at
0130 GMT. ANZ says in a research note it expects a more optimistic message on the domestic economy
to be conveyed, but is also looking to see if the level of concern among policy makers about China's
property market is on the rise. The Australian dollar has had its biggest fall against the U.S. dollar in
more than a year in the last week in part due to uncertainty about China. (james.glynn@wsj.com; Twitter
@JamesGlynnWSJ)

18:07 EDT - Shares of Brazilian steelmaker Companhia Siderurgica Nacional (CSNA3.BR) surge on
news that a steel plant the company had reportedly hoped to buy in Kentucky will be sold to US
steelmaker Nucor (NUE) for $770M. CSN has been in the market to buy US steel assets for more than a
year but has repeatedly come up short. In July the company lost a bid for the US operations of Russian
steelmaker Severstal, while earlier this year Germany's ThyssenKrupp agreed to sell an Alabama mill to
ArcelorMittal and Nippon Steel. CSN shares gain 2.9% today to close at BRL9.67.
(paul.kiernan@wsj.com)

17:59 EDT - Central-bank autonomy is a subject that shows up in Brazil's political debate every now and
then, but a tight presidential campaign has given the subject a higher profile. As opposition candidate
Marina Silva shot up on the polls to challenge incumbent Dilma Rousseff, a proposal for central-bank
autonomy buried on Silva's government program was picked up by Rousseff's camp, who says the move
was tantamount to empowering bankers and taking food out of the working family's table. Former
central-bank President Gustavo Franco wrote in an op-ed piece for O Globo newspaper Sunday, about
the debate: "In two weeks, the evolution of Brazil's monetary institutions regressed a decade or more."
(paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)
17:56 EDT - Nucor's (NUE) purchase of Ghent, Kentucky-based Gallatin Steel from Gerdau (GGB) and
ArcelorMittal (MT) for $770M will add around 20c per share on a cash basis to NUE's 2015 earnings,
KeyBanc says. "We see operating income of $95 million," excluding purchase price accounting
adjustments, the firm writes. Before the announcement, Gallatin was generating roughly $140M-$150M
annually in Ebitda, before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, Keybanc estimates.
(john.miller@wsj.com)

17:49 EDT - Brazil's crude steel production fell to 2.9M metric tons in August, down 1.4% from a year
earlier, the Brazilian Steel Institute said today. Exports rose slightly, but domestic consumption tumbled
17% year-on-year to 2M tons. Brazil's steel sector is stuck between a rock and a hard place, with a
recession hurting the domestic market and huge oversupply in the international market keeping a lid on
exports. (paul.kiernan@wsj.com)

17:40 EDT - It might soon be illegal for businesses to keep pay under wraps. The US Department of
Labor announces a proposed rule that would ban federal contractors from having pay-secrecy policies.
Under the proposal, federal contractors and subcontractors wouldn't be able to fire or discriminate
against employees or applicants for discussing, disclosing or inquiring about their pay or that of other
workers. Rules for federal contractors often influence policy for other employers because federal
contractors comprise such a large number. The rule, published in the September 17 Federal Register, is
open for public comment for 90 days. (rachel.silverman@wsj.com)

17:37 EDT - President Kirchner's 2015 budget suggest Argentines are in for a dose of fiscal austerity,
with the projected 13.2% rise in spending below the government's 14.5% inflation forecast. That inflation
number looks farfetched compared to the 40% estimates annual inflation today, and the idea that
government spending would actually contract in real terms during an election year borders on the
fantastical. Argentina watchers know that Kirchner budgets grossly underestimate tax revenue and
spending so the president can spend the resulting budget-busting windfall as she sees fit thanks to
emergency powers granted by Congress. Spending financed by money printing has been a major
contributor to inflation the last five years in the absence of other financing sources. Without foreign
borrowings in 2015, the central bank's printing press will likely be in high demand. (ken.parks@wsj.com)

To contact the Market Talk Editors,
Kevin Kingsbury, 212 416-2354, kevin.kingsbury@wsj.com
Cynthia Lin, 212 416-4403, Cynthia.lin@wsj.com
John Shipman, 212 416-2181, john.shipman@wsj.com
Patrick Sullivan, 212 416-2326, Patrick.sullivan@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

Page71of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.September 15, 2014 19:17 ET (23:17 GMT)

CO
IN

NS

RE

cchlr : Cochlear Ltd
i372 : Medical Equipment/Supplies | ismart : Smart Phones | i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics |
i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3454 : Electronic
Consumer Goods | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences | icellph : Cellular/Mobile Phones | ielec : Consumer
Electronics | ihandaps : Handheld Electronic Devices | itech : Technology
c152 : Earnings Projections | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | mcat : Commodity/Financial
Market News | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class
News | c15 : Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North
America

PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020140915ea9f003xf

Page72of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.