Australian dairy producers cash in on Chinese milk demand

HD
BY
WC 524 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Australian dairy producers cash in on Chinese milk demand

China correspondent Huey Fern Tay

18 June 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) News
ABCNEW
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

TD

Australian farm fresh milk has hit Chinese supermarket shelves, and is in high demand with local
consumers, despite costing $9.50 a litre.
Australian farm fresh milk has hit Chinese supermarket shelves, signalling the beginning of a new frontier
for dairy producers.

Fresh milk can now travel from Australia to supermarkets in China in just seven days.
Until recently this would have been impossible - the milk would have exceeded its shelf life by the time it
travelled from Australia and cleared Chinese customs and quarantine.

"It's taken us 12 months to get to this point," Peter Verry from Peloris Global Sourcing said.

"Commercial shipments started over a month ago and in that time we've done approximately 20,000
litres."
Peter Verry and his partners have even bigger plans for the Australian business - by the end of the year
they hope to import 50 times more milk each month, a total of one million litres.

Mr Verry says that's just the beginning.

"We actually think that's a conservative number," he said.

"We are working closely with [Australian airline] Qantas to ensure we've got the infrastructure in place."
The milk being imported to Nanjing, from a dairy cooperative in New South Wales, is sold in upscale
supermarkets.
"We think annually we can get as high as 20 million litres a year," he said.
"With the growing middle class and high income earners in China, the demand for Australian fresh milk is
going to outstrip supply in the not too distant future."

Demand for imports following melamine scandal
Imported products are unaffordable to many outside the major east coast Chinese cities like Beijing,
Shanghai and Nanjing.
Those cities were among the first to develop after China implemented economic reforms more than three
decades ago.
The Australian milk is expensive - just one litre of the milk costs $AU9.50 - around four and a half times
the price of milk produced by a Chinese company.

Customers in Nanjing are keen buyers, despite the price.
The Chinese dairy industry is still suffering from the fallout of the 2008 melamine scandal, where .

Page76of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It's thought more than 300,000 people were affected and six children died as a result.
Milk consumption fell precipitously, and the Chinese dairy industry hasn't recovered.
University professor Zheng Fengtian was one of the many alarmed Chinese parents who abandoned
local dairy products and instead bought imported powdered baby milk for his child.
"The entire dairy industry is very complicated: there are so many farm owners, the supply chain is so
long, there are so many companies involved," he said.
"So even though the Chinese government has put in a lot of effort to improve the standard of the dairy
industry, it's not something that can be solved in a day or two."
Now that Chinese parents can choose to have a second child, the opportunities for dairy companies
around the world have increased even more.
That's the silver lining for Australian dairy farmers who have endured a horror year of drought and low
prices.

IN

NS
RE

i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i413 : Dairy Products | i6560011 :
Shopping Malls/Superstores | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming | i41 :
Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i656 : Mixed Retailing | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood
: Food Products | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming | iretail : Retail
e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | china : China | nanjin : Nanjing | jiangs : Jiangsu | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

IPD dairy
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCNEW0020140618ea6i000e3

Page77of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.