Boost in Chinese buyers is good news for Australian companies, but understanding the drivers for this is key

HD

BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Boost in Chinese buyers is good news for Australian companies, but understanding the drivers
for this is key
Andrew Lumsden
1,169 words
26 May 2014
Mondaq Business Briefing
BBPUB
English
(c) 2014 Mondaq Ltd

"IF THERE IS A WAVE, THERE MUST BE WIND"
(Chinese proverb)

The last three months have seen more Chinese bidders in the public M&A market than for the whole of
2013. While some commentators have attributed this uptick in Chinese buyers to the relaxation of the
NDRC approvals, in reality it's more likely a result of Chinese bidders picking what they see as the
bottom of the resource cycle and looking to average down their cost of acquisition.

In addition to the formal changes to NDRC's approval process, there seems to be a new willingness to
relax the "one-bidder policy". Until this policy is clarified, there is considerable advantage to targets and
bidders in designing deal protection mechanisms that address this issue.

The changes to the NDRC approval process, which in summary lift the threshold for approval from NDRC
to USD1 billion, were announced in December 2013 and the implementing regulations followed on 24
April 2014 (see our article POE investors travelling a thousand miles in one day). Despite the changes in
the approvals policy, two of the four deals recently announced, namely the takeover by Landbridge
Energy of Westside and the takeover by Guangdong Assets Management Limited (GRAM) of PanAust
are conditional on PRC regulatory approvals. The deals so far announced by Chinese bidders in 2014
indicate some changes in the nature of Chinese bids as compared to 2012 and 2013 but also a
consolidation of other trends previously identified (see M&A Review 2012 and M&A Review 2013). Most
notable are:

an apparent shift back from Privately Owned Enterprises (POEs) to State Owned Enterprises (SOEs)
from provincial areas;

an ongoing shift from obtaining target recommendation to making offers directly to shareholders without
target recommendation and in some cases a recommendation to reject; and

a continuing reliance on pre-bid stakes.
In our 2013 review of M&A deals, 100% of the public deals in our deal sample involving Chinese bidders
were undertaken by POEs. In contrast, three of the four deals announced during the last three months
have been SOEs - Norton Gold Fields (whose majority shareholder is Zijin Mining), Baosteel and GRAM
- and in particular SOEs from the provinces rather than central SOEs in Beijing.

Two of three SOE bidders (Baosteel and GRAM) already have significant pre-bid stakes in their targets.
These existing stakes were acquired closer to the top than the bottom of the resource cycle. In a
continuation of this trend, Cuesta Coal on 21 May announced its major shareholder, state-owned Beijing
Guoli Energy Investment Company, would inject $15 million into the company via two separate share
placements to increase its stake from 36% to 54%.
Recent allegations of corruption plaguing senior executives in Chinese SOEs has damaged the
reputation of these companies and the questions of accountability may also be responsible for driving
SOEs to seek to lower their cost base and book a profit from their overseas investments. This focus on
profitability and ultimately accountability is evidenced by this month's report from the State AgencyXinhua

Page34of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.that the pace of SOE profit growth increased by 6.5% in January to April 2014 as compared to the same
period last year. The profits of SOEs administered by provincial governments increased by 5.1% year on
year, a marked turnaround on the 14.7% year on year decline for the same period in 2013.

Irrespective of the causes of the recent spike in PRC investment in Australia, the amendments to the
PRC regulatory approvals process are certainly a welcome sign for PRC investment in Australia. That
said, questions remain about the impact of the change to the so called "one-bidder" policy.
The recent acquisition battle between two Chinese companies over a Cayman registered
semiconductor firm may shed light on China's changing overseas investment approval process. In this
case two SOEs - Tsinghua Unigroup of Beijing (Unigroup) and the Shanghai Pudong Science and
Technology Investment Company (PSTI) - were bidding separately for Nasdaq listed RDA
Microelectronics.

In September 2013, PSTI bid USD15.50 for each of RDA's American depository shares and in October
2013 Unigroup offered USD18.50 per share. PSTI received a confirmation letter from NDRC (which
would previously have granted it exclusivity in relation to a deal) in November 2013. However RDA
unsurprisingly selected the higher bidder for its shares and executed an agreement with Unigroup. Many
media outlets reported at the end of November that Unigroup had received a letter from NDRC advising
them that without a confirmation letter, their move to acquire RDA was illegal.
However, in a new twist the Chinese press is now reporting that NDRC has indicated that a confirmation
letter is not an exclusive document and that when PSTI obtained its exclusivity letter it had not entered
into any binding agreement with RDA and that "such a move to jump the gun in submitting an application
before even the most basic conditions of the deal had been agreed might mislead the regulatory
departments".

On 20 December 2013, RDA and Unigroup announced the amendment to their merger agreement to
reflect the changes to the NDRC approvals process. It now seems the merger agreement is no longer
conditional on receipt of NDRC approval with an acquisition price of USD910 million. On 5 May 2014,
the parties announced their ongoing commitment to close the transaction and reiterated the long stop
date of 8 August 2014 for completion.

Two days later, on 7 May, PSTI issued a press release noting that six months had passed since RDA and
Unigroup entered into their merger agreement and stating that PSTI had obtained an extension of its
NDRC confirmation letter for an acquisition of RDA through to November 2014.

Understanding the shifting NDRC approvals process is vital for Australian companies keen to realise the
opportunities offered by Chinese investment. For PRC bidders, ensuring a target understands the status
of confirmation letters and "pre-clearance" will remain important. Target boards will continue to rely on
these to assess the certainty of a PRC bid until there is further clarity on this issue. Until the one bidder
policy is clarified, there is considerable advantage to both sides in designing deal protection mechanisms
that address this issue.

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice
should be sought about your specific circumstances.

Most awarded

firm and Australian deal of
the year Employer of Choice for
Women
Australasian Legal Business Awards
Equal Opportunity for Women
in the Workplace (EOWA)

Mr Andrew Lumsden

Corrs Chambers Westgarth

Level 32, Governor Phillip Tower

1 Farrer Place

Sydney

2000

Page35of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AUSTRALIA

Tel: 29210 6500

Fax: 29210 6611

E-mail: Savannah.Bassant@corrs.com.au

URL: www.corrs.com.au/thinking

Click Here for related articles

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2014 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com

NS
RE

ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
china : China | austr : Australia | beijin : Beijing | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries
| dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
IPD
International Law
PUB Mondaq Limited
AN

Document BBPUB00020140526ea5q0005q

Page36of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.