Australia Looks to Tighten Regulations on Foreign Property Buyers; Move Aimed at Stemming Surging Housing Prices

SE
HD

BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

World
Australia Looks to Tighten Regulations on Foreign Property Buyers; Move Aimed at
Stemming Surging Housing Prices
By James Glynn
700 words
27 November 2014
21:28
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

SYDNEY—Australia proposed strict new rules to control rising home sales to foreigners, a
trend that is putting property prices out of reach of many first-time buyers and is politically
hazardous for Tony Abbott’s conservative government, whose support is slipping.

A government committee assigned in March to probe overseas purchasing of Australian
property issued recommendations Thursday. These included stiffer penalties for those
breaching current rules, amendments to migration laws to detect offenders, and better
resources for the foreign-investment watchdog to police foreigners’ home-buying activity.
The move is aimed partly at stemming several years of surging property prices that have
sparked public concerns about the affordability of houses and apartments. The worry is that
foreign money from places like China and Southeast Asia is being channeled into Australian
property out of sight of regulators.
The rules on property buying by foreigners were strengthened four years ago to restrict
purchases to new dwellings only as a way to increase housing stock. Temporary residents
were allowed to buy established homes, but required approval from the foreign-investment
regulator, and then to sell them when leaving the country.

The committee made 12 recommendations for change. These include a cleanup of
government procedures to help uncover illegal home buying, penalties for breaches of the
current framework, punishments for third parties involved in rule-breaking, and law changes
to ensure the immigration department informs the foreign-investment watchdog when a
person leaves the country after their temporary visa expires.

Page83of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Foreign Investment Review Board, or FIRB, received sharp criticism in the report for
failing to monitor illegal home purchases by foreigners. Lawmaker and committee head
Kelly O’Dwyer noted that for several years, the FIRB had carried out no prosecutions, nor
taken any action to force people in breach of the current rules to sell their properties.

“I regard the current internal processes at the Treasury and FIRB as a systems failure,” Ms.
O’Dwyer said in the report. “There have been no prosecutions since 2006 and no divestment
orders since 2007. Suggestions that this is due to complete compliance with the rules is
simply not credible.”
She added that Australia needed more accurate data on foreign purchases of houses and
apartments, and called for a national register to help monitor a buyer’s residency status.
There is little hard evidence on the extent of foreign purchases, but National Australia Bank
estimates they accounted for 16.8% of all new-property sales in the third quarter, a figure
expected to rise to 17.3% next year.
Brian White, chairman of Ray White Group, one of Australia’s biggest real-estate agents,
said there had been a spike in foreign buying over the past couple of years.
“This is the first time there’s been a significant investment by foreigners in residential
property—it’s unusual,” he said. But he said the government should be wary of pushing
back too hard, since a bigger housing supply was vital to a growing population.

Australian house prices have risen dramatically in recent years, with the cities of Sydney and
Melbourne leading the gains. Record-low interest rates have fed speculative
residential-property buying among Australians themselves, but anecdotal evidence points
to the growing participation of foreign buyers—especially from China.

Housing affordability is a hot-button political topic in Australia, where first-time buying is
near-record lows. House prices are up by about 10% from last year, and prices in Sydney
have risen by closer to 15%.

The central bank is also worried about escalating house prices, even though the momentum
has eased in recent months. The reserve bank has described the speculative buying as
unbalanced and potentially dangerous to a fragile economic recovery. The central bank and
the banking regulator will soon announce measures to combat the jump in lending to
property investors, which has recently accounted for about half of all new mortgage lending.

Write to James Glynn at james.glynn@wsj.com

| Reuters | New million-dollar homes are pictured under construction at sunset in southern
Sydney on Aug. 14, 2014.
e1121 : Home Sales/Housing Affordability | c182 : Asset Transactions | ereal : Real Estate
Markets | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | emhpr : Housing Prices | gpol : Domestic
Politics | nimage : Images | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News |
gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types |
nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | asiaz : Asia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Tony Abbott
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document WSJO000020141127eabr00002

ART

NS

RE
IPD
PUB
AN

Page84of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.