RWE (CM) Changfeng Enters Into Natural Gas Purchase and Sale Agreement with...

HD
WC 379 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

RWE (CM) Changfeng Enters Into Natural Gas Purchase and Sale Agreement with...

18 December 2014
Resources News (RWE)
RESNEW
English
Copyright 2014 RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved.

TD

RWE (CM) Changfeng Enters Into Natural Gas Purchase and Sale Agreement with PetroChina for
Xiangdong Project
Sydney - Wednesday - December 17 (RWE) - Changfeng Energy Inc [TSX VENTURE:CFY], announces
that, further to its press release dated November 23, 2011, the company has entered into a natural gas
purchase and sale agreement with PetroChinacompany Ltd regarding the purchase and sale of piped
natural gas in 2015 and thereafter for its Xiangdong Project to meet the natural gas quota approved by the
Jiangxi Provincial Bureau of Energy in 2011.

Under the terms of the Agreement, PetroChina agreed to supply the qualified Quota Gas up to a volume
of 50 million m3 to the company in 2015.

Thereafter, Changfeng and PetroChina will negotiate the annual volume of natural gas to be purchased by
the company from PetroChina in five year periods by the end of June in the year prior to each five year
period.
Under the terms of the Agreement, the company is also required to commission contract with Jiangxi
Provincial Natural Gas Investment Co, Ltd, the official natural gas terminal receiver appointed by the
Government of Jiangxi Province, for the Carrier to transmit the purchased gas from PetroChina's Second
West-East Pipeline to the company's gate station.

The Carrier is responsible for the construction of the branch pipeline of approximately 15 kilometers
connecting the WEP II and the company's gate station in Xiangdong.
After the construction of the Carrier's branch pipeline is completed, the Agreement will allow the company
to significantly reduce the quantities of relatively expensive CNG it has been required to purchase to
supply its operations in Xiangdong.
About Changfeng Energy IncChangfeng Energy Inc is a natural gas service provider with operations
located throughout the People's Republic of China.
The company services industrial, commercial and residential customers, providing them with natural gas
for heating purposes and fuel for transportation.
The company has developed a significant natural gas pipeline network as well as urban gas delivery
networks, stations, substations and gas pressure regulating stations in Sanya City & Haitang Bay.
Through its network of pipelines, the company provides safe and reliable delivery of natural gas to both
homes and businesses.

ENDS

CO chgeng : Changfeng Energy Inc. | pechin : PetroChina Company Limited | cnpngc : China National

Petroleum Corp
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i162 : Gas Utilities | iutil : Utilities
cnatrd : Natural Reserves/Resources Discovery | c24 : Capacity/Facilities | ccat : Corporate/Industrial
News
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

IN
NS

RE
PUB RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd

Page224of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document RESNEW0020141217eaci00019

Page225of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.