Metro wins green light for unit tower

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PrimeSpace
Metro wins green light for unit tower

Rosanne Barrett
426 words
20 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
30
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

DAVID Devine’s Metro Property Group has won legal backing to develop a 20-storey apartment
tower in Kangaroo Point, paving the way for a multi-million-dollar sale of the site to Chinese
developers R&F.

The Brisbane-based developer yesterday staved off a challenge in Queensland’s Planning and
Environment Court from a residents’ group opposed to the development of the 202-unit complex in the
Brisbane suburb.

Judge Kiernan Dorney QC dismissed the appeal against the tower, noting existing high-density living
within Kangaroo Point such as the Dockside apartment complex, existing public transport options and
open space in the suburb.

The approved development is twice the height allowable under the city plan, but a 2008 court decision
had given the go-ahead for an even larger development on the site.

Mr Devine said he was very pleased with the outcome and warned residents he could pursue them for
legal costs.

“The people of the Kangaroo Point Residents Association should have a close look at themselves and
stop wasting people’s time when this was a responsible development approved by Brisbane City
Council,” he told The Australian.

“One wonders why they spent so much time and money fighting a case on grounds that were of
self-interest. I think the residents’ association have to understand that costs can be awarded against
them and if they want to take that risk then they need to make sure they’re aware of the situation.” Mr
Devine made a splash this year when it was revealed he had sold the land and another development
site at South Brisbane to Chinese developers R&F for $65 million. It is expected he will book a profit
of up to $20m.

Mr Devine yesterday refused to comment on the deal, which industry insiders anticipated would settle
early next year.

The Kangaroo Point development, fronting Cairns and Lambert Streets, was scaled back from its
original 23 storeys. There were 140 objections to the development. The Kangaroo Point Residents’
Association raised $120,000 to fund its legal action.

Resident and architect David Murray said he and other locals were disappointed in the outcome. “All
these local areas plans aren’t worth the paper they’re written on,” he said.
Fellow local Karen Williams said the group was not opposed to development but wanted sustainable
growth that supported the local lifestyle.Brisbane Council planning assessment chairwoman Amanda
Cooper said the Metro development was lower, with less bulk than previously approved.

Page185of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE

PUB
AN

greg : Regional Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol :
Domestic Politics
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141119eabk00041

Page186of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.