INSIDE STORY visits BENNELONG | TITLE DEEDS Closing time on Potts Point penthouse

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Domain
INSIDE STORY visits BENNELONG | TITLE DEEDS Closing time on Potts Point penthouse

LUCY MACKEN
1,285 words
8 February 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
6
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

INSIDE STORY | TITLE DEEDS
FOR SALE: $30M

There is movement at Sydney's most prestigious apartment block, with Margaret Maloney's
whole-floor spread on offer for $30 million and expansion plans for the Moran family pads.

"The toaster" has long harboured Sydney's movers and shakers, with past and present owners
including retail bigwig Brett Blundy (past), philanthropist and pastoralist Tim Fairfax (present), mining
mogul Brian Flannery (present) and Sargents Pies owner Ian Allen (present).

Maloney and her late husband Cyril Maloney have presided over it all since 1999 when they bought
four apartments on level 11 for $13.9 million, gutted them and created a Michael Suttor-designed
home with eye-popping views of the harbour and Botanic Gardens.

That palatial 700-square-metre spread with opulent Michael Love interiors is now listed with LJ
Hooker Double Bay's Bill Malouf and Sotheby's Michael Pallier given Maloney's recent purchase of a
more manageable three-bedder at the tip of Darling Point, for which she paid more than $10.2 million
before Christmas, through Sotheby's Walter Antonelli.

Meanwhile, the Moran family have expanded their 12th floor holding (acquired for a total of $22
million since 2006) by adding what was a restaurant space above for $24.64 million, with plans to
create two luxury apartments.

Closing time on Potts Point penthouse
The receivers have moved in on Chris Crawley's pad and slapped up the 'for sale' sign.

The Potts Point penthouse of lawyer-turned-pub baron Chris Crawley is up for grabs now that receiver
PPB Advisory has taken possession.

Crawley, who was involved in a high-profile court case suing former hotels business partner the late
Warwick Short and, separately, tennis player Lleyton Hewitt, developed The Georgian on Macleay
Street in 2010, retaining the three-bedroom penthouse as his own, and selling the whole-floor
offerings below for between $3.5 million and $5 million.

Crawley's 680-square-metre, three-storey pad comes with a large study, swimming pool, living areas
with wraparound terraces and views to both the city and the Heads.
It is being sold through Jason Boon, of Richardson and Wrench Elizabeth Bay, for between $10
million and $11 million.

McWilliam buys again

Page10of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.A caveat attached to the sale of the Point Piper waterfront that featured in the Michael McGurk
murder mystery indicates that the buyer, at close to $11 million, is Network Seven commercial
director Bruce McWilliam and his wife Nicky.
McWilliam knows a thing or two about local waterfronts. Last year he sold his Wolseley Road
mansion, known as the Bang & Olufsen house, for $33.5 million to Chinese businessman Qiu Yafu,
then bought the three-storey mansion of investment financier Greg Woolley on nearby Wentworth
Street for $13.65 million.
This latest waterfront sale was never going to be an easy one given its well-documented past at the
centre of a loan dispute between property developer Ron Medich and finance broker Adam Tilley -
the latter of whom said in 2009 that it was about to sell for $20 million. That sale never took place
and the property was firebombed in 2008, allegedly by Michael McGurk, who was found murdered
the following year.

It was listed off-market for much of last year before the job of luring buyers down the steep driveway
was passed to McGrath's James Dack, who sold it in October.
Guru leaving the Park
Hoodoo Gurus lead guitarist Brad Shepherd and his wife Sahara, former general manager of the Big
Day Out, are selling their Queens Park home for more than $1.7 million.

The long-time member of the iconic Aussie rock band and ARIA Hall of Fame member bought the
Rawson Avenue property in 2006 for $1.405 million, having sold their Vaucluse cottage that same
year for $1.15 million.

The triple threat guitarist-singer-songwriter (he wrote the 1994 classic You Open My Eyes) was
inducted to the ARIA Hall of Fame in 2007. No word on the couple's coming plans, apart from the
March 1 auction through Ray White Double Bay's Annette Pollak.

Gonski pad finds buyer

Chairman of the Future Fund David Gonski has off-loaded his Elizabeth Bay waterfront penthouse
with a putting green.
No comment from Ballard Property's Clint Ballard, or Michael Pallier of Sotheby's International, as to
the sale price, but rumour has it the business networker has easily recouped the $12 million he paid
former Deutsche banker Hal Herron for it in 2012.

New Strathfield record

Strathfield set a new record price earlier this week when the home of Ramy Arnaout, co-founder of
development and hospitality companyIris Capital, and his wife Nadia, sold pre-auction for
$6.8 million. A Chinese buyer snapped up the Llandilo Avenue property through Joseph Georges,
of George Ellis & Co.

Lawyer settles on $6.55m
Lawyer John Williamson-Noble, a partner at Gilbert+Tobin, and his wife Renee, sold their Vaucluse
home last week for $6.55 million. The Coolong Road home was listed last September with $6.5
million-plus hopes, before it was sold by McGrath's Hamish Robertson.
Rich lister's quick sale

Challenger senior executive Paul Rogan and his wife Elizabeth have bought the deep waterfront
home in Northbridge of BRW rich lister Barry Lambert for $5.6 million.
The Hallstrom Close property was listed last year for $7 million, given Lambert's move up the coast,
and sold just before Christmas on a fast settlement through Brad Pillinger.

Shh!
Which trophy homeowner has been making the most of their Point Piper waterfront purchase last
year to celebrate Chinese New Year?

Guess which pharmaceutical family bought one of Sydney's cherished eastern suburbs landmark
homes?

Page11of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.FOR SALE: $2M+

CLASSY BONDI PENTHOUSE

Acclaimed dancer and choreographer Meryl Tankard has listed her two-storey Bondi penthouse for
more than $2 million.
The 460 sq m spread comes with four bedrooms, three bathrooms, three car spaces, views of the
ocean and the harbour, and a self-contained roof-top terrace.

The former artistic director of the Australian Dance Theatre bought the Penkivil Street pad in 2007 for
$1.732 million, and after a stylish make-over is now selling it through Alexander Phillips, of Phillips
Pantzer Donnelley, with a February 24 auction.
FOR SALE: About $4.5M

BALMORAL BEAUTY
Former investment bankers Steve Bennett and his wife, Kyra Bennett, who sits on the board of the
Children's Cancer Institute, are leaving Balmoral slopes for a northern beaches seachange.
Steve Bennett, who left UBS in 2012 to take up the role of group treasurer at Consolidated Press,
bought the Fairfax Road home for $4,175,000 in 2003.

Given the attraction of making a permanent move to the couple's Bilgola Beach retreat, for which they
paid $2.6 million in 2006, they have put their now redundant contemporary home up for grabs.
LJ Hooker Mosman's Geoff Smith is expecting to raise about $4.5 million for the north-facing
property with water views, a pool and Marcia Hosking-designed gardens.
SOLD: $3.5M

ABLE TO MOVE ON NOW

No sooner had equities traders Emily and Heath Behncke listed their Woollahra terrace for $3
million-plus two weeks ago than it promptly sold on Monday for $3.5 million.

Emily, a Deutsche Bank stockbroker, and Heath, director of Sigma Funds Management, listed the
Victorian-era property on Moncur Street with Di Jones's Victoria Morish, given that the couple plans
to move into their free-standing house on exclusive Wallaroy Road.

IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

irreal : Residential Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction |
ireest : Real Estate
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140207ea280007e

Page12of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.