The noodle-bowl effect: Australian trade is increasingly complex

Remy Davison, Jean Monnet Chair in Politics and Economics at Monash University

The noodle-bowl effect: Australian trade is increasingly complex

HD
BY
WC 1,817 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

27 November 2014
The Conversation
CONVAU
English
Copyright 2014. The Conservation Media Group.

TD

Fact: over 585 regional trade agreements have been signed. Almost 400 are already operating. Australia
is a signatory to at least 12 of them.

An intricate web of cross-cutting free trade agreements (FTAs) forms the basis of Australia’s trade and
investment partnerships throughout the Asia-Pacific region.

There will be more. At the Brisbane G20 an Australia-India FTA within 12 months was mooted. A
prospective EU-Australia FTA was also on the agenda.

Over the last 40 years, Canberra has made a decisive shift in its foreign economic policy orientation from
Europe to Asia. Australia has entered into a large number of regional, bilateral and plurilateral agreements
since 1989.

The tilt to Asia

These profound changes were driven by necessity: the collapse of Australia’s terms of trade in the 1970s
and 1980s; the disappearance of its traditional markets; a structural lack of competitiveness; and Asia’s
rise as the driver of global economic growth.

In 1973, Britain entered the European Union and Australia’s exports to Britain evaporated overnight.
Meanwhile, Japan emerged as the world’s second-largest economy and Australia’s biggest trading
partner. However, between 1973 and 1983, Australia’s share of global exports halved, from around 1.9%
to 0.9%.

For then treasurer Paul Keating, the options were stark: Australia had to develop a radically different
approach to its international trade policy – or become a banana republic.

By 1984, the prime minister, Bob Hawke, and Keating had only the Australia-New Zealand Closer
Economic Relations agreement to show for their efforts. A free-trade area between two medium-sized,
sparsely populated economies was never going to sustain high living standards. The conventional
economic wisdom was that Australia needed free-trade access to markets of at least 200 million
consumers.

The late 1980s was an era of “reactive regionalism” and defensive “blocism”. The European Union
sparked global fears of a “fortress Europe” with its 1987 Single Market program. In 1988, Washington
reacted by hastily signing the CUSTA (later NAFTA) free trade agreement with Canada.

In 1989, the Hawke government commissioned Ross Garnaut to report on Australia’s economic future.
Garnaut argued Australia should undertake a radical, unilateral trade liberalisation strategy and
microeconomic reform.
The aim was to make Australian exports competitive in the East Asian tiger economies of Japan, China,
South Korea, Hong Kong and Taiwan. These countries would become key consumers of Australian raw
materials and value-added services such as education, tourism and financial services.

In response, the Australian and Japanese governments co-founded the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation (APEC) forum, which sought to liberalise trade throughout the region. APEC was only a
qualified success in the 1990s, but it provided the impetus for wide-ranging bilateral, plurilateral and
regional agreements throughout the Asia-Pacific.

Page77of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.By the early 2000s, Australia was riding the wave of the China boom with an unprecedented surge in the
terms of trade. Japan was unable to shake off the Hansei recession of the 1990s, while Indonesia, Hong
Kong, South Korea and Thailand struggled spectacularly in the aftermath of the 1997 Asian financial
crisis.

The noodle bowl of trade agreements

The leading proponent of a liberal multilateral trade system, Jagdish Bhagwati, has long dismissed
governments’ predilections for side-agreements and trade-distorting outcomes.

Bhagwati argues that multilateral trade agreements, administered by the World Trade Organisation
(WTO), provide the greatest degree of market liberalisation and equity of access for all 160 WTO
members.

Conversely, Bhagwati argues, piecemeal bilateral, plurilateral and regional trade agreements produce a
“noodle bowl” effect. These cross-cutting agreements have different rules, tariffs and investment
regulations. They also impose extra costs due to their complex administration.

Preferential trade agreements result in trade and investment diversion. They also result in negotiations
between unequal partners: in Australia’s case, a China-Australia FTA is much more important to
Canberra than to Beijing, placing China at a distinct advantage.

The death of multilateralism

The Millennium Round of WTO negotiations collapsed acrimoniously at the 2003 Cancún summit.
Washington, Brussels and Tokyo discovered a new-found assertiveness in the BRICS capitals of Beijing,
New Delhi, Brasilia and Johannesburg.

In the wake of this collapse, the world’s major economies scrambled to sign second-best agreements with
their largest trading partners.

Australia signed a FTA with Singapore in 2003. Canberra, which had rejected the very concept of a
US-Australia FTA in 1997, suddenly reconsidered; the government signed the AUSFTA in 2004. The next
year, the Howard government started negotiations with China and signed a FTA with Thailand in 2007. In
2010, Australia and New Zealand acceded to the ASEAN-Australia-NZ FTA.
Although the Labor government abandoned the Australia-China FTA negotiations in March 2013, the
Abbott government resumed talks in November that year. Despite dumping the Labor government’s Asian
Century White Paper, this year the government has been on a virtual free-trade spending spree in Asia.
Agreements have been signed with South Korea, then Japan. This month, the government announced the
conclusion of free trade talks with China (ChAFTA) and an ambitious schedule to conclude an
Australia-India FTA within 12 months.

Reality check: agreements alone don’t boost growth

FTAs usually deliver a “supply-side shock”. Products that were previously less competitive suddenly
achieve consumer price points.
Australian exporters and firms will achieve greater access to China’s 1.3 billion-strong consumer market.
However, they also need to be entrepreneurial. For example, the Australian dairy industry faces steep
competition from New Zealand, while the US, Argentina and Uruguay are also positioning themselves
aggressively within the sector.
Similarly, it is one thing to speak of pie-in-the-sky figures like 1 million head of cattle going to the
Chinese market; it is entirely another matter to execute such an export strategy. Australian companies
across all industries will need to be innovative and entrepreneurial to achieve critical mass and succeed in
the Chinese market.

Agreements do not remove all barriers

“Behind the border” problems can blunt even the most entrepreneurial of enterprises. These include legal
systems that are stacked against foreign firms, inadequate distribution networks and language problems.
Google has made significant concessions to Beijing and is still only the number three search engine in
China.

Under the Australia-Thailand FTA, Australia imports myriad car models assembled in Thailand. However,
Ford Australia exports to Thailand, such as the Territory SUV, proved an unmitigated failure. This was due
to punitive excise and value-added taxes rendering the SUV uncompetitive.

Page78of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Australia’s Asia-Pacific FTAs are characterised by piecemeal liberalisation. The Japan deal cuts tariffs on
beef now, but the big 50% tariff cut will take 18 years. The Singapore-Australia FTA does not include
agriculture.
ChAFTA will remove tariffs on products like beef, seafood, wine, wool, dairy and pharmaceuticals. Yet
Australian rice and wheat producers don’t benefit directly from the agreement. However, ChAFTA will
eliminate all tariffs on Australian energy and resources exports.
Clearly national interests prevail. China benefits by removing barriers to the commodities it needs most:
energy, resources and raw materials.

Investment in Australia

The AUSFTA controversially lifted the threshold of US foreign investment in “non-sensitive sectors” to
$800 million. ChAFTA gives Beijing the right to invest up to US$1 billion without facing a Foreign
Investment Review Board (FIRB) veto.

In reality, the FIRB rejects a very small number of foreign investments. However, the relaxation of
investment rules has resulted in criticism from domestic groups concerned about foreign ownership in
sectors such as real estate and agriculture.
Chinese and Indian investment has grown rapidly in recent years, but India’s investment in Australia lags,
ranking only 19th in 2013. China has risen to 8th position, but still lags behind Switzerland and the
Netherlands (Hong Kong is categorised separately).
Although the US is a highly liberalised investment market, both China and India are relatively closed by
comparison. Australian investment in China under the FTA is likely to expand in sectors such as tourism,
where 100% foreign ownership is a rare exception permitted by Beijing.

The Trans-Pacific Partnership

The Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) is probably the most controversial agreement that Australians have
never heard of. Negotiations, under tight secrecy, are taking place between 12 unlikely allies including
Australia, the US, Japan, Brunei, Peru and Vietnam. One round of negotiations took place in Sydney in
October 2014.

The TPP envisages an agreement that will include “comprehensive market access” to eliminate both tariff
and non-tariff barriers to trade and investment and remove restrictions on services.

Trade is one thing, but Washington is particularly interested in intellectual property protection. Internet
piracy has cost Hollywood, software developers and the US music industry countless billions. Make no
mistake: if TPP goes ahead, Australians will no longer be casually downloading Mad Men and Game of
Thrones from the Pirate Bay.

Medicine costs and the Australian Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme were controversial elements of the
AUSFTA. Evidence since 2005 suggests pharmaceutical prices have risen, with costs accruing to both the
Commonwealth budget and end users.

Leaked drafts of the TPP show the federal government is vacillating in its support for pharmaceutical
patent protection. Watch this space. And take a Valium.

But nothing trumps the TPP’s most controversial aspect: Investor-State Dispute Settlement (ISDS). This
gives corporations the right to seek legal remedies and restitution in independent fora if national laws and
regulations are deemed to have unduly affected or discriminated against a corporation.
This has led to Philip Morris tobacco suing the Commonwealth government (from Hong Kong) in relation
to plain-paper cigarette packaging. The claim is on the grounds of “an expropriation of its Australian
investments". There is a related WTO case under way that challenges the Australian legislation.

Firms make ambit claims like this and fail frequently. However, some critics argue that ISDS procedures
make governments afraid to legislate in controversial policy areas for fear of lengthy and unpredictable
litigation.

Next stop: Europe

Under the Rudd government, Australia and the EU signed the Partnership Framework Agreement. At the
Brisbane G20, the EU Council President commented that the EU-Australia full Framework Agreement was
a first priority.

Page79of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.One initiative at the G20 summit was German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Prime Minister Tony Abbott’s
establishment of a Australian-German joint working group. The aim of this group is to strengthen the
bilateral relationship, as well as explore the feasibility of further developing EU-Australia economic
relations.

The federal government recognises the missing link in its network of FTAs is the European Union, the
world’s largest single market and Australia’s biggest investment partner. However, the government will not
turn its attention to an EU-Australia FTA until the major Asian FTAs are settled.

Remy Davison's Chair is funded by the EU Commission.

NS

RE

gglblz : Globalization | e512 : Physical Trade | gglobe : Global/World Issues | e51 : Trade/External
Payments | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gcom : Society/Community
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | queensl :
Queensland

PUB The Conversation Media Group Limited
AN

Document CONVAU0020141128eabr0000b

Page80of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.