A cautionary tale for best Bordeaux buyers

Business
A cautionary tale for best Bordeaux buyers

20 January 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
First

SE
HD
WC 1,096 words
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG 6
LA
CY
LP

English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

TD

W ith one sniff and the pungent burst of baby poop, bandaids and barnyards swirled into my olfactories.
The first tentative taste revealed the hard metallic edge and flavour-stripped palate that told me I was
going head-to-head with brettanomyces.

Not a life threatening pandemic about to wipe out the human race but a rather nasty divisive bug that can
ruin wine in one fell swoop. It is a destructive infection.

Divisive, because brett, as it is most commonly referred to, divides opinion as to its influence on wine.
While its existence is not denied, its impact is one of the most curious things in the world of wine. For
while some people are immediately repulsed, others will see virtues that they claim are distinctive
characters that enhance a wine. They prefer terms such as rustic and earthy to dirty and plastic. They
presumably find enjoyment in picnicking near an open sewer.

This recent encounter was confirmation of my worst fears about the direction of Bordeaux and should be
cause for alarm among the world’s buyers of top-end Bordeaux.

Quite simply, if you are investing in Bordeaux then you might be in for a rude shock, especially if you are
planning to drink it.

Perhaps, if all you want to do is cash in on the inflated prices of these wines then it might not matter
because many are simply traded and never consumed by anyone who actually knows what they are
drinking.

It was the most striking outcome of the 2013 Master Blend Classification, a special tasting hosted by Wolf
Blass Wines in Montreal, London and Melbourne, in which wine critics, sommeliers and judges tasted the
same 30 cabernet-based wines from the world’s major wine producing regions.
The Master Blend Classification, inspired by the Bordeaux Wine Official Classification of 1855, assessed
wines from France, the US, Chile, South Africa, Italy and Australia.

The wines included all five Bordeaux First Growth producers, which are internationally recognised as the
benchmark of cabernet. All the wines were from the 2009 vintage, which in many of the regions, including
Bordeaux, is considered one of the best vintages in recent years.

They were tasted blind (in that there was no indication of what they were until revealed at the end) with
wines bought from retail stores.

The wines were all marked out of 100 and the scores in each city collated and then combined into one
master list.

The discussions in each city were earnest to say the least, but might have resulted in pistols at dawn if all
the judges were actually in the one room.

The common themes were vintage conditions, the appearance and tolerance of brettanomyces, use of
oak and effect of wine closure.

And the opinions differed wildly.

Page172of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.There is no doubt that most New World wine critics find brettanomyces an anathema while some of those
in Europe appear to have developed a scotoma, a blind spot, to its very existence.

It is why so many Bordeaux that are loaded with the stuff and reek of all manner of poxy smells are rated
so highly and attract such incredible prices.

The results were a mix. Disturbing, confirming, surprising and certainly worrying. Australian winemakers
have managed to all but eradicate brett with better winery management and hygiene but in the hands of
the Bordelaise — and supported by sommeliers and wine critics — in Europe it seems to be reaching
epidemic proportions. There are some exceptions such as Chateau Beychevelle where the wines have
been cleaned up and looked tremendous in the tasting.

I see no virtues in brett and would be mighty annoyed if I had just spent $2000 on a bottle of First Growth
Bordeaux only to find the wine unpleasant and unpalatable when I came to drink it.
Now here’s the thing. In the new world of wine, you would generally taste the finished wine in the bottle,
perhaps seek a little advice and then go ahead and buy it if you liked what you had tasted.

Bordeaux is still locked into the en primeur system where each year the wineries trot out their latest
offering and present them to wine buyers and the media who pass judgment on the quality.

And this is where it all gets so messy.

The wines at the time of tasting are around six months old and often blended especially for the purpose
from the best parcels, before they have been put back into oak to finish maturation before final bottling.

Yes, that’s right. People are basing purchases worth thousands of dollars on assessments of incomplete
wines by winemakers and buyers keen to sell them at exorbitant prices, and the media who are prepared
to pass judgment before the wines has been bottled.

For me this issue was perfectly illustrated as a result of the recent tasting combined with notes from a visit
to Bordeaux in May 2010 when I tasted wines at a number of the major Bordeaux producers. Included
among them was the Chateau Margaux, where I tasted the 2009 vintage wines immediately after the
annual en primeur tastings.

My assessment of these wines and a few others at the time is that they were extraordinary. I was
convinced the Margaux was simply one of the finest wines I had tasted and agreed with all the hype.
Three years later and with the wine having been matured in oak and bottled my comments were
dramatically different.
The wine was riddled with brettanomyces and on my scoring sheet worth a paltry 84/100. I was not alone
in this assessment and it raised serious questions about the structure and the value for the en primeur
system.
However, the combination of extraordinary recent prices fuelled by winery hubris and wine buyer and
media hype, plus rising demand in China, is starting to force cracks in the system.

Earlier this year, the fabled Chateau Latour pulled out of the en primeur system with the 2012 vintage,
which will probably not be sold for another 10 to 15 years.

The argument they put forward is that too many consumers are drinking the wines when they are too
young, particularly the new generation of millionaires from Asia and Eastern Europe. These so-called
“new market” customers, attracted by the brand rather than the product, are then unable to appreciate its
complexities, the Chateau claims.
For the moment, we still have the system, flawed as it maybe. If you want them, buy them, but be mindful:
caveat emptor.

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB West Australian Newspapers Limited
AN

Document TWAU000020140119ea1k00003

Page173of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.