Clothing company invests at Nerang

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Clothing company invests at Nerang

315 words
21 November 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
64
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

GOLD Coast clothing enterprise Sarroff Group is making Nerang its base following the purchase of a
building that for some time has been home to Unit Clothing.

The group, linked to Elias Sarroff, has been based at Burleigh and acquired Unit Clothing from
receivers in May.

It became leaseholder of the Unit Clothing premises and opted to buy the property when it was
released for sale.
The two-storey warehouse-office building has 3076sq m of floorspace and sits on a 7298sq m
landholding at 85 Lawrence Drive.
The property will serve as Sarroff Group’s storage and distribution centre. The sale was handled by
David Corke, of CBRE, and Josh Wright, of Wright Property, who declined to comment. However,
industry sources said the property could be expected to realise between $3 million and $3.5 million.

Unit Clothing, a casualwear brand, was launched in 2002 by Southport-born Paul and Ian Everest,
who built it into a business with annual sales of $20 million, 40 staff, and an office at San Clemente in
the US.

Unit Clothing was hit by the fall in discretionary spending that followed the global financial crisis and
receivers James Stewart and Tim Michael, of Ferrier Hodgson, were appointed to entities linked to the
business in March this year.

The receivership extended to Unit Clothing’s wholesale distribution business, which supplied more
than 400 independent retailers.

At the same time, BDO’s Andrew Fielding and Gerald Collins were appointed as administrators to
another linked company, Unit Enterprises.

The Everest brothers are believed to have put Unit Clothing on the market prior to the receivership
and, while offers were submitted, they were rejected by the financier.
Sarroff Group, which undertakes manufacturing in China, later reached a deal with the receivers to
acquire Unit Clothing.The group’s product range includes sunglasses, apparel, jewellery and
shapewear.

NS

RE
PUB

c182 : Asset Transactions | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 :
Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.

Page12of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document GCBULL0020141121eabl00023

Page13of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.