Under-pressure Cliffs cuts back

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Under-pressure Cliffs cuts back

Nick Evans
421 words
13 February 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
Second
73
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

US-based iron ore producer Cliffs Natural Resources has slashed its capital spending budget in a
sign it could be yielding to shareholder pressure to clean up its balance sheet ahead of moves to sell
or float its Canadian and WA mines.

Cliffs had a torrid year on the US market, with its share price tumbling more than 30 per cent amid
rising production costs and construction blowouts at its Canadian iron ore projects.

The company now faces pressure from activist hedge fund Casablanca Capital, which called on the
company to separate its US iron ore mines from its international operations after last month
emerging with a 5.2 per cent stake in the company.

Cliffs appointed JPMorgan as corporate advisers in response to the Casablanca move on its register
and said yesterday it had mothballed one high-cost Canadian mine and canned expansion plans at its
troubled Bloom Lake project in Quebec.

Cliffs is due to release its fourth quarter financial results in the US today and is expected to update
shareholders on its thinking about the potential sale or float of its international assets.
Its WA mines produce about 11 million tonnes of iron ore a year, with total production costs of about
$US73 a tonne. Industry sources suggest a sale or float of the assets could attract significant interest,
though any attempt to tie its struggling Canadian operations to the sale would hurt the process.
But the mines are profitable at current iron ore prices, with Cliffs making a $US35.73 margin on iron
ore sales in the September quarter.
If its Yilgarn mines are put on the block it would be the first sale of operating WA iron ore assets of
any significant size since its own acquisition of the mines in 2005 through a $675 million bid for
George Jones’ Portman Mining.
Atlas Iron, exporting at similar levels to Cliffs, is capitalised at just over $1 billion on the Australian
exchange but has been marked down heavily due to uncertainty about its future spending on
infrastructure. Sources suggest Cliffs would attract a premium over Atlas’ valuation.
Alternatively, Chinese steelmakers, still keen to lock away iron ore supply but now more reluctant to
risk splashing out on development stage projects, are likely to be very interested in producing assets
should Cliffs opt for a trade sale. Big player $US73 Total production costs per tonne for Cliffs’ WA
mines, which produce about 11 million tonnes of iron ore a year

CO
IN

ccic : Cliffs Natural Resources Inc
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys |
ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying

Page295of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS
RE
PUB
AN

ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140212ea2d0000h

Page296of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.