BC Iron bids for Stokes iron ore venture

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
BC Iron bids for Stokes iron ore venture

Peter Ker
491 words
12 August 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
23
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Resources - $250 million deal looms
A looming $250 million deal could see billionaireKerry Stokes' entrench his position in the lucrative
Australian iron ore sector.

Mr Stokes' $80 million stake in ASX-listed Iron Ore Holdings could become a $112 million stake in
established exporter BC Iron under the terms of a takeover bid revealed on Monday.

BC has lobbed a cash and scrip offer to IOH that already has the blessing of the IOH board and Mr
Stokes, who is a 52 per cent owner.
It is the second takeover bid to strike the Australian iron ore sector in the space of three months after
Baosteel and Aurizon acquired Aquila Resources in July.

IOH shareholders have been offered 10¢ in cash, and 0.44 BC shares for every IOH share they own,
meaning the deal would deliver about $8.5 million in cash to Mr Stokes, plus about $112 million of BC
shares, based on the latter's closing share price on Monday.

Significantly, Mr Stokes will become the biggest shareholder in the enlarged BC, with 19 per cent, if the
takeover wins approval from at least 90 per cent of IOH shareholders.
IOH director Ryan Stokes said he was proud of what the company had achieved. "We look forward to
participating in the growth of BC Iron in coming years," he said.
BC exports about 4.3 million tonnes per year through its Nullagine joint venture with Fortescue Metals
Group, and while that partnership has turned the company into a dividend-paying market darling, the
joint venture has only six years of mine life remaining. The acquisition of IOH could extend that mine
life by 15 years, if IOH's two assets can be successfully brought into production.
BC managing director Morgan Ball said IOH's $800 million Buckland Hills project, with its proposed
port facility at Cape Preston, was a strategic part of the acquisition.
"As a merged company, we will sit down and look at all our options in relation to developing Buckland,
both from a development perspective and a funding perspective."
The combined entity could yet have relevance to Chinese steel maker Baosteel and rail provider
Aurizon, who jointly acquired iron ore assets close to Buckland Hills in the recent $1.42 billion
acquisition of Aquila Resources.
Baosteel and Aurizon are planning to spend more than $4 billion on a railway and a new port at
Anketell.

Page84of239©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Macquarie analyst Hayden Bairstow said it could make sense for the enlarged BC to co-operate with
Baosteel rather than build its own infrastructure.
"Why would BC Iron develop a barging facility there if someone else is going to build a greenfields
port," he said.

BC shares closed 32¢ lower at $2.99, while IOH shares rose to their highest price in 27 months, with
the stock closing 37.5¢ higher at $1.325.

IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i22 : Primary Metals | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140811ea8c0004l

Page85of239©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.