Shock China coal tariff decision throws Australian free trade talks into turmoil

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

popular
Shock China coal tariff decision throws Australian free trade talks into turmoil

Mark Kenny and Tess Ingram - Sydney Morning Herald
944 words
9 October 2014
Singleton Argus
FSINGA
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

The crucial final stages of free trade talks between Canberra and Beijing have been thrown into turmoil
following China's shock decision to impose harsh new tariffs on Australian coal supplies.
The sudden reversion to protectionism is designed to save the local coal industry and will see all
coking coal imports hit with a 3 per cent price hike and double that applied to the lower grade thermal
coal attracting an import tariff of 6 per cent.

It comes after intense lobbying from local suppliers dealing local prices at a six-year low.

[Penny Wong: Worrying development.]

Penny Wong: Worrying development. Photo: Alex Ellinghausen
The China National Coal Association, which had submitted proposals to reduce domestic output,
reduce the tax burden and regulate imports, had urged Beijing to act swiftly to support the besieged
sector, where 70 per cent of the miners were making losses and more than half were owing wages.
The news brought an angry reaction from the federal opposition and the Australian mining sector.

The Minerals Council of Australia's Brendan Pearson said the decision was a poor one.
"The MCA urges the Australian government to initiate urgent discussions with Chinese counterparts to
seek the reversal of the decision," he said in a statement.
He said applying tariffs would ultimately prove "counterproductive" for the struggling Chinese economy
anyway because it would "raise energy costs for China's industrial sector and households".
"This decision raises the stakes on the outcome of talks on a free trade agreement with China due to
conclude next month," he said.
Trade Minister Andrew Robb said he was seeking full clarity via our post in China but stressed that
there would always be a strong place in the market for Australian high-grade, lower emission coal.

"This highlights the importance of concluding high quality Free Trade Agreements to shore-up our
competitive position," he said.

"In negotiations, our starting point is to always seek zero tariffs for Australian exports, but these are
negotiations."
Mr Robb said China is expected to consume nearly a billion tonnes more coal per year by 2020 so
demand for high-quality coal imports will continue. We currently provide around 25 per cent of China's
imported coal and we are confident Australia will continue to be a competitive supplier in the years
ahead.

Page248of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Prime Minister Tony Abbott had raised the possibility of winding up nine years of mostly unproductive
trade talks by signing an agreement with China's President Xi Jinping in November during his state
visit around the G20 summit.
Energy-hungry China is the world's top importer of coal. It will be the first time import tariffs on the
commodity will apply in nearly a decade, and is seen as an attempt to prop up a flat domestic coal
sector.

Australia and Russia are expected to be hit hardest but it remains unclear if Indonesia's multilateral
trade deal across ASEAN will insulate its suppliers from the new impost.

Beijing has promised signatory nations zero import tariffs for some resources.

The opposition's spokesperson on trade and investment, Penny Wong, said it was a worrying
development.

"The Abbott government must tell Australians when it became aware of this measure, explain its
impact on Australian exporters and the economy, and outline its response," she said.
"Labor supports negotiations to secure a high-quality free trade agreement with China which gives
Australian exporters real benefits, rather than a sub-standard deal designed to give Mr Abbott a
political trophy.

"For now, Mr Abbott and Trade Minister Andrew Robb owe Australians some answers on this new tariff
on Australian exports."

Yancoal spokesman James Rickards said the full implications of the decision were not yet clear but it
would add to the difficulties in a sector that has already suffered job losses and mine closures.

"While the re-introduction of import taxes adds to existing operating cost pressures for Australian
exporters, few are dependant upon a single market to ensure their economic security," he said.
"China is only one of several growth opportunities for Australian coal producers and the industry will
continue to adapt to market challenges as it always has."
China had set import taxes for all coals, with the exception of coking coal, at 6 per cent prior to 2005
before they were gradually reduced and scrapped in 2007. Coking coal import taxes were set at 3 per
cent before being abolished in 2005.
China said last month it will ban the import and local sale of coal with high ash and sulphur content
starting from 2015 in a bid to tackle air pollution. But Australian miners were left unscathed by that
regulation as the most stringent standards did not apply to power plants.

While speculation has swirled about the resumption of the import tariffs since late last year, some
industry participants were surprised by the high rates and the types of coal that were included.
"Having a 6 per cent import tax for thermal coal is very high and that will easily snuff out any price
advantage overseas suppliers can offer," said a Shanghai-based coal trader.
"It is also puzzling that they have resumed tariffs for coking coal, since China has a shortage of quality
coking coal."
China, also the world's top coal producer and consumer, imported 327.1 million tonnes of coal in
2013, accounting for about 10 per cent of the country's total consumption.

with Reuters

This article first appeared in the Sydney Morning Herald

CO
NS

RE

cntlok : China National Coal Association
gtrade : Tariffs/Trade Barriers | c312 : External Markets | e512 : Physical Trade | c31 :
Marketing/Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat :
Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gdip : International Relations | gpir :
Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry
News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | auscap : Australian Capital Territory | nswals : New South Wales |
beijin : Beijing | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries |

Page249of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies |
easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FSINGA0020141010eaa900001

PUB
AN

Page250of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.