Heavy equipment firms get into gear

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Heavy equipment firms get into gear

894 words
16 December 2014
Industry Updates
BDU
English
Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Company. All Rights Reserved.

Chinese producers of vehicles, rail cars expand abroad via global mining giants.

Hu Weiying, a 30-something engineer from Hunan-based Xiangtan Electric Manufacturing Group Co
Ltd, works in Western Australia's Pilbara region, where many mining giants have iron ore projects.

Hu and two colleagues have been working at the Tom Price mine, owned by Rio Tinto Plc, the
British-Australian multinational mining giant, for several months as the Chinese manufacturer
expands into overseas markets to serve its mining clients.

"I am responsible for collecting data on four XEMC trucks" used by Rio Tinto at the project, Hu said.
"The data will be used to improve our trucks."

The four trucks, each of which can haul 230 metric tons, were shipped to Tom Price in June 2012, the
first time that Chinese-produced mining vehicles were sold to a foreign customer.

It was just the beginning.
As mining titans such as Rio Tinto, BHP Billiton Ltd and Fortescue Metals Group Ltd sell vast
volumes of iron ore to a resource-hungry China, Chinese manufactures are expanding their
Australian business by delivering ore cars, trucks and modular accommodation at the project.

On Nov 20, Rio Tinto signed a long-term agreement with XEMC to supply and service heavy mobile
equipment for its global operations.
According to the miner, it was the first global agreement Rio Tinto has signed with a Chinese
supplier, which demonstrated that Chinese manufacturers are capable of making world-class
products.
Under this agreement, XEMC's mining trucks and other equipment will be used not only at the Tom
Price mine but at other mines owned by Rio Tinto.
Since trucks and mining equipment are mostly custom-built for use in extreme conditions, such as
extremely hot locations or on rocky roads, the cooperation with Rio Tinto will help the Chinese side
gain experience for future overseas orders.
XEMC Chairman Zhou Jianxiong said that besides producing high-quality equipment, the company is
working to improve its after-sale services.
Another company, Qiqihar Railway Rolling Stock Co Ltd, a subsidiary of China CNR Corp Ltd, is
supplying ore cars for Rio Tinto.
As of September, there were 6,500 ore cars from QRRS being used by Rio Tinto to move iron ore
out of the Pilbara region, according to Heath Harnden, general manager of railways maintenance at
Rio Tinto's iron ore division.
Just back from a 10-day business visit to China, Harnden said that the company plans to increase
the number of ore cars from 6,500 to 11,500 by 2015, and all the new ones will be from China.

"We are very proud to work with QRRS," he said.

Page73of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."They have increased the ore car's load capacity from 50 cubic meters to 55 cu m based on Rio
Tinto's request, which helped us to do our job more efficiently."
The company even won Rio Tinto's award as best supplier in emerging markets in 2013.
"The cooperation with Rio Tinto since 2004 has provided great opportunities for Chinese heavy duty
equipment manufacturing companies like us to expand business overseas," said a statement on
QRRS' official website.
QRRS is also a supplier for BHP, to which it sold 2,500 custom-built ore cars. Each car can carry 40
tons .
Besides mining equipment makers, Jiangsu-based Yangzhou Tonglee Reefer Container Co Ltd, a
subsidiary of China International Marine Containers Group, is providing modular accommodation in
many Pilbara mining camps.
Australian miners live in facilities built by Chinese companies, drive mining trucks made in China
and deliver iron ore in rail cars from Chinese makers.
That iron ore eventually ends up in China's steel mills.
According to Rio Tinto, the company purchased more than $5 billion worth of goods and services
from China for use in its operations worldwide over the past four years.
BHP also has a long-term partnership with Chinese suppliers. It set up a China procurement team
based in Shanghai in 2007. And in the past six years, BHP has purchased products worth $4 billion
in China.
BHP's Chief Executive Andrew Mackenzie said that through China's strength in steelmaking and
manufacturing, part of the iron ore that is exported to China comes back to Australia in the form of
high-quality infrastructure and equipment.
"In the past six years, we spent around $4 billion buying capital goods and consumables from China
to run our business in Australia," he said.
BHP works with more than 50 suppliers and service providers. In addition to ore cars and modular
accommodation, BHP purchases steel fabrication from Tianjin-based Bohai Oil Marine Engineering
and Supply Co Ltd for use at its Jimblebar mine in the Pilbara region.
The Chinese steelmaker won a contract valued at $55 million with BHP in 2011. Since then, the
company has been growing as an international supplier of steel structure modules.

"The project has definitely assisted us in our overseas expansion," said Peng Wencheng, president of
Bohai Oil.
Li Xinchuang, deputy secretary-general of the China Iron and Steel Association, said the mining
giants' increasing procurement in China reflects their commitment to the market, which makes them
look better than pure sellers.
Wei Zengmin, an analyst at consultancy Mysteel, said that as China's manufacturing ability improves,
mining companies will definitely increase procurement in China.

CO
IN

RE

IPC
PUB
AN

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | rtz : Rio Tinto PLC | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC | craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i32 : Machinery | icre : Real Estate/Construction |
ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | iindstrls : Industrial Goods | imet : Mining/Quarrying
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
fin/con/trd/mch
China Daily Information Company
Document BDU0000020141216eacg0000d

Page74of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.