Timor spy saga will get messy

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Timor spy saga will get messy

Tony Raggatt
327 words
11 January 2014
Townsville Bulletin
TOWNBU
Townsville
23
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

WHAT’S with all these spying scandals?

First Indonesia and now East Timor have been the target of our spooks. It seems we like to bug the
conversations of our neighbours. The US has also had some embarrassing moments in recent
months, apologising to its allies in Europe for spying on them.

The disclosures, mostly made by former intelligence officers, have fuelled debates over surveillance
and the balance between protecting our national security and the release of sensitive information.

That the surveillance occurs is probably expected and accepted by the public as a necessary evil.

It is an awkward truth that nobody trusts anybody in matters of state. The national interest must be
protected, and so everybody watches everybody. But what if it involves the private interests of our
companies and politicians, and the line blurs between national and commercial interest?
China is said to have an army of spies in commercial espionage. The East Timorese are claiming
Australia gained a commercial advantage in gas treaty negotiations by bugging the offices of its prime
minister in 2004.
Compensation worth billions of dollars and access to oil and gas deposits in the Timor Sea were at
stake, and East Timor now has petitioned the International Court of Justice in The Hague to revoke
the gas treaty with Australia.

The former ASIS officer who provided information to the East Timorese is claimed to have been
motivated by a sense of betrayal over the interference of commercial interests.

There is also concern former foreign minister Alexander Downer later became a lobbyist for the
Australian oil and gas company Woodside, which held an interest in the Timor Sea gas fields.

Last month ASIO raided the Canberra office of the lawyer who is representing East Timor, seizing
documents, while the former ASIS officer who provided the information has been detained.It appears
the whole sorry saga will now play out in public hearings.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gspy : Espionage | gcat : Political/General News | gcns : National Security | gdef : Armed Forces
timor : Timor-Leste | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
dvpcoz : Developing Economies | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
News Ltd.
Document TOWNBU0020140113ea1b0000q

Page90of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.