Arrium falls short by $284m

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Arrium falls short by $284m

BRIDGET CARTER, CAPITAL RAISING
577 words
14 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
21
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

The retail component of Arrium’s capital raising has resulted with the company netting just $6 million
— almost $284m less than it hoped to secure — in what has proved to be a public relations disaster
for its underwriter UBS and a bleak chapter for the company.

Arrium raised $465m from institutions on September 17, with the remaining $290m to be secured
from retail investors.

But the company revealed last night that the retail offer closed on October 8, resulting in only 12.8
million new shares purchased, locking in just $6.1m of the $290m it hoped to receive. It came as
shares in the company closed at 33c — well below the price for which the company was raising
equity — which meant the result was expected.

An auction began last night for the stock to be sold at 48c a share as part of the retail shortfall book
build. But with the shares being sold at a price far higher than what the stock was trading at, it was
thought that the sub-underwriters would be left with the stake in the business, equating to about 20
per cent.

Investment bank UBS, which had underwritten the deal, maintained that the raising had been fully
sub-underwritten and that it would not be left holding any stock, despite suggestions that the bank
would be left with shares in the company.

Sub-underwriters were understood to include offshore hedge funds and whether they would be burnt
by the deal would depend on how effective they had been at hedging their own investments, sources
said. Fears surrounding the dramatic drop in the iron ore price triggered a move by Arrium last month
to tap the market and sources have suggested other iron ore miners are likely to follow suit.

The shares were offered at a 26 per cent discount to the 65c they were trading around at the time.

But the deal to raise $754m on September 15 went horribly wrong when its shares started trading
lower than the price of 48c per share that the stock was being issued at.

After the trading halt was lifted, they crashed to 40c, which was a fall of 38 per cent and 17 per cent
below the offer price, marking their lowest level since the company spun out of BHP Billiton as
OneSteel in 2000.

In what was already at deeply discounted raising, the decision by the miner to raise funds surprised
the market, given that less than a month before at its results, Arrium boasted about the performance
of its mining division.
The slumping iron ore price has meant forecast cuts from many analysts, resulting in further pressure
on Arrium’s earnings forecasts and valuation.

Allan Gray fund manager Simon Mawhinney had previously said that he had met management with a
view to getting involved in the placement, but elected not to.

Page276of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.This was on the basis that the company still had $1.2 billion in debt after the raising.
He had said that the iron ore market, where supply was growing rapidly, could get worse for miners if
the Chinese pick-up in demand most expected did not eventuate.One analyst said the falling share
price and poor institutional take-up had been influenced by lack of guidance in the mining business
and the fact there had been expressions of confidence in the balance sheet just four weeks earlier.

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141013eaae00034

Page277of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.