Bell Potter Trims IAG Forecasts But Stays Positive -- Market Talk

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Bell Potter Trims IAG Forecasts But Stays Positive -- Market Talk

1,337 words
25 September 2014
10:00
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

0000 GMT - Bell Potter trims its forecasts for Insurance Australia Group (IAG.AU) to account for higher
reinsurance costs and lower technical reserve returns given stable domestic interest rates. Its earnings
outlook falls 8% for fiscal 2015, 4% for FY16 and 3% onward. But while its target price falls to
A$6.75/share from A$6.90, it retains a buy recommendation and continues to view IAG as its top pick
among pure-play insurers. It notes IAG has a better claims and commission track record than its peers,
backed by strong margins and return on equity. IAG last traded at A$6.15. (robb.stewart@wsj.com;
Twitter: @RobbMStewart)

2319 GMT [Dow Jones] Australia's central-bank Gov. Glenn Stevens will be involved in an economics
forum at the University of Melbourne at 0245 GMT amid expectations he will flesh out comments
Wednesday that new housing investor lending restrictions are being mulled. But markets may be
disappointed. Stevens will come armed with some brief prepared comments but won't be participating in
the ensuing panel discussion. The conference subject matter is, however, financial-system reform and
stability. No question-and-answer session is planned. (james.glynn@wsj.com; Twitter
@JamesGlynnWSJ)

2315 GMT [Dow Jones] Harley-Davidson Inc. (HOG) dealers in the U.S. were left with
bigger-than-expected inventories of motorcycles after sluggish second-quarter sales. Sharon Zackfia, an
analyst at William Blair & Co., says Harley recently began offering promotional financing terms to help
move bikes. She sees "the potential for domestic retail sales trends to rebound as comparisons ease
after this quarter and the company laps tough winter and spring weather." (bob.hagerty@wsj.com)

MTA Market Talk by Andrew Tangel
The Metropolitan Transportation Authority's approval Wednesday of a $32 billion capital plan poses a
big challenge: How to fill a $15 billion funding gap? The MTA runs New York City's subway and bus
systems, as well as two of the country's largest commuter lines: the Metro-North Railroad and Long
Island Rail Road. MTA officials and political leaders left open the question of how to pay for the plan,
either through fare increases beyond those planned, new subsidies or other revenue sources. The MTA
currently carries a $34 billion debt load. This year it is expected to spend 16% of its $14 billion
operating revenue and subsidies on debt service. (@AndrewTangel)
2251 GMT [Dow Jones]--The latest central bank data on high loan-to-value ratio residential mortgage
lending showed that this proportion of mortgage lending remained steady at 6.5%--after exemptions--in
August. Under RBNZ lending curbs, banks can only lend to 10% of house hunters who do not have a
20% deposit for the property. "Banks continue to adjust to this new environment of lending, and we
expect this proportion of mortgage lending will edge slightly higher as competition amongst banks heats
up," says ASB Bank. However, "house price inflation peaked late last year, and we expect further
moderation in house price inflation over the coming year as new housing supply comes on board and
higher interest rates take effect." ASB Bank is expecting the central bank to keep interest rates on hold
until March 2015. (rebecca.howard@wsj.com; @FarroHoward)

18:32 EDT - Did Ross Perot just invest in Sears (SHLD)? According to a securities filing Wednesday, a
company called PYOF 2014 Loans LLC will buy up to $50M of the up to $400M loan that CEO Eddie
Lampert's hedge fund is making to the struggling retailer. The filings didn't identify PYOF, but its
signatory is David Radunsky, who oversees investment functions for Perot Investments. Reached late

Page97of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Wednesday, Radunsky wouldn't say whether Perot was associated with PYOF, saying he is "not at
liberty to comment about who owns that company." (maxwell.murphy@wsj.com)

18:18 EDT - New Zealand's Pacific Edge (PEB.NZ) shares open 4.5% higher at NZ$0.93 after news
Japan has awarded it a patent for its colorectal cancer prognostic technology. Colorectal cancer is
Japan's most prevalent cancer, according to Pacific Edge CEO David Darling. The technology is aimed
at detecting aggressive cancer in patients already diagnosed with colorectal cancer, helping clinicians
"predict progression and provide patients with a more specific treatment following surgery," according to
Pacific Edge. (rebecca.howard@wsj.com; @FarroHoward)

18:14 EDT - Economists at BNP Paribas are bracing for "another shock...this time a negative one" in
Thursday's durable goods report. They see total orders slumping 20% after a 22.6% jump seen in July.
"We expect aircraft orders to have cratered in August, as demand for planes likely fell back to more
normal levels. Motor vehicle orders are also projected to have dropped significantly in August, in line with
the pullback in motor vehicle assemblies during the month." (pedro.dacosta@wsj.com; @pdacosta)

18:09 EDT - Morningstar cuts its fair-value estimate for New Hope (NHC.AU) to A$2.90/share from A$4
after dropping its long-term price assumption for thermal coal to US$75/ton from US$90 to reflect a
diminished outlook for import demand from China. The investment-research firm says China's economic
rebalancing should trigger a deceleration in electricity demand and in turn mean demand growth for
thermal coal is likely to be zero. Morningstar adds the estimate cut for NHC comes despite the
company's "admirable cost control." It has a hold recommendation. NHC last traded at A$2.53.
(robb.stewart@wsj.com; @RobbMStewart)

18:03 EDT - Andrew Levin, a Fed economist currently on leave and working at the IMF, downplays the
idea that much of the weakness in the job market and the drop in labor force participation is due to
longer-run demographic trends that are not amenable to policy solutions. "Rather than focusing on
econometric models we should focus on the problems of real people," Levin says at a conference
sponsored by the Peterson Institute for International Economics. "When we talk about people who are
underemployed, we're talking about, say, a single mother who's maybe relying on food stamps and
Medicaid. There's an urgency for those people." (pedro.dacosta@wsj.com; @pdacosta)
18:00 EDT - The price difference between light and heavy crude oil is poised to narrow, as valuable light
crude becomes more plentiful, says Energy Aspects. Light oil is considered more valuable because it is
easier to refine into fuels like gasoline. But as the US keeps producing light oil that cannot be exported,
domestic refineries will be unable to absorb the supply, pressuring prices, Energy Aspects says. At the
same time, new refining capacity is being added around the world to process more medium and heavy
crude, increasing demand for those grades. Global light crude benchmark Brent settled today at
$96.95/barrel. (nicole.friedman@wsj.com; @NicoleFriedman)

17:57 EDT - NZD/USD is likely to remain under pressure in Asia trading as markets look to US durable
goods and service PMI later in the global day, says Sam Tuck, an Auckland-based currency strategist at
ANZ. The firm notes the housing sector has been the "Achilles heel of the US economic recovery" and
the 18% gain in new home sales reported overnight "was welcomed by USD bulls." The pair is at 0.8077
early in New Zealand and Tuck says it has short-term support at 0.8030 and resistance at 0.8120.
(rebecca.howard@wsj.com; @FarroHoward)

To contact the Market Talk Editors,
Kevin Kingsbury, 212 416-2354, kevin.kingsbury@wsj.com
Cynthia Lin, 212 416-4403, Cynthia.lin@wsj.com
John Shipman, 212 416-2181, john.shipman@wsj.com
Patrick Sullivan, 212 416-2326, Patrick.sullivan@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

September 24, 2014 20:00 ET (00:00 GMT)

CO
IN
NS

RE

nigltd : Insurance Australia Group Ltd
i82 : Insurance | i82001 : Full-line Insurance | ifinal : Financial Services
e1202 : Interest Rates | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset
Class News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

Page98of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020140925ea9p0005o

Page99of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.