Southern buyers drive Brisbane sites

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Southern buyers drive Brisbane sites

Matthew Cranston
563 words
1 April 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
39
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The purchase of apartment development sites in inner Brisbane surged in the first quarter as
developers moved north from Sydney and Melbourne.
A total of more than $134 million worth of residential development sites, each worth more than $5
million, sold in the inner city in the three months, almost equal to 2013's $136 million total.

Values for such residential sites have increased by up to 66 per cent said CBRE with no sign of a
cooling market.

"If the value gap between Sydney and Melbourne compared with Brisbane remains, then the
market here will keep rising," CBRE director Peter Court said.

"Part of the market fuelling this demand is the investment by overseas interests. As long as they
continue buying in Sydney and Melbourne, we will see southern developers keep buying in
Brisbane," he said.
From 2009 to 2011, CBRE identified an average of just six residential development site sales a
year, with the total value of investment at $143 million. In 2012 and 2013, the number of sales
identified jumped to 29, with the total value of investment rising to $252 million.
From 2009 to 2012, a majority of sites sold achieved a sales rate of less than $3000 a square
metre. But in 2013 , 10 of the 15 sales identified achieved above $3000 a square metre, with four
above $5000 a square metre of site area.Competition increasing
Metro Property founding director Ken Woodley, who has just contracted to buy a massive island
site in south Brisbane for $22 million, said the competition from interstate was increasing.

"There is a lot of action coming up from down south, but all I am saying is that whoever has the best
site and best products wins.

"There are plenty of bad sites being bought which we wouldn't touch."
Local developer ARIA Property Group's Tim Forrester, who paid $10 million for a prime site in
South Brisbane in November last year said there was no sign of overheating.
"I'm not surprised to see the prices being paid. The numbers work, especially with construction
costs not having moved," Mr Forrester said. "We think there'll be some upward movement in the
end price of apartments."

The market is being driven mainly by southern developers who are being priced out of Sydney and
Melbourne and are heading north.

Page36of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Sunland Group, which paid $20 million for the Australian Broadcasting Corporation's former
Brisbane riverfront headquarters in September last year, has been active in the southern markets
but has noticed the competition from offshore developers.
"The Chinese investment has affected the city property markets," Soheil Abedian said last week, "I
believe it is making it difficult for some developers to increase their pipeline."Demand remains

CBRE expected the hunt for sites to continue well into 2014 and 2015.

"As long as there's continued price growth and as long as interstate migration continues, I don't
think this increase in buying will lead to any oversupply," CBRE's Peter Court said.

Valuers, LandMark White, said an eventual oversupply was possible .

"It is expected the surge of new developments in Brisbane's inner suburbs coupled with the
predominant level of investor-owned stock may have recently led to a slight oversupply of rental
stock and hence a reduction in demand, softening rental growth," the company said.

IN
RE

PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | melb : Melbourne | queensl : Queensland | sydney : Sydney |
victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South
Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140331ea410005k

Page37of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.