Gentrack IPO hits sweet spot for UBS

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Information
Gentrack IPO hits sweet spot for UBS

Sally Rose
764 words
26 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
22
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Gentrack Group's Australian traded shares lifted by 5 per cent as the software maker returned to the
public markets on Wednesday, making it the latest in a wave of New Zealand companies to dual list in
both their home markets and Australia.
The Auckland-based company makes customer billing software for utilities companies around the
world.

At listing on the NZX on Wednesday, Gentrack shares jumped as much as 5.4 per cent before closing
3.8 per cent higher at $NZ2.49 ($2.31). On its simultaneous ASX debut, Gentrack shares finished
5 per cent higher at $2.30.
UBS acted as lead broker on the deal, which was originally taken to market with a price range of
$NZ2 to $NZ2.50 per share. The bookbuild process, which was originally due to close at 1pm on June
5, was extended for a number of hours and closed later that evening after the market closed, pricing
the shares at $NZ2.40 ($2.18).

Last month, a senior member of the UBS capital markets team told The Australian Financial Review
that they considered an increase of between 2 per cent to 5 per cent on the first trading day an
optimal performance for an IPO, arguing this was enough for investors to gain but not so much that
the issuer felt they should have held out for a higher price.

According to a disclosure statement issued by Gentrack the three biggest shareholders at listing are;
New Zealand Central Depositories Ltd, Jametti Ltd, and Uplands Group. Australian institutional
investors include Colonial First State Global Asset Management and AMP Capital.
Gentrack chief executive James Docking has retained control of 10 per cent of the company, while
chairman John Clifford retains control of a 12 per cent stake although both have sold down in the
IPO to provide free-floating stock.

The offer was priced at between 14 times to 16.7 times forecast net profit for financial year 2014 -
2015, valuing the business between 9.9 times to 11.8 times earnings before interest tax and
amortisation. A cash dividend yield of 4.5 per cent to 5.4 per cent has been forecast for the financial
year ending June 2015.

Gentrack was founded 25 years ago when a New Zealand entrepreneur bought the computing
division of failed Australian television maker AWE. The current senior management gained control of
the company about a decade ago in a management buyout from its then British private equity
owners. Before that the company was listed in the UK.

Mr Docking said the decision had been made to go public again now in a move to help give big
customers confidence the company will still be around in another 20 to 30 years.

Page169of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."Gentrack's software systems take between six months to two years for our clients to implement.
That's a big commitment, so they want to be able to stick with us for a long time afterwards," Mr
Docking said.

The business model is based on a combination of up-front installation and annual fees.

In addition to its core client base in power and water utility companies across Australia, New Zealand
and the United Kingdom, Gentrack also makes software systems for airports. Clients include London
City Airport, John F Kennedy Airport, and Hong Kong International Airport.
The initial public offer raised $NZ99 million ($91.7 million), just shy of the maximum $NZ100 million
sought. Existing bank debts of $NZ35 million ( $32.4 million) will be extinguished. At listing Gentrack
had a market capitalisation of about $167.2 million.
Gentrack's IPO is the latest Kiwi company to pursue a dual-listing in Australia. Energy companies
Mighty River Power, Genesis Energy and Meridian Energy have listed in the past two years, as has
fuel retailer Z Energy.
New Zealand vehicle and event equipment companyHirepool Group is also slated to list in the
coming months.

No doubt investors in Gentrack will have been cheered by the stellar share price performance of NZ
small business accounting software firm Xero. That company is multi-listed in New Zealand,
Australian and the United States. Shares in Xero are more than 80 per cent higher over the past 12
months, having traded as much as 220 per cent higher over the period.
Key points New Zealand utilities billing software maker raised $91.7 million in a dual ASX-NSX
listing. Shares in Gentrack rose 3.8 per cent on the NZX and 5 per cent on the ASX after
Wednesday's debut.

rtiyhw : Gentrack Group Ltd
iinv : Investing/Securities | ifinal : Financial Services | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 :
Software | i3302021 : Applications Software | icomp : Computing | itech : Technology
c14 : Stock Listings | c1711 : Initial Public Offerings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | reqris :
Suggested Reading Investing/Securities | c02 : Corporate Changes | c17 : Funding/Capital | c171 :
Share Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin :
FC&E Industry News Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested
Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | nz : New Zealand | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140625ea6q00009

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page170of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.