Blue sky ahead for the shareholders as wild ride begins

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Blue sky ahead for the shareholders as wild ride begins

John Durie
1,255 words
8 August 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
24
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

IN Sam Walsh’s words, Rio Tinto has finished the first book and has many more exciting adventures to
come, with “considerable capacity to further enhance” shareholder returns from the second half of this
year.
Finance chief Chris Lynch was unwilling to put a figure on the payout, but the $US3.8 billion in
dividends is light on when you consider earnings per share jumped 156 per cent and dividends by just
15 per cent. Walsh put all the focus on costs, with capital expenditure down 18 per cent to $9bn and
falling to $US8bn next year. There will be few to no mergers and acquisitions, but with debt down to a
manageable $16.1bn there will be more cash available for shareholders.

The Rio story — the odd $3.9bn Riversdale snafu aside — is an impressive one, with $700 million in
costs cut and $900m in volume increases offsetting the $1.4bn in price cuts for the major commodities,
with Rio’s iron ore margins at an impressive 66 per cent.
Walsh was maximum bullish on China, impressed with the way its leadership has handled the
economy, and with China ore just 20 per cent of the local market — down from 50 per cent — there is
plenty of room for his confidence.

It’s been quite a ride for Rio, but Walsh has it firing under the right controls and, just maybe,
shareholders will get to see some of that blue sky in the second half.

Changes must be right NO matter how many times Ian Harper tells the world he is more interested in
extending competition rules to health and education than studying the institutional framework of the
regulator, debate seems to focus on section 46, the abuse of market power provision.

It is a classic big versus small business battleground and Small Business Minister Bruce Billson has
indicated he wants changes.

As noted yesterday, Australian Competition & Consumer Commission boss Rod Sims has taken aim
at Mr Big Business (Wesfarmers boss Richard Goyder) for his interpretation of the proposed changes,
and it seems everyone has a view, with the National Seniors Association coming down against Sims
and citing former chairman Graeme Samuels in opposing any changes.

As with any regulation, the starting point is to establish why a change is needed. To be frank, the
ACCC has not exactly helped its case by not explaining how it hopes to use its new powers.

Clifford Chance’s Dave Poddar asks: “What conduct is the ACCC trying to stop?” He has a point,
because, while section 46 has been difficult to use, the ACCC, as Clayton Utz’s Michael Corrigan
argues, “has never complained it has difficulty in proving purpose to satisfy the section”.

Inevitably, big supermarkets are the bogeymen, even though they can point to lower retail prices to
show competition has been good for consumers.

Page178of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The issue is how much the retailers have cut prices with the help of supplier rebates, with the
supermarkets standing over suppliers and exercising their power.

A day after Goyder made forthright comments against section 46 changes, his team performed a
political stunt to get former Victorian premier Jeff Kennett to act as the Coles paid independent arbiter
in supplier disputes.

Creating the right public perception is important for retailers. The very day Coles unveiled its in-store
plans, the government finally pressed the button on the 10-month-old grocery industry code of
conduct. If section 46 is to be the poster child for the battle, it is important that any changes be the
right ones.

The ACCC wants to remove the words “taking advantage” from the section and replace it with its
effects test and substantially lessening competition.

Corrigan stressed the need for some sort of filter to let big companies compete. Poddar notes the
Apple iPad hurt competitors, but was clearly beneficial. He suggests “the adoption of a test which
requires both purpose and effect to contravene the prohibition”.

Digital bets fly TABCORP’S David Attenborough is one boss not worried about digitisation overtaking
his business. The digital side of his betting products is not only providing another distribution outlet, it
is also the only one growing fast — up 15.6 per cent in the past year to $1.9bn against falls in both
NSW and Victorian retail outlets.

Mobile devices increasingly are punters’ platform of choice. They account for 54 per cent of digital
sales, up from 35 per cent Tabcorp’s numbers came down in line with expectations, which resulted in
an outperformance on the day, the stock price up 3 per cent at $3.55 a share.

Attenborough has the business firing up, with return on capital tipped to increase to 14 per cent from
12.9 per cent.

With the dividend-payout ratio to increase from 81 per cent to 90 per cent, there was reason to be
happy.

This half, the numbers were boosted by World Cup punts. But Attenborough says this money was
going to be thrown at something and thus could not be classed as a one-off event.

In the end, net profit rose 7.4 per cent to $149.4m on a 4.8 per cent increase in earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation and a 1.8 per cent increase in revenues.

Gurry on copyright On August 21, Melbourne’s Francis Gurry will present a paper for the Intellectual
Property Society and Commercial Bar Association. Gurry, who now heads the World Intellectual
Property Association, will — appropriately enough — talk about the international agenda for copyright.

Envestra disbelief VALUE is in the eye of the beholder and APA’s Mick McCormack is still in wonder at
the multiple being paid for Envestra by CKI.
The Hong Kong giant is paying 1.5 times the regulated asset base for the business, which looks like
setting a new record.

State treasurers are alive to the fact that cheap cash is flooding the world, which allows the likes of
CKI to pay $2.4bn for the Envestra business. Its effective $1.35 bid compares with the $1.17
McCormack had on the table.

APA will continue earning about $19m a year managing the Envestra pipelines as part of its long-term
management agreement with the company, despite selling out yesterday.

But McCormack would also prefer to own and operate than just collect the management fee. However,
he will happily keep an eye on the assets for CKI.
APA will make an after-tax profit of $430m for selling its stake in Envestra and this will be used to fund
organic capex in the business including his Kalgoorlie goldfields pipeline.

There is not a hint of sour grapes in the bemusement — more than one observer has wondered just
how infrastructure assets can be paid, given some of the multiples being paid for the assets.

One way is to boost prices, which is why John Mullen at Asciano is not impressed at the monopoly
prices being paid for privatised ports across the country. That spells more rent for him.

Page179of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.McCormack earns about 8 per cent on his pipeline assets on average, but he figures that, at best, CKI
will be earning 6 per cent, which may not leave much wiggle room if the cost of funds increases.For
the moment, this was a business decision he had to make — sell out, pocket the dollars on offer and
look for the next deal.

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

rtz : Rio Tinto PLC | craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c151 : Earnings | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140807ea880005j

Page180of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.