Seven Group's Nexus A Long Term Punt

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Seven Group's Nexus A Long Term Punt

1,272 words
1 April 2014
FN Arena
FNAREN
English
Copyright 2014. FN Arena Ltd.

- Opportunistic acquisition - Strategic diversification into oil & gas - Long term potential value - Costly
upfront exposure

By Greg Peel

Seven Group Holdings ((SVW)) is a disparate conglomerate the major assets of which are WesTrac, a
33% shareholding in Seven West Media ((SWM)), owner of media assets such as the Seven Network and
the West Australian News, and a lot of cash. WesTrac is the authorised Caterpillar dealer in Western
Australia and NSW/ACT and more recently in northern China.
Analysts regard WesTrac is a quality franchise but the fact remains the heyday of mining construction, in
which Caterpillar equipment was highly sought after, is now passed. Energy sector construction is also
soon to reach a peak but will exhibit a long tail decline as further LNG projects ramp up over the decade.
LNG is now Australia's biggest growth industry, and LNG is set to match or knock off iron ore eventually
as Australia's biggest export.

Seven Group's CEO was previously the CEO of LNG major Woodside Petroleum for around ten years
which suggests he has a fair bit of experience in the oil & gas space. And he was formerly the chairman
of Nexus Energy ((NXS)). It is thus perhaps of little surprise Seven Group has announced an offer to
acquire Nexus.
Such an acquisition, or merger as is the suggestion in this case, potentially offers SVW a sensible level
of diversification to offset the decline in WesTrac earnings. It is also highly opportunistic.

Nexus owns the Longtom Gas Project in the Gippsland Basin, the Echuca Shoal gas exploration
concession in the Browse Basin, and 15% of the Crux development licence in the Browse Basin (Shell
82%, Osaka Gas 3%). On the other side of the balance sheet Nexus is heavily geared. The company
has struggled financially and did not benefit from two production outages at Longtom in the past 18
months. In late 2012 Nexus initiated a strategic review to explore funding options which by May 2013
included the possible divestment of Longtom and by late 2013 the possible divestment of the entire
company.

Nexus did receive non-binding offers on Crux and Longtom but these were unlikely to convert to binding
proposals before the company hit the wall. Tomorrow Nexus was due to make a decision on refinancing
or retiring the remaining $44m Longtom senior debt facility. Yesterday Seven Group made its
announcement.

SVW announced a merger implementation agreement with Nexus in which it will acquire all the
outstanding equity, the senior debt and majority of subordinated debt for $215m, with a further $235m to
be provided for future capex requirements over the next 3-5 years. The agreement amounts to SVW
offering 2cps for all of NXS' shares, which were previously trading at 16c.

The Nexus board has unanimously recommended the offer to shareholders. With the strategic review
failing to deliver any alternatives and liabilities growing, there remains little alternative, Macquarie
suggests, other than to accept. Macquarie has thus lowered its rating on Nexus to Underperform
(implying Sell) from Outperform and cut its price target to the offer level of 2c from a previous 20c.

Page17of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The question, then, for brokers is as to whether the deal is steal or a mistake from Seven Group's point of
view.

BA-Merrill Lynch points out that for SVW to generate cost of capital returns from its $450m outlay it would
require earnings (EBIT) of around $55mpa from Nexus over the medium term. In the six months to
end-December, Nexus lost 3.3m. But this is not your average acquisition. Says Merrills:
"It should be noted, however, that the acquisition is not a near term EPS [earnings] accretion story, in
our view, but rather a medium to long term entry into oil & gas with significant prospective value."

The last point of valuation for Crux was available from a transaction in late 2012 and if one were to use
that valuation as a guide, SVW has picked up a bargain. But Merrills warns it would be foolish to assume
this simple comparison given Crux is unlikely to begin production until after 2020 and even then the
project is dependent on the ramp-up of Shell's Prelude floating LNG facility and will require ongoing
capital expenditure. But at least one might say the asset is highly prospective.
Certainly the acquisition would not stretch SVW's balance sheet by any means. Merrills believes the
strategy underpinning the acquisition appears sound and the company was looking for opportunities in
adjacent sectors where it sees a sustainable competitive advantage. And while Seven Group as a
company has no former experience in oil & gas production, CEO Don Voelte certainly has.

Merrills will not readdress its earnings forecasts until after the Nexus shareholder vote and retains a Buy
recommendation and $9.80 target, for now, on SVW.
In JP Morgan's view, SVW is using its strong balance sheet to diversify into oil & gas at a fair price. The
analysts' quick calculations suggest SVW is buying Nexus' gas reserves for US61c per million cubic feet
compared to a peer average value of US69c/mcf. But SVW must commit to spending to meet near term
maintenance and fulfill requirements under development leases and exploration licences as well as stump
up for the as yet undefined cost of remediating Longtom-3 after its production outage issues. Then there
will be no doubt material costs involved in further exploration and development of Nexus' other assets.
Growth in WesTrac China and some improvement in SVW's media businesses may help offset the
decline in WesTrac earnings domestically, and Nexus offers diversification, but JP Morgan is concerned
as to just how much value SVW can extract from Nexus. And how will capital be allocated in future?
SVW's share price currently implies an 18% discount for WesTrac to the value of Caterpillar dealer peers
but the broker suggests this is now reasonable given the uncertainty the Nexus merger would imply.

Hence JP Morgan has downgraded its rating on SVW to Neutral from Overweight and cut its target to
$8.64 from $9.89.

Macquarie acknowledges that the Nexus assets may prove to be valuable for Seven Group in the
medium term but notes their short term earnings contribution will be limited. The biggest problem
Macquarie has, nevertheless, is the additional complexity a Nexus acquisition brings, making valuation
of SVW by the market more difficult. In short, the analysts believe the acquisition has the potential to
dilute the value of the quality WesTrac franchise.

To that end Macquarie has downgraded its rating on Seven Group to Underperform from Neutral and cut
its target to $8.02 from $8.36.

On broker updates to date the consensus price target for SVW in the FNArena database has fallen to
$8.55 from $8.86 and the stock attracts two Buy or equivalent ratings, two Hold and a Sell.

Find out why FNArena subscribers like the service so much: "Your Feedback (Thank You)" - Warning this
story contains unashamedly positive feedback on the service provided.

FN Arena is building the future of financial news reporting at www.fnarena.com . Our daily news reports
can be trialed at no cost and with no obligations. Simply sign up and get a feel for what we are trying to
achieve.

Subscribers and trialists should read our terms and conditions, available on the website.

All material published by FN Arena is the copyright of the publisher, unless otherwise stated.
Reproduction in whole or in part is not permitted without written permission of the publisher.

RF
CO
IN

0DB6650E-0897-0012-48AB75071E27ABF5
wanhl : Seven West Media Limited
i475 : Printing/Publishing | i4751 : Newspaper Publishing | imed : Media/Entertainment | ipubl : Publishing

Page18of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

c18 : Ownership Changes | cacqu : Acquisitions | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin
: FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB FN Arena Ltd.
AN

Document FNAREN0020140401ea410005m

Page19of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.