AUSTRALIA'S farm sector needs two key ingredients in

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

AGRIBUS
AUSTRALIA'S farm sector needs two key ingredients in

585 words
20 March 2014
Queensland Country Life
FQLCOL
13
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

AUSTRALIA'S farm sector needs two key ingredients in order to thrive during the next 20 years new
investment backing for family farms and milk.

The Murray Goulburn co-

operative estimates every Australian would be on average more than $800 better off today if the
nation's dairy farmers hadn't

quit the industry in droves during the past decade.
Instead of maintaining a respected 15 per cent share of global dairy export markets, Australian milk
production has been slipping 1.7pc annually, despite a big surge in world dairy product demand in the
past five years. We now supply just 7pc of the international trade.

Across the Tasman Sea, New Zealand has been doing the opposite, converting beef and sheep
country into dairy farms and growing its annual production by about 3.5pc.
NZ's share of the global milk product trade is now 37pc up from a stake similar to Australia in 2002.
Milk exports are now turbo-charging the kiwi economy with the sort of growth experienced by Australia
in the recent mining boom, including pushing value of the NZ dollar to 40-year highs.
Growth in demand for dairy foods is forecast to be more than double that of the next two fastest
growing food categories combined by 2020, dragged along largely by demand from China.
Chinese imports of dairy foods were worth just $309 million in 2001, but by last year had soared to
$US6.2 billion.
"Dairy is truly an amazing story of growth. It really is so huge," said Murray Goulburn's shareholder
relations general manager Robert Poole (pictured).

"Unfortunately we have not been in a position to take advantage of it, but NZ saw the chance and
grabbed it."
A difficult decade of drought, milk market deregulation, a rising Australian dollar and low farmgate
milk returns eroding farmer confidence levels had convinced many producers it was time to stop
milking, sell their farms, sell irrigation water rights or semi-retire.

"None of this make sense for an Australian industry with such a great outlook," Mr Poole said.
"We need to reverse the trend and get farmland back into dairy production. Getting people to invest in
dairy again is going to deliver an incredible prize."

He said a 3.5pc compound increase in annual production would deliver an extra $5b a year to the
national economy from export earnings by 2020.

Page42of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.To reclaim 15pc of the global trade by 2030 would bring in $11b, equivalent to an extra $824 per
capita every year.

Mr Poole admitted it was an "incredibly audacious goal", but his farmer-owned co-operative arguably
Australia's biggest food business was determined to do its bit to encourage as much production
growth as possible.

A key plank in Murray Goulburn's (MG) strategy is to promote growth by providing farmgate pricing
confidence to its expanding supplier network in NSW, Victoria, Tasmania and South Australia.
This trading year MG suppliers will be paid 50 cents a litre a near record and the company's objective
was to increase its
milk price by a further 7c/L (equivalent to $1kg for milk solids) to encourage a turnaround in supply
volumes.
"We can create so much more income per hectare from dairy cows than from sheep or beef cattle.
We've got to get the land lost in the past decade back in production," Mr Poole said.

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i413 : Dairy Products | i0 :
Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
c312 : External Markets | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types |
nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | nz : New Zealand | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FQLCOL0020140319ea3k0000v

Page43of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.