best, worst of times

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

best, worst of times

1,075 words
19 December 2014
Bribie Weekly
APNBRW
Main
7
English
Copyright 2014 APN Newspapers Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

It was a year of fortunes won and lost, as big rural investments were announced and Mother Nature
continued to prove her influence is inescapable. As Christmas looms, Rural Weekly looks back on the
2014 that was.

THE YEAR IN REVIEW

IN MARCH, plans were announced to build a $60million quarter horse racing and equestrian facility
by 2016.
The proposal included a hotel, convention centre, residential development and equine centre of
excellence, after the Queensland Government granted a joint Australian and American consortium a
licence to race quarter horses near Imbil.

Gympie Mayor Ron Dyne said struggling farmers in the Mary Valley growing livestock feed would
also have another market for their produce.

MAY

BUNDABERG Sugar’s Bingera mill was badly damaged by a fire that caused about $3million worth of
damage and delayed the start of crushing.

It was believed the fire started in a switch room and then spread to a transformer and four conveyors.

The mill started crushing following the extensive repairs on July 21, two weeks later than initially
planned.

Bingera mill crushes most of the cane on the north side of the Burnett River, but a small amount is
trucked to the company’s Millaquin mill.

THE Australian macadamia industry, the world’s largest producer of the only commercially viable
native Australian food product, celebrated its 40th year in 2014.

The celebration – which included an event at the Sydney Opera House featuring celebrity chefs –
marked 40 years since the Australian Macadamia Society (and with it, full-scale commercial
production) was established in 1974.
There are now more than 850 growers across three states, and six million trees producing about
40,000 tonnes per year. Of the total production, 60% is exported as kernel to the world market.
Macadamias are primarily sold as kernel and processed for snack food and as an ingredient in food
products.

IRRIGATORS started their push for the State Government to act on the soaring power prices they
claim are crippling growers and forcing many to walk off farms. The lobbying started with a forum in
Bundaberg for farmers and peak bodies, led by Canegrowers and the National Irrigators’ Council,
and has continued throughout the year.

Page140of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Canegrowers Queensland senior vice-chairman Allan Dingle said the organisation feared the State
Government – the 100% owner of Ergon Energy – would not reduce direct costs to farmers.

He said this was despite Canegrowers presenting strong evidence to the government that reducing
power prices by 33% immediately for growers would be revenue-neutral, with many farmers now
choosing to switch off their pumps because the cost to run them was prohibitive.

Mr Dingle, also a Bundaberg cane grower, said even sustained rainfall would not impact on the core
issue around exorbitant power prices for irrigators.

Canegrowers electricity committee chairman Rajinder Singh said the battle over irrigator power prices
had been raging since 2010 and it was now time for the government to provide essential relief for
farmers.

JUNE

THE Maryborough Sugar Factory (MSF) announced $15.5million of investment into an overhaul of
irrigation on its properties across the Maryborough district.

The investment will pay for the installation of centre-pivot irrigation, which distributes water more
evenly, can lead to higher tonnages and costs less to run – an advantage in the face of
ever-increasing electricity prices.

MSF have also employed a consultant to discuss irrigation and efficiencies with growers, and have
indicated a willingness to consider financing farmers interested in installing the technology on their
own properties.

The first centre pivots were installed on an MSF farm in Boonooroo Rd, with more set to come online
soon.

HEAVY early winter frosts damaged sugar cane in parts of the Wide Bay region, in particular in the
Isis and Maryborough districts.

It was estimated up to half of Maryborough cane farmers would have virtually nothing to crush this
season, with the frost coming on the back of a long drought and flood damage early in 2013.

In the Isis district, about 15% of cane was said to be damaged, but the Isis Mill worked hard with
harvesters and growers to maximise the harvest, and eventually finished the crush with a figure
180kg higher than the 2013 tonnage.

AUGUST

THE first decent rain in many months fell across the district, leading to some much-needed good
news for cattle sales across the Wide Bay.

Soon afterwards, the Burnett Beef Ball was held and revellers toasted the heavens opening up.
Cattle sale numbers picked up – in Gympie a record 2570 head were yarded at Sullivan Livestock’s
saleyards – along with prices. And while there has been some volatility in the market since as a result
of the varying quality of the cattle, the prices have generally held firm.

SEPTEMBER

THE Australian Senate and the Queensland Government both set up inquiries into sugar marketing
after three of the state’s major sugar millers decided to split from marketing body Queensland Sugar
Ltd (QSL).

Millers Wilmar, MSF and Tully Mills gave notice they would market their own sugar from 2017.

That left the millers at Bundaberg, Isis and Mackay with QSL.

It also meant QSL would only have 600,000 tonnes to market when the split happens – just a fifth of
its annual average of three million tonnes.

QSL CEO Greg Beashel said after the announcement the body was a non-profit organisation that
was half owned by the millers and half by the growers.

Wilmar claimed it achieved better prices by doing its own marketing.

Page141of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Submissions to the Senate inquiry closed in November but the committee will have until April 2015 to
prepare a report for the Federal Government.

NOVEMBER
AUSTRALIAN billionaireGina Rinehart’s Hancock Prospecting bought into a dairy enterprise in the
Gympie hinterland.
The woman who picked the mining boom by betting on iron ore is now putting her money on
powdered milk after taking a 90% stake in Hope Dairies.
The business has signed a memorandum of understanding to invest $500million in a baby formula
processing plant in the Mary Valley and 5000ha of farmland in the South Burnett.
The 30,000 tonnes of powdered milk it wants to start producing in 2016 will be exported to China.
About a quarter of the milk it needs will come from local farms.

Hancock Prospecting spokesman Jason Morrisson said the project was a substantial investment for
Mrs Rinehart.

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

i4211 : Sugar | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i421 : Sugar Products | icnp : Consumer Goods |
ifood : Food Products
gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
APN Newspapers Pty Ltd
Document APNBRW0020141216eacj0002x

Page142of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.