NuCoal Resources Ltd. - Quarterly Activities Reports to 30 September 2014

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

NuCoal Resources Ltd. - Quarterly Activities Reports to 30 September 2014

884 words
3 November 2014
ENP Newswire
ENPNEW
English
(c) 2014, Electronic News Publishing. All Rights Reserved.

Release date - 31102014

This Quarterly Report updates activities undertaken during the period 1 July 2014 to 30 September 2014.

OVERVIEW

During the period, NuCoal:

continued to assess the Savoy Hill project in the Hunter Valley and evaluated other opportunities for new
projects and

continued to implement the legal strategy previously announced to seek fair redress for shareholders
following the cancellation of Exploration Licence 7270 (EL 7270) by the NSW Government in early 2014.

Throughout the period NuCoal has restricted expenditure to preserve funds for the activities outlined
above. The Company is also investigating the sale of assets in the Hunter Valley which were acquired to
progress the Doyles Creek project, primarily consisting of land holdings around the Doyles Creek area.

1. PROJECTS
Savoy Hill Coal Project (100%)

As previously notified, the Savoy Hill tenement, Exploration Licence 6812 (EL 6812) has been extended
until 20 June 2018.
The Company has continued work on a mining options concept study and undertaken initial marketing
analysis for a potential open-cut operation supplying the nearby domestic power stations.
Dellworth Coal Project (100%)

The Dellworth tenement, Exploration Licence 6594 (EL 6594), is valid until July 2015.

As previously noted, the resources at Savoy Hill are better than those at Dellworth being both more
marketable and lower cost; therefore the Company is currently concentrating on progressing the Savoy
Hill Project, however, further independent geological assessment is being undertaken to determine the
viability of pursuing an Assessment Lease for the Dellworth tenement area.

2. POTENTIAL ACQUISITIONS
The Company has continued pursuing appropriate external acquisitions within Australia. A number of
potential acquisitions have now been reviewed, and initial due diligence is currently being undertaken on
projects deemed to be the most value accretive. Shareholders will be informed of any developments as
soon as there is any material information to report.

3. LEGAL COMPLIANCE
As instructed by the Department of Trade & Investment Resources & Energy, during the quarter NuCoal
delivered all of the core and chip samples in respect of EL 7270 to the Department’s core library in
Londonderry.

Page17of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.4. LEGAL CASES

Background
On 31 January 2014, the NSW Government passed the Mining Amendment (ICAC Operations Jasper
and Acacia) Act 2014 (NSW) (Mining Amendment Act), cancelling EL 7270 with no compensation
payable to NuCoal. The legislation was passed following an inquiry by the Independent Commission
Against Corruption (ICAC).
Constitutional Challenge against the Mining Amendment Act

NuCoal announced on 26 June 2014 that a Writ of Summons and Statement of Claim challenging the
constitutional validity of the Mining Amendment Act had been lodged with the High Court of Australia.

A hearing date has not yet been allocated by the High Court. We will update shareholders when we have
been allocated a hearing date for the proceedings.

Judicial Review Proceedings

The Judicial Review hearing of NuCoal vs Independent Commission Against Corruption was held in the
NSW Supreme Court on 27 October 2014 before Justice Stephen Rothman. The hearing lasted one day
and NuCoal was represented by Neil Williams SC and Jonathan Kay Hoyle.

Justice Rothman will now prepare his formal judgment. We will update shareholders following its release.
Following the hearing, Chairman Gordon Galt said ‘We welcome the opportunity to have an independent
legal review of the process that led to ICAC’s December 2013 report by a properly constituted Court. We
await the Court’s judgment.’

Shareholders are reminded that the outcome of the judicial review will not reverse the cancellation of EL
7270.

Free Trade Actions
The Company is continuing to pursue claims against the Australian Government on behalf of overseas
based shareholders under various Free Trade Agreements (FTAs). These potential international actions
are being progressed with a view to obtaining compensation from the Australian Government for the
decision by the NSW Government to expropriate EL 7270 without payment of compensation.

Some FTAs allow the Plaintiff (NuCoal shareholders who reside in the relevant jurisdictions outside
Australia) to bring an action without needing the consent of the Australian Government (e.g. Australia’s
Free Trade Agreements with Singapore, Hong Kong and others) while other FTAs require the consent of
both the Government of the investor’s home country and the Australian Government before an action can
proceed (e.g. the Australia - USA Free Trade Agreement).

As previously communicated, shareholders should note that any successful actions under an FTA will
benefit only the shareholders who bring and participate in the actions. Shareholders will continue to be
updated on all proceedings outlined above as they progress.

5. CORPORATE
Cash and deposits were A$4.70 million as at 30 June 2014.
The Company recently listed four properties within the Jerrys Plains area For Sale which are of no
benefit to future operations given the cancellation of EL 7270.
The Company will continue to assess the remaining assets held in the Doyles Creek area.

6. ADDITIONAL REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

The following additional information is provided in accordance with ASX Listing Rule 5.3.3.

Beneficial percentage interests held in farm-in or farm-out agreements NuCoal does not hold any
interests in farm-in or farm-out agreements.

Contact:

Glen Lewis Managing Director NuCoal Resources Ltd. Tel: +61 2 4015 0500

[Editorial queries for this story should be sent to newswire@enpublishing.co.uk]

Page18of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO
IN
NS

tlnaus : Nucoal Resources Limited
i1 : Energy | i111 : Coal Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
gvsup : Judicial Branch | npress : Press Releases | gcat : Political/General News | gpir :
Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | ncat : Content
Types
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Electronic News Publishing Ltd.
AN

Document ENPNEW0020141103eab3000dv

Page19of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.