Cadbury's second biggest Tasmanian dairy supplier struggles to attract a domestic buyer, but strong interest from Chinese investors

HD

Cadbury's second biggest Tasmanian dairy supplier struggles to attract a domestic buyer, but
strong interest from Chinese investors
Alex Blucher

BY
WC 523 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

24 October 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) News
ABCNEW
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

TD

The sale of dairy farms across northern Tasmania has plateaued in the last six years, despite the
industry being touted as the state's 'white knight'.

Cadbury's second biggest supplier has struggled to sell his farm locally, but has had very strong interest
from Chinese investors.

North west dairy farmer Ross Arnold, based in Montagu, says that he's struggled to find a domestic buyer
and an international buyer is an option he's not ruling out.
"The locals are not going to be going any bigger, that's the way it's going to go I'm afraid, there's nothing
else we can do about it," he said.
"(Chinese investment) could be a good thing for the people who want to sell their farms and get out if it,
but I don't think it'll be good for the locals."

Mr Arnold's family has a long history in the township of Montagu.

He started milking 30 cows decades ago, and has since bought nine farms, milks 800 cows and produces
five million litres of milk a year.

He's selling up to retire and doesn't want his children to take on the farm.

"I've seen what I've had to go through over the years and at this stage I don't want the boys to go through
the same thing," said Mr Arnold.
"When the milk price is right things are alright, but when you're not getting enough for your milk, well it's
just a battle to keep going.

"I've set the debt load up and it's my responsibility to get rid of the debt and retire."

As the average age of an Australian farmer increases, this is a common story not only in Tasmania, but
nationwide.

Mr Arnold has had his farm on the market for over a year.

He says that he'd like to keep ownership in local hands, but he's had no luck so far.
Tasmanian dairy industry group, Dairy Tas, says 16 to 17 farms have sold each year since 2009.

While it's not a definitive figure, it's a sign that sales have plateaued.
Landmark Harcourts director John Hewitt, who's recently returned from marketing dairy properties in
China, says he's struggled to find domestic investors in the local dairy industry.

"Historically we haven't been all that successful, although some of the ones that have invested in the last
ten years are now becoming more successful and so hopefully we'll see more investment with Australian
capital."

Page59of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The real estate agent has packaged 12 dairy farms in Circular Head in Tasmania's north west to market
to both domestic and overseas investors.
"We're not only pitching this to Chinese investors, we're talking to Australian super funds and agricultural
investment companies," he said.

"But there's a lack of investment in agriculture in Tasmania. For us to expand our industry and improve
employment and production we need outside investment."

IN

RE

i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming
| i0100105 : Cattle Farming | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy Products | icnp : Consumer
Goods | ifood : Food Products | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
austr : Australia | china : China | tasman : Tasmania | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

IPD rural
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCNEW0020141024eaao000ci

Page60of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.