Murdoch's $30m carbon raspberry

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Murdoch's $30m carbon raspberry

Matthew Cranston and Rory Callinan
2,272 words
28 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
20
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Exclusive The frequent folly of a carbon abatement scheme and the bizarre events which cost a media
giant and others dearly, is unwound by Matthew Cranston and Rory Callinan.

Exclusive | In the plush leather seated board room overlooking a wintry Sydney Harbour, the talk was
of feral camels and flatulence that could blow into oblivion a $30 million investment by Rupert
Murdoch's News Corp. Listening on the line were News Corp's lawyers. It was all business as usual at
RM Williams Agricultural Holdings in 2012.

Armed with $10 million of taxpayers' money, the private investment company RM Williams
Agricultural Holdings was trying to establish the world's largest carbon farm. Incredibly, one of its main
goals was to help Murdoch's media empire go carbon neutral.

Heading the venture was Murdoch lieutenant Ken Cowley, who had brought in the iconic brand of
legendary bushman RM Williams, while a high-powered committee boasting former deputy prime
minister Mark Vaile and climate change expert Tim Flannery was engaged to provide advice.

Hitched to this uncertain venture through an earlier investment was a disparate group of investors
ranging from a Papua New Guinean retirement fund, Australian superannuates, Greens-party donor
Piers Dawson-Damer, New Hampshire millionaires and even the Australian Competition and
Consumer Commission head Rod Sims.

If successful, the operation would have created the largest-ever carbon farm, an example to
businesses seeking to reduce carbon footprints. Spectacular collapse
Within a year of that board meeting, and despite Qantas offering to buy a million tons of carbon offsets
from the farm, greed, egos, camels, conservation, cattle and the global financial crisis collided, causing
the company to implode spectacularly owing $100 million dollars.
The collapse led to extraordinary allegations of "dishonest" share deals, breaches of the company's
code of conduct, claims of nepotism, tracing of personal emails, theft of a crocodile skin and legal
actions. So bitter would the internal strife become, it led to a security guard being put on standby to
ensure order in case of trouble in the boardroom while the company tried to sack the managing
director over everything from alleged biosecurity breaches and corporate credit card personal
expenditure, to relocating his home to central Australia.
Meanwhile, the ambitious dream which sucked millions of dollars from some of the world's most
canny investors, was absorbed faster than the methane from a feral camel's fart into a dusty Territory
clay-pan.

Now, in a timely reminder of the frequent folly of carbon abatement schemes, Fairfax unravels the
bizarre tale of how one of the world's most powerful media barons and a host of other high-flyers did
their dough on an adventurous carbon trading scheme at the expense of Australian taxpayers.

Page25of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In 2007, News Corp's employees were surprised to hear a speech from boss Rupert expressing
concern about the lack of rain in his home town of Melbourne and a heat-wave that was scorching
down under.
Murdoch said climate change was a "clear catastrophic threat" and News Corp would reduce energy
use, switch to renewable power and offset emissions "we can't avoid". He said the vast media
company was emitting 641,150 tons of carbon every year, but that by 2010 it would be carbon
neutral.Murdoch lectures

As Murdoch lectured his staff on climate change, some businessmen in Australia were establishing an
agricultural development operation called Primary Holdings International. One of its first investors,
China-based Origo Sino-India, provided $11 million of finance and put an employee, David Pearse, as
a nominee for the company.

Pearse, a former commodities trader was also a trained geologist who worked around the world for
companies such as Cargill in Africa and would regale acquaintances with tales of how he rowed across
the Atlantic.
PHI acquired a series of blue-chip assets, including an option to pay $72 million for the spectacular
adjoining properties, Labelle and Welltree – the highest price ever for an Northern Territory cattle
station operation.
Locked into the $72 million deal and already juggling the operating costs of other investments, PHI
Group looked for more financiers. They found one in Cowley, who had served as chairman and chief
executive of Murdoch's Australian subsidiary News Ltd from 1980 to 1997 and who was also then still
on the board of News Corp.
PHI merged into a new company called RM Williams Agricultural Holdings, chaired by Cowley, who
also owned the historic RM Williams apparel company.
In return for using the RM Williams name, Cowley's apparel company would get two A-class shares
worth 14 per cent of the total shareholdings.
Other directors of the new company included RM Williams's chief Hamish Turner, a past general
manager of the Sydney Royal Easter Show – and of course, Cowley. In keeping with the sustainability
theme, Pearse encouraged renowned international carbon expert Ken Newcombe and his company
C-Quest to become both adviser on carbon and investor. Challenging

Finding other major backers was slightly more challenging as the GFC began to bite. Investment banks
Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Moelis were called in to assist at different stages.

Fairfax understands the bankers raised questions about the two A-class shares which were owned by
the original RM Williams company. Insiders say the company declined to agree to any dilution of the
two shares which spooked potential investors.

"It became clear that once potential new investors understood the role of those class A shares, no
rational investor would put money in under those terms," shareholder Alan Gayer recalled of the
dealings to Fairfax this week.

But one potential investor who was not spooked was Rupert Murdoch's News Corp. Newcombe says
he believes Pearse had meetings with Murdoch to brief him on the carbon potential of the operation.
In 2009, News Corp agreed to put in $30 million but the investment came with a catch. Company
documents sighted by Fairfax reveal RM Williams Agricultural granted News Corp an option to
purchase up to 100,000 tonnes of additional carbon credits every year for five years, starting in 2012.
And if the company failed to meet those obligations it would have to buy back News Corp's share.
Despite its $30 million investment, News Corp did not take up a seat on the board but directed
lawyers to sit in on meetings to keep watch over the company's investment.Watching carefully
Another player carefully watching the deal was Westpac which lent more than $50 million to the
company.

Pearse travelled the world seeking new investors and in 2010, went on a trade mission to the Middle
East with former prime minister Bob Hawke and former federal treasurer Peter Costello, among others.
About the same time the company welcomed some new employees, including Rebecca Pearse, David
Pearse's wife, who would take up the well-paid position of "head of environmental business".

Page26of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Eventually the company would end up employing Pearse's son Martin as a tourism manager. Martin's
girlfriend also worked on one of the company's stations and Hamish Turner's sister became the
company's human resources manager.
Ms Pearse helped the company apply for a grant under the federal government's Caring for our
Country program, scoring $480,000 of taxpayer money to restore and protect the national assets
surrounding catchment on Labelle's flood plains.
Company insiders have said it was around this time Pearse began to push hard for carbon farming
and biodiversity, something that some on the board thought sounded like gobbledygook, but talk of
immense profits dispelled concerns. The move coincided with a dramatic falling-out between Pearse
and Newcombe.

Newcombe says Pearse decided to scrap C-Quest's agreement to provide carbon advice to the
company. Still sitting in on board meetings as an observer, Newcombe said Pearse told the board the
station would produce three tonnes of carbon a hectare.Carbon denial

" I made it clear to the board that there was no way that Henbury could produce carbon at the level
Pearse was proposing. It was absolutely impossible to imagine getting three tonnes per hectare, per
year."

Newcombe said his advice to reject the deal was ignored.
The company successfully applied again for a Caring for our Country grant and netted around
$9.1 million from the program's National Reserve System component – the largest grant of its type.

RM Williams Agricultural then purchased the remote Henbury Station, 125 kilometres south of Alice
Springs ,on the edge of the desert, from long-time pastoralist family, the Mortons, for $13 million.
In the deal the station was destocked, the Mortons got $9 million in cash up front and $4 million in
shares in the company that could be sold back to the company a year later.

The deal sparked controversy, unsettling NT cattlemen, who were concerned at the stations being
turned into national parks amidst talk of a vast "eco-corridor" that would stretch from Arafura Sea in the
far north down to Adelaide.

But then Environment Minister Tony Burke, told parliament RM Williams Agricultural would "provide a
template, a canvas", to drive business models for carbon farming. The hot air was rising.

"Just before question time I received a text from David Pearse who let me know they have already
been approached about international linking by major European insurance companies wanting to invest
in Carbon in Australia,"  Burke said.
But with the Henbury deal, the company was still struggling and by 2012 when the Mortons sought to
cash in their shares, company representatives begged them to wait. Insiders believed if the Mortons
had gone ahead the company might have imploded right then.

Pearse decided to relocate permanently to Henbury at which time he was being paid an estimated
$500,000 a year, while his wife Rebecca was also rumoured to be getting more than $150,000 a year.
Board meetings were held, where Pearse phoned in from the station. One insider recalled a meeting
where Murdoch's lawyers had phoned in and Pearse, who was on Henbury, was also on a phone line.

Pearse briefed the meeting on the 100 or so feral camels that had trespassed into the station and
needed be removed to preserve carbon status.Cowley in jeans
What Cowley thought about this was hard for other company officer holders to gauge. "He used to
turn up in jeans and let Turner and Pearse run things,'' says a source.

One occasion at a meeting Cowley had stated he represented News's interests – but the News Corp
lawyer on the line said he did not, according to sources.

News Corp press have since reported that Lachlan Murdoch was approached by Cowley seeking a
last-minute investment but the media scion refused.

Finally, things came to a head when allegations emerged Pearse had a secret stash of the undilutable
A shares that had originally been given to RM Williams.

Page27of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The company moved to sack Pearse. Fairfax has sighted an extraordinary email which "the board"
sent to him, raising allegations he had not declared the shareholding in breach of the company's
corporate code of conduct, and other issues.

These included claims he used his corporate credit card for personal expenses, and a reference to him
breaching company biosecurity policy by letting his dog into the company's organic chicken farm,
where it was poisoned by rat bait. There was even a claim about "unacceptable treatment" of a
low-ranking staff member which sources say was over a bill for chicken feed on Labelle. Questions
were also put to a Pearse relative about a missing crocodile skin which had been on Labelle.

Pearse went on leave and vigorously disputed the allegations. He sued for wrongful dismissal and
settled, receiving $50,000.

Origo, meanwhile, filed suit against the Pearses in the NSW Supreme Court.

It alleged by taking the secret share, Pearse "dishonestly" breached his fiduciary duty at Origo.

Pearse denied the allegations but in April 2013, Origo received $200,000 worth of shares in RM
Williams Agricultural Holdings as a "claim settlement" from Mr Pearse.
Two months later, Westpac put the company into the hands of receivers PPB Advisory. A month after
that, ACCC chairman Rod Sims, who had been an adviser to the federal government's high-level
committee on carbon pricing, granted an attorney full control of his own shares in the company and
directed any "net proceeds" to be donated to charity, basically writing off more than $1 million.

Pearse has repeatedly refused to answer questions on the issue. Nothing to discuss

"There is nothing to discuss," he told Fairfax Media. "This has all been addressed. It was all settled and
all proven to have no consequences," he said.

Mr Turner declined to comment and Mr Cowley says he "could not answer one question" about the
company for which he had been "mainly an investor, nothing else".
"I couldn't pass an exam on it," the chairman and director of the company said.

Earlier this month, receivers sold Henbury for just over half what it was purchased for, but how much
taxpayers will get back is still unknown.

Perhaps, with talk in Canberra of an emissions trading scheme coming back form the dead, dreams of
Henbury as a "carbon farm" may live again.

One thing remains certain. While the money, the camels ,the cattle and their farts have disappeared,
the company directors' responsibility for what exactly took place remains. And that is something of
which the receivers are well aware.

mcranston@fairfaxmedia.com.au rcallinan@fairfaxmedia.com.au

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

nnewz : News Corp
i475 : Printing/Publishing | i4751 : Newspaper Publishing | imed : Media/Entertainment | ipubl :
Publishing
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140627ea6s0000a

Page28of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.