Joint bid pays for First Pacific

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Joint bid pays for First Pacific

Sue Mitchell
516 words
20 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
17
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Hong Kong investment management company First Pacific considered bidding for Goodman Fielder
under its own steam before agreeing to team up with Singapore-based oils trader Wilmar
International last month, it can be revealed.

First Pacific and its advisers first approached Wilmar in late March or early April and asked if it would
be interested in selling its 10.1 per cent stake, The Australian Financial Review has learned.

Wilmar had been sitting on the stake since February 2012 and had shown no signs of lifting its
holding or making an offer. In fact, Wilmar had indicated it would consider selling the shares at the
right price.

First Pacific and Wilmar then decided to pursue a joint offer rather than entering into a bidding duel.

Their decision to team up rather than battle each other for control of Australia's largest listed
consumer foods company effectively deprived Goodman shareholders of an opportunity to achieve a
higher price through an auction, which could have generated price tension.
The Goodman board was forced to recommend the takeover bid on Friday night after Wilmar and
First Pacific lifted their offer price from 65¢ to 70¢ a share, deemed the price final, and secured the
support of key shareholders Perpetual Investments and Ellerston Capital.

That First Pacific was considering a bid before approaching Wilmar contradicts the widely held view
that Wilmar brought First Pacific into the deal because it would have struggled to fund the
$1.8 billion acquisition on its own.Wilmar highly geared
While Wilmar has a market capitalisation of $US18 billion ($19.3 billion), compared with First
Pacific's market value of $US5 billion, the edible oils company is highly geared. Wilmar is sitting on
about $US2.2 billion of cash, but its gearing is currently 83 per cent and a full takeover of Goodman
would have increased its gearing to 90 per cent, according to JPMorgan.

The short-term nature of the relationship between First Pacific and Wilmar has also raised questions
about their future intentions if Goodman shareholders approve the takeover.
However, the pair have denied they plan to break up the company and say they are more interested
in taking Goodman's packaged food and dairy brands into Asia. Goodman has put on hold the
proposed sale of the NZ dairy business, as the offer is conditional on no major asset sales.
Wilmar and First Pacific increased their combined stake in Goodman Fielder to 19.9 per cent on
Monday after completing the acquisition of 93.8 million shares from Perpetual and Ellerston,
equivalent to an 4.8 per cent stake, at the revised offer price.

Under a share-purchase agreement signed late last week, Ellerston and Perpetual also agreed to sell
another 5 per cent of the company at 70¢ a share, conditional on Wilmar and First Pacific obtaining

Page109of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Foreign Investment Review Board approval to go above 15 per cent. As a result of these agreements
the combined voting power of the pair is deemed to be 19.9 per cent.

fdgl : Goodman Fielder Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c18 : Ownership Changes
| cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140519ea5k0002n

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page110of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.