(AEPRR) Prima Biomed Ltd: Proposed Acquisition of Immutep

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

(AEPRR) Prima Biomed Ltd: Proposed Acquisition of Immutep

267 words
2 October 2014
Ralph Wragg Australian Business News
AAPRAW
English
Copyright 2014 RWE AUSTRALIAN BUSINESS NEWS PTY LTD. All Rights Reserved.

Sydney - Thursday - October 02 (RWE) - Prima Biomed Ltd (ASX: PRR) announces that it has reached
an agreement to acquire Immutep SA, a late stage privately owned biopharmaceutical company in the
rapidly growing field of immuno-oncology.
Prima will pay consideration of up to approximately US$28 M through a combination of cash, shares
and warrants subject to the achievement of certain performance milestones.

The transaction is to be funded via an investment agreement with Bergen Global Opportunity Fund, LP
("Bergen").

Immutep has been developing a number of complementary types of cancer immunotherapies based on
its patented Lymphocyte Activation Gene 3 (LAG-3) technology.
Its lead product IMP321 has been tested in various clinical trials to date, both alone and in combination
with other therapies.
Immutep holds the world-wide rights (ex China and Taiwan) to commercialise IMP321.

This includes trials in chemo-immunotherapy, a combination of immunotherapy and chemotherapy
which significantly enhances patients' immune response to cancers.

Lucy Turnbull, Chair of Prima BioMed, said: "This is the most significant announcement in Prima's
history.

It is the result of a long and diligent search process led by new Chief Executive Marc Voigt as part of
our business development program.

It considerably strengthens our position in immuno-oncology, which is forecast to grow to a US$35B
industry by 20231.

"It significantly expands our clinical development product portfolio to other categories of
immunotherapies beyond cancer vaccines, which includes our current lead product CVac.

It also provides us with partnerships with several of the world's largest pharmaceutical companies," she
said.

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

primin : Prima Biomed Ltd
ibioph : Biopharmaceuticals | i2569 : Biotechnology | i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i951 : Health Care/Life
Sciences | idrugty : Drugs/Medication
cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd
Document AAPRAW0020141002eaa20002x

Page311of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.