Corporate News: Rio Tinto Reviews Mine, 25 Years After It Closed

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Corporate News: Rio Tinto Reviews Mine, 25 Years After It Closed

By Rhiannon Hoyle
402 words
19 August 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
B5
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

SYDNEY -- Rio Tinto has maintained control of its closed Bougainville copper mine through decades
of independence clashes in Papua New Guinea.
But as the mine today edges toward restarting after a quarter-century and copper prices are strong,
Rio might head for the exit.

The Anglo-Australian company on Monday said it was reviewing its options for its controlling stake
in Bougainville Copper Ltd., after the government passed new laws that could strip the company of
its lease on its Panguna mine.
When Panguna -- one of the world's biggest copper deposits -- started operations in 1972, Papua
New Guinea saw the project in Bougainville as a path to riches.

But islanders soon became envious that revenue that was flowing to government coffers in Port
Moresby rather than to Bougainville schools, health clinics and local incomes. Those frustrations,
combined with worries over the mine's poor environmental record, burst into violence in 1989 when
militants forced the mine to shut down.
Just before it closed, the mine was producing around 166,000 metric tons of copper and 450,000
troy ounces of gold a year. That is enough copper for 7.3 million typical American-made cars.

This year, however, there were signs that the mine was on the path to being rebuilt as rising demand
from China for copper in apartment buildings and electric grids pushed prices higher.
Mining executives, landowners and the Bougainville and national governments have been working
toward a reconciliation ceremony known as a bel kol -- "best translated as a cooling of the heart, or a
lowering of the emotional temperature," said Peter Taylor, the chairman of Bougainville Copper for
more than a decade.
But mining laws were passed this month that will transfer mining regulation to Bougainville's
autonomous government from Papua New Guinea's national government.
Under the legislation, Bougainville Copper -- in which Papua New Guinea's government holds a 19%
interest -- would lose its mining lease for Panguna. It would be exchanged for an exploration license.
Rio Tinto would have to reapply for the lease.
"Rio Tinto has decided now is an appropriate time to review all options for its 54% stake in
Bougainville Copper," said the company, which is reviewing the implications of the mining bill.
Private shareholders own 27% of Bougainville Copper.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

CO
IN

bgnvl : Bougainville Copper Ltd | craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd | rtz : Rio Tinto PLC | rtzcra : Rio Tinto Group
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2114 : Copper Ore/Nickel Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm :
Basic Materials/Resources

Page72of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE

IPC
PUB
AN

ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters
papng : Papua New Guinea | austr : Australia | eurz : Europe | uk : United Kingdom | apacz : Asia
Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | eecz : European Union
Countries | pacisz : Pacific Islands | weurz : Western Europe
ABO
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document J000000020140819ea8j0002l

Page73of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.