Competitiveness agenda lays path for industry-led innovation: experts react

HD Competitiveness agenda lays path for industry-led innovation: experts react
WC 2,644 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

14 October 2014
The Conversation
CONVAU
English
Copyright 2014. The Conservation Media Group.

The federal government has released its National Industry Investment and Competitiveness Agenda,
committing around A$400 million towards “industry growth centres”, new tax incentives for employee
share schemes, and a push for science, technology, engineering and maths (STEM) education.
The government has chosen to focus on five sectors for its growth centres: oil and gas, mining
technology, medical technology and pharmaceuticals, food and agribusiness and advanced
manufacturing, where it says Australia has a “natural advantage” it can build on.

TD

Each of the five industry-led centres will receive funding of up to A$3.5 million per year, and be required
to establish a plan to become self-sustaining after four years. Grants of up to A$1 million will also be on
offer for the commercialisation of ideas.

The government said it would also reform the tax treatment of employee share schemes to support
start-up companies, beginning with reversing the changes made in 2009 to the taxing point for options.
There will also be new concessional tax treatment of options or shares issued by unlisted start-ups with
turnover of $50 million or less.

The 457 visa program will also be reformed, with the process of sponsorship, nomination and visa
applications for “low risk” applicants streamlined, English language requirements made more flexible, and
the sponsorship approval period increased from 12 to 18 months for start-up businesses.

As part of its ongoing deregulatory agenda, the government will adopt a new principle that if a system,
service or product has been approved under a trusted international standard or risk assessment, then
Australian regulators would not impose any additional requirements for approval.

The government will also introduce a new “Premium Investor Visa” offering a faster 12 month pathway to
permanent residency, for those meeting a A$15 million investment threshold.
A symbolic A$12 million of funding will be provided for programs designed to improve the focus on STEM
subjects in primary and secondary schools.

The government will also establish a “Commonwealth Science Council”, chaired by the prime minister, to
advise the government on areas of national strength, current and future capability and on ways to improve
connections between government, research organisations, universities and business.

The government will host a series of roundtable sessions in coming months to consult with business and
the research sector on the policy.

A panel of experts responds below.

Joanna Howe, Lecturer in Law at University of Adelaide

Today’s announcement by the government of a number of changes to the subclass 457 visa program
represents a missed opportunity to properly reform Australia’s approach to temporary skilled migration.
There is genuine public concern that temporary migrant workers are being used in areas where no skill
shortage exists, thereby displacing job opportunities for Australian workers. This point was recognised by
the recent independent review into the subclass 457 visa program, with the final report identifying that two
core questions of the program, namely “proving that the position cannot be filled by a local worker and
determining the skilled occupations that are used for the programme” are “not well served by the current
policy approaches and can be improved by adopting a more robust evidence- based approach”. Yet, the
government has sidestepped both these issues in the reform package announced today and ignored the

Page217of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.report’s recommendations for a ministerial advisory council to provide expert advice on the composition of
the occupational shortage list used by employers to access temporary migrant labour.

The decision to streamline the application process for low risk applicants is a positive one, as is the
proposal to increase the sponsorship approval period for start up companies. Yet, ironically, a reform that
would offer far more efficiency gains and was recommended by the independent review, but has not been
adopted by the government, is the abolition of employer-conducted labour market testing. This would
greatly aid employers and the Department of Immigration but the government seems unwilling to tackle
this reform because it would be difficult to get through the Senate. Yet, the weight of scholarly evidence
and indeed, the OECD’s recommendations on this point, suggest that independent labour market testing is
a far better alternative.

A concerning development is the government’s proposal to weaken the English language requirement.
This is currently a minimum of five across the four competencies (reading, writing, speaking and listening).
The main function of the English language proficiency requirement is to ensure a 457 visa holder will not
be exploited. If temporary migrant workers have lesser language skills, this could leave them vulnerable to
potential health and safety risks in the workplace.

Another concerning reform is the proposal to freeze the Temporary Skill Migration Income Threshold
(TSMIT) at its current level and to review the role of the TSMIT in two year’s time. Like a strong English
language requirement, the TSMIT has a key role in protecting the integrity of the program overall. It was
introduced following the Deegan Review into the 457 visa to act as a salary floor ensuring a visa holder’s
wage was sufficient to maintain a reasonable standard of living given the lack of access to welfare and tax
benefits available to local workers.

Ian Maxwell, Adjunct Professor at RMIT

The concept of promoting STEM skills in schools addresses the continuing slide in the quality of high
school graduates in these areas – as I have heard anecdotally from friends that teach these subjects at
university. In fact, in Australia we have far too many university graduates in science and engineering and
the result is that (a) there is downwards pressure on graduate salaries (further reducing the quality of
people entering these degrees) and (b) there is an increase in the number of people that have science
and engineering degrees that go onto to work in unrelated areas. My personal preference would be to
promote special purpose high schools with a focus on science and engineering where we can put our
limited resources into a fewer number of highly skilled and motivated students.

The idea that we in Australia accept international standards and risk assessments for certain product
approvals is a great one. For too long, especially in the more mature industries, we have seen oligarchies
in Australia exploit standards organisations in order to keep out foreign competition. This has had two
unwanted consequences; firstly, it has put upward pressure on relative prices for Australia customers (due
to less competition), and, secondly, it has acted as a disincentive for Australian producers to expand their
focus overseas. The question is whether this new principal only for newly emerging standards, or if this
brush will also be run over existing standards.
The government says it will provide A$188.5 million to fund “Industry Growth Centres” in five key sectors.
There are very few details so it is hard to comment on this one other than to say that this represents a
(mean) expenditure of $37 million for each of the so-called growth sectors and it would be pretty silly to
expect any significant national economic outcomes from such low levels of expenditure.

Jim Minifie, Productivity Growth Program Director at Grattan Institute

For a refreshing change, the Industry and Competitiveness Agenda is a readable document that clearly
sets out what the government has done and aims to do in pursuit of four goals (business environment,
labour force, infrastructure, industry policy).

While the “have done” list includes some questionable calls like ending carbon pricing and the “will do” list
includes some questionable commitments like the paid parental leave scheme, the concrete new initiatives
announced in the Agenda look broadly sensible and do not cost much. Three of the initiatives could turn
out to be big contributors to startups, gains from trade, and skilled migration. The program offers
substantial spending on apprenticeships, and several smaller funded programs.

Reforms to the Employee Share Scheme (ESS) taxation arrangements are overdue. Paying employees
partly in shares or share options can be a great way for cash-strapped start-ups to reward employees
while burning through a minimum of cash, but since 2009, Australian start-up employees could have to
pay tax at issuance. Start-up employees have been in the absurd position of having to pay tax well before
their shares can be sold for cash. While some start-ups have found ways around the restrictions, many
say the rules sorely limited the value of share schemes in Australia. Shifting the point of taxation back will
make make it much easier for start-ups to make attractive offers to their employees.

Page218of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.A tougher test on the creation of Australian standards is also welcome and overdue. Before a new
Australia-specific standard can be set, regulators will need to show that there is a good reason to
introduce one. Government will also apply the new test to existing Australian standards, not only new
ones. Standards can be a two-edged sword: they can reduce the costs to buyers of assessing quality; but
they can also be used to benefit firms whose products meet the standards by restricting competition. The
reforms should also help Australian exporters achieve production scale by using a single certification for
domestic and international markets.

Reforms for skilled migration are sensible as well, if relatively minor. Research overseas has shown that
skilled migrants do not take jobs away from locals, but instead can boost their incomes. Skilled migrants
can make locals more productive, start businesses that employ locals, or help local firms plug into
international networks. Anecdotally, technology firms in some cases have had difficulty attracting top
international talent. It’s less clear whether clearing the way for so-called significant and premium investors
will add much value; in principle, reducing the barriers to equity capital inflow could be useful as investors
can start new businesses where they live. Australia’s dividend imputation rules do probably bias foreign
investment towards debt rather than equity, so there may be a broader case for to attract foreign equity
including through investor visas.

STEM education in Australian schools has lagged, with enrolments falling in the 2000s, and many schools
saying they are short of teachers with strong mathematics and science qualifications. While questions can
be raised about whether the demand is there for tertiary STEM graduates, it’s much easier to make the
case for stronger secondary STEM education, which creates options for students and builds foundation
skills.

Finally, five Industry Growth Centres will get seed grants and will be able to apply for further funding. The
model brings to mind the Innovation Precincts of the previous government. The focus areas
(food/agribusiness; mining technology and services; oil, gas and energy; medical technology; and
advanced manufacturing) are not a million miles from those suggested by the Business Council of
Australia’s work with McKinsey. The logic for a subsidy is that firms can be reluctant to innovate where
they expect others will capture benefits.

Australian universities do not score well on “translation” to industry. The logic for the sectors chosen
seems to be that the payoff may be biggest in large or rapidly developing sectors. While a case can be
made for action, the evidence base for the value of such programs is relatively weak. As long as the
programs are built from the beginning with evaluation built in (and funded), they have some chance of
paying off and will at least teach us about what doesn’t work.

John Rice, Associate Professor in Strategic Management at Griffith University
The promise of $185 million to establish five new “Industry Growth Centres” (in the areas of food and
agribusiness, mining equipment, technology and services, oil, gas and energy resources, medical
technologies and pharmaceuticals; and advanced manufacturing sectors) can be seen as a re-packaging
of funds that have previously supported the eleven “Industry Skills Councils”, albeit with a focus on
innovation rather than skills and training quality. Handily, the acronym doesn’t change!

Notable sectoral absences among the newly established centres are the service industries in Australia –
clearly not a good omen for those industries that have not been favoured by inclusion in the narrow
mandates of the new centres. In terms of governance arrangements, the new centres are clearly industry
driven, while the sidelined skills councils were, to a greater or less degree, tripartite in nature with a clear
role for unions.

What is lacking is a clear policy framework for industry development that encompasses skills, investment
and innovation. The previous Labor government created a bricolage of bodies in the skills and innovation
area with overlapping responsibilities (that even insiders struggled to understand), extraordinary
bureaucratic waste and scams that siphoned State VET funding.The current government has rationalised
many of these bodies, but today’s announcements in VET and innovation replace the bricolage with an
equally unacceptable patchwork.
The Minister also announced half a million dollars in funding to assess the development of P-TECH-like
programs in Australia. These have been developed in the US and link private employers, educational
providers and (generally) low socio-economic students. In Australia, private firms have accessed public
funds previously to train their employees – and generally this has not gone well.

Anecdotes of burger flippers being surreptitiously enrolled in VET programs as a means of siphoning
public funds haunted the sector a few years ago. It is important that P-TECH does not emerge as a similar
scam.

Page219of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Suspending my natural cynicism, however, linking employers and trainees is a good thing if it is
accompanied by a sense of mutual obligation. It would be tragedy to invest heavily in narrow skills sets
that become worthless if a multinational employer opts to leave Australia. As such, skills should be
relevant and generic, and not focused too narrowly on the processes and systems used in specific firms.

Rachel Wilson, Senior Lecturer at University of Sydney

Research has shown that educational attainment (reading, science and numeracy on PISA) and IMF
measures of competitiveness are highly correlated. In Australia, however, we have declining participation
and levels of attainment in STEM education that threaten future economic competitiveness. Contrast this
with the massive investment, strong participation and high levels attainment in STEM among our
competing and neighbourhood economies, like China, or with others, and the picture looks grim – we risk
being left behind. Therefore this policy attention is very welcome and needed.

My concern is that it is still a very modest investment and is not targeted for the best bang for our buck.
Provision of teaching resources is important but not as important as teacher professional development
programs – particularly those focusing on teacher pedagogical content knowledge in STEM. There is
evidence that those entering the teaching profession also have declining participation and attainment in
science, math and technology; and current efforts to lift teacher quality are not focused on these areas.
There is no requirement for teachers to have completed intermediate level maths or any science for HSC –
and many do not.

The focus on a pilot program and Summer schools for students too, while admirable, will not have wide
reach. Indeed there have been many such programs promoting students interest in STEM and innovation
in schools over the past two decades, yet concurrently many students have dropped study in these fields
and our attainment levels among 15-year olds are declining. More attention needs to be paid to teacher
knowledge and pedagogy in STEM, in early childhood through to university, and on structural policy issues
relating to how STEM is valued, or not, within educational curricula. In NSW the requirement for either
maths or science at HSC was dropped in 2001 and since then numbers have been in decline. We cannot
hope that programs to lift interest among students, so proliferate among education systems worldwide, will
alone make a difference to our current position. Braver reform is needed.

gpol : Domestic Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

NS
RE
PUB The Conversation Media Group Limited
AN Document CONVAU0020141015eaae00012

Page220of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.