RIM CRUDE/CONDENSATE NO.4801 MARKET COMMENTARY --ASIA PACIFIC CRUDE

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

RIM CRUDE/CONDENSATE NO.4801 MARKET COMMENTARY --ASIA PACIFIC CRUDE

982 words
22 July 2014
Rim Crude/Condensate Intelligence Daily
RIMCRD
English
(c) 2014 RIM INTELLIGENCE CO.

Flat prices for September-loading regional grades inched higher, in line with a recovery of the
benchmark Dated Brent prices. Meanwhile, in September-loading floating based trade linked to Dated
Brent and ICP, trade for condensates led by NWSC, Malaysian and Australian light grades started to
gain momentum. Crack spreads for middle distillates in Singapore remained weak, but players with
necessary requirements started to purchase cargoes.

In the trade of September-loading Malaysian grades, the countryfs state-owned Petronas closed its
private tenders for Tapis and Bintulu on Monday. Of these, the Tapis was seem traded at a premium of
the $3/bbl level to Dated Brent, but the details were unknown as of 17:00 Tokyo time. Meanwhile,
Petronas was said to have sold Tapis and Kikeh at OSP based prices on the spot market. An oil refiner
in India, which purchases term avails for Tapis and so on from Petronas, was said to have bought the
Tapis and Kikeh at OSP based prices. The Malaysian oil firm was now working on selling an additional
cargo of Tapis and Labuan. Of these, the Labuan was offered at a premium of mid-$6/bbl to Dated
Brent.

For other September-loading light grades, additional information on Kutubu as reported on July 18
surfaced. It turned out that Australiafs Caltex purchased the two cargoes from Papua New Guineafs Oil
Search. At least one of these cargoes was traded at a discount to Dated Brent. The crudefs naphtha
yields increased sharply since nearly 50% of associated condensate was blended in the crude following
a startup of liquefied natural gas (LNG) production in Papua New Guinea in May this year. As a result,
the values for Kutubu were lowered before the blending. A European major source believed that prices
for Kutubu are more than 50cts/bbl lower than the similar naphtha rich Cossack. Meanwhile, Australiafs
Woodside Petroleum sold Cossack as reported. A major with a refinery in Singapore herd purchased the
Cossack. The price was seen at a premium of about $1/bbl to Dated Brent on CFR. The values for FOB
could be at a small premium to Dated Brent, though this hinged on freight rates from western Australia to
Singapore.

In the trade of September-loading regional condensates, Woodside Petroleum sold one NWSC cargo for
7-11 loading on the spot market. gThe price was at a discount of around $2.1/bbl to Dated Brent,h said a
producer for NWSC. Meanwhile, an end-user in Northeast Asia pointed out that the cargo was done at a
discount of high $2/bbl to Dated Brent. But crack spreads for naphtha bounced back sharply in July,
which could have lifted the values for condensates from the previous month. As for the buyer for the
NWSC, South Koreafs Samsung Total was cited, but this was denied by the end-user in South Korea.
After that, a few players said that a US major could have purchased the cargo, but the details were
unknown.

For other September-loading condensates, Petronas issued a sell tender for Muda. It offered one
250,000bbl cargo for 1-7 loading. Petronas at the same time offered Cakaerawara condensate for
330,000bbl for 19-28 loading. Both of these tenders will close on Wednesday.
Vietnamfs state-owned PV Oil issued a semi-term tender for Rang Dong. It offered term Rang Dong for
October to March 2015 loading. The tender will close on Friday. Buyers were requested to make bids at
a minimum volume of 6,700 barrels per day (b/d), or about 200,000bbl per month. In the April to
September period, China International United Petroleum & Chemical Co (UNIPEC) earlier purchased
the term Rang Dong at a premium of $4.2/bbl to Dated Brent. A Japanese oil refiner expected the
awarded price this time to be lower than the current term price, or a premium of $4.2/bbl to Dated Brent.
The source at the refiner believed that buyers would hold a cautious buying stance, considering the

Page140of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.sluggish current spot markets for regional medium/heavy grades. In addition, gKyushu Electric Power is
likely to restart its Sendai nuclear power plant this coming winter. Rang Dong is not a main grade to be
used by thermal power plants owned by Japanese power utilities, but the move would have more or less
impacts on the tender,h said the refiner source. Bids in the tender will be valid until August 12.

In the trade of September-loading Australiafs medium/heavy grades, Woodside Petroleum sold a partial
cargo of Enfield to an end-user in Japan, according to a few market sources. The cargo was heard sold
at a CFR based price. A European player believed that the FOB values were at a premium of around
$6/bbl to Dated Brent at the highest, considering that the upside of regional medium/heavy grades were
seen limited. Meanwhile, September-loading Vincent and Pyrenees were currently offered to Chinese
oil firm sources.

In the trade of the Rim Trading Board (RTB), BP Singapore offered a physical 100,000bbl cargo of
September-loading Attaka at $2/bbl below September ICE Brent. The major at the same time bid for
September Attaka/Ardjuna paper spread, 50,000bbl, at $3.75/bbl. Meanwhile, Petro Diamond bid for
September Attaka/Minas paper spread, 50,000bbl, at $3.0/bbl.

For other September-loading Indonesian grades, Mitsubishi Corp with a partial cargo of Kaji for
end-September loading showed selling interest for it. The company offered the cargo at a Dated Brent
linked price, instead of a ICP linked price. Meanwhile, Itochu Corp and Mitsubishi Corp had spot avails
for Minas. Buying interest from power utilities in Japan led by Tokyo Electric Power (TEPCO) was weak,
forcing those players to offer their cargoes for refining.

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

irenewf : Renewable Energy Facility Construction | i502 : Heavy Construction | i5020044 : Power Station
Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction
m143 : Energy Markets | mcroil : Crude Oil Markets | mengpr : Energy Prices | m14 : Commodity
Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce :
FC&E Exclusion Filter
papng : Papua New Guinea | austr : Australia | malay : Malaysia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies |
pacisz : Pacific Islands | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Rim Intelligence Co.
Document RIMCRD0020140722ea7m0000i

Page141of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.