Rebuild Program Offers New Life for Older Cat 785/789s

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
VOL
LA
CY

LP

TD

SUPPLIERS REPORT
Rebuild Program Offers New Life for Older Cat 785/789s

2,523 words
1 July 2014
Engineering & Mining Journal
EMJN
82
Volume 215; Issue 7; ISSN: 00958948
English
Copyright (c) 2014 Engineering & Mining Journal. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All
rights Reserved.

Caterpillar and Cat dealers now offer Cat Certified Rebuild Upgrade (CCRU) services for older 785 and
789 haul trucks. Cat said its rebuild program for the original series and the B Series models of these
trucks incorporates the technological advancements introduced with the C Series to improve operation
and performance and reduce engine emissions.

The CCRU provides a full rebuild and certified rebuild warranty along with a Cat upgrade retrofit cab and
chassis updates. The results, according to the company, are improved fuel economy, performance and
productivity as well as a modernized cab for operator comfort and improved engine emissions equivalent
to U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Tier 1 standards for sustainable operation.

Cat said the 3512B EUI engine for the 785 and the 3515B EUI engine for the 789 deliver about 5% more
power and provide the potential for fuel savings of 3%-4%. Also, recommended service intervals are
extended from 250 to 500 hours.

The upgraded cab includes VIMS 4.0 for monitoring machine health and optimizing production cycles to
reduce cost per ton. A full size trainer seat facilitates in-cab training.

The CCRU program for 785 and 789 trucks is available now in the United States, Australia, Indonesia,
South Africa, Chile and Russia.

Trimble Buys Information Management System Developer MIS
Trimble Navigation has acquired privately held Mining Information Systems (MIS), headquartered in
Perth. Australia. The acquisition, said Trimble, will add enterprise-level information management
capabilities to its portfolio of mining solutions, offering the prospect of improved productivity, profitability,
and safety by providing a more complete view of geospatial, productivity, workforce and cost data.
Financial terms were not disclosed.

MIS provides information systems for data required for enterprise-wide monitoring and management of
mining and ore processing operations. MIS systems collect and Integrate data across functional areas
and sources, regardless of data origin. This capability, said Trimble, when combined with its geospatial
solutions, can provide increased mine productivity through the aggregation, analysis and presentation of
information that enables better decision making for mining customers.

"Productivity applications in functional areas such as drill and blast, haulage, and materials processing
have improved operational efficiencies, but the value of this data has not been fully realized since it is not
readily collected and integrated for a complete, site-wide view. MIS offers an enterprise-level system that
unlocks data and metrics from across functional areas for a complete view of mine productivity and
profitability for decision makers across planning, operations and finance," said Nathan Pugh, business
area director of Trimble's Mining Division. "Trimble offers high levels of accuracy in geospatial solutions
today, and with the enterprise-level mine information platform, we can increase the use and value of
geospatial data and other data sources for our customers."

Page144of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.MIS said its solution suite is modular with systems for mine production, processing operations, human
resource management, and a Web-based portal for access and administration. According to the
company, the systems are flexible, scalable and are not restricted by mining methods, commodities,
time zones, language, currencies, units of measure, existing software, hardware and network
infrastructure.
Schneider and Business Partners Offer End-to-End Mining Management Solution
Management consultant Accenture, networking systems provider Cisco Systems, and energy
management specialist Schneider Electric recently announced the launch of a jointly developed
Integrated Planning and Optimization platform that is claimed to provide a software solution for managing
a mining company's entire operation from resource to market. The solution, according to the
developers, enables users to optimize plans and schedules, identify risks and deviations, pinpoint
inefficiency, and present the right information to the right people at the right time. The solution is claimed
to be capable of increasing mining productivity up to 20% by helping mining companies use information
to drive operational efficiencies.

The product addresses the challenges of "siloed" data and inaccurate, untimely information. Integrated
Planning and Optimization, according to the developers, enables data to be leveraged to model the
supply chain-including mines, processing plants, stockpiles, transport routes and port movements-to
predict how each entity in the value chain will operate. The solution lets companies view their supply
chains both as discrete components and as a single system that operates according to unified objectives
and metrics. Integrated Planning and Optimization Solution uses data analysis of contextual process
information to improve predictive maintenance and identify and resolve bottlenecks.
The developers noted that mining companies have been held back by the lack of standard solutions and
realizable architectures. The implementation of an integrated planning and optimization solution resolves
these issues. Mining companies can start by focusing on areas that could generate immediate benefit,
including:

* Lack of dynamic and optimized extraction sequencing.

* Lack of optimized load in shovels and other transportation means.

* Poor process performance (quality, recovery).

* Costly decisions due to unreliable data (such as inventory, grade, geological structure).

* Nonconformance to load-out plans.
* Excess energy and water consumption.

* High cost of inefficient transport scheduling and use.

* Poor asset performance.

* Maintenance and production conflicts.

* Excess inventory due to an unreliable supply chain.
Diego Areces, president of Schneider's Mining, Minerals and Metals Solution, said, "This solution is a
game-changer for leaders in the mining industry by allowing executives to gain intelligence around
business scenarios prior to committing to capital investments."
Integrated Planning and Optimization Solution utilizes Schneider Electric's StruxureWare for Mining,
Minerais, and Metals (MMM) software, a scalable platform that includes solutions for energy
management and asset performance. This platform facilitates ease of integration for new functionalities
as needed.
Heavy-lift Cranes Support Work at Chilean Copper Sites
Five Liebherr 1250 HC tower cranes are being used at two major mining projects under construction in
Chile's Atacama Desert region. The large 40- and 50-metric-ton (mt) cranes currently in use at
Escondida and Sierra Gorda offer lifting capacity equal or better than almost any other tower cranes
working in Latin America, according to Liebherr.
Two of the company's 1250 HC 40 Litronic tower cranes, mounted on foundation anchors, are being
used at the Minera Escondidacopper mine. Both machines have a working radius of 52 m and hook

Page145of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.heights of 40 m and 52 m, respectively. During the construction phase, they are expected to handle
loads of up to 20 mt.

After current construction is completed, the two Liebherr tower cranes will be used for maintenance
purposes.
Meanwhile, three 1250 HC tower cranes are in use at the Minera Sierra Gorda copper project. Two of
these cranes are rated at 50-mt capacity and the third at 40 mt. The 1250 HC 40 has a hook height of
34.9 m and a working radius of 51.9 m. The two 1250 HC 50s are configured with hook heights of 68.5
and 69.6 m and each has a working radius of 38.8 m.

During the current construction phase, the cranes are being used to assist in component handling for
process tank assembly, lifting loads of 14 to 17 mt per component.

In the future, all three cranes will be used as maintenance cranes at the mine. One 1250 HC will support
maintenance work on the mill's flotation cells. The two others will support service and maintenance work
on ball mills.

Liebherr said the extreme geographical and climatic conditions of the two project sites not only present
challenges to the workforce but also to the crane equipment. The extreme day/night temperature
differential-up to 40°C variation-and dust present in the arid desert climate generate higher-than-usual
stress on machinery.

In addition, Chile is one of the most earthquake-prone countries in the world, and earthquakes up to a
magnitude of 5 are not uncommon. This requires that the cranes must comply with Chilean standards to
ensure they are earthquake-resistant.

ABB Introduces Underground Asset Location and Tracking

ABB recently announced the debut of ABB Mine Location Intelligence, powered by Mobilaris, a global
provider of software for mobile location-based services. ABB said its Mine Location Intelligence is a
product for location-based decision support that provides real-time positioning of vehicles, equipment
and personnel in underground mines.

ABB Mine Location Intelligence has a Web-based user interface, making it accessible from almost
anywhere, providing a 3-D view that shows location of assets and personnel in real time. It offers
features for spatial search, navigation support, advanced data mining and analysis, creation and
management of geofences, and is accessible online from anywhere.
According to the company, the service "opens a new dimension to personal safety," showing the nearest
rescue refuge, the best emergency escape routes, and can also prevent workers from approaching
dangerous areas by providing automated surveillance.

In addition, said ABB, the service can enhance productivity by providing real-time location information for
production control and mine automation. It can increase collaboration between personnel by integrating
voice, message and CCTV services.
"ABB Mine Location Intelligence will help customers to visualize their mining operations and reach a
new level of situation awareness. This will change how mines are operated and will be an important tool
for increased safety and production efficiency," said Patrik Westerlund, global product manager for
integrated mine automation at ABB.

Siemens Systems to Power New Grinding Mills at Toromocho

Siemens' Drive Technologies Division has been awarded a contract to deliver Integrated Drive Systems
for two new mills at the Toromocho mine in the Peruvian province of Yauli. The order was placed by
Minera Chinalco Perú S.A., a subsidiary of Aluminum Corp. of China (Chinalco).
Toromocho is located about 150 km from the capital city of Lima, at an altitude of approximately 4,600 m
(15,100 ft). Siemens will provide two gearless mill drives and Sinamics cycloconverters for a new
production line at the mine as part of an expansion project that will enable it to produce about 250,000t/y
copper as well as molybdenum and silver.

The new line's 36-ft-diameter SAG mill will be fitted with a 13.5-megawatt drive and a 22-megawatt drive
will power the line's 28-ft-diameter ball mill. Siemens said the Sinamics cycloconverters that will be
Installed in the new line are characterized by low switching losses and high efficiency, and the integrated
drive and cycloconverter system will contribute to an expected equipment availability rate of more than
99%.

Page146of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.New Integrated System Simplifies Surplus Asset Sales

Used heavy equipment seller Ritchie Bros, and AssetWorks, a provider of Enterprise Asset Management
software solutions, recently announced the availability of a prepackaged integration between the Ritchie
Bros. EquipmentOne marketplace and AssetWorks Surplus Management Software (SMS). Designed to
allow AssetWorks' customers the ability to seamlessly post assets to EquipmentOne, the integration is
claimed to reduce the time and effort required to identify, list and sell surplus equipment.
AssetWorks' SMS users can identify assets for sale and post those assets along with all the required
equipment specifications, condition descriptions and photographs directly from SMS to the
EquipmentOne marketplace. They receive daily pricing feedback and final sale data when the sale
completes. Automating these processes, according to the company, can improve accuracy and
significantly reduce the time to conduct sales across a number of different asset categories.
"Managing assets from acquisition through disposal can be difficult and our solutions have always been
aimed at streamlining this process. With our integration to EquipmentOne, we're delivering additional
value and really closing the loop on asset management for our customers,'' said Michael Borello, vice
president of AssetWorks.
Ritchie Bros. has operations in more than 25 countries, including 44 auction sites worldwide.
AssetWorks said its software solutions help organizations improve access to shared asset data,
promoting greater transparency across the organization, improving service delivery, maximizing asset
availability and uptime, and reducing total cost of ownership.

Metso to Handle Grinding Mill Maintenance at Two Large Codelco Plants

Metso has signed an 18-month services contract with Codelco's Chuquicamata mine for grinding mill
maintenance, encompassing changeout of components for 33 ball mills currently operating in the AO and
A1 plants at Chuquicamata. The work will involve changing mill pinion-gear assembly and repairs to mill
shells. Metso said it plans to repair two mills per month and maintain continuous monitoring of the status
of the equipment. The value of the contract was not disclosed.

The agreement, which covers gear disassembly, new gear assembly, pinion assembly, gear alignment
(slow rotation) and mantle repair, was scheduled to take effect in April. The contract will create 30 new
Metso services jobs in northern Chile.
Metso, which has a long history of involvement In the Chuquicamata operations-it supplied three large
MP1250 cone crushers and an automatic control system to Chuquicamata in 2012, for example-also
noted that its 750 employees in Chile have worked more than two years without a lost-time incident. The
Association of Major Suppliers for Mining in Chile recognized Metso for its safety results in 2013.
FLSmidth Wins Mongolian Copper EPCM Contract
FLSmidth has received orders worth approximately $43 million from the Mongolian company, Mongolyn
Alt (MAK) Group, to supply engineering, procurement and site construction services for the Tsagaan
Suvarga copper-molybdenum concentrator project. This greenfield plant, with a capacity of 40,000 mt/d
of ore, will be located in the central part of the Oyu Tolgol South Gobi porphyry copper belt in southeast
Mongolia.

FLSmidth is currently supplying all of the main process technology for the project under a separate,
previously awarded contract announced in 2011. MAK is the third largest company In Mongolia with
diverse business activities, including coal and gold mining operations. The Tsagaan Suverga project
will be the group's first copper concentrator. In February 2012, FLSmidth was awarded an order from
MAK for supply of a greenfield cement plant.

Hitachi Shovels Pass 100K Operating Hours at Yanacocha

Hitachi recently announced that two of its EX5500-5 front shovels passed significant service-life
milestones while working at the Yanacocha gold mine in Peru-each has racked up more than 100,000
operating hours. The occasion was marked by an onsite recognition event, pictured below.

Both EX5500-5 machines-the predecessor to Hitachi's current EX5600-6 model-were delivered 14 years
ago and have been working at numerous pits in the 251-km^sup 2^ surface mine ever since. Both
machines achieved the 100,000-hour goal within three weeks of each other.
According to the company, the systems are flexible, scalable and are not restricted by mining methods,
commodities, time zones, language, currencies, units of measure, existing software, hardware and
network infrastructure. Mining companies can start by focusing on areas that could generate immediate

Page147of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.benefit, including: * Lack of dynamic and optimized extraction sequencing. * Lack of optimized load in
shovels and other transportation means. * Poor process performance (quality, recovery). * Costly
decisions due to unreliable data (such as inventory, grade, geological structure). * Nonconformance to
load-out plans. * Excess energy and water consumption. * High cost of inefficient transport scheduling
and use. * Poor asset performance. * Maintenance and production conflicts. * Excess inventory due to an
unreliable supply chain.
Copyright Mining Media, Inc. Jul 2014

IN

NS

RE

i1 : Energy | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | i2246 : Copper/Copper Alloys | i231 : Non-metallic Mineral
Mining/Quarrying | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302021 : Applications Software
| iconst : Construction | iknowms : Knowledge Management Software | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i22 :
Primary Metals | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | icomp : Computing | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | itech : Technology
c21 : Output/Production | c22 : New Products/Services | c24 : Capacity/Facilities | c33 : Contracts/Orders
| c41 : Management | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | genv : Environmental News | gnatcn : Nature
Conservation | gcat : Political/General News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin :
FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | chil : Chile | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | lamz : Latin America | samz : South America
Feature

IPD
PUB Mining Media, Inc.
AN

Document EMJN000020140726ea7100019

Page148of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.