Lenovo tie-up fuels Guvera Asia growth

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Media
Lenovo tie-up fuels Guvera Asia growth

MICHAEL BODEY
709 words
27 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
25
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

EXCLUSIVE Australian streaming music service Guvera is making progress in Asia and beginning to
see revenue flow in, according to its co-founder Darren Herft.

He said the ad-supported service’s focus on emerging markets, particularly through Southeast Asia, was
beginning to show real progress, with about 20,000 subscribers globally now signing up each day.

The growth has come from a collection of rights deals with all major music labels and publishers in India
and Indonesia particularly, and a deal with Chinese manufacturer Lenovo. Lenovo phones now come
pre-loaded with the Guvera app, and in the last 90 days, the inclusion has charged growth.
“User numbers have grown by approximately 1 million in the past 75 days,” Mr Herft said. “We’ve gone
from a pretty low base but we’re seeing good growth here but the India, Indonesia and Philippines
markets are looking very strong for us.” The Gold Coast-based start-up, founded by AMMA Private
Investment with up to $50 million from wealthy individuals including, it is believed, families prominent in
property and resources, is consequently ready for a public listing in the medium term.
Mr Herft said the company had been explored listing “as a possible path” and had a number of
international brokerages interested.
“From a business point of view it adds a whole new dimension and Guvera’s probably a company that
would be a good example of why you’d list,” he said.

“We’ve signed an agreement with one of the world’s biggest PC and smartphone companies to be their
music partner globally, so we need to operate in 80 countries around the world. That’s a good reason to
go to market to raise capital.” “We’re not looking at an IPO as an exit for shareholders,” he added, noting
nothing is planned in the next six months “but beyond that anything is possible.” “We’re looking at the
best possible way to fund the company for growth.” Guvera’s strategy includes lifting its current range
of 17 countries to more than 30 by Christmas and the introduction within weeks of mobile branded
channels where users will “be able to engage with brands in a less disruptive manner.” “On mobile and
tablet we’ll be able to put the user in charge of their mobile experience, so while listening they can call
up catalogues and products,” he said.

“As opposed to the majority of sites out there where brands are pushing their ads onto the consumer,
we’re putting the consumer in charge of that experience. Advertisers know they’re paying for ads that
consumers want.” As services such as Pandora and Spotify bank on the subscription model for music
streaming, Guvera has bet its house on the ad-supported model.

Mr Herft said music labels had finally come around to the intricacies of that model, particularly where
some artists might not want to be associated with particular types of advertising.

And he is confident in the service’s future. “Paid-for music, we feel, is a good business model but it does
operate on fairly tight margins and does definitely operate on high costs for acquisition of members,”
he said.

Page225of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“That’s why a lot of players in the market have burnt their capital.” He said Guvera’s distribution
strategies had lowered its cost of member acquisition. “And we believe through the ad model we can
generate more revenue per user than competitive sites.” “In some respects, competitors who charge for
music have set the ceiling at, let’s say, $10 a month. It’s now hard for them to put it up to $20 or $15 a
month. They may do, but they’ve set a ceiling.” Mr Herft believes ad-funded music, if it engages users
for longer periods of time and allows them to engage more with brands over time, will generate more
revenue per user than a static, say, 30c a day for charging for music.

And, he added, an ad-funded music service had a better chance of taking on its biggest
competitor.“We’re trying to provide a better and easier way to consume music than piracy,” he said.

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

guverl : Guvera Ltd | letech : Lenovo Group Ltd | legndh : Legend Holdings Ltd
i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302021 : Applications Software |
icomp : Computing | itech : Technology
c22 : New Products/Services | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141026eaar0002f

Page226of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.