Miner in $26m buyout offer

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Miner in $26m buyout offer

TONY RAGGATT tony.raggatt@news.com.au
368 words
8 August 2014
Townsville Bulletin
TOWNBU
Townsville
5
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

NORTH Queensland mining companyGuildford Coal may soon be foreign owned with a Singapore
group offering to by their assets for $26.5 million.
The board yesterday confirmed they had accepted the offer from Singapore-listed construction and
civil engineering group Sino Construction to acquire the group’s Australian coal assets for $US25
million ($26.5 million) and a royalty of US35c (37.2c) paid to Guildford on coal sales.

Guildford has been a major community sponsor in the region including to national sporting teams the
North Queensland Cowboys and Townsville Fire.

It has also provided more than $700,000 to community events and groups in North Queensland as part
of relationship building, led by the company’s stakeholder relations manager, former Townsville mayor
Tony Mooney.
Former Townsville-based Liberal MP Peter Lindsay is a former Guildford Coal chairman, while former
Labor Thuringowa MP Craig Wallace is a board director.
Guildford managing director Peter Kane yesterday said in a statement the board had reached
agreement with Sino Construction to enter into a term sheet to acquire all of the company’s Australian
coal assets.
The sale is expected to be completed during the next few months, subject to conditions including due
diligence, shareholder, regulatory and third party approvals and entry to a management agreement
between Guildford and Sino Construction.

Under a proposed management agreement and fee, Guildford would be appointed manager of the
Australian coal assets with first right to be appointed contract miner for each asset that moves into
commercial production.
The company, which has an office in Townsville, wants to develop a mine on tenements it controls on
Clyde Park Station near Hughenden and export up to 10 million tonnes a year of thermal coal via the
Mount Isa to Townsville rail line and Townsville port.
The Department of Natural Resources recently approved renewals of its Clyde Park exploration permit
for coal for two years to 2016 and for its Hughenden Project permit for four years to 2018.The assets
of Guildford subsidiary Terra Energy, which is negotiating to sell coal into China, are not part of the
sale.

CO
IN

gudclm : Guildford Coal Limited
i1 : Energy | i111 : Coal Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying

Page149of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE
PUB
AN

c182 : Asset Transactions | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 :
Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document TOWNBU0020140808ea880001t

Page150of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.