Australian Coal : Should It Be Left in the Ground?

HD Australian Coal: Should It Be Left in the Ground?
BY Hans A Baer
WC 4,355 words
PD 1 May 2014
SN Monthly Review
SC MLRW
PG 38
VOL Volume 66; Issue 1; ISSN: 00270520
LA
CY © 2014 Monthly Review. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All Rights Reserved.
LP

English

TD

Many Australians view themselves as living in a "lucky country" because it has an abundance of mineral
resources. James Goodman and David Worth, however, maintain that the mining boom has been a
"curse" in disguise. It has sharpened socioeconomic and community divisions, contributed to political
conflict, and resulted in "ecological mal-development" with serious environmental consequences.1 This
applies to coal in that it not only contributes to air and water pollution, but is also a major source of carbon
dioxide emissions and thus a major contributor to climate change.

In the case of Australia, Europeans discovered black coal in the Newcastle, New South Wales area in
1791 and began exporting it in 1799. These early coal mining activities made a significant contribution to
the progress of European settlement in Australia. The progressive spread of settlement to other locations
in Australia led to further discoveries and mining of black coal, including the discovery of coal near
Ipswich in 1825, at Cape Paterson in Victoria in 1826 and Irwin River in Western Australia in 1846.
Knowledge of the existence of brown coal in Victoria dates back to 1857. The Yallourn North open-cut
coal mine began production in 1889. Over 200 years later about 9,100 million metric tons of black coal
and about 2,300 million metric tons of brown coal have been mined, and the Australian coal industry
provides significant employment, capital investment, and domestic and export income to the national
economy.
Despite its relatively small population, Australia is the world's fifth largest coal producer after China, the
United States, India, and Indonesia. It contains 6 percent of the world's black coal, making it sixth in terms
of coal deposits behind the United States (31 percent), Russia (21 percent), China (13 percent), India (8
percent), and South Africa (7 percent).2 Furthermore, Australia is the third biggest brown coal producer,
placing it behind Germany and Russia. It is the second largest coking coal producer after China.3
With three-fourths of its black coal production exported, Australia was the world's leading national
coal-exporter (until 2011, when it slipped to number two behind Indonesia). Australian coal is exported to
more than thirty-five countries and provides 30 percent of global coal exports, contributing about 500
million tons each year to global greenhouse gas emissions. Australia exports about half the coal that it
mines in exchange for gross revenue of some $45 billion per annum, with state governments receiving 10
percent royalties from this amount.4 Table 1 depicts some vital statistics on Australian coal mining.
The Coal Mining Industry in Australia
Although Australia has numerous companies involved in coal mining, the Big Four players in the
Australian coal mining industry (BHP Billiton, Rio Tinto, Glencore Xstrata, and ¿Anglo American) are all
primarily foreign-owned and operated. BHP Billiton is reportedly the world's largest resource company; it
is involved not only in the production of energy and metallurgical coal but also aluminum, copper, nickel,
silver, titanium, uranium, oil, and gas. BHP has 100 percent ownership of NSW (New South Wales)
Energy Coal, which produces open cut coal and is also involved in the production of metallurgical coal,
with 100 percent ownership of Illawarra Coal in New South Wales; 50 percent ownership of BHP Billiton
Mitsubishi Alliance, which operates an integrated mine, rail and port system; and 80 percent ownership of
BHP Mitsu Coal which engages in open cut coal mining. In addition to coal mines in South Africa, the
Swiss-based Xstrata has coal mining operations in various sites in Queensland and a site in New South
Wales. It exports about 80 percent of its Australian thermal coal production to utility companies in various
countries, including Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, and Mexico. Rio Tinto Coal operates nine properties
and produces sulphur steam coal for electricity generation plants, metallurgical coking coal for iron and

Page229of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.steel mills, and coal for export. Finally, Anglo American (UK-Australia) operates five mines in Queensland
and one in New South Wales. As part of their growing mining empires, Gina Rinehardt (reportedly the
richest woman in the world, with holdings of some $17 billion) and multi-billionaire mining magnate
Clive Palmer (who formed his own political party called the Palmer United Party in the 20B election) have
elaborate plans to open up the huge Galilee coalfields in central Queensland.5
Sinclair Davidson and Ashton de Silva make a distinction between the coal extraction industry and the
coal economy. They assert that "for every job created in coal mining 3.7 jobs are created nationally in the
Australian economy making up a direct and indirect workforce of over 180,000 people in 2011-12. "6
Relying in part upon Australian Bureau of Statistics data, Davidson and de Silva report the following gross
value contributions of the coal industry, the economy, and the resource economy, respectively, in terms of
"total output, supply and demand side effects, to the overall Australian economy in 2011-12: coal industry
1.8 percent, coal economy 4.2 percent, and resource economy 23.7 percent."7 They also note that in
2011-2012 there were 49,000 employees in the coal industry and 181,200 employees in the coal
economy.
The coal seam gas (CSG) industry is a derivative of the coal industry per se and has been on the rise
over the past several years or so in Australia. Coal seam gas refers to methane that is trapped within
pores and fractures in underground coal deposits. Companies such as ExxonMobil, BP, Shell, and
Chevron dominate the gas industry. In 2009-2010, CSG accounted for approximately 10 percent of gas
production in Australia, and is now growing. In Queensland, CSG provides approximately 90 percent of
the domestic gas supply, and a number of projects to convert CSG to LNG (liquid natural gas) for export
are underway.
Coal for Domestic Consumption and Export
Coal constitutes a significant source of Australia's domestic energy consumption. It relies upon both
steaming black coal and brown coal for electricity production but also upon natural gas, hydroelectricity,
and small amounts from wind or solar sources, depending upon the state. In terms of the percentage of
electricity generated from coal, Australia is in fifth place internationally, after Mongolia, South Africa,
Poland, and China.8 Moreover, in contrast to steelmaking, which relies only on black coal, Australian
electricity generation relies on both black coal and the even dirtier brown coal still in abundance in the
Latrobe Valley in eastern Victoria, which creates even more carbon dioxide emissions per unit than black
coal. Coking coal is used for steel production and by-products of coke-making include coal tar, ammonia,
light oils, and coal gas. Coal is also used in the production of cement manufacturing, food processing,
paper production, and alumina refineries.
As Table 2 illustrates, reliance on coal-fired power plants varies considerably among the various political
jurisdictions.
The Australian Government provides the statistics on Australia's fossil-fuel related exports, including coal.
The export data for 2010-2011 can be seen in Table 3. Australia has nine major coal-exporting terminals
which loaded nearly 290 million tons of coal in 2010-2011 and eleven major deepwater ports with
facilities to export petroleum products.
Greenhouse Emissions Australian from Coal at Home and Abroad
Thirty-four percent of Australia's greenhouse gas emissions come from burning black and brown coal,
primarily for electricity generation but also for steel-manufacture and cement manufacture. In large part
due to heavy reliance on coal for electricity production, of developed societies, Australia has the highest
C02 emissions per capita, even higher than the United States.9

Aluminum smelting accounts for about 13 percent of Australia's electricity consumption, most of which
comes from coal-fired power plants.10 As a result of this, in contrast to most other countries which rely on
hydroelectric power for smelting, Australia's aluminum industry has the highest greenhouse gas intensity
in the world, accounting for around 6 percent of Australia's total emissions.
The production, supply and use of coal seam gas also results in greenhouse gas emissions. The
Department of Climate Change and Energy reports:

Fugitive emissions of methane are a significant source during the production phase. This includes
methane released from exploration drilling, production testing and well completion, and gas production
activities including processing, venting and flaring. Methane is a potent greenhouse gas, with a global
warming potential more than 20 times that of carbon dioxide over 100 years.

In 2008-09, fugitive emissions from the natural gas sector, which includes CSG as well as conventional
gas, were estimated to be 9.3 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (C02e), or around 1.6% of
national inventory total.

Page230of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Other sources include fugitive emissions during transportation and supply (for example leakage from
pipelines), emissions for fossil fuel use during the development and operation of CSG [coal seam gas]
facilities, and emissions from end-use combustion of CSG (for example for heating or electricity
generation)."
Various studies have indicated that Australia actually outsources more C02 emissions from coal exports
than it generates domestically. Guy Pearse states:
In total, the coal we burn at home and export generates close to a billion tonnes of carbon dioxide
annually-more than 1 in every 30 tonnes generated globally from fossil-fuel burning. For a country with 1 in
every 313 of the world's people, this is polluting well above our weight. Ships laden with a single load of
Australian coal can each carry the annual emissions equivalent to 25,000 cars. Our exports alone
generate almost 700 million tonnes of C02 annually, which is almost 15 percent more than Australia's
entire annual greenhouse-gas emissions. Yet currently our coal exports are projected to nearly double
from 231 million tonnes per annum in 2004-2005 to 438 million in 2029-30.12

Mudd provides an even grimmer picture concerning Australia's outsourcing of greenhouse emissions in
noting that if "you look at Australia's coal exports in 2012, these alone are responsible for some 800 Mt
[millions of metric tons] of greenhouse gas emissions-nearly double Australia's emissions."13
The Nexus of the Coal Mining Companies and Federal and State Governments

At the state and federal levels, both Coalition (Liberal and National parties) and Australian Labor Party
(ALP) governments have consistently subsidized the exploitation of Australia's coal and natural gas
supplies and supported the expansion of coal exports. The Greenhouse Mafia, a consortium of industries
involved in the production of fossil fuels and coal-based electricity generation, "has dominated almost
every greenhouse-related consultative committee established by the federal government and its
agencies."14 Just as this was the case for the federal ALP governments under Prime Ministers Kevin
Rudd (in both 2007-2010 and again in 2013) and Julia Gillard, it is even more so under the Coalition
government, led by Tony Abbott, who was elected prime minister in September 2013. In his observation
that "governments have fanned a concept of national identity built on notions of economic success and
personal status measured by material acquisition," Tony Cutcliffe adds: "In Australia, this prosperity has
its roots and stability entrenched in unbridled consumption of cheap energy provided by fossil fuels."15
Australian governments have traditionally subsidized the costs to private enterprise of large-scale
development projects and worked in close concert with corporations, including mining companies. Large
state government investments in electricity generation and ports and harbor developments function often
as a subsidy to the private sector to encourage mineral exports, including, of course, coal. Mining
companies have played a key role in Australian politics and have been involved in the ouster of two Labor
governments: the Whitlam government in 1977 and the Rudd government in 2010. Conservative forces,
including ones in the mining industry, contributed to the ouster of Prime Minister Gough Whitlam because
of his government's plan to nationalize energy resources, and its interference with U.S. military and
intelligence operations based in Australia.16 Pearse observes:
Mining, metals, and energy industries enjoy billions of dollars in tax breaks, fuel excise rebates, cheap
electricity contracts, royalty holidays and infrastructure.... In Queensland, the state government is
subsidizing 'clean coal' and is also spending $5.4 billion on a Coal Transport Infrastructure Program. In
New South Wales, half a billion dollars in federal money is being spent in the Hunter Valley alone to
improve railway infrastructure to increase coal exports.17
The Australian Coal Association (ACA) is part and parcel of the Greenhouse Mafia which also includes the
Minerals Council of Australia (MCA), the Business Council of Australia (BCA), and the Australian
Greenhouse Network (AIGN). The ACA represents the interests of blackcoal production in New South
Wales and Queensland and by the 1990s had become a major donor to both the Liberal and Labor
parties. The BCA consists of the CEOs of more or less the top 100 major corporations situated in
Australia. The AIGN reads like a Who's Who of the Australian corporate sector, particularly the fossil fuels
industry, and includes the Australian Aluminum Council, the ACA, the Australian Petroleum and
Exploration Association, the MCA, the National Generators Forum, Alcoa World Aluminum-Australia, BP
Australia, Caltex, Chevron Australia, ExxonMobil, Origin Energy, Rio Tinto Australia, Santos, Shell
Australia, Woodside Petroleum, and Xstrata Coal Australia. Both Liberals and the ALP have received
millions of dollars since 1998 from these corporations directly or indirectly represented by AIGN.
In 2003 the Australian Coal Association formed COAL21 Fund, a consortium of representatives from the
coal and electricity industries, unions, federal and state governments, and the research community. The
COAL21 Fund planned to raise over $1 billion over a ten-year period from a voluntary levy on coal
production to support the "precommercial demonstration of low-emission technologies in the power
generation sector" and research and development.18

Page231of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The coal industry keeps expanding with governmental support. In April 2008 the federal government gave
the go-ahead for a multi-billion dollar expansion of Gladstone, which will result in another 84 million tons
of coal being exported annually. Despite his insistence that climate change was the great moral challenge
of this generation, Rudd announced on December 12, 2008 that $580 million of public money would be
allocated to the expansion of coal facilities in the Hunter Valley and the Port of Newcastle, predicted to
increase coal exports from Newcastle from 97 to 200 million tons per annum.19 The New South Wales
government gave Newcastle Coal Infrastructure Group, a consortium of six mining companies,
permission to construct a new $900 billion coal port. According to NSW Department of Planning
estimates, the 66 million tons that could be handled by the new coal port "would release 174 million
tonnes of greenhouse gas when burnt in overseas power station."20 Even while preparing its Carbon
Pollution Reduction Scheme legislation, which never was passed, the Rudd government poured huge
subsidies into coal-fired power plants. Along with budgeting $200 million to increase the capacity of
Eraring coal-fired power plant in New South Wales and assisting with the construction of two new coalor
gas-fired power plants in Bayswater and Mt Piper and the retrofitting of the existing coal-fired power plant
at Munmorah, it directed significant funds away from renewable energy initiatives to develop 'clean coal'
technology. The Victorian, New South Wales, and Queensland governments also provide big funding and
policy support for carbon capture and sequestration (CCS). The Victorian government, with the dirtiest
coal, has made CCS a central feature of its future energy development.

In September 2008 the Rudd government established a Global Capture and Storage Institute, with $100
million, to promote research into CCS, with a view to creating twenty commercial plants by 2020. The
Institute estimated that the technology would not be commercially viable until emissions cost $60 a ton
and it would increase electricity prices by up to 78 percent. In November 2008, Minister of Energy Martin
Ferguson announced the formation of the National Low Emissions Coal Initiative, to be funded through the
National Low Emissions Coal Fund outlined in the Carbon Pollution Reduction Scheme (CPRS). The
proposed CPRS included a Coal Sector Adjustment package of $250 million over five years for
coal-mining operators to clean up their coal.
In 2012 the Australian Government released its Energy White Paper which proclaims its commitment to a
"clean energy economy" by seeking to "provide secure, reliable, clean and competitively priced energy to
consumers while building national wealth through the safe and sustainable exploitation of our energy
resources."21 It goes on to state, "Over the next two and a half decades, Australia's energy production is
projected to more than double, largely due to export growth. We are the world's largest coal exporters and
third-largest uranium producer, and in future years will be the world's second-largest liquefied natural gas
(LNG) exporter. Our energy exports will continue to support higher living standards for billions of people
in our region."22
The report projects energy production will be boasted by coal seam gas and potentially shale oil and gas.
Australian CSG production increased from 2 percent to 11 percent of total gas production in the five years
prior to 2010-2011 and can be expected to be supported by three CSG-to-LNG projects being constructed
near Gladstone, Queensland. The report also optimistically projects that renewable energy will account for
at least 20 percent of domestic electricity production by 2020 and this may rise further to around 40
percent by 2035. And that by 2050 most of Australia's conventional fossil fuel power generation will, it is
projected, have been replaced by wind, solar, and geothermal energy sources. Then-Minister of Energy
Martin Ferguson launched Santos's CSG project in Gladstone, Queensland in January 2011. Gina
Rinehardt has obtained conditional government approval for the first of two huge coal mines in the Galilee
Basin.
How the new Coalition government will proceed in supporting the coal mining and coal seam gas
industries remains to be seen. However, Abbott has gone on record in favoring the growth of coal
shipments through the Great Barrier Reef, the development of another mega coal mine, and has
defended CSG-arguing that farmers will benefit by the construction of roads to facilitate this new industry.
The Anti-Coal Campaign as a Part of the Australian Climate Movement

In frustration at the lack of action on the part of the Coalition (Liberal-National parties) government under
Prime Minister John Howard from 1996 to 2007, around the beginning of the present century a growing
number of Australians began to form local grassroots climate action groups (CAGs). These groups along
with various environmental NGOs, regional climate action groups, special climate action groups, and
socialist groups constitute the most significant new social movement in Australian society-although one
that at the moment is in somewhat of a lull for complex reasons, including the passage of a Carbon Price
Mechanism in 2012 that the Coalition government has promised to dismantle. The nationwide anti-coal
campaign by and large is embedded in the climate movement and includes groups such as the Green
Party, Rising Tide, Greenpeace, Friends of the Earth, Climate Emergency Action Network in South
Australia, socialist groups Socialist Alliance and Solidarity, numerous CAGs, and Lock the Gate situated in
Queensland and New South Wales.23

Page232of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Among its various campaigns, certain sectors of the Australian climate movement have called for the
closure of coal-fired power plants and the cessation of coal mining, coal seam gas exploration, and coal
exports, and have expressed vehement opposition to carbon capture and sequestration. Anthropologist
Linda Connor and her colleagues examined the formation in 2000 of the Anvil Hill Project Watch
Association (AHPWA) on the part of Wybong residents who were concerned about the damage that the
planned Anvil Hill coal mine would have on local flora and fauna.24 AHPWA became a member of the
Anvil Hill Alliance (AHA) which emerged in 2006 when the New South Wales government approved
development of the mine. Greenpeace and Rising Tide became involved in the campaign to stop the Anvil
Hill mine by October 2005. The AHA found itself opposed by diverse "pro-mining civil society groups"
which include "mining industry associations and unions representing mine and energy workers and coal
exporters, all with shifting positions and alliances."25 The Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy
Union (CFMEU) came to constitute a middle group between the Anvil Hill Alliance and the pro-mining civil
society group in that, while in coalition with the coal producers and the New South Wales Minerals
Association, it embarked on an advertising campaign noting that "climate change threatened miners' jobs
and calling for the Kyoto Protocol to be ratified; for a 60% emissions reduction target by 2050; and for
more investment in 'clean coal technology.'"26

Of the various climate action groups, Rising Tide has been the staunchest opponent of Australian
coal-exporting activities. Building upon the concern of local people about environmental degradation,
water shortage, pollution, and the threat of biodiversity from coal mining, Rising Tide and Green Peace
introduced into the campaign a strong warning about the climate change threat. A week before the 2009
Copenhagen climate talks Rising Tide staged a daylong blockade of the rail line that feeds into the coal
port at Newcastle. It also organizes an annual "People's Blockade of the World's Biggest Coal."
Greenpeace has also adopted a strong anti-coal agenda. It led the way during the Howard government
days of anti-coal campaigning when on July 27,2005 teams of its activists occupied a 2.5 million ton coal
stockpile and one of four huge coal loaders. Greenpeace maintains Australia is well positioned to
implement renewable-energy resources, such as solar photovoltaic, concentrating solar thermal, wind,
wave and geothermal energy. It strongly opposes carbon capture and sequestration and drew attention to
the problems associated with Rudd's proposed Clean Coal Initiative:

First, it dangerously distracts us from efforts we should be making now to convert to renewable
energy-based power generation____Second, CCS, like nuclear power, is too expensive, too risky, safe
storage is not certain, and it can't do the job to cut emissions in the timeframe we need. Third, there are
big questions in any case over liability in the case of failure to work. Any money, public or private, that
goes into CCS is wasted, a missed opportunity to roll the renewable solutions that are ready to go right
now.27
Climate activists mounted protests against the operation of the Hazelwood coal-fired power plant in the La
Trobe Valley in both September 2009 and October 2010, and the twin coal-fired plants at Port Augusta,
South Australia in September 2009. The Hazelwood plant reportedly is the largest single source of
greenhouse gas emissions in Australia, being "responsible for 18 million tonnes of greenhouse pollution
each year (15 per cent of the state's annual emissions)."28 In a pathbreaking alliance, farmers and
graziers have joined with climate activists in the Lock the Gate movement, a national coalition of 122
community groups and hundreds of individuals concerned about CSG. Lock the Gate encourages
landowners not to enter into negotiations that permit CSG companies to explore for CSG on their land. In
its Call to Country campaign, Lock the Gate has called upon the federal government to place a moratorium
on coal seam gas and other unconventional gas mining and to reject proposals for coal ports,
mega-mines, dams, and unconventional gas wells. The strong anti-CSG sentiment in rural communities
has been assisted by the U.S. documentary Gasland. Friends of the Earth Melbourne has been
sponsoring the Stop Coal campaign and called on the Victorian government to ban CSG development.

Is There Light at the End of the Tunnel?
At the moment coal appears to be a hegemonic industry in Australia with staunch support from the new
Coalition government and the new ALP opposition. Nevertheless, the opposition to the mining and export
of coal are not completely off the radar screen. The Greens, with nine members in the Senate and one in
the House of Representatives, remain the most visible challenge to the coal industry. The Socialist
Alliance, which does run in selected federal, state, and local electorates, has been calling for the
nationalization of the mining industry and public utilities which theoretically would provide the most viable
strategy for leaving coal in the ground. Unfortunately, its electoral victories have been confined to city
councils in the City of Moreland (northern suburbs of Melbourne) and the City of Freemantle in West
Australia. Recently, a new campaign called Fossil Free Australia has been urging universities, religious
institutions, local councils, and state governments to divest from fossil fuel industries. As a country of
some 23 million people, Australia is a relatively small player on the international politics terrain. Hopefully,
however, Australian climate activists can provide both inspiration to and draw hope from climate activists,
including anti-coal activists, elsewhere around the world, including the United States.

Page233of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Many Australians view themselves as living in a "lucky country" because it has an abundance of mineral
resources. James Goodman and David Worth, however, maintain that the mining boom has been a
"curse" in disguise. It has sharpened socioeconomic and community divisions, contributed to political
conflict, and resulted in "ecological mal-development" with serious environmental consequences. This
applies to coal in that it not only contributes to air and water pollution, but is also a major source of carbon
dioxide emissions and thus a major contributor to climate change. Despite its relatively small population,
Australia is the world's fifth largest coal producer after China, the US, India, and Indonesia. It contains 6%
of the world's black coal, making it sixth in terms of coal deposits behind the US (31%), Russia (21%),
China (13%), India (8%), and South Africa (7%). Furthermore, Australia is the third biggest brown coal
producer, placing it behind Germany and Russia.

Copyright Monthly Review Press May 2014

NS

RE

CO bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | gpeaci : Greenpeace International | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
IN

i111 : Coal Mining | i231 : Non-metallic Mineral Mining/Quarrying | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i1 : Energy |
ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i211 : Metal Ore Mining
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e512 : Physical Trade | genv : Environmental News | gvhhs :
Health/Human Services Department | gwelf : Welfare/Social Services | e51 : Trade/External Payments |
ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gcom : Society/Community/Work | gpir :
Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive
Branch
austr : Australia | china : China | india : India | indon : Indonesia | russ : Russia | safr : South Africa | usa :
United States | victor : Victoria (Australia) | africaz : Africa | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries |
dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eeurz : Central/Eastern Europe | eurz : Europe |
indsubz : Indian Subcontinent | namz : North America | sasiaz : Southern Asia | seasiaz : Southeast Asia |
souafrz : Southern Africa | ussrz : CIS Countries

IPD Feature
PUB Monthly Review Press
AN Document MLRW000020140509ea5100005

Page234of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.