Shell cuts Arrow jobs, sells gas stakes GLADSTONE PROJECT IN DOUBT

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Finance
Shell cuts Arrow jobs, sells gas stakes GLADSTONE PROJECT IN DOUBT

PAUL GARVEY, RESOURCES
900 words
21 January 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
15
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

ROYAL Dutch Shell has axed hundreds of jobs at its proposed Arrow liquefied natural gas project
and sold its stake in the Wheatstone LNG project for $US1.135 billion ($1.3bn) as the oil and gas
giant's new management team takes its first steps to whittle back its position in Australia.
About 250 jobs are believed to have been cut yesterday at Brisbane-based Arrow Energy, a 50-50
joint venture between Anglo-Dutch oil major Shell and Chinese state-owned giant PetroChina,
putting fresh doubts about the pair's proposed $US20bn LNG development.

Late yesterday, Shell announced that it had sold its 6.4 per cent interest in the Wheatstone LNG
project, which is under construction, and an 8 per cent interest in the Wheatstone-Iago joint venture
in Western Australia to the Kuwait Foreign Petroleum Exploration Company.

New Shell chief executive Ben van Beurden has signalled an intent to rein in spending, with
Australia -- which has attracted a disproportionately large amount of the group's investment in recent
years -- likely to be in his sights.

Shell last Friday night made a shock profit downgrade, with earnings for the December quarter of
$US2.9bn almost $US1bn shy of market expectations.
The sale of the stake in Wheatstone will also spare Shell its share of the project's estimated
$US29bn capital cost.
``Shell will remain a major player in Australia's energy industry. However, we are refocusing our
investment to where we can add the most value with Shell's capital and technology,'' Mr van
Beurden said in a statement announcing the Wheatstone sale.

``We are making hard choices in our worldwide portfolio to improve Shell's capital efficiency.''

Mr van Beurden's appointment has widely been seen as signalling a likely reduction in Shell's
presence in Australia.
The company had previously flagged its intention to sell its Geelong refinery in Victoria, while its
remaining 23 per cent stake in Woodside Petroleum and its Australian service station network are
other non-core assets potentially up for sale.

The Arrow LNG project had long been shaping as a key target of any spending cuts, with Shell and
PetroChina yet to make a final investment decision on a project that was already facing cost
pressures on several fronts.
After building a big position in Queensland's coal-seam gasfields through the acquisitions of Arrow
Energy and Bow Energy in 2010 and 2011, respectively, Shell and PetroChina have battled to
make the Arrow project stack up economically at a time of significant cost inflation in the LNG
industry generally.

Page151of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The high Australian dollar of recent years has also dented the project's economics, while the
sometimes fractious relationship between coal-seam gas companies and landowners in Queensland
have added a further layer of complexity.
A spokesman for Arrow confirmed that the company had ``conducted a review of staffing levels as it
manages costs''.
``While the company acknowledges this will be a difficult time for employees, it is committed to
supporting them through this transition,'' the spokesman said.
``The company remains focused on finding additional value and reducing overall costs.

``Arrow will continue to assess development options, including collaboration opportunities, as it looks
to develop significant gas reserves.''

The cost pressures have been particularly acute in and around Gladstone in central Queensland,
where the Arrow LNG plant was proposed. Three other LNG projects are already under way there,
putting pressure on wages, services and infrastructure.

While Shell and PetroChina are believed to still be interested in developing the project, both want to
see the economics of any development improved substantially before it is given a go-ahead.
One Arrow staffer who was made redundant said staff at the company had been bracing for news of
job losses for the past three months as it became clear that the proposed LNG development was
unlikely to have Shell's support in the current climate.

Continued on Page 21

Continued from Page 15

``Most people had known this was coming, we just didn't know when it would be or how many would
go,'' said the staffer who wished to remain anonymous.
The worker said the company had made a number of bad decisions, such as the estimated $200
million building lease commitment made in mid-2013 for office space in Brisbane, much of which
would now be empty.

The worker said it was apparent the Arrow LNG project would not go ahead in its current form:
``(Senior management) are the only ones still pretending that LNG is still an option, everyone else
has already written it off.''

The staffer said the best hope for the Arrow project would involve selling the gas from its position in
the Surat Basin into the three more advanced LNG projects, and eventually revisiting a smaller LNG
development based on the Bowen Basin gas reserves.

KNOW
2000: Arrow Energy lists on ASX with a market cap of $5m

2010: Royal Dutch Shell and PetroChina buy Arrow for $3.4bn, announce plans for major LNG
project on Curtis Island
2011: Shell and PetroChina buy smaller CSG producer Bow Energy for $535m to build acreage
position

2013: The Arrow LNG project receives federal and state environmental approvals

2014: Arrow confirms it is laying off a significant number of its workforce, believed to be about 250
people

kfpeck : Kuwait Foreign Petroleum Exploration Company | pechin : PetroChina Company Limited |
rnlp : Royal Dutch Shell PLC | arowen : Arrow Energy Limited | cnpngc : China National Petroleum
Corp | kpc : Kuwait Petroleum Corp
i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1 : Energy | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | i1300005 :
Support Activities for Oil/Gas | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c184 : Joint Ventures | credun : Lay-offs/Redundancies |
c18 : Ownership Changes | c42 : Labor/Personnel Issues | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :

CO

IN

NS

Page152of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140120ea1l0004f

RE
PUB
AN

Page153of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.