BC Iron share price falls after Iron Ore takeover

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
BC Iron share price falls after Iron Ore takeover

Bulls and bears Tess Ingram
806 words
22 September 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
30
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

BC Iron's $250 million acquisition of Kerry Stokes's Iron Ore Holdings has thrilled some investors
yet sent others running.
The mid-tier iron ore miner launched a cash and scrip offer for the billionaire's Iron Ore Holdings in
August, a deal that has the potential to give BC Iron options beyond the short mine life of its single
operation – the Nullagine joint venture – and boost its cash balance.

The transaction appeared to be received well across the board but since announcing the IOH deal on
August 11, shares in the company have fallen by around 40 per cent.
According to Macquarie analyst Hayden Bairstow, this slide is predominantly due to the low iron ore
price buffeting the sector, which has left few in the market unscathed.

But the share price has also been impacted by investors' reaction to the deal, with several
dividend-focused institutions leaving the stock.

"There certainly would have been people who didn't like the deal who would have been selling stock,
and given what has happened to the iron ore price liquidity has been pretty poor. As a result your
share price moves appropriately," he said.

"All of the small and mid-tier producers are struggling at the moment with the price."
Over the past few years, BC Iron has sustained a strong share price and attracted a raft of investors
based on its strong history of delivering its owners healthy dividends, most recently declaring final
dividend of 15¢ per share at the time of the takeover announcement.

Future dividend payments are likely to take a hit as a result of the deal, but Macquarie has noted that
longer-term gains are expected. "They have diluted their shareholders a bit by buying IOH so you do
get a bit of a dilution on your dividend. But the ability from a cash perspective to pay a dividend might
not change depending on how they handle these new assets," Mr Bairstow said. "Obviously it has with
the iron ore price, but that was going to happen regardless of whether they did the deal or
not."Five-year low
Iron ore fell to a five-year low this month, spooking investors and industry alike.
There is a clause in the IOH deal that says it can be nulled if the iron ore price falls below $A90 per
tonne for 20 days. While the price has dipped below this level, a consecutive run seems unlikely to
threaten the deal.
Monday is the last day for BC Iron to give notice of the status of the deal's conditions before it is due to
close on September 30. The company, which is valued at around $248 million, could take its
remaining six years of mine life and breathe 15 additional years into them if IOH's two assets, Iron
Valley and Buckland, can be brought into production.

Page77of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IOH has a 20-year mine gate deal with Mineral Resources at Iron Valley, which is expected to produce
about 5 million tonnes per annum of iron ore. Buckland, while only in a feasibility stage, is the jewel in
the company's crown and has been identified by BC Iron managing director Morgan Ball as a
particularly strategic part of the acquisition.
However, the development of Buckland will be a future pressure point for BC Iron.
UBS highlighted in a recent note that the success of the $800 million project would be the crucial
factor in determining how much value the transaction will add to BC Iron, but question marks remain
around infrastructure and the cost of development.
Chinese steelmaker Baosteel and rail provider Aurizon, who recently acquired fellow iron ore hopeful
Aquila Resources for $1.42 billion, are planning to splash cash on a new port and rail through the
region. Westoz funds management executive director Dermot Woods said it would make sense for
BC Iron to invest in Baosteel's plans rather than to develop its own infrastructure.

However, others view the cost of the exercise as out of reach for the merged entity.
Citi recently noted that it would view the deal with IOH falling over as a positive, as "BC Iron does not
generate enough cash to fund Buckland at our iron ore forecasts".
Westoz used to have a position in BC Iron but now prefers Mt Gibson, Mr Woods said. "They are
currently facing some difficulties, including issues with the orebody at Nullagine," he said. "It looks like
costs are going up and the yield is going down – which is bad from a cost point of view."
In that sense, the timing of the IOH acquisition couldn't be better for BC Iron, presenting the
company with a fresh opportunity to repeat its success.

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

ironoa : Iron Ore Holdings Ltd.
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i2111 : Iron
Ore Mining
c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c314 : Pricing | c1522 : Share
Price Movement/Disruptions | cacqu : Acquisitions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c15 :
Performance | c31 : Marketing | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140921ea9m0000p

Page78of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.