Australians face dream home eviction

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

World
Australians face dream home eviction

Lindsay Murdoch, South-East Asia Correspondent - Phuket, Thailand
681 words
27 November 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
15
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Property debacle - Chinese bank holds titles but developer says deal is near

Daryl Davies knew when he saw the luxurious homes set amid eight tropical acres with stunning sea
views, that this was where he wanted to spend his retirement.

"They are absolutely delightful," says 70-year-old Mr Davies from Melbourne, of a $30 million
development on the west coast of the Thai resort island of Phuket.
Mr Davies, a retired commercial pilot, paid the equivalent of about $500,000 in Thai baht for his
three-bedroom home in Chom Tawan, one of the most prestigious developments on Phuket.

But a Thai court has authorised an auction of the homes of Mr Davies and more than 40 other buyers
to the highest bidder if millions of dollars owed to the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China
(ICBC) by the project developer are not repaid by a December 17 deadline.

The plight of the buyers, many of whom have been living in the homes since they were completed
seven years ago, illustrates the risks foreigners face buying real estate in Thailand, one of the most
popular destinations for retiring Australians.

Mr Davies and other buyers, including five Australian families, believed they were covering all bases
before paying for what were promised to be effectively 90-year leasehold titles for the homes, including
hiring lawyers to do due diligence on the property.

"We never for one moment thought there would be a problem," says Mr Davies, who is married to a
Thai.

Two years ago buyers awoke to find notices pinned to their doors declaring that a Thai manufacturer
had not been paid for supplying appliances to the development.

"We were shocked. We started investigating what had happened but it only got worse, much worse,"
Mr Davies told Fairfax Media.

The developer, Napawan Asia Limited, had promised that buyers who paid upfront for their houses
would receive titles reflecting their freehold/leasehold ownership once the development was registered
with Phuket's land department.
Catherine Gathani, a buyer from Hong Kong, said she was aware when finalising the contract for her
home there was a mortgage on the land but Napawan Asia told her "this would be paid down as the
buyers' stage payments were made, so that by the time the project was complete the mortgage would
be fully paid".
She said buyers only discovered several years later the company had not repaid the original mortgage
and that it had given the titles of the buildings to the bank as part of a debt restructuring.

Page130of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Andrew Street, the British developer behind Napawan Asia, admits the company was "over-extended
commercially at the commencement of the global financial crisis".

Mr Street, who has returned to live in Britain, told Fairfax Media "I have remained and still intend to
deliver all that the buyers require". "Within weeks of this date there will be firm plans to bring this debt
restructuring to a conclusion," he said.

But Mr Davies said attempts over recent months for a settlement between ICBC, the buyers and
Napawan Asia have collapsed in acrimony. Under one proposal discussed by ICBC in October, the
buyers would be forced to pay almost $200,000 more than the original price in exchange for the bank
releasing the mortgage.

Mr Davies described that as a "bridge too far" for the buyers.

"Many of the investors are retirees who face losing most or all of their life's savings. It is an appalling
situation to be in," he said.

Mr Street, who bought a $1 million house in the English Midlands in August 2013 after leaving Phuket,
said "it is not in the interest of all parties concerned for me to return to Thailand whilst in the final steps
of the debt workout".

As the auction deadline nears, buyers desperate to keep their houses have asked Thailand's military
rulers to intervene and have taken urgent legal action to try to head off the sale of their houses.

RE

PUB
AN

thail : Thailand | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020141126eabr0004w

Page131of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.