TVI TVI's Foyson to acquire waste-conversion licences

HD
CR
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

TVI TVI's Foyson to acquire waste-conversion licences

Stockwatch
633 words
11 November 2014
Canada Stockwatch
CNSW
English
(c) 2014 Canjex Publishing Ltd.

TVI Pacific Inc (TSX:TVI)

Shares Issued 655,470,372

Last Close 11/10/2014 $0.025

Tuesday November 11 2014 - News Release

Mr. Clifford James reports
TVI'S AMAZON BAY IRON SANDS JOINT VENTURE PARTNER TO ENTER INTO DEAL FOR
PLASTICS TO FUEL CONVERSION TECHNOLOGY
Foyson Resources Ltd., a company in which TVI Pacific Inc. holds a 20.04-per-cent equity interest and
is TVI's joint venture partner on the Amazon Bay iron sands project in Papua New Guinea, has entered
into an agreement with Integrated Green Energy Ltd. to acquire exclusive licences to commercialize
initially IGE's plastic-to-fuel technology and then its technologies for biomass to both fuel and energy
conversion. As announced by Foyson, this agreement reflects its strategy of acquiring a cash flow project
to assist in financing development activities at the Amazon Bay project.

Clifford James, president and chief executive officer of TVI, stated, "Given that TVI holds a significant
stake in Foyson, we are pleased to see their intention to enter into a potential cash-flowing business with
IGE, which could increase the value of our investment and represent a potential source of funding for our
Amazon Bay iron sands joint venture project."
IGE is an Australian company with a focus on the development of its waste-conversion technologies to
produce sustainable energy resources. The technologies are applicable to both processing
non-recyclable and waste plastics to fuel and for power generation in remote locations by processing a
hybrid biomass. IGE currently operates a semi-commercial demonstration plant producing
industry-standard diesel suitable for use in conventional diesel engines.

As set out in the non-binding term sheet signed between Foyson and IGE in September, 2014, Foyson
intends to acquire exclusive licences to use IGE's waste-conversion technology in Australia, New
Zealand, China, North America, India, Southeast Asia, Papua New Guinea and Fiji. Secondly, Foyson
intends to acquire non-exclusive licences to use IGE's technology in other jurisdictions globally, with IGE
to grant no more than three licences to any party in any jurisdiction. Thirdly, Foyson intends to acquire
IGE's existing pilot-scale plastic-to-fuel-conversion plant at Berkeley Vale on New South Wales's central
coast. The intention of the term sheet is that Foyson will be required to construct and operate new plants
based on the existing Berkeley Vale plant over the next four years.

The term sheet also required Foyson to carry out two private placements with parties associated with IGE
for a total of 235 million shares. The first of these placements, involving a placement of 135 million
shares at 0.025 cent per share, was completed in October, 2014, resulting in TVI's original equity interest
of 23.01 per cent being diluted to 20.04 per cent.

The term sheet states that the remuneration to be paid by Foyson for IGE will be performance based. To
obtain the maximum remuneration in terms of Foyson shares and options, the operating facilities utilizing

Page150of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.the IGE technology must earn annual earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in
excess of $20-million.

In order to complete the arrangement, Foyson plans to undertake a consolidation of its share capital and
issue 70 million convertible performance shares and 70 million convertible performance options to IGE.
The performance securities will be issued to IGE in tranches, with the vesting conditions for each tranche
linked to each plant or new plant generating $5-million in EBITDA per annum. The first tranche will be
linked to the existing plant and has a performance period of two years from completion of the IGE
transaction. Each multiple of $5-million EBITDA generated will result in the vesting of another tranche of
performance securities.

CO
IN

NS

travv : TVI Pacific Inc | wndbul : Foyson Resources Ltd.
irenewf : Renewable Energy Facility Construction | i502 : Heavy Construction | i5020044 : Power Station
Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm :
Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | npress : Press Releases | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership
Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | cana : Canada | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North America
News Release

RE
IPD
PUB Canjex Publishing Ltd.
AN

Document CNSW000020141111eabb00361

Page151of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.