Forrest pushing China barrow

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Forrest pushing China barrow

JOHN DURIE
1,156 words
31 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
25
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Andrew Forrest is attempting to translate his success in selling iron ore to China into boosting farm
sales through his so-called Australia-Sino Hundred Year Agricultural Partnership.
Working from a base of clear support from the Chinese leadership, Forrest is trying to unite the
Australian food industry into a campaign to work together to sell food into China.

He told yesterday’s Australia in China’s Century Conference that industry and government must work
together to get even close to achieving his aim.

His push is to be welcomed and underlines the clear theme emerging from the forum — that the
opportunity is there for Australia to take, but that it will need to work together to grab the chance.

There are no shortages of competing countries to fill the void left by Australia.
This whole-of-country approach is evident in New Zealand dairy with Fonterra, but so far is missing in
Australian agriculture.
Forrest’s food forum is based on his Senior Business Leaders Forum, known as the Boao Forum,
which meets six monthly promoting closer relations between the two countries.

The latter has no Australian government involvement and the best role it could play with food is to clear
the barriers.

This is what Forrest also wants in his gas push, where he wants unused permits opened to boost
supply.
Over the last 11 years Forrest has turned a $1 million enterprise into a $20 billion one by riding the
mining boom at Fortescue, and has recently returned to the land, buying a small beef property south of
Perth known as Harvey Beef.

Rio Tinto is also in the cattle game with six ranches in the Pilbara with some 24,000 cattle, or six times
the Forrest herd.
Forrest said Australia was nowhere to be seen on Chinese supermarkets and the country must work
together to grab the chance in food.

He has written to the state and federal farm ministers in an attempt to convene a meeting between
them and the top 20 food producers.
Business Council chief Jennifer Westacott has agreed to host the first meeting in the next few weeks.
Forrest said Australia should make exporting food to China a far greater priority and Continued on
Page 35 Continued from Page 25 that Chinese Premier Li Keqiang had told him that was “Australia’s
most important question”.

Page232of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Fortescue chairman said the Chinese just rolled their eyes when a delegation of different
Australian states knocked on their door trying to sell their wares, and urged a full national effort to take
advantage of the opportunities.
He is bullish on China’s growth but acknowledged it would not be a simple straight line progression.
Capital Research’s Michael Thawley told the conference China faced severe disruptions as it
continued its growth and that Australia should maintain a broad strategic base to avoid having too
much reliance on China.

Forrest disputes the notion that Australia needs to maintain any balance of power, arguing it just needs
to maximise its advantages.
The prize is there for the taking — it’s just a matter of business playing for the long term to learn more
about China and meet demand with reliable supply.

Westfield’s bluff THE Australian Securities & Investments Commission is waiting on details from
Westfield Retail Trust chairman Dick Warburton before deciding whether the planned meeting in a
fortnight can proceed.

The deferral is in effect a giant game of bluff from Westfield in the hope that it can get enough votes to
pass the proposed corporate split.

As noted yesterday the meeting delay is a nonsense because there is no new information before
shareholders, just the reality that Frank Lowy won’t recut the deal and he intends to proceed with the
split without WRT.

If this was his preferred position he would have gone down this route on day one and the meeting
should now be reconvened in a month. The ASIC consideration is based on what information WRT
plans on releasing early next week and whether shareholders have enough time to consider it.
The lunacy of the present situation is that shareholders who buy or sell stock today are still bound by
past voting because the record date of the deferred meeting has long passed.

Sims’s title rejig ROD Sims has relinquished the chief executive part of his title as the Australian
Competition & Consumer Commission chief and from now will simply be chairman.

Yesterday he rejigged the management team, appointing Rayne de Gruchy as chief operating officer.
Deputy Mark Pearson will be chief risk officer until his intended retirement in March next year.

The latter role will concentrate on putting the commission’s budget into place in the wake of last year’s
internal financial troubles, which required a government bailout.

When veteran Pearson leaves, his job will be taken by a newly appointed chief financial officer.

Sims noted in a staff memo his job as chairman meant he was effectively responsible for the operation
just as Greg Medcraft is at ASIC. He distinguishes the ACCC and the European Commission
equivalent, given the latter also hands down a penalty, which requires a more formal split between the
role of staff and the commission.

Tech-savvy KPMG BOOKKEEPER KPMG is one of the corporate leaders in the practical use of
technology to help corporate clients manage risks.

To help the older, less tech-savvy staffers, it engages in reverse mentoring, sitting the young staff with
an oldie to teach the oldies how to use technology better. In essence, the aim is not to be afraid and
see the advantages of crowd sourcing to get a wide group involved in solving a problem, rather than
just the person next door.

Clients, too, must work out how new media operates and with social media the issue is very much one
of risk management Earlier this year the firm acquired Greg Daniel’s SR7 group to help clients
monitor social media to offset the reputational, operational and regulatory risks involved. Much of
technology is about empowering consumers to give them more choice over what they buy and where,
which means any decision to buy something is driven 15 per cent by advertising and 85 per cent by
what other people say about the thing.
If all your friends figure brand “x” is the way to go then you will probably follow suit. In social media, it
is important to know what people are saying about you.

This is where Daniel’s sleuths get involved, looking at what is being said, how and to whom.

Page233of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.When the company knows who is saying what about it and why, it can begin to determine whether it
needs to respond. Social media has its positive and negative aspects but the bottom line is it is a
powerful communicationtool, which can disseminate information and change perceptions quickly.

IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140530ea5v00066

Page234of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.