Chinese interest is swelling on Coast

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CommercialProperty
Chinese interest is swelling on Coast

PHIL BARTSCH
328 words
9 May 2014
The Courier-Mail
COUMAI
CourierMail
74
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

CHINESE investors are continuing to circle a variety of commercial property assets on the Gold
Coast.
In one of the latest transactions, the mixed-use M1X Energy Centre at Robina has changed hands.

The sale price has not been disclosed, but industry sources said it was about $4 million.
M1X Energy Centre was developed by Robina Group on the corner of Scottsdale Drive and Energy
Circuit and completed in October 2012.
The 1786sq m centre includes five multipurpose business spaces on a 3249sq m parcel of land.

It is occupied by gymnasium NeuroPhysics Training, beauty products manufacturer The Natalie
Group and Systems Cabling Australia, on three to five-year leases.

The buyer plans to utilise the remaining two spaces.
The centre also features 38 on-site car parking spaces and is close to the M1 Motorway and Robina
train station. Darrell Irwin, of Colliers International, negotiated the deal which settled last week.
Mr Irwin said the Chinese-based buyer had been looking for an investment in southeast Queensland
and zeroed in on M1X Energy Centre, attracted by its position.
“The company is a developer in China and owns a number of development sites in Australia, so
was familiar with Gold Coast and Robina,” he said.
“M1X Energy Centre appealed in particular because of its exposure to significant passing traffic in
the busy M1 business precinct, and its proximity to the M1 Motorway, which makes it easily
accessible.” Mr Irwin said M1X Energy Centre was a unique offering because of its flexible zoning,
which allowed for a wide array of uses.
Robina Group general manager Hylton Slater said the Scottsdale Drive precinct had been the centre
of significant construction, the value of projects underway or recently completed about $180 million.

“The precinct has drawn interest from businesses anting a cnetral base that is easily accessible,” he
said.“ It has lured companies like construction firm Condev and Australian Industry Trade College.”

NS
RE

PUB

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.

Page279of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document COUMAI0020140508ea590004c

Page280of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.