Top stories of the day: China power and coal - Nov. 25

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Top stories of the day: China power and coal - Nov. 25

lixiaohui
618 words
25 November 2014
13:27
Xinhua's China Economic Information Service
XNHA
English
(c) 2014 新华通讯社版权所有，未经协定授权，禁止下载使用。

BEIJING, Nov. 25 (Xinhua) - Top stories of China's power and coal industries on November 25 as
follows:
1. Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (600188.SH; 01171.HK; YZC.NYSE) announced Tuesday that it planned to
buy convertible hybrid bonds to be floated by its Australian subsidiary, Yancoal Australia Ltd.

As Yanzhou Coal Mining holds 78 percent equity in Yancoal Austrlia, the bond purchase would cost
Yanzhou Coal about 1.8 billion US dollars.
The to-be-floated convertible hybrid bonds are expected to raise 2.3 billion US dollars. Some 1.8 billion
US dollars of the raised money will be used to pay back bank loans of Yanzhou Coal Mining, and the
rest will be used to fund existing and potential coal business of Yancoal Australia.
Yanzhou Coal said that the bond purchase was yet waiting for approval of the board.
2. China Shenhua Energy Co., Ltd
(601088.SH; 1088.HK) announced on Tuesday that its overseas subsidiary China Shenhua Overseas
Development and Investment Company (China Shenhua Overseas) and Indonesia Adaro Power had
inked a memorandum of understanding (MOU) on cooperation in an integrated power-coal operation
project.
Under the MOU, China Shenhua Overseas and Adaro Power will found a joint venture to develop a
600MW thermal power plant and related power transmission facilities in East Kalimentan in Indonesia.
China Shenhua Overseas and Adaro Power are expected to have 51 percent and 49 percent equity in
the joint venture, respectively.
Meanwhile, China Shenhua Overseas tends to buy equities in one or several branches of PT Bhakti
Energy Persada, a subsidiary of Adaro Power, to develop coalmine projects, which is expected to feed
fuels to the power project.
3. Shanxi province, a major coal production base in China, is promoting green transformation of thermal
power plants through multiple measures, including financial support, electricity reward, favorable policy
and industrial support.

Currently, there are 63 thermal power plants in Shanxi province. By the end of 2013, the total installed
thermal power capacity in Shanxi stood at 51.97 million kilowatts, making Shanxi a significant power
source base for Beijing, Tianjin, Hebei, Central China and East China. According to the action plan to
carry out the country's energy development strategy during 2014-2020, three out of the nine planed
national large thermal power bases with capacity of tens of millions of kilowatts are located in Shanxi.

In order to cure the high discharge of pollutants from thermal power plants, Shanxi province has granted
one-time 5-10 percent financial support to the low-discharge transformation of operational generating
units, and give them at least 200 hours of electricity reward per year.

Page46of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Shanxi has selected Tanshan power plant, Ruiguang power plant, Yuguang power plant, and Changzhi
power plant to carry out demonstrative low-discharge transformation, which is expected to bd finished by
2020.
4. China Longyuan Power Group Corporation Ltd. (00916.HK) announced that it had put the Dufferin
wind power project in Ontario, Canada into operation.
Invested and constructed by China Longyuan, affiliated to China Guodian Corporation, one of the five
major power generation groups in China, the 100MW Dufferin wind power project is so far the largest
wind power project invested by a Chinese company in Ontario, the company said in a news release on
its website.
A total of 49 GEwind turbine generators (WTGs) have been installed in the wind farm and the annual
on-grid electricity is expected to reach 300 million kwh, which can satisfy the power demand of about
30,000 households in Ontario, the company said. (Edited by Li Xiaohui, lixh@xinhua.org, Niu Huizhe,
niuhuizhe@xinhua.org)

07
chshen : China Shenhua Energy Company Limited | yaptyl : Yancoal Australia Limited | ynzmn : Yanzhou
Coal Mining Co Ltd | shengc : Shenhua Group Corp | yankua : Yankuang (Group) Corp
i163 : Renewable Energy Generation | irenewf : Renewable Energy Facility Construction | i1 : Energy |
i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16101 : Electric Power Generation | i502 : Heavy Construction | i5020044 :
Power Station Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ieutil : Electric
Utilities | iutil : Utilities | i111 : Coal Mining | i112 : Coal Mining Support Activities | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
cpartn : Partnerships/Collaborations | ncdig : Corporate Digests | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types
china : China | austr : Australia | caon : Ontario | shanxi : Shanxi | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | cana : Canada | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North
America
news

RF
CO

IN

NS

RE

IPD
PUB China Economic Information Service of Xinhua News Agency
AN

Document XNHA000020141125eabp0018h

Page47of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.