Capitalism or crony capitalism? Adani, Modi, GVK, and the Galilee basin

SE Opinion
HD Capitalism or crony capitalism? Adani, Modi, GVK, and the Galilee basin
BY
A Staff Writer
WC 1,075 words
PD 20 November 2014
SN Mint
SC HNMINT
LA
English
CY Copyright 2014. HT Media Limited. All rights reserved.
LP

TD

New Delhi, Nov. 20 -- State Bank of India's (SBI's) $1 billion line of credit to Adani Group for a
controversial Australian project can be seen as one of three things: a state-owned bank lending to an
Indian company's project to sort of cut the symbolic ribbon on a big project during the Indian Prime
Minister's much-publicized visit to Australia; a close friend of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Gautam Adani,
being granted a loan by a state-owned bank; or a state-owned bank that has made such sensible
decisions as bailing out Kingfisher Airlines Ltd once through a sweetheart deal, issuing a line of credit to a
company for which it has always been one of the two primary bankers (Standard Chartered Plc is the
other). Various commentators have been quick to pick the second option, but there is no evidence to the
effect. Nor is there any proof of the first.

As for the third, all we have on offer is SBI's track record with possible digressions into the control the
government exerts on top appointments in banks and, possibly, their loan books and the issue (which
some consider to be a related one) of most state-owned banks in India having roughly five times as much
bad loans as private ones. All three are within the realm of the plausible and the possible, but credible
journalism isn't about assigning probabilities to unproven hypotheses. And that's about as much as can be
said about the matter at this point because it is unlikely that the finance ministry (which effectively controls
SBI), Modi, Adani, or SBI will own up if any pressure was indeed brought to bear on the bank to issue a
line of credit to Adani. Before we get down to the project itself, it might make sense to review some
numbers. At a group level, Adani has around $12 billion of debt. Its market value is $20 billion. Very few
shares in the three listed companies of the group are pledged with anyone. The project for which the line
of credit has been given is estimated to cost $15 billion, maybe more. The group has not had to
restructure its debt and its interest coverage ratio is more than 1 (which means it generates enough cash
to pay interest). If those (and the group's past association with the bank) were all that mattered, SBI can
easily justify the line of credit. To be sure, the group financial details are not relevant unless the Australia
project is structured in such a way that it has recourse to the parent's balance sheet. The real test for
crony capitalism is whether the pricing of the loan is out of sync with risk. Nobody has any information
about this. The Kingfisher case was suspicious because the banks converted their debt into equity at a
hefty premium to the market price. There is no evidence of a sweetheart deal in the case of Adani, as of
now. The bank has also clarified that the line of credit is just that, a line, and that the loan is contingent on
its evaluation of the project. Which brings us to the project itself. Ignoring everything else, Adani's
Australian coal project will produce an estimated 60 million tonnes (mt) of coal a year. That is coal which
India desperately needs. By the Indian government's estimates, the country will be short of some 185-265
mt of coal by 2016-17, a year ahead of the ambitious deadline set by Adani for shipping coal to India.
Almost 70% of the power generated in India is from coal. That, though, is a simplistic analysis of the
controversial project, which some critics say is expected to wreak significant damage on the Australian
environment and especially on the Great Barrier Reef (in an attempt to raise money for the project, Adani
has been trying to sell a stake in the Abbot Point port that will actually ship the coal). Still, Australia has
seen it fit to grant environmental approvals to the project and that is where it ends. Any real analysis of the
project needs to factor in the price of coal-it has come down significantly to a four-year low as the
commodity super-cycle ends, but it could rise again-Adani's ability to raise money for the entire project
(extremely difficult, although not impossible), and India's own effort to de-nationalize coal mining (only a
matter of time, people in the know say, and the government has already retained the option to do so in a
new ordinance it has put in place) and make state-owned miner Coal India Ltd more efficient. "In two or
three years, we should be able to stop imports of thermal coal," India's coal minister Piyush Goyal told a

Page113of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.conference, Reuters reported on 13 November. Given all that, Adani's Australian coal project-it is
controlled by two Australian subsidiaries, wholly owned by a Singapore subsidiary, in turn, wholly owned
by a Mauritius subsidiary, which is wholly owned by Adani Enterprises Ltd, the group's flagship firm-is
complex, one reason why the conglomerate, and another Indian conglomerate with interests in the Galilee
mining belt, GVK, have run into trouble with funding. GVK's project is estimated to cost around $10
billion and it isn't clear whether the conglomerate will find a white knight, much like Adani found one in
SBI. There is, of course, another theory doing the rounds-that Modi is replicating China's strategy of
securing energy to fuel growth. Even in Gujarat, he used state utilities such as GSPC (Gujarat State
Petroleum Corp. Ltd) to bid for energy assets. He could well be trying to follow this approach at the
national level, but the only difference could be that he is trying to get the private sector to do the job. If
that's the case, GVK can breathe easy. And if that's the case, both the private enterprises involved, and
the fuel-starved nation will benefit-which is not really crony capitalism, but the essence of capitalism itself.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from MINT.

CT

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

CO adexns : Adani Enterprises Ltd | kairll : Kingfisher Airlines Ltd | sbind : State Bank of India Ltd. | stan :

IN

NS

RE

Standard Chartered PLC | utdbrw : United Breweries (Holdings) Ltd
i75 : Airlines | i7501 : Scheduled Passenger Airlines | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking |
i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | iairtr : Air Transport | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk :
Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | itsp : Transportation/Shipping
gpol : Domestic Politics | nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | gcat : Political/General News | gpir :
Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive
News Filter
india : India | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS
Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | indsubz : Indian
Subcontinent | sasiaz : Southern Asia

PUB HT Media Limited
AN Document HNMINT0020141121eabk00108

Page114of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.