Restrictions on foreign buyers not adequately policed

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Restrictions on foreign buyers not adequately policed

Simon Johanson
361 words
11 October 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
9
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

COVER STORY
Not everyone is happy about the impact of the foreign financial onslaught on real estate.

Politically sensitive purchases of farmland, for example, are increasing pressure on the federal
government amid deep divisions over foreign ownership.

"Australia is a soft touch when it comes to selling off our most valuable asset, our land," National
Party senator John Williams says.
"At the moment any state-owned entity has to go through FIRB (Foreign Investment Review Board),
even it they buy just a dollar's worth, but a private company from overseas can buy any farm in
Australia up to the value of $248 million. No one checks them. That to me is outrageous," he says.

The government's election promise to introduce a $15 million cumulative screening threshold on
foreign land purchases is yet to materialise and pressure is growing for regulatory reform.
Prominent Liberal Party MP Kelly O'Dwyer, chairing an inquiry into foreign investment in real estate,
has said restrictions on foreign buyers are not being adequately enforced by the FIRB.
Evidence presented to the inquiry suggested restrictions on foreigners - who cannot buy
established homes without approval - were not being policed.

"I think there's been a failure of leadership at FIRB," she said.
When questioned at the inquiry about the risk of a collapse if Chinese developers and buyers use
the country's shadow banking system to source debt to buy Australian property, Treasury officials
said it was "difficult to quantify" the extent to which that was occurring.
"It is difficult to say to what extent inflows of Chinese residential real estate investment is levered
and susceptible to reversal," Treasury said.

For established Australian financial institutions the risk of global volatility leading to debt withdrawal
was less.

"While it is true that Australia is exposed to the risk of foreign debtors choosing to withdraw their
funding when debts mature, since the global financial crisis, the roll-over risk has receded," officials
said.

Another Senate inquiry, chaired by Labor senator Sam Dastyari, is looking into housing affordability.
Both inquiries will deliver their reports next month.

RE

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

Page174of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020141010eaab0003v

Page175of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.