$2.6bn rival bid shakes Stockland

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PrimeSpace
$2.6bn rival bid shakes Stockland

BRIDGET CARTER
666 words
5 June 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
29
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

AUSTRALIA’S largest developer, Stockland, has been thrown off-guard with a surprise $2.6 billion
rival cash bid for its takeover target Australand, launched by a Singapore-listed company that is
controlled by Thailand’s third-richest man.

Frasers Centrepoint’s conditional cash bid announced yesterday sent Australand’s shares soaring by
5.57 per cent to $4.55, setting the stage for a dramatic bidding contest for some of the nation’s most
valuable residential developments as the housing market begins to turn the corner.

But in a surprise twist, Stockland’s shares also rallied 1.8 per cent to $4.01 yesterday, valuing its
scrip bid at $4.51 per share, more than Frasers’ $4.48-per-share cash offer, and leaving the market
guessing if the business would end up in local or foreign hands.
The motivation by the Singaporean developer, which is 88 per cent-owned by the TCC Group, is to
diversify away from the Chinese and Singaporean market.

It is also said to be attracted to Australand’s experienced management team, led by Bob Johnston; a
lucrative pipeline of apartment and housing developments; and opportunity to secure a stronger
foothold in Australia.
“We already have an established platform and good brand recognition in Australia, but real estate is
a business where scale and depth matters,” chief executive Lim Ee Seng said.
Stockland’s board and its advisers moved swiftly yesterday to regroup on the news, which will derail
its plans to conduct due diligence. It issued a statement to the market that it would provide an update
in due course.

On May 28, the diversified developer lifted its takeover offer for Australand to 1.124 Stockland shares
for every Australand share, then valuing its target at about $2.5bn, but the offer is now valued at more
than $2.6bn.

Australand said the reciprocal due diligence provided was no longer available to Stockland and
Frasers would now have an exclusive due diligence and negotiating period of four weeks.
Chairman Paul Isherwood said the board believed the proposal was superior to Stockland’s offer,
which was final, subject to a rival approach. “Accordingly, the board has determined to progress the
proposal with Frasers to determine whether an offer that is capable of acceptance can be presented
to Australand securityholders,” Mr Isherwood said.

Frasers’ latest offer is a 19 per cent premium to Australand’s three-month volume weighted average
share price up to March 18, the day before Stockland announced it had purchased a 19.9 per cent
stake in Australand.

Including the half-year dividend, Frasers will pay out $4.61 per share. Shareholders will also be paid
any second-half distribution accrued when the offer becomes unconditional, which could be up to

Page236of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.12.75c a share. The deal is conditional on securing 50 per cent of shares and Foreign Investment
Review Board approval.
Other residential developers, such as Mirvac, traded higher yesterday as the takeover news
reinforced positive sentiment.

Continued on Page 30 Continued from Page 29 The reaction is a far cry from 18 months ago, when
potential suitors shunned Australand’s residential business when the sector was out of favour.
Potential buyers then entered Australand’s dataroom after the GPT Group bid for its office and
industrial properties.

Negotiations intensified in the past week with Frasers Centrepoint, the owner of $S10.5bn ($9bn)
worth of property and backed by Thai billionaire Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi. Analysts said the
Frasers bid was superior, and had secured the backing of Australand shareholders.
JPMorgan analyst Richard Jones said he believed Stockland’s shares rose in the hope the group
would crystallise profits through a sale of its 19.9 per cent Australand stake.“The market has been
worried that it may overpay, and I think today the market is saying it has a better-than-even chance of
walking away,” Mr Jones said. “A cash offer gives investors certainty.”

ahlaus : Australand Property Group | stotru : Stockland | dbsl : CapitaLand Limited | stocor :
Stockland Corporation Ltd
i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150206 : Investment Trusts/Funds | i815020602 : Real
Estate Investment Trusts | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | i8500031 : Residential Property
Dealing/Owning | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv :
Investing/Securities | ireest : Real Estate | irreal : Residential Real Estate
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cdued : Due Diligence | c1522 : Share Price
Movement/Disruptions | cacqu : Acquisitions | c15 : Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140604ea6500008

CO

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page237of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.