The impact of savaging sinks in

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
The impact of savaging sinks in

Elizabeth Knight
711 words
12 December 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
19
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

The fall-out from the savaging of oil prices saw Australian LNG majors, Santos and Origin, reassuring
investors that financing and expenditure would be reconfigured and that the economics of their
massive projects still worked.

Their response was credible enough to convince the market there was no impending doom. But life
for these companies has become tougher and the gloss is fading.

Thus Thursday's announcements were not sufficient to assuage investor concerns about the
prospects for the energy sector. And the market took a tumble in the absence of enough good news
from elsewhere. The big mining stocks drifted lower and a lift in Telstra 's share price, when
combined with sluggish performances from the banks, wasn't enough to drag up the index.

Origin has finessed its funding options, extending the size of its facility and lengthening the
repayment terms. It hosed down concerns that the effects on returns, from the fall in the oil price,
would be especially damaging, telling the market that at the $24.7 billionAustralia Pacific LNG
project would throw off cash even when the oil price fell as low as US$40 ($48) to US$45 per barrel.

But it also said that its share of distributable cash flow from APLNG is expected to average more than
$900 million a year from the 2016-17 financial year - down from the estimate of about $US1 billion a
year that Origin gave in May this year.
Santos said on Thursday it had cut its 2015 capital expenditure from $2.7 billion to $2 billion as it
battens down the hatches to deal with the financial buffeting resulting from the oil dive by 40 per cent
this year.

Despite their attempts to calm investor fears, the share prices of these and other Australian LNG
companies continue to take heavy fire.

Santos in particular, which is considered the most exposed to the falling price due to its higher debt
levels, has been hit hard with its share price falling a further 6 per cent on Thursday.
The latest wave of oil price declines comes off the back of news that OPEC has cut its demand
forecast for next year and follows last week's news from OPEC had it would not reduce supply.
This has unbalanced the demand and supply equation further and sent international equity markets,
including Australia, into a tail spin.

Many Australian analysts are now suggesting the shares in the LNG producers have probably been
oversold.
CIMB notes that equity markets are "clearly discounting the uncertainty unfolding around
supply-demand dynamics." But it reckons this and that price moves are typically amplified; and
fundamental drivers do resume.

Page244of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.While true, it would be a brave call to wade into this uncertain territory. It is fair to say that almost all
experts did not predict the severity of the fall in oil prices and few would have expected the producers
would act irrationally and maintain supply in the face of falling demand from the likes of China.
However, the behaviour of those that produce iron ore (they boosted production at a time of falling
demand) provides a clear template demonstrating producers that dominate the market have
longer-term objectives to rid their respective industries of new entrants.
OPEC appears set on crushing some of the new higher-cost oil shale output coming out of the US.
The iron ore majors such as Vale, BHP and Rio want to edge out the higher cost producers in
developing countries such as China, even if they are to take a short to medium-term hit to their own
returns.

So, while producers play to their own agendas the fallout is becoming very costly for countries that
are net exporters of these commodities.

Australia fits into that basket.
Of course there will be particular stocks and sectors in Australia that stand to gain from a falling oil
price.

The most obvious contenders are transport and logistics stocks and the Qantas and Virgin share
price graphs illustrate this story.
But for the Australian economy, a net exporter of energy, the wider negatives prevail and this
explains why the Australian dollar gets pushed down when the oil price falls.

CO
IN

RE
PUB
AN

sants : Santos Ltd
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural
Gas/Oil Extraction
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020141211eacc0003a

Page245of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.