Landmark $19 bn PNG gas project makes first shipment

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Landmark $19 bn PNG gas project makes first shipment

357 words
26 May 2014
12:28
Agence France Presse
AFPR
English
Copyright Agence France-Presse, 2014 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.

The first shipment of liquefied natural gas from a landmark US$19 billion project in Papua New Guinea
has left for Japan, US oil giant ExxonMobil said Monday.

The project is the largest development ever undertaken in the Pacific country and ExxonMobil managing
director Peter Graham called the shipment, which comes four years after construction began, "an historic
moment".

"This is the country's largest resource project and it has taken the effort of many thousands of people to
bring it to fruition," he said.

"Revenue from the PNG LNG Project will support Papua New Guinea's continued economic and social
development.

"The PNG LNG Project demonstrates to the world what Papua New Guinea is capable of delivering."
The project will supply four major customers in Taiwan, Japan and China and is expected to produce an
expected nine trillion cubic feet (255 billion cubic metres) of LNG over its 30-year life.

At its peak, more than 21,000 people were employed during construction with the operators having to
overcome flooding and extremely steep slopes as they built infrastructure including airfields and roads
from scratch.

"Not only will the people of Papua New Guinea now benefit; their children and grandchildren will continue
to enjoy the benefits and positive effects from this valuable resource development for many years to
come," PNG Prime Minister Peter O'Neill said.

However, critics say the project is environmentally devastating and has inflicted human rights abuses on
villagers affected.

They also query whether the PNG government, which ranks poorly in international corruption rankings,
will spend the revenues wisely.

The project includes gas production and processing facilities in PNG's Southern Highlands and Western
Provinces, liquefaction and storage facilities on the Gulf of Papua and more than 700 kilometres (450
miles) of pipelines.
ExxonMobil has the largest stake at 33.2 percent. Its partners include Oil Search Ltd (29 percent), the
PNG government (16.6 percent), Australian energy firm Santos (13.5 percent), Japan's Nippon Oil Corp.
(4.7 percent) and local landowners (2.8 percent).

mp/mfc/jit

CO
IN

exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation
i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil
Extraction

Page45of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

papng : Papua New Guinea | austr : Australia | jap : Japan | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney
| apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz :
Eastern Asia | pacisz : Pacific Islands
PNG

IPD
PUB Agence France-Presse
AN

Document AFPR000020140526ea5q00108

Page46of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.