Press Release: HAVAS 2013 revenue: full year and Q4

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
TD

Press Release: HAVAS 2013 revenue: full year and Q4

3,533 words
14 February 2014
03:45
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

2013 Revenue
Full year:
Revenue:

million

EUR1,772

+1.0%
26% of revenue

-- Organic growth:
-- Digital weight:
Fourth quarter:
Revenue:
-- Organic growth:
Yannick Bolloré, Havas CEO, said: "We ended 2013 with growth of

EUR514 million
+1.6%

1.6%, which represents a significant acceleration over our growth rate
in Q1 2013. This improvement was underpinned by solid performances in
Europe and sustained growth in Asia Pacific. Our North America business
is recovering, with a new team in place and increased commercial
momentum. The level of New Business, both globally and locally, is
highly encouraging, with wins including Dove (Unilever), Total, Emirates,
LG Electronics, LVMH, as well as Dish, Liberty Mutual and Green Mountain
Keurig.

We pursued our strategy of integrating our creative, media and digital

teams in 2013. New Havas Villages have recently been inaugurated in New
York and Singapore. Deploying this new, client-centric organization
makes us more agile, more innovative and quicker to respond to the
changes taking place in our industry.

I am impressed and delighted by the winning spirit shown by our teams,

and would like to thank them for their unflagging commitment.

We head into 2014 with dynamism and serenity, and we maintain our

internal targets of organic growth above that achieved in 2013."

1. REVENUE

Page2of29©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Consolidated Group Revenue in 2013 was EUR1,772 million for the full

year and EUR514 million for the fourth quarter.

Organic growth was +1.0% for full-year 2013 and +1.6% for Q4 2013. On an

unadjusted basis, full-year growth in 2013 was down -1.1%, mainly due to
exchange rate which had a negative impact on revenue of EUR51 million.
At constant exchange rates, organic growth was +1.8%.

Digital and social media again made a major contribution to Group

revenue as the Group continued to position these businesses at the heart
of all its activities and agencies worldwide. With no significant
acquisitions over the course of the year, digital and social media still
accounted for 26% of total Group revenue in 2013.

Geographic distribution of revenue for the 2013 financial year was as

follows:

See table in press release
Europe:
France performed well throughout 2013, with good quarter on quarter
growth driven by the dynamism of Havas Media and the Group's creative
agencies, particularly BETC.

The UK posted strong and sustained growth of +6.5% for the year, with an

excellent fourth quarter reflecting both account wins by the Creative
and Media divisions and the recognition of exceptional income at Havas
Media.

The situation in the rest of Europe is mixed, with sustained growth in
countries like Germany and Belgium, partially offsetting the downturn in
our other European markets.

As a whole, the Europe zone posted +2.3% growth in Q4 and +1.4% for full

year 2013.

North America:
The region reported negative growth of -1.2% for Q4 and -1.7% for the
full year in 2013. This primarily reflects the impact of certain account
losses at Arnold and a temporary softening in the healthcare
communications business. Havas Worldwide New York and most other
agencies in the region reported strong growth.

Rest of world:
Asia Pacific posted double-digit growth (+17.5%) for Q4 2013. All the

region's businesses and countries contributed to this excellent
performance, and winning the LG Electronics and Emirates accounts in
media, Danone in digital and CRM and Australian Defence Force Recruiting
in digital and advertising had a significant impact on results.

Latin America reported a slowdown in Q4, due to a one-off

underperformance from Brazil and Argentina. Over the full year, the
region nonetheless reported growth of +4.4%.

The Group will publish its 2013 annual results on March 20(th) , 2013,

after market close.

2. NET NEW BUSINESS(1)
Net New Business(1) in 2013 amounted to EUR1,375 million.
A detailed list of the main wins of 2013 appears in Annex 1.

Page3of29©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.3. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
The Group continued to implement its CSR commitments through the

following initiatives:

-- The Group has stepped up efforts related to its responsible

communications program which ensures that the Group's advertising
campaigns adhere to a code of conduct and are not at risk of being
modified or, in extreme cases banned by local regulators. By the end of
the fourth quarter of 2013, almost 45% of Group employees had received
awareness training on the laws and rules governing advertising and
communications best practice.

Over 3,300 creative projects were submitted to regulators for approval

prior to distribution (in France, Spain, Canada, Australia, China, the
United States, etc.) over the course of 2013 and only 5% were found to
be non-compliant or failed to win approval. This marks a significant
improvement over the Group's performance in 2012 and demonstrates the
effectiveness of the enhanced responsible communications program.

-- The Sustainable Development Week project launched in France will be
rolled out to other Group agencies in different countries, as part of
plans to make Group employees better informed and more knowledgeable
about sustainable development issues. Examples of best practice like
BETC's "Sustainable Brand Program" and the environmental and social
impact calculators developed by Ignition, will be highlighted.

For more information about our CSR approach: http://www.havas.fr/rse
4. AWARDS AND ACCOLADES
A number of Group agencies received awards in the fourth quarter of

2013.

International:
The "Baby & Me" film made for Evian by BETC Paris was the world's most

watched advertisement on YouTube in 2013.

Group agencies won a total of ten awards at the LIAA: three Gold (two
for Havas Worldwide London and one for BETC Paris), Silver for Havas
Worldwide New York and six Bronze (Arnold Boston, Havas Worldwide Sydney,
Havas Worldwide London, Havas Worldwide Chicago, BETC London and AIS
London).

The Group took home 32 trophies from the Epica Awards. Havas Worldwide

Turkey won two awards, one the Grand Prix and the other a Gold for
Outdoor. BETC Paris received a total of eight, carrying off two Gold,
four Silver and two Bronze awards. BETC London took a Bronze. Havas
Worldwide Paris also notched up eight awards: two Gold, five Silver and
one Bronze. Havas 360, Havas Worldwide Germany, W&Cie, Les Gaulois,
Rosapark, Havas Worldwide Amsterdam, Fuel Lisbon and Arnold Boston were
also awarded for their work.

At the Cristal Festival, Group agencies took home a total of 42 prizes,

17 of them Gold (four for Havas Worldwide Paris, four for BETC Paris,
two for Havas Media, two for Havas Worldwide Amsterdam and one each for
AIS London, Havas Worldwide Istanbul, Havas Worldwide Milan, Havas
Worldwide Sydney and Red Agency Sydney) plus 14 Silver and 11 Bronze.

Regional:

Page4of29©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Eurobest awards resulted in a haul of 22 awards for the Group,
consisting of two Gold, nine Silver and eleven Bronze (agencies awarded:
BETC Paris, Havas Sports & Entertainment, AIS London, Havas Worldwide
Amsterdam, Havas Worldwide Brussels, Fuel Lisbon, Havas Worldwide
Zürich, Havas Worldwide Paris, Havas Productions, Havas Media
Germany).

At the El Ojo de Iberoamerica, Havas Sports & Entertainment Spain won 16

awards for its client Konami: including a Grand Prix, nine Gold and four
Silver. The agency was also named Best Agency for Spain and Best
Creative Department.

At the Lovies, Fuel Lisbon won Silver and Bronze. Havas Worldwide

Amsterdam also won Silver and Havas Worldwide Prague took Bronze.

Arnold Boston took a total of 11 awards at the Clio Healthcare ceremony,

made up of two Gold, three Silver and six Bronze.

Group agencies scooped awards at Effies around the globe: three Bronze

at the Effies Poland; a Grand Prix and four Gold awards at the Effies
Chile; a Gold and a Silver at the Effies Austria; four Gold, three
Silver and a Bronze at the Effies France; Bronze at the Effies Costa
Rica.

At the annual Grand Prix des Agences, BETC Paris was voted International

Agency of the Year and Havas Worldwide Paris Iconoclastic Communications
Agency of the Year.

Campaign Asia-Pacific named One Green Bean PR Agency of the Year for

Australia/New Zealand.

ANNEX 1: New Business 2013
Havas Creative Group
Q1
Bacardi: Camp + King & BETC London
Carrefour: Havas Worldwide Paris
Citroen: Havas Worldwide Shanghai, Havas PR Middle East
Del Monte: Havas Worldwide Delhi
Del Monte Milkbone: Arnold New York
DMK: Global PR, steered from Germany
Ideal Standard: Havas PR UK for pan-European activities
IPSEN: Havas Worldwide Paris
La Poste: BETC & Havas Worldwide Paris
Mothercare: Havas Worldwide London
Pizza Hut: Havas WorldwideHong Kong
Roquefort: Havas 360
SCA: Havas Worldwide Digital Athens
Simple: Havas EHS

Page5of29©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Snuggle: Havas 360
Ubisoft: BETC Paris
United Nations: Havas PRUnilever (Rexona Women): Havas Worldwide Digital

Warsaw

Volvo: Havas Worldwide Munich & Dusseldorf
Volvo Australia: Arnold Furnace
Q2
Dove: Havas EHS appointed global digital agency of record, producing

campaigns and digital assets for all of Dove's deodorant brands.

Fairprice: Havas Worldwide Singapore retained integrated duties
Heineken: Havas Data Spain won data/CRM duties
IKEA: Havas Worldwide Prague won integrated duties, Marketing House

(Poland) won CRM duties

Rabobank: Havas Worldwide Amsterdam won integrated duties
Reckitt Benckiser: Havas PR Middle East won PR duties for Veet, PifPaf,

Scholl and Strepsils

Sanofi: Havas Worldwide Moscow won digital business and Havas Life

13 Feb 2014 11:45 EDT Press Release: HAVAS 2013 revenue: full year and -2-

Southeast Asia won integrated duties for the animal brand Merial

Seagate:

Havas Worldwide San Francisco won global digital business

Sony: Havas Worldwide Buenos Aires appointed ATL duties for Sony and

Sony Mobile

Stanley Black + Decker International: Havas 360 won global product

launch

Telecom Italia: Havas Worldwide Digital Milan appointed digital business
TOTAL: BETC Paris won the global Marketing & Services communication of

the petroleum company.

Vitra: Boondoggle won digital duties
Q3
ABInBev: Havas People (the employer brand at global level)
Acer: Havas Worldwide Dusseldorf (advertising duties)
Arrow: Havas Worldwide Helsinki (digital duties for IT services)
Bayer: Havas Worldwide Helsinki (digital PR)
Celesio: Havas Worldwide Dusseldorf (pan-European integrated duties)
Chivas: Havas Worldwide Johannesburg
Danone: BETC Digital/Havas EHS (CRM duties for Europe)

Page6of29©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.DISH: Havas Worldwide Chicago (digital and social media agency of

record)

Fitbionic: Victors and Spoils (brand strategy and research)
Grameen Creative Lab: Havas Worldwide Siren Singapore (marketing and Pr

for the Social Business Summit 2014 to be held in Malaysia)

JC Penney: Victors and Spoils (social media duties and community

animation)

Michelin: Havas 360 (publishing)
Michelob: Havas Worldwide Toronto (advertising and digital duties)
MTV: Havas 360 (advertising duties)
Novartis: Adrenaline (digital duties for the Prevacid brand)
Panzani: BETC (advertising duties)
Pernod Ricard: Havas PR UK for the Oddka and Aberlour brands
Roger's RCI:
Sanofi: Havas Worldwide Warsaw (advertising duties for the Emolium

Havas Worldwide Toronto (digital duties)

brand)

Santacasa: Havas Worldwide Lisbon (advertising duties)
Schneider Electric: BETC Digital (CRM BtoB duties)
Shoppers Drugmart: Havas Worldwide Toronto (digital and social media

duties)

Tesco: Havas People (recruitment website)
TSB Bank: Havas EHS (digital and CRM duties)
Unibail Rodamco: BETC Shopper (advertising duties)
Valvoline: Havas Worldwide Toronto (digital duties)
Weber: Havas Worldwide Paris (website development on six markets)
Q4
ADT: Arnold Boston, Creative AOR (strategy, planning, creative)
Australian Defence Force Recruiting: Havas WORLDWIDE Sydney won

advertising and digital duties

Birds Eye, Iglo: Havas Worldwide London won pan-European advertising

duties

Costa Croisières: BETC Paris won global advertising duties
Danone: Havas Worldwide Shanghai won digital and e-commerce duties
Givenchy: Havas Worldwide Kuwait won Middle East advertising duties
Green Mountain Keurig: Havas Worldwide NY won NA Keurig business and NA

social media business

JCPenney: Victors & Spoils won grassroots and digital duties

Page7of29©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Liberty Mutual: Havas New York won North America advertising duties for

Liberty Mutual

Michelin: Havas 360 won activation and publishing
Mothercare: Havas PR UK won PR for the retail brand
NC+: Havas Worldwide Warsaw won digital duties
Nokia: Havas Worldwide Helsinki won digital duties
Piaget: BETC Luxe won global advertising duties
PUR: Arnold Boston, Creative AOR (strategy, planning, creative, digital)
Q8 Petroleum: Boondoggle won mobile digital duties for the energycompany
Rituals: Boondoggle won digital duties for the cosmetics brand
SABMiller: Conran Design Group won the 2014 reporting suite design
Sanofi/Regeneron: Arnold New York
Save the Children: Havas EHS won digital duties for the charity
Shopper's Drugmart: Havas Worldwide Toronto won digital and social media
Terminix: Havas Worldwide Chicago won branding, TV and print duties for

the pest control company

Volvo: Havas Worldwide Taiwan won advertising duties
Volvo Trucks: Arnold New York, Creative AOR (strategy, general

advertising (print) and digital)

Weetabix: Cake UK won social media duties for Weetabix and Alpen
YSL Parfum: BETC Paris won global advertising duties for men's fragrance
Havas Media Group
Q1
Ale Combustiveis: Media Contacts Brazil
LaCentrale.fr: Havas Media France
Leboncoin.fr: Havas Media Regions France
LVMH: Havas Media US
Agrolimen: Arena Spain
Artiach: Havas Media Barcelona
TV Azteca: Arena Colombia
Banque PSA Finance (Distingo savings account): Havas Media FranceBakrie

Telecom: Havas Media Indonesia
Burger King: Arena Argentina
Burn: Havas Sports & Entertainment US, ignition, HS&E UK, HS&E Spain
Crédit Agricole: Arena Poland

Page8of29©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.General Mills: Havas Media FranceH&R Block: Havas Media Canada
Ifema: Havas Media Spain (Madrid)
Lembaga Penjamin Simpanan: Havas Media Indonesia
Leroy Merlin: Proximia Spain
Mazuma Mobile: Havas Media UK
Mutua Madrileña: Havas Media Spain (Madrid)
Reckitt Benckiser: on several markets
Saint Maclou: Havas Media France
Santa Lucia Seguros: Arena Spain (Madrid)
Tourism of Turkey: Havas Media Germany, plus UK, Sweden, Norway and

Denmark

Vivil: Havas Media Germany
Yahoo!: ignition US, HS&E France, UK, Spain, Italy, Germany
Q2
Aeroports de Paris: Havas Media France
Betadine: Havas Media APAC (five markets)
Betfair: Arena UK, Ireland, Denmark, Spain
Comunidad Valenciana: Havas Media Levante (Spain)
Coty: Havas Media GCC and Levant
Damiani: Havas Media Italy, Kazakhstan, Ukraine and Russia.
Famosa: Havas Media Mexico
Gatwick: Havas Media UK
Intervida: Havas Media Barcelona (Spain)
Jarden Consumer Solutions: Havas Media International Miami
KakaoTalk: Havas Media Indonesia
Promotion of Spanish Olive Oil: Havas Media Spain, Germany, UK, France,

USA, Brazil, Mexico, Australia, Japan, Russia, China

La Rioja: Havas Media Spain
LG Electronics: Havas Media Group / Arena Global Account (except North

America)

Mouawad: Havas Media Middle East
Nissan: Havas Media Chile
Occidental Hotel & Resorts: Havas Media International Miami (USA +

LATAM)

Orangina Schweppes: Havas Media Poland

Page9of29©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Prom Perú: Havas Media LATAM + Brazil
Renfe: Arena Madrid (Spain)
The Outnet: Havas Media International UK (UK, Singapore, Hong Kong,

Australia)

Totally Media: Havas Media UK
Unimarc/Construmart: Havas Media Chile
Uni-President: Havas Media China
Warmia i Mazury: Arena Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Belgium,

Ukraine, Lithuania

Q3
AIG: Havas Media China
Asos: Havas Media FranceAutoZone: Havas Media Mexico
Avocados de Mexico: Havas Media USA
Bricorama: Havas Media FranceDISH Network: Havas Media USA (digital

listing duties)

Emirates: Havas Media Dubai (global)
Hugo Boss: Havas Media Germany (global)
Kalbe Pharma: Havas Media Indonesia
Line: Havas Media Italy, Havas Media International Miami (inter-regional

media duties)

Maicao: Arena Chile
MSD: Havas Media (LATAM and Canada)
Meta Petroleum Limited: Havas Media Colombia
Otsuka Pharma: Havas Media USA (in collaboration with Havas Worldwide)
Pernod Ricard: Havas Media International London
Polish Ministry of Economy: Havas Media in Poland; Germany, Czech

Republic, Russia, Ukraine and ChinaRobert Half International: Havas Media USA

Scelta Civica: Havas Media Italy
Sodebo: Havas Media France
Subaru: Havas Media Singapore (Singapore and APAC)
Tory Burch: Havas Media for Italy, China and the USA - (digital and

research duties)

Wargaming.net: Havas Media International Paris (Europe)
WingStop: Havas Media USA
Yellow Pages: Havas Media USA

Page10of29©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Q4
Agata meble: Havas Media Poland
Agora Distribution: Havas Media FranceAll Leisure Group: Arena UK
American Express -Paid Search - Arena UK (Global scope excl. USA)
BNP Paribas: Havas Media FranceBurger King: Havas Media Singapore

(extending contract in Malaysia)

Caja Popular Mexicana: Havas Media Mexico - offline business
Die Schweizerische Post: Havas Media Switzerland
DGT Dirección General de Tráfico: Havas Media Spain
EDF: Havas Media France (rewon)
Eminence Athena: Havas Media France
Gamm Vert: Havas Media FranceGuess Inc.: Havas Media US - Digital Branding

Huawei: Havas Media Germany - Media Planning & Buying
Indofood: Havas Media Indonesia
Liverpool: Havas Media Mexico - Digital business
Mutua Madrileña: Havas Sports & Entertainment Spain
OEAMTC: Havas Media Austria
Laboratorios Pisa: Havas Media Mexico - offline account
RadioSchack: Havas Media Mexico
Seagate: Havas Media International from SF (Global) Mainly digital media

account

Tourism Malaysia: HMI Singapore (Europe) - Media Buying
Vivil: Havas Media Germany
Vueling: Havas Media Barcelona
ANNEX 2: 2012 ORGANIC GROWTH BY QUARTER
See table in press release
The Group has chosen to early adopt IFRS10 and IFRS11. This has no
material impact on Group revenue and results, but 2012 figures have
nevertheless been adjusted to make the 2012 and 2013 financial years
comparable.

About Havas
Havas (Euronext Paris SA: HAV.PA) is one of the world's largest global

communications groups. Headquartered in Paris, Havas operates through
its two divisions: Havas Creative Group and Havas Media Group.

Havas Creative Group incorporates the Havas Worldwide

(www.havasworldwide.com) network - formerly Euro RSCG Worldwide - (316
offices in 75 countries), the Arnold (www.arn.com) micro-network (14

Page11of29©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.agencies in 12 countries) as well as several other strong agencies.

Havas Media Group (www.havasmedia.com), is the world's fastest growing
media group, operating in over 100 countries, and incorporates two major
13 Feb 2014 11:45 EDT Press Release: HAVAS 2013 revenue: full year and -3-

commercial brands: Havas Media (ex MPG), Arena and the
Havas Sports &
Entertainment network.

A multicultural Group, Havas is present in more than 100 countries

through its networks of agencies and contractual affiliations. The Group
offers a broad range of communications services, including digital,
advertising, direct marketing, media planning and buying, corporate
communications, sales promotion, design, human resources, sports
marketing, multimedia interactive communications and public relations.
Havas employs approximately 16,000 people. Further information about
Havas is available on the company's website: www.havas.com

Forward-Looking Information
This document contains certain forward-looking statements which speak

only as of the date on which they are made. Forward looking statements
relate to projections, anticipated events or trends, future plans and
strategies, and reflect Havas' current views about future events. They
are therefore subject to inherent risks and uncertainties that may cause
Havas' actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any
forward-looking statement. Factors that could cause actual results to
differ materially from expected results include changes in the global
economic environment or in the business environment, and in factors such
as competition and market regulation. For more information regarding
risk factors relevant to Havas, please see Havas' filings with the AMF
(Autorité des Marchés Financiers) (documents in French) and,
up to October 2006, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
(documents in English only). Havas does not intend, and disclaims any
duty or obligation, to update or revise any forward-looking statements
contained in this document to reflect new information, future events or
otherwise.

(1): Net New Business
Net new business represents the estimated annual advertising budgets for

new business wins (which includes new clients, clients retained after a
competitive review, and new product or brand expansions for existing
clients) less the estimated annual advertising budgets for lost
accounts. Havas' management uses net new business as a measurement of
the effectiveness of its client development and retention efforts. Net
new business is not an accurate predictor of future revenues, since what
constitutes new business or lost business is subject to differing
judgments, the amounts associated with individual business wins and
losses depend on estimated client budgets, clients may not spend as much
as they budget, the timing of budgeted expenditures is uncertain, and
the amount of budgeted expenditures that translates into revenues
depends on the nature of the expenditures and the applicable fee
structures. In addition, Havas' guidelines for determining the amount of
new business wins and lost business may differ from those employed by
other companies.

Organic growth is calculated by comparing revenue for the current

financial period against revenue for the previous financial period
adjusted as follows:

- revenue for the previous financial period is recalculated using the

exchange rates for the current financial period;

Page12of29©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.- to this resulting revenue is added the revenue of companies acquired

between January 1 of the previous financial period and the acquisition
date for the period in which these companies were not as yet
consolidated;

- revenue for the previous financial period is also adjusted for the
consolidated revenue of companies disposed of or closed down between
January 1 of the previous financial period and the date of disposal or
closure.

Organic growth calculated by this method is therefore adjusted for

variations in exchange rate against the euro, and for variations in the
scope of consolidation.

Press release: http://hugin.info/143438/R/1761900/596682.pdf
This announcement is distributed by NASDAQ OMX Corporate Solutions on

behalf of NASDAQ OMX Corporate Solutions clients.

The issuer of this announcement warrants that they are solely

responsible for the content, accuracy and originality of the information
contained therein.

Source: HAVAS via Globenewswire
HUG#1761900

http://www.havas.fr
(END) Dow Jones Newswires

February 13, 2014 11:45 ET (16:45 GMT)

CO
IN

NS

RE

bsngd : Danone SA | eucom : Havas SA
isocial : Social Media | i838 : Advertising | imed : Media/Entertainment | iadv :
Advertising/Marketing/Public Relations | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | iint : Internet/Online | imark
: Marketing | itech : Technology | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods
gsust : Sustainable Development | c151 : Earnings | c152 : Earnings Projections | c173 : Financing
Agreements | c31 : Marketing | c32 : Advertising | cbrand : Branding | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
cdataw : Data Warehousing | cknowm : Knowledge Management | neqac : Equities Asset Class News |
npress : Press Releases | c15 : Performance | c17 : Funding/Capital | gcat : Political/General News |
genv : Environmental News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gplan : Urban Planning/Development
| gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
gfr : Germany | uk : United Kingdom | amstr : Amsterdam | boston : Boston | eurz : Europe | fra : France |
helsnk : Helsinki | lisbon : Lisbon | sydney : Sydney | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | benluxz : Benelux Countries | dach : DACH Countries | eecz :
European Union Countries | fin : Finland | medz : Mediterranean | namz : North America | neth :
Netherlands | nordz : Nordic Countries | nswals : New South Wales | porl : Portugal | use : Northeast U.S.
| usma : Massachusetts | usnew : New England | weurz : Western Europe

PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020140213ea2d00381

Page13of29©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.