Rugby union clubs courted by investors

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Rugby union clubs courted by investors

John Stensholt
495 words
2 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
3
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Private investors are circling Australian rugby union franchises as interest in sports teams grows
from wealthy individuals and groups.

It is understood the owners of the Melbourne Storm NRL club have made preliminary approaches
to the Australian Rugby Union regarding buying Super Rugby club Melbourne Rebels.

The Storm and the Rebels share Melbourne's AAMI stadium. Another tenant is A-League football
club Melbourne Heart, in which the Storm owners have a 20 per cent stake. English Premier
League giant Manchester City own the remainder.

Despite denials, the discussions between the Storm owners, the Rebels and ARU took place in
recent weeks but may not lead to a deal.

The Storm are owned by a consortium led by New Zealand businessmen Bart Campbell and
Michael Watt, as well as Jayco Caravans owner and BRW Rich list member Gerry Ryan and
Beteasy owner Matthew Tripp.

The ARU's 2013 annual report, out last week, shows the Rebels cost the governing body
$5.5 million in extra funding after it took over the club from founding chairman and Rich lister
Harold Mitchell .

This year the Rebels have cut costs, although the club is still expected to lose money, putting
further pressure on the ARU's strained balance sheet.
The governing body announced a $19.5 million profit last week for the 2013 year.

However, ARU chief executive Bill Pulver said earlier this year that the organisation's revenue
would take a hit this year and 2015, when income would be cut significantly due to the World Cup
taking place in England.Suitors circle Waratahs

Fairfax Media reported last week that former Wallabies coach Bob Dwyer is leading one of two
consortiums seeking to take over Super Rugby club the NSW Waratahs.

Mr Dwyer's consortium, which includes former ARU chairman Dilip Kumar, has proposed to invest
$2 million annually for five years in the rugby union structure that sits underneath the Waratahs,
including the Sydney club competition and country leagues.

The other consortium circling the Waratahs is led by David Levy, the founder and managing
director of Waratahs sponsor Pet Resorts Australia.

Mr Levy was reported to be in a consortium with up to seven other Sydney-based businessmen
including Michael Hendler, who founded sportswear distribution company True Alliance.

Page88of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The interest in rugby union comes after two sales in the A-League this year.
Manchester City and the Storm owns bought the Melbourne Heart for an estimated $11 million to
12 million in January while Football Federation Australia sold the Western Sydney Wanderers for
about $10 million last week.

The new owners of the Wanderers are a consortium led by Rich list member Paul Lederer , who
has been a director of the club since its inception two years ago.
Mr Lederer's fellow investors are Filipino-Chinese businessman Jefferson Chang, Pirtek owner and
David Slade, a partner in the Australian branch of the UK retail chain Topshop-Topman.

CO
RE

PUB
AN

ausrul : Australian Rugby Union
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140601ea620002c

Page89of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.