Formula for success

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Formula for success

By SIMONE SMITH
423 words
17 September 2014
Weekly Times
HERWEK
WeeklyTimes
90
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

INVESTORS are interested in building infant formula plants in NSW for export markets.
Dairy Connect chief executive Mike Logan said investors did not necessarily want “big plants” but
were focused on plants that could produce 3.5-5 tonnes of product an hour.

A NSW Government report released last week suggested the best prospects for significant growth in
the medium term would come from large-scale production centres in more “competitive regions” and
could be developed to fill the fresh milk supply gap, or as an integrated supply chain model.
The latter model would be capable of providing firm commitments on prices and volume offtake over
five years.
The report, by industry consultant Fresh Agenda, said the outlook for whole milk powder and UHT
was unlikely to foster growth from current farms.

Mr Logan said the state had the potential to “be like Victoria” and access domestic and export markets,
but investors were aware that milk would have to be bought at the current NSW farmgate price — a
premium to most Victorian farmgate prices.
“Most (interest) is from retailers and people in the retail and consumer market in Asia and China, not
really dairy processors in the traditional sense,” he said.
Dairy Connect, which said it represents about 50 per cent of the state’s milk produced — but not 50
per cent of the farmers — said the NSW government report highlighted the need to establish market
links with the right partners to develop the necessary infrastructure.
It is hoping to develop a “transparent” co-equity investment strategy where the NSW industry would
partner with “offtake” investors to increase the state’s manufacturing and farm capacity.

“Our innovative strategy will ensure our customers receive an accountable and traceable product and
the businesses along the entire dairy chain — the farmers, processors and vendors — will receive
higher return for surplus milk and an opportunity to grow — it’s a win-win,” Mr Logan said.
“The proposal to develop three state of the art milk powder and canning facilities across the state will
propel us beyond mere ingredients and let us become a small but strategic global supplier of whole
products for the savvy infant nutritional market.” Last week the NSW government provided $1 million
to invest in growth. The report was welcomed by NSW Farmers.
But dairy chair Rob McIntosh said production could not be increased without higher returns to
farmers.The $1 a litre for house-brand milk was an “artificial price floor in the domestic milk market”.

Page169of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

RE
PUB
AN

i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 :
Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy Products | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
News Ltd.
Document HERWEK0020140916ea9h0004g

Page170of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.