Sage conduct puts his house in order

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

MarketWatch
Sage conduct puts his house in order

CRITERION WITH TIM BOREHAM
811 words
5 August 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
25
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Cape Lambert Resources (CFE) 14.5c IN two crowded weeks, Tony Sage’s mining investment house
has banished two long-running negatives hanging over the stock, which now looks valued at much less
than the sum of the parts.
Last month Cape Lambert said it would receive $51.6 million from China’s MCC, as settlement of a
dispute over the sale of Cape Lambert’s eponymous iron ore project to the Chinese.

On July 14, the company settled a $96m dispute with the taxman for $2.4m, over and above $33m
already paid.

The fortuitous pair of events leaves Cape Lambert with $65m of cash, no debt and stakes in seven
listed resources juniors and receivables worth $29m.

Cape Lambert also has $62m of tax losses and stakes in seven African exploration and development
projects, the most advanced of which is the 680 million-tonne Marampa venture in Sierra Leone.
The company plans to sell Marampa, valued by broker Cannacord Genuity at $168m. Cape Lambert
also owns a royalty from future production at the stalled Mayoko iron ore project in The Congo, which
the broker values at a further $33m-$77m.

Management has promised to reward shareholders, probably with a special franked dividend.
Given Cape Lambert’s $90m market cap only values the cash and the listed stuff, the stock is a buy.

To complete the trifecta of joy, all Sage’s beloved Perth Glory needs to do is to escape the lower rungs
of the A-League ladder.
Treasury Wine Estates (TWE) $5.15 WITH US raider Kohlberg Kravis Roberts upping its conditional
proposal for the winemaker to $5.20 a share, it’s almost time for Michael Clarke and his team to
declare.
The Treasuryboard hasn’t conceded but this time around it’s letting the raiders in for due diligence and
some more argy bargy to win its blessing.

Since Clarke’s appointment as CEO on March 31 he has embarked on a raft of restructuring, including
isolating management of the Penfolds lines from the “mass prestige” plonk.

Perhaps a more solid innings is in train, but investors have endured more than a decade of batting
collapses.

Hold.
Argo Investments (ARG) $7.73 THE second-biggest listed investment company believes valuations
look stretched if corporate earnings do not flow through as expected. Argo chief Jason Beddow
reckons after gaining 40 per cent over two years, the market could do with a rest. “But I’m not saying

Page207of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.it’s about to collapse.’’ With a $5 billion portfolio Argo is heavy on the usual blue chips. On the
sidelines, though, it’s dabbled in IPOs, acquiring stakes in Affinity Education, Ascaleo Care, Monash
IVF, Pact Group, Steadfast Group and the ambitiously priced 3P Learning.

Argo reported a 12 per cent net earning surge to $196m for the year to June 30, with its portfolio
matching the market with a 17 per cent return (post fees).

Argos’ shares have surged over 22 per cent over this period and are trading at a 5 per cent premium to
net tangible assets of $7.35 a share.

Hold.

Countplus (CUP) 14.5c Class Super (not yet listed) LIKE Penfolds’ better vintages, this one promises
to reward patient types. The founder of Count Group and the listed accounting firm agglomerator
Countplus, Barry Lambert plans to list self-managed super funds administrator Class Super. The rub is,
this won’t be until at least late next year.

Super administration is about as sexy as an exotic disease, but DIY super is growing as fast as DIY
pergolas and Class Super now claims a 10 per cent market share.

The Lambert-chaired Class yesterday reported “billable funds” of 54,280 for the year to June 2014, a
74 per cent increase on a year earlier. In the month of July, the total grew by a further 3395.

Lambert says it took four years to accrue 25,000 funds and only a year to sign on the next 25,000.

He estimates the total SMSF market at 528,000 funds. The biggest player is the private BGL and
competition has become fevered as the providers seek to convert clients to their cloud-based wares.

In a recent prezzo to Class holders — mainly accountants, advisers and SMSF administrators — the
board reported a 286 per cent surge in underlying earnings to $2.35m. Lambert says a lot can change
in the next 18 months but it’s expected the current holders will sell 20 per cent of their stake into the
IPO.
In the meantime, stick with the solid CountPlus, which owns 4 per cent of Class and may acquire
more. Long-term buy.The Australian accepts no responsibility for stock recommendations. Readers
should contact a licensed financial adviser. The author holds Treasury shares.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

hamill : Cape Lambert Resources Limited
imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i22 : Primary Metals | i224 :
Non-ferrous Metals | i22472 : Precious Metals
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140804ea850002l

Page208of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.