Poseidon to supply Leinster plant

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

WestReg
Poseidon to supply Leinster plant

Jarrod Lucas
554 words
3 October 2014
Kalgoorlie Miner
KALGOO
First
5
English
(c) 2014 West Australian Newspapers Limited

BHP Billiton yesterday turned to the historic Mt Windarra mine to feed its hungry Leinster
concentrator after the mining giant’s unloved Nickel West division signed an offtake agreement with
Poseidon Nickel.
As Swiss giant Glencore and China’s Jinchuan firm as the frontrunners in the long-awaited Nickel
West sale, BHP locked in a contract until February 2017 to process Mt Windarra ore.

The offtake deal, flagged by the Kalgoorlie Miner in February and hailed as “revolutionary” by
Poseidon boss David Singleton, is for a minimum 350,000 tonnes of ore a year but can be extended
to 700,000 tonnes by mutual agreement.
Nickel West will purchase all the concentrate produced at Leinster, in a similar arrangement to the
status quo BHP maintains at Kambalda with nickel miners Mincor Resources, Independence Group
and Panoramic Resources.

Mr Singleton said the Leinster concentrator is running about 10 per cent of its near 3Mtpa capacity
since the closure of the earthquake-hit Perseverance mine last December.

“The fact BHP have been able to sign this contract suggests there is a lot of confidence in the Nickel
West business going forward in the future,” he said.
Mr Singleton said the BHP deal cuts $240 million off the start-up costs for Mt Windarra, which
sparked the 1960s nickel boom and has been closed since 1990.
He said financing discussions were “well advanced” but mining magnate Andrew Forrest, who
controls 25 per cent of Poseidon shares, had already “done the hard yards” and is unlikely to
bankroll the mine. Costs are expected to be less than $20 million.
The first ore deliveries from Mt Windarra are due no later than February.

Poseidon shares were up 1.08 per cent yesterday at 18.7 cents after touching 23.5 cents
mid-session.

The BHP tie-up comes as Sirius Resources moves to secure a maiden offtake agreement, expected
in December, for its $473 million Nova nickel-copper mine in the Fraser Range.

Western Areas, which supplies BHP and Jinchuan with high-grade concentrate, is also navigating
muddy waters as it looks to leverage off an incoming Nickel West owner. The deal with Jinchuan,
comprising 13,000 tonnes per annum shipped out of Esperance Port, expires in December.

Western Areas began a new tender process in August and will talk with short-listed parties this
month.

Page261of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Western Areas boss Dan Lougher said it was no secret Glencore was gung-ho in its pursuit of
Nickel West. But Western Areas could benefit if Jinchuan was successful.

“We don’t take sides. My job is to make sure we are across who is talking to BHP,” he said.
There is still no indication of when a Nickel West sale will be announced.

“We are getting to the point where they need to make a decision,” Mr Lougher said.

It comes amid an upbeat nickel market with a forecast supply squeeze on the London Metals
Exchange and in Chinese stockpiles as a result of this year’s Indonesian export ban.
Alto Capital’s senior analyst Carey Smith yesterday pointed to Chinese nickel consumption which
has grown 5.6 per cent since 2010.

He forecast an average nickel price of $US20,000 per tonne in 2015, up from $US17,250/t so far
this year.

salmal : Panoramic Resources Ltd | wfgaus : Poseidon Nickel Limited | bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd |
bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2114 : Copper Ore/Nickel Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
mnonfr : Non-ferrous Metals | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mcat :
Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E
Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document KALGOO0020141002eaa30000p

CO

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page262of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.