Ski resorts may face a snowless future

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Escape
Ski resorts may face a snowless future

JULIAN SWALLOW
1,235 words
16 February 2014
The Courier-Mail
COUMAI
EscapeVIC
34
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

NEWS AUSTRALIA’s ski resorts will not be viable beyond mid-century because of the effects of global
warming, tourism experts have warned.

As the Winter Olympics enters its second week in unseasonably warm temperatures that have snow
machines working overtime to ensure a reliable supply of white powder, tourism experts say our own ski
resorts are exhibiting such steep declines in snowfall their future is bleak.

“They will not be viable if this trend continues, as we expect it to,” Professor Susanne Becken from
Griffith University’s Griffith Institute for Tourism said.

Becken’s comments are part of a broader call to tourism operators and authorities to consider how to
deal with climate change. The Griffith University academic was part of an international research team
that assessed the potential impact of climate change on the ski industry in New Zealand and Australia in
2012.

After conducting research at two Snowy Mountains ski sites, it was estimated snow depth at Australian
resorts would be between 57 per cent and 78 per cent of 2012 levels by the 2040s, and between 21 per
cent and 29 per cent of current depths by the 2090s.

“When we considered the number of days with snow depth at each of the sites in the current climate, the
lowest sites were only just achieving the generally accepted 100-day threshold for a viable industry,” she
said. “Our research forecasts Australian snow days will fall to between 81 and 114 per annum by the
2040s, and down to between zero and 75 days by the 2090s.” At the Australian sites, the number of
snow days – days when snow depths are at or greater than the industry’s 30cm standard – are now
between 94 and 155.

“These changes will have an impact on future potential Australia-New Zealand tourism flows,” Becken
said.

However, Becken said it was not just the country’s ski fields where the impact of a changing climate
posed questions for tourism operators.

She said Queensland’s World Heritage-listed Great Barrier Reef – one of the country’s most popular
tourist attractions – was also at risk from coral bleaching and the impact of rising sea levels.

Globally, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) lists 44 World
Heritage sites as in danger, many because of the effects of environmental degradation or climate
change.
These include attractions such as Florida’s Everglades National Park. “Because tourism is so important
to this country, Australia needs to be at the forefront of dealing with changes in climate,” she said.

Page157of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.While short-term measures, such as the use of snow machines on ski slopes, could delay the impact of
climate change on tourism, Becken said operators needed to begin planning for the future, with
diversification likely to be a key adaptation measure.

In areas such as the Snowy Mountains, she said tourism authorities were already making the most of
summertime activities such as mountain biking and hiking to balance inconsistent snowfall.

“It is very important that the tourist industry understands how vulnerable destinations are to changes that
mean destinations are no longer attractive in the way they were previously,” she said. “This is crucial not
only for the international tourist business involved but also for national economies with development
goals that often depend on a healthy and growing tourism industry.”

2 VOLUNTEER IN AFRICA AFRICAN safari specialists Bench International have launched a range of
new volunteer projects as part of the Sydney-based company’s 45th birthday celebrations.
The company said the programs will be available from late this year and will be run in conjunction with
volunteer tourism operator Camps International.

Bench general manager Martin Edwards said the programs in Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda will offer
customers the opportunity to be involved in wildlife research and support programs, as well as assist
with community development projects.

The programs will be aimed at school expeditions, gap year participants, older singles and family
groups, and participants will be able to undertake trips ranging in length from two weeks to three months.

Visit benchinternational.com.au or phone 1300 AFRICA for more information.

3 EUROPEAN SPECIALS LUXURY tours operator Scenic Tours has marked the release of its 2015
European River Cruising program with a string of earlybird specials.

The luxury tours operator, which specialises in European river cruising, has unveiled a range of new
experiences and destinations for next year, including a route through France that takes in the
18th-century architecture, gardens and vineyards of Bordeaux.

Guests who book now will be able to secure the new itineraries at 2014 prices. The new trips have been
created as all-inclusive European experiences, including sightseeing activities, entertainment,
accommodation, airport transfers, meals and tips included.

“We are thrilled to start this year off with a sneak peek of what will feature in the 2015 program for
European River Cruising,” general manager of product Aleisha Fittler said. “We have included a variety
of new experiences and destinations for next year, which are on sale now at a special pre-release rate.”
Contact your travel agent or Scenic Tours on 1300 SCENIC for more information.
4 HONG KONG STOPOVER BRITISH Airways has added Hong Kong to its growing list of stopover
destinations in Asia, allowing Australians to take a break on the way to or from the airline’s London
home. Travellers flying with the British carrier or one of its codeshare partners are now eligible to stop
over in the Chinese territory for a holiday or business. It adds to existing British Airways stopover
destinations such as Tokyo, Singapore, Shanghai, Chengdu and Bangkok and follows the
announcement the airline will become the sole European carrier to fly to Australia, following Virgin
Atlantic’s decision to cancel its Sydney service. British Airways South West Pacific regional commercial
manager Nicole Backo said the airline’s stopover destinations provide more flexibility for travellers to
explore or do business without the hassle of having to find connecting flights at additional cost.
Australians travelling on British Airways services from Hong Kong will also be able to travel on the
airline’s new A380 aircraft, which operate on selected flights to London.

Visit britishairways.com for more information.

5 SADDLE UP FOR FUN PUMP up the tyres, put on the Lycra and get ready for Victoria’s oldest
recreational bike ride, which hits the road in April.

Organised by the Melbourne Bicycle Touring Club, the Melbourne Autumn Daytour (MAD) offers a
choice of four rides in and around Woodend and the Macedon Ranges.

Held on April 6, the four routes include a family-friendly 26km loop, a more strenuous 65km ride for
those ready to step up to the next level, a 60km mountain bike route through the Wombat State Forest
and a challenging 106km loop which traverses Mt Macedon.

Page158of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“The MAD Ride is all about people of all ages and riding abilities getting active and enjoying some of the
best cycling Victoria has to offer,” club spokesman Graham Hunter said. “There’s plenty for everyone
and no excuse for staying at home.” Tickets cost from $45, with family tickets from $100.

Participants who register by March 14 have the chance to win a Vivente World Randonneur valued at
more than $1800, while Grasshopper Adventures will be raffling a bike-riding holiday in Asia.Visit
madride.org.au for more details.

NS

RE
PUB
AN

gtour : Travel | gclimt : Climate Change | gcat : Political/General News | genv : Environmental News |
gglobe : Global/World Issues | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gwea : Weather
austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document COUMAI0020140216ea2g00007

Page159of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.