World Casino punt pays off Casino operator Crown Resorts has fortified its...

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

World Casino punt pays off Casino operator Crown Resorts has fortified its...

511 words
25 August 2014
The New Zealand Herald
NZHLD
B015
English
(c) 2014 The New Zealand Herald

World Casino punt pays off Casino operator Crown Resorts has fortified its position in Australia by
winning a sweetened deal for its Melbourne casino from the Victorian state government. Crown won an
extension of its Melbourne casino licence, an increase to the number of table games and poker
machines, and will pay less tax on VIP gaming. In return Crown will make extra payments to the state
government of up to A$910 million ($1008 million). Chairman James Packer said Crown would have
invested A$1.7 billion in the decade to 2016 on upgrades of its Melbourne resort.

Asia eats up Bega’s dairy Asia’s appetite for Australian dairy is showing no signs of being satisfied as
Bega Cheese outlines plans to up its exports to the region. Bega said it would spend A$25 million to
increase its milk supply by 25 per cent in the next three years to contend with the forecast growth.
Asian demand for Bega’s dairy products already accounts for 28 per cent of sales, which the
company says will be a platform for future expansion.
Jetstar HK cuts its fleet New budget airline Jetstar Hong Kong says it has sold six of its aircraft
because it is taking longer than expected to get a licence to operate. The airline, which is a joint
venture between Australia’s Qantas, China Eastern Airlines and Hong Kong-based Shun Tak
Holdings, applied for regulatory approval in 2012 in the southern Chinese city. An airline will be given
a operating licence only if its principal place of business and centre of its decision-making is in Hong
Kong, according to local laws.
Goldman Sachs settles Goldman Sachs has agreed to pay US$3.15 billion ($3.75 billion) to resolve
claims that it misled US mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac about risky mortgage securities
it sold them before the housing market collapsed in 2007. The Federal Housing Finance Agency,
which oversees Fannie and Freddie, announced the settlement on Friday. New York-based Goldman
Sachssold the securities to the companies between 2005 and 2007.

HSBC warning for Scots The chairman of banking giant HSBC has warned that uncertainty over the
economic future of Scotland could lead to “capital flight” if it votes to leave the United Kingdom next
month. Writing in the Daily Telegraph, HSBC head Douglas Flint said the currency union with England
was an “anchor” for Scotland’s stability and leaving it “would be complex and fraught with danger”.

Quick shift at fast-food helm McDonald’s has named a new president for its flagship US division,
marking the second change in the high-profile spot in less than two years. The world’s biggest
franchised fast-food hamburger restaurant chain says former McDonald’s executive Mike Andres will
replace Jeff Stratton, who is retiring in October. That shake-up at the Golden Arches was made after
McDonald’s reported its first monthly sales drop in nearly a decade.

RF
CO
IN

RE

bizbriefs25
becoop : Bega Cheese Ltd | crncas : Crown Resorts Limited
i97912 : Gambling Industries | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 :
Dairy Products | i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
austr : Australia | hkong : Hong Kong | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia
Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | china : China | chinaz :

Page157of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz :
Eastern Asia
W & H Newspapers Limited
Document NZHLD00020140824ea8p0002r

PUB
AN

Page158of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.