India's Adani faces obstacles in securing funding for Queensland coal port expansion

Drilling Down Under; Blog
India's Adani faces obstacles in securing funding for Queensland coal port expansion

SE
HD
BY
Angela Kean
WC 1,269 words
PD
SN
SC
VOL Issue: 82792
LA
CY
LP

30 October 2014
SNL Daily Coal Report
DCOAL

English
Copyright 2014. SNL Financial LC

TD

The current state of the coal sector has some expressing concern over whether or not Adani Group's
planned Abbot Point coal port expansion in Queensland, Australia, will gain the financial backing it needs
to go ahead, particularly on the back of rumors that four banks have distanced themselves from any
possible financing deal.

Patersons Securities analyst Matthew Trivett said the economics of the project may be an obstacle to its
development. "Economically I'm not sure if the project stacks up and I think that's much more of a concern
in terms of financing and the potential to develop the project in the future," he told SNL Metals & Mining.

Tactics by environmental groups to delay the project and drive up costs also will not be helping Adani's
attempts to secure finance for the port expansion.

Indexys director Andrew Harrington told SNL that the goal of environmental activists is to make the project
much more expensive than it otherwise would have been.

"It's a lawful development, which has all of its approvals and has jumped through all the hoops, but
regardless of all of that, environmental groups will throw up a constant stream of roadblocks in order to
extend the time and expand the cost of the development, and the Great Barrier Reef is a very powerful
banner to rally around for environmentalists," he said.

Environmental group Rainforest Action Network is now calling on Bank of America not to bankroll the
Abbot Point coal port expansion, amid claims that Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs had
all assured the group that they would not finance the project.

The Rainforest Action Network said in an Oct. 28 statement that Bank of America has so far refused to
take a position.

However, Adani disputed the claims, saying that it had not sought funding for the project from Citibank,
Goldman Sachs or JPMorgan Chase.

"The premise that institutions who have not been asked to provide funding, have no insight into our
projects, and have not studied the details, have declined to or distanced themselves from involvement is
rejected," the company said in a statement.

Harrington told SNL that these banks are not particularly well-known for infrastructure investment in
Australia and that the Abbot Coal port expansion would most likely be majority funded by a cashed-up
investor along with some debt.

"I assume the Adani structure would be more of the traditional sort," he said. "There is the obligation to be
a multi-user port … but essentially they are going to build it and they are going to use it and if there is any
spare capacity then that becomes available for third parties, but essentially it's their port for their use. So it
might be more of a traditional financing."
Adani is also considering a partial sale of the port to fund the expansion. The company said Morgan
Stanley Australia had been engaged to advise Adani on the potential partial sale of the existing T1
terminal at Abbot Point.

Page320of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."Any partial sale of Adani's current holdings at the port would — far from a withdrawal from the port — in
fact be used to deliver the port's expansion," Adani noted.
The company's plan is to bring its Carmichael thermal coal mine in the Galilee Basin into production at a
rate of up to 60 million tonnes per annum, which will be railed to the Abbot Point port for export.

Adani has already been granted approval to go ahead with the mine and rail components of the A$16.5
billion project.
The company has also now appointed U.S. firmParsons Brinckerhoff as project management contractor
for the Carmichael mine, rail and port project.
Coal is currently supplied to Abbot Point's T1 terminal by rail from the Newlands, Collinsville and Sonoma
mines in the region. The terminal's current export capacity is 50 million tonnes per annum.

Three major terminal expansions, which are currently in the pre-feasibility and feasibility stages, are
proposed.

No threat to iconic Australian reef

The Rainforest Action Network believes the expansion of the Abbot Point port will significantly harm the
Great Barrier Reef due to the dredging required.

However, Indexys' Harrington said the amount of material that would need to be dredged for the port
expansion is "miniscule" and the impact on the reef would be minimal compared to the high level of waste
generated from farming in the state.
"The millions and millions and millions of tonnes of soil, fertilizer, dirt, sand and building material, all the
waste along the Queensland coast, is enormous compared to the amount of material that will be dredged
for one port," he said.

In early September, project proponents North Queensland Bulk Ports Corp. Ltd., GVK Group and Adani
revealed that they would put forward a number of alternative sites on land for the dumping of the 3 million
cubic meters of material that will be dredged from the area to expand the port.

The original proposal had already been approved and received the backing of liberal politicians, but the
proposed dumping of the material in the Great Barrier Reef area raised concerns with environmentalists
and the tourism industry.

Adani said its expansion plans at the port of Abbot Point, which involves the construction of a new
terminal, T0, are the subject of existing environmental approvals from the Australian government and that
the terminal is not in a world heritage area.
Supply disruption a must for coal price uptick
It is likely to be some time before the coal price picks up, particularly as the industry continues to pump
tonnes into the market.

Patersons' Trivett said the situation has not been helped by record exports out of Australia, and although
Indonesia has reduced its growth in exports it is not going backward.

"It's a little bit difficult to see an uptick anytime soon," he told SNL. "There hasn't been a supply response
that warrants a significant increase, or any increase, in the coal price at the moment. Until there is that
supply disruption, we could be waiting some time before we see a reversal in the trend of coal prices."
However, coal is set to remain an integral part of power generation globally well into the future.
"Coal is going to be a vital energy source throughout the globe both in developing and developed
countries going forward, not only to the likes of China and India but also to Australia, Europe and the
U.S.," Trivett said.
"We can't take our coal-fired power generators offline or we'll be paying significantly more for our power
requirements than we already do."
India is the second-largest importer of thermal coal, behind China but ahead of South Korea, according to
Australia's Bureau of Resources and Energy Economics.

The country's electricity demand is expected to rise substantially through to 2019 as household income
increases, the middle class expands and the government improves electrification.

Page321of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In mid-August, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced plans to ensure that all Indian villages
have 24-hour access to electricity by 2022. Coal-fired power is a major component of India's existing
electricity generation capacity and this is expected to grow with more than 100 GW of new coal-fired
capacity under construction.

The expansion of the Abbot Point port is geared at opening up Australia's Galilee Basin, which is the next
major basin for export coal behind the Bowen and Surat basins.

CO adexns : Adani Enterprises Ltd
IN

i5020017 : Harbor Construction | i111 : Coal Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i1 : Energy | i502 : Heavy
Construction | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction
| i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | reqrmm : Suggested Reading Metals/Mining | redit : Selection of Top
Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | india : India | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | indsubz : Indian Subcontinent | sasiaz : Southern Asia

NS

RE

IPD Project Update
PUB SNL Financial LC
AN

Document DCOAL00020141104eaau00009

Page322of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.