High expectations for Alibaba US IPO

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News - International News
High expectations for Alibaba US IPO

Lisa Murray AFR correspondent
783 words
3 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
13
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Shanghai Alicia Ma started selling Vegemite on Taobao – China's biggest online marketplace – a year
ago.

The 34-year-old Sydneysider, who is a stay-at-home mum, thought she might be able to earn some
pocket money selling Australian products into China, but the business venture has been tougher than
she thought. So far, she has only managed to sell 100 jars of the savoury spread.

"Chinese people don't really like it," she said matter-of-factly.

Other products such as infant formula are easier to sell, but the bigger problem is competition. Ms Ma,
who was born in Beijing and moved to Sydney nine years ago, says there are too many Chinese
Australians opening stores on Taobao, which is run by the soon-to-be listed e-commerce
giant Alibaba. "Students and stay-at-home mums, they are all doing it," she said.

Indeed, Ms Ma is one of an estimated 7 million sellers on the website, which was created by Jack Ma
(no relation to Alicia), a decade ago and has come to dominate online shopping in China, with around
800 million product listings.
Mr Ma set up Alibaba in his Hangzhou apartment, an hour's train trip from Shanghai, in 1999. At the
time, it was an online listings service, connecting Chinese manufacturers to potential customers. But
four years later, he launched Taobao, revolutionising China's online retail market. He followed Taobao
with Tmall, which allows global brands such as Nike and Gap to sell direct to consumers, and in 2012,
total sales on the two retail sites were 1.1 trillion yuan ($189 billion), more than Amazon and eBay
combined.

Now Alibaba is preparing for an initial public offering in the United States, with a filing expected any
day. Analysts estimate the IPO will value the group at between $US136 billion ($147 billion) and
$US245 billion, according to Bloomberg. At the top of that range it would be bigger than Amazon and
Facebook and behind only Google in the rankings of the most valuable internet companies in the
world.Record growth
The group has momentum. According to quarterly results announced last month by Yahoo, which
owns a 24 per cent stake in the company, Alibaba's revenue growth and profit margin are at record
levels. Sales grew by 66 per cent in the fourth quarter from a year ago to more than $US3 billion, and
operating income more than doubled to $US1.64 billion, which Macquarie analyst Ben Schachter said
was "materially better than our expectations".
Alibaba also created the world's biggest online payments system, Alipay, which it controversially sold
to a vehicle controlled by Mr Ma in 2010. The sale of the fast-growing business angered Yahoo, which
at the time was sitting on a 40 per cent stake in Alibaba and believed it had lost control of one of its
most valuable businesses.

Page113of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.There was speculation this week, perhaps in a bid to boost the allure of the imminent float, that Alibaba
was in talks to regain a stake in Alipay.

Mr Ma, who is now among the top 200 richest people in the world, made some key decisions when he
set up Taobao, which underpinned its rapid growth. All basic services on the site are free, as the
company makes its money from charging sellers for advertising and special services such as web
design.
The site has an independent verification service to boost confidence and Alipay takes payments
upfront, putting the money into an escrow account, which means sellers know they will be paid. The
result is Alibaba now dominates online shopping in China, with a share estimated at around 80 per
cent.Challenges remain

However, Alibaba is facing strong competition. Its biggest rival is Tencent Holdings, creator of the
popular messaging application WeChat, which recently bought into JD.com, China's second biggest
e-commerce company.
Alibaba, too, has been on a buying spree, picking up a 16.5 per cent stake in China's version of
YouTube, Youku Tudou, this week.
Another challenge is controlling the number of counterfeit goods sold on its websites. Alibaba says it
has removed more than 100 million listings and helped with legal cases against fake goods suppliers.
But it is an ongoing battle.
According to Australian company Jabiru Aircraft, there may also have been fake transactions on the
site. In September last year, Taobao received lots of publicity for its first online aircraft auction.
It was reported one of Jabiru's planes was sold, but the Bundaberg-based company and its Chinese
distributor insist no deal was ever done via the site.

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

alibab : Alibaba.com Corporation
iinv : Investing/Securities | ifinal : Financial Services | iebus : E-business (B2B) | iecom : E-commerce |
iint : Internet/Online | itech : Technology
c1711 : Initial Public Offerings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | reqris : Suggested Reading
Investing/Securities | c02 : Corporate Changes | c14 : Stock Listings | c17 : Funding/Capital | c171 :
Share Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E
Industry News Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading
Industry News
china : China | austr : Australia | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140502ea5300014

Page114of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.