Ex-treasurer working for Chinese company that was major donor

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Ex-treasurer working for Chinese company that was major donor

Sean Nicholls, Kate McClymont
518 words
4 February 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
7
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Overseas player Liberal and Labor parties benefited - ELECTORAL FUNDING
A Chinese-based property company that hired former NSW treasurer Eric Roozendaal as its
vice-chairman after he quit politics was among the largest donors to the NSW Labor and Liberal
parties last financial year.

According to election funding returns published by the Australian Electoral Commission on Monday,
YuHu Group (Australia) donated $200,000 to the NSW branch of the ALP during during 2012-13,
including $100,000 in June last year. It also donated $100,000 to the NSW Liberals during the
period.

YuHu chairman Huang Changren donated a further $150,000 to the NSW ALP in November 2012
and $40,000 to the NSW branch of the Liberal party during the financial year, the records show.
Last October a YuHu Group subsidiary, YuHu Property, purchased the Eastwood Shopping
Centre complex and has development approval for a $200 million redevelopment, according to its
website.
"The company will invest an estimated $200 million to redevelop Eastwood Shopping Centre and
adjoining properties into a mixed-use site in the future," it says.

"The redevelopment of Eastwood Town Centre will be a major development project determined by
the local council of the city of Ryde and supported by the NSW state government."
However, the general manager of YuHu Group (Australia), Holly Huang, said the donations were
unrelated to the planned development as approval had been given prior to the company's
purchase of the shopping centre.
Ms Huang said after the company entered Australia in May 2013 "a lot of people approached us".
"A lot of Chinese community friends introduced us to the parties to understand how the system runs
in Australia," she said.

Ms Huang said she could not comment on Mr Huang's personal donations as she only spoke for the
company.

YuHu's website features pictures of Mr Huang and politicians including former prime ministers Kevin
Rudd and Julia Gillard and former treasurer Chris Bowen.

Mr Roozendaal, a former NSW treasurer who earned a reputation as a prodigious fundraiser while
general secretary of the NSW ALP, quit the NSW Parliament in May last year. Two months earlier,
in March, he had travelled to China at the invitation of Mr Huang to tour some of YuHu's projects.

Page240of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."After the inspection, Eric expressed that he would promote international communication and
cooperation between YuHu Group and Australia government," the company's website states.
Ms Huang said "a lot" of Australian politicians visited China during the period to meet Chinese
investors and the company first encountered Mr Roozendaal at a promotional event in Australia.

She confirmed Mr Roozendaal was working as YuHu's vice-chairman offering advice on "strategic
planning". "He works in the office managing the staff," she said. "It's a very early stages for the
company. He's quite skilled on HR systems and staff training.
"In strategic planning he can provide a lot of useful information to the company. That's his value."

Mr Roozendaal declined to comment.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

greg : Regional Politics | gpol : Domestic Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir :
Politics/International Relations
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140203ea240000j

Page241of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.