Beijing Capital to buy New Zealand waste management firm for $798 mn

HD
CR
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

CO
IN

NS
RE

IPD
PUB

Beijing Capital to buy New Zealand waste management firm for $798 mn

Distributed by Contify.com
293 words
4 March 2014
Domain-B
ATDOMB
English
Copyright © 2014. The Information Company Pvt. Ltd.

Beijing Capital Group, owned by Beijing Municipal Government, yesterday agreed to buy New
Zealand waste management business from Australia's Transpacific Industries Group for NZ$950
million ($798 million).

The deal would give Beijing Capital landfill sites, recycling depots and hazardous-waste treatment
facilities across New Zealand.

Transpacific said proceeds from the sale will be used to redeem preference securities, refinance debt
and fund future investments.

The deal is expected to close by the end of June 2014 subject to approvals from the New Zealand
Overseas Investment Office and Chinese regulators.
Robert Boucher, CEO of Transpacific said, ''The sale of our New Zealand business gives
Transpacific increased financial flexibility. We will look to enhance our Australian waste management
businesses, capture long term growth opportunities and generate improved shareholder value.''
''The investment carries significant and mutual technical and commercial benefits for both
companies and will open further strong commercial links between the New Zealand and Chinese
markets,'' said Beijing's Capital's general manager, Wang Hao.
Beijing Capital, one of China's Top 500 Enterprises, is an infrastructure company specialising in
water treatment, waste management, mass transit railway and toll roads. It is also one of China's
leading real estate developers.

Beijing Capital had assets and revenues over $21 billion and $3.7 billion respectively as at December
2013.
Brisbane-based Transpacific is a recycling, waste management and industrial services company
operating in Australia and New Zealand. The company has one of Australia's largest fleets of
specialist waste management vehicles with more than 5,000 vehicles.
It is an ASX top 200 listed company and employs more than 6,500 people across Australia and New
Zealand.

bjcg : Beijing Capital Group | tinptl : Transpacific Industries Group Ltd
i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | i9211 : Waste Management/Recycling Services | ibcs :
Business/Consumer Services | iewm : Environment/Waste Management
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
china : China | austr : Australia | nz : New Zealand | beijin : Beijing | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia
| ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
$798 million
The Information Company Pvt. Ltd.

Page209of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document ATDOMB0020140304ea340002v

Page210of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.