Resort to go up for sale

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Resort to go up for sale

By ELLIE-MARIE WATTS
366 words
28 August 2014
Port Stephens Examiner
FPSTEP
First
1
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

Money owed to contractors

BIRUBI Beach Resort will go on the market, six months after being placed in administration.

Andrew Sallway, from Grant Thornton Australia, the Sydney-based accountant and business advisory
firm that was appointed receiver and manager of the property in February, said the Anna Bay resort
was weeks away from going "live" and ready for sale.

"Right now we are in the process of putting the resort on the market," he said.
Port Stephens Mayor Bruce MacKenzie, who previously called the dormant site a "blight on Anna
Bay and Port Stephens", said he was "delighted" the resort was finally being sold.

"I think it is great news," Cr MacKenzie said.

"The council felt it was something there to be proud of when we approved it [in 2011].

"I want to see the development council approved built there, especially now with the investment in the
[Birubi Point] surf club and the new [education and entertainment centre] Pulse going down on the
corner."
Grant Thornton Australia was appointed the receiver by the resort's financier, China Security and
Surveillance Technology through another company, Anke Smart City, in February.
The firm was quick to establish new fencing around the Gan Gan Road site and in April, Swan's
Security Alarms and Guards was re-hired to discourage further vandalism.

Continued Page 2

Money owed to contractors

From Page 1

In 2011, when the concept of the resort was presented to Port Stephens Council, it was envisaged
the eight-acre site would be home to a four-star resort with 198 strata-titled tourist apartments, tennis
courts, a function centre and a pool.

Work on making those plans a reality came to a halt in 2012 when contractors stopped work due to
money disputes.
It is believed more than $1 million is still owing to contractors, who are unlikely to receive payment
for their work.

Page10of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Fast-forward two years and the site, which has been stripped of copper, vandalised extensively and
had people squatting in buildings, will be sold. Mr Sallway remained tight-lipped on the details.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

npag : Page-One Stories | ncat : Content Types
nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FPSTEP0020140827ea8s0001e

Page11of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.