STAG Beef reheats capital quest

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

AGRIBUS
STAG Beef reheats capital quest

Joyce Moullakis and Tim Binsted
544 words
6 November 2014
Queensland Country Life
FQLCOL
18
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

QUEENSLAND businessman Keith De Lacy is seeking to revive capital raising plans for the STAG
Beef agribusiness venture this time from cornerstone investors.
Mr De Lacy, a former Queensland Treasurer, said the company and its advisers had prepared an
information memorandum and were targeting about six cornerstone investors.

The move follows an earlier protracted raising attempt and shelved listing.

However, some industry participants are sceptical about whether the Staples and Agricultural Global
Beef Investment

will be able to raise funds and execute

its strategy in a challenging market.

Global beef prices have been rising strongly, with exports of Australian beef to the US soaring due to a
shortage of US domestic beef.

The key 90CL cow beef indicator averaged $6.63 a kilogram free alongside ship in September, up
from $4.38/kg FAS in September 2013.
David Farley, a former chief executive of the Australian Agricultural Company (AACo), said looking at
the global beef commodity cycle, it might be too late for newcomers to tap into high beef prices.

"If you haven't got a position on now you've missed the cycle," he said.

"Australia will be going into a herd rebuilding process behind everyone else and I think you'll find the
red-meat cycle has exhausted itself from its high."
Mr Farley pointed to the boom and collapse in dairy prices.
Milk powder commanded more than $US5000/tonne for much of 2013 but is now fetching about
$US2600/t.

"It's interesting how quickly the world responds to get prices back in line. The best cure for high prices
is high prices," he said.

STAG was to differentiate itself from other listed cattle operations by focusing on breeding and rearing
cattle only until they were weaned, rather than preparing them for export.
The company hoped to buy four properties in the Northern Territory that were trading at depressed
prices and wanted to capitalise on surging global meat consumption.

Page127of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.However, Mr De Lacy said the company found it difficult to secure the purchase of the properties it
had earmarked before raising $70 million in capital via a float, which had been planned for the first
half of 2014.

Broking house BBY's plans for a listing were well advanced before the offering was scrapped. The
company is understood to have taken the concept to a number of investment banks. The business
now says bringing together a group of cornerstone investors is the best way forward.
"There is still plenty of opportunity there and there are high-yielding properties for sale," Mr De Lacy
added, noting that a viable portfolio would amount to $200 million, including debt.

He noted that beef prices had improved in recent months but, contrary to Mr Farley, he said they still
had "some way to go".

STAG had appointed former Deloitte partner Alain Pillay as managing director, while Geoff Wagstaff
was to manage day-to-day operations.
These latest capital-raising efforts come as Australia and China expedite negotiations around a
free-trade agreement. The hope is that a deal can be signed when Chinese President Xi Jinping visits
Australia for the G20 meeting next week.

austag : Australian Agricultural Co Ltd | sgbeef : The Staples and Agricultural Global Beef Investment
Limited
i4122 : Meat Processing | i412 : Animal Slaughtering/Processing | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco |
icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle
Farming | i010010501 : Beef Cattle Farming | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
mcattl : Beef/Dairy Cattle Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m141 : Agricultural Commodity
Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mlvstk : Livestock/Meat Markets | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FQLCOL0020141105eab60001l

CO

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page128of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.