BHP flags split to spur buyers

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
BHP flags split to spur buyers

BARRY FITZGERALD, DEMERGERS
946 words
2 April 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
19
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

BHP Billiton has introduced competitive tension into its long- planned divestment of non-core aluminium,
coal and nickel assets by flagging to possible trade and private equity buyers that it might bypass them
and bundle the assets into a $US15 billion to $US20bn ($16.2bn-$21.6bn) demerger.
The introduction of a demerger as a firm divestment option comes as private equity funds are variously
said to be holding $US15bn-$US50bn for investment in resource assets, most notably those to be
discarded by BHP and Rio Tinto under its parallel strategy of shedding non-core assets.

BHP is out to extract best value from its proposed divestments and including the demerger option is a
clear signal to cashed-up but reticent PE resources funds and trade buyers that now is the time to come
forward with proposals.
Assets that could make their way into a demerged company — or be sold off to trade buyers or PE
funds — include aluminium in Australia and Africa, nickel in Australia and Colombia, manganese in
Australia and South Africa, thermal coal in South Africa and New Mexico, and the Cannington
silver/lead/zinc mine in Queensland. While some, such as Cannington and the Cerro Matoso nickel
mine in Colombia, are strong performers and have real trade and PE fund appeal, the task of finding
buyers for the other collection of assets is more of a challenge. The demerger option at least creates a
more diversified portfolio, one where the differing price cycles of the commodities could appeal to BHP
shareholders with a holding in what would be tantamount to a “mini me’’ BHP.
The planned divestment of assets considered non-core to BHP’s four “pillars’’ of iron ore, copper,
petroleum and coking coal was first flagged by its previous chief executive, Marius Kloppers.

The simplification strategy has been adopted with gusto by new chief executive Andrew Mackenzie,
who has also confirmed continued heavy investment in Canadian potash as BHP’s potential fifth pillar.

BHP has used the demerger process in the past to get rid of unwanted assets — the long products
business of OneSteel in 2000, which was followed by the demerger of the flat steel business into
BlueScope.

Speculation that the demerger of assets that fall outside its current four pillars was now under active
consideration was not dismissed by BHP yesterday.
Rather than waiting for a query from the ASX, the company took it upon itself to indirectly confirm the
demerger Continued on Page 20 Continued from Page 19 talk by not dismissing it out of hand. But it
made clear that a demerger was only one of the options under consideration, and that no decision on
the best way to achieve its simplification ambitions had been made.
Individual asset sales to trade buyers or emerging and well-funded private equity funds, such as the X2
Resources fund headed by former BHP finance chief and later Xstrata chief executive Mick Davis, are
considered by the market to be the likeliest outcome.

Page241of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In response to the market speculation on the demerger, BHP said that “simplification of our portfolio is a
priority and is something we have pursued for several years’’.

“In the last two years alone, the group has announced or completed divestments in Australia, the United
States, Canada, South Africa and the United Kingdom, including petroleum, copper, coal, mineral
sands, uranium and diamond assets.’’ The remaining non-core assets are yet to go down the same
path flags because they are difficult to sell. Their appeal sitting inside a demerged organisation without
the cashflow to meet long-term sustaining capital requirements is why the demerger option has not
received much of an airing until now.
“We believe that a portfolio focused on our major iron ore, copper, coal and petroleum assets would
retain the benefits of diversification, generate stronger growth in free cashflow and a superior return on
investment,” BHP said.

“By increasing our focus on these four pillars, with potash as a potential fifth, we will be able to more
quickly improve the productivity and performance of our largest businesses,’’ BHP said.

It said it would actively study the next phase of simplification, including structural options, but will pursue
only options that maximise value for BHP shareholders. “Any course of action remains subject to
detailed review and an assessment of alternatives,’’ BHP said.
The common feature of the key assets up for sale is that with the exception of manganese in Australia
and South Africa, the Cannington base and precious metals mine in Queensland, they all are struggling
because of weak prices, most notably aluminium and nickel.
The rise of aluminium smelting and nickel processing in China has changed the global industry’s cost
curve.

In essence, a demerger to shareholders — they could presumably opt out in or out — would be offering
them the worst of the BHP businesses, shored up here and there by a profitable Cannington and
manganese business, and a thermal coal business that could have better days with more cost-cutting.

The suggested $US20bn value of the demerger option was widely discounted by analysts. A research
note by Macquarie last month put a fair value on the aluminium business of $US3.67bn and $US4.6bn
for nickel.
Manganese was put at $US3.84bn and the non-core coal assets came in at $874 million. Cannington
was said to have a fair value of $1.8bn.

That comes to less than $US15bn, but BHP could enhance any demerger with some cash. But that
would fly in the face of BHP’s plan to increase returns to shareholders through sharebuybacks/dividend
increases.

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150203 : Private Equity | ialtinv : Alternative Investments |
ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
cspin : Spin-offs | cacqu : Acquisitions | reqris : Suggested Reading Investing/Securities | c18 :
Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140401ea4200071

Page242of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.