Chinese buyers pushing art of the Himalayas to summit

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Chinese buyers pushing art of the Himalayas to summit

Peter Fish
1,019 words
17 April 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
16
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Hammer Competition from Chinese collectors is underpinning the Buddhist art market.

Himalayan and Buddhist art sales marked a buoyant start to the year at Asia Week in New York last
month, and the prospects are excellent for another strong saleroom season in Australia for such
material.

Mossgreen Auctions will be among the first to test the local market, with an Asian art sale in
Melbourne on June 16 and 17 which will include a fine Tibetan bronze figure from the 15th century and
a Chinese bronze from the era of the Qianlong emperor around the 1750s. Each is estimated at
around $30,000.

Himalayan art covers the arts and crafts of Tibetans in their own land and in neighbouring India, Nepal,
Sikkim, Bhutan and Mongolia. But just as the Buddhist faith has spread from northern India and Tibet
through China to Korea and Japan, as well as through south-east Asia, the iconography of Tibetan
Buddhism has formed the basis of a wide artistic diaspora, including Chinese Buddhist sculpture.
A major factor this year will be the level of Chinese interest, as the huge upsurge in prices for imperial
bronzes in recent years is largely attributed to big spenders in China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. Many
such sculptures were made by highly skilled Tibetan and Newari (Nepalese) craftsmen for an avid
market in China: now the Chinese are keen to buy them back.
The record auction price is for a seated Buddha marked for China's Yongle dynasty, circa 1400, 54cm
high, which brought the equivalent of $34 million at Sotheby's in Hong Kong last October.

Both Sotheby's and Christie's held very successful Asia Week sales in New York earlier this year,
Sotheby's raising a total of $US56.1 million ($59.8 million) and Christie's $US72 million.

Mossgreen, which has probably offered more Himalayan and Buddhist art than any other Australian
auctioneer, holds the Australian record for Buddhist sculpture, indeed for any item of decorative art, at
$1.2 million including premium. Set in Melbourne in November 2011, this was for a 27cm high
Chinese gilt-bronze figure of Avalokiteshvara dating from around 1430. With a family provenance of
Beijing in the 1850s, it went to a Chinese buyer.'Capricious' buyers
But while Mossgreen managing director Paul Sumner said the Chinese are the biggest buyers of
Buddhist art worldwide, they are capricious, and interest is hard to predict.
"Chinese taste can be very subjective," he said.
Bidders can also be unreliable, as Mr Sumner found out after the record-breaking 2011 sale, when a
mainland Chinese dealer failed to come up with about $500,000 to settle on two bronzes and several
porcelain vases that had been knocked down to him.

Some observers say mainland buying is at least partly driven by "black money", desperation to
compete, and a fervour to profit from what are anticipated as lucrative "investments".

Page275of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mossgreen's landmark Himalayan offering is its dispersal of the estates of Raymond Mitchell and
Julian Sterling. At that sale, held in Sydney in February 2007 and largely pre-dating the wave of
Chinese buying, Tibetan and Sino-Tibetan artworks were sold at up to $800,000 each. At the time this
was so extraordinary that a German dealer is said to have rewritten his price list.

Among the top offerings was an important and extensively documented 15th-century Tibetan bronze
image of a Kagyu lama, 58cm high, that Mr Sumner feels should have been snapped up by an
Australian museum. "I was amazed our institutions didn't show interest at the time – they didn't even
view it," he said. Such lack of interest is ironic, given that at the time some of our major institutions
were making ill-advised purchases of Asian art from a New York dealer now on trial for theft.Australian
specialist dealer

Possibly Australia's only specialist dealer in Himalayan art is Marie-Francoise Fatton's Au Lion des
Neiges ("at the home of the snow leopard"), which has operated for more than 30 years. With a shop
at the Sydney Antique Centre, she also exhibits at fairs in the US and Europe, and lives part of the
year in Kathmandu.

Among her stock are expressive wood sculptures, cast bronzes, exquisitely decorated ritual drinking
vessels, manuscript covers, paintings, horse trappings and carpets.

She does not sell the bronze Buddhas and other figures that get star billing internationally, saying she
was once told by a Tibetan that handling such sacred objects meant bad luck. It is a warning that might
have helped the National Gallery of Australia, which is now being urged to return to India its $5 million
figure of a dancing Shiva.
Ms Fatton said that among the Tibetan art coming to the fore in recent years is copper repousse work
– where an image is raised from a flat surface, hammered out from behind.

Her buyers come from as far afield as Germany, Sweden, the US, Peru and of course Asia.
But she finds Chinese buying unbalanced, saying while there are knowledgeable Chinese collectors
there is also great ignorance. If the scandal over smuggled artifacts achieves one thing, she hopes, it
might encourage would-be buyers to learn more, particularly as fakes abound in this market – as they
do in all Asian art.
At Christie's in New York on March 19 prices were led by $US2.05 million paid for a monumental
Nepalese copper figure of Avalokiteshvara from the 13th or 14th century, followed by Tibetan and
Nepalese figures at more than $US500,000 apiece.
The firm noted strong buying from mainland China, Taiwan and Hong Kong.
Sotheby'ssale the same day saw a top price of $US1.03 million for a gilt-copper figure of Tara, circa
1400, with a provenance of Japanese collector Yoshitomo Tamashige.

There were stunning prices for small ceremonial bronzes known as vajras, or "thunderbolts", and kila
or phurba – tantric daggers. Richly decorated and dating from the 12th century, they fetched up to
$US87,500, 10 times the lower estimate.

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

i6540034 : Art Dealing | iahou : Auction Houses | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | iretail : Retail |
i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i654 : Specialty Stores | iscsv : Specialized Consumer Services
gart : Art | reqbcs : Suggested Reading Business/Consumer Services | reqrre : Suggested Reading
Retail | gcat : Political/General News | gent : Arts/Entertainment | redit : Selection of Top
Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
china : China | austr : Australia | tibet : Tibet | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140416ea4h0001p

Page276of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.