One plus one equals growth

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
One plus one equals growth

Michael Bleby
1,072 words
18 January 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
40
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Architecture Mid-tier practices are taking steps to escape what they see as an increasingly unviable
middle ground.

To understand what's happening in the business of Australian architecture, just follow the acronyms.

Fourteen months ago, Bruce Wolfe's Queensland firm was known as Conrad Gargett. A merger
saw it become Conrad Gargett Riddel. At the end of last year, after another deal, it expanded to
NSW and became Conrad Gargett Riddel Ancher Mortlock Woolley.

The increasingly clunky name – only partly improved by the new acronym CGR AMW – shows the
steps some mid-tier architecture practices are taking to escape what they see as an increasingly
unviable middle ground.

With a higher cost base than the small firms that dominate the highly fragmented industry, and
without the diversified geographical or disciplinary reach of larger firms, architecture's middle ground
is an increasingly uncomfortable space.
Definitions of "mid-sized" vary. In Wolfe's case the growth of his firm to 95 staff from 65 five years
ago, along with expansion beyond health, defence and  education and into commercial, small-scale
projects and deeper into heritage work, has given a level of diversity he says the firm needs to
survive.

The AMW deal also lets him expand south and have a permanent presence in Sydney.

The importance of growth has been on Mr Wolfe's mind for decades.

"In the 90s I was being told that if you're small, you're OK," he says. "If you're mega, you're OK, but
if you're Malcolm in the Middle, you were not going to find it easy to survive. We were in that middle
at that stage. We managed to get some larger projects and managed to get bigger."

It's hardly surprising that architecture is seeing consolidation.

The industry that earned an estimated $6.2 billion last year is highly fragmented. The three or four
largest providers of architectural services together make up less than 10 per cent of annual industry
revenue, according to research firm IBISWorld.

Only about 2.4 per cent of all the registered 13,506 businesses employ more than 20 people.

But if the pressures are not new, they are growing more than ever before.markets have changed
from local or national to global

"The markets for architects have changed from being local or national to global," says Patrick Ness,
an executive director of Cox Architecture, a global Australian-based firm.

Page42of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."The transitions over the past five or six years have been from competing locally against other
practices, to a second phase, to competing nationally against other national practices, to now
competing in a global environment," he says.

"The boundaries are in the process of being removed to become one market place."

Firms, especially foreign entrants, are also specialising. US-based AECOM, for example, does not
practise building design in Australia, but does provide landscape architecture, master planning and
urban design services.
Fellow US firm Gensler, which has just said it will enter the Australian market, will not initially offer
architecture services, but focus on workplace design, retail, food-and-beverage and hospitality work.

The middle ground can be a difficult place to be, but not everyone sees a "hollowing out" as
inevitable.
ClarkeHopkinsClarke is a Melbourne practice with 53 architects. The firm focuses on a range of
different services, namely urban planning and renewal, mixed use, aged care and education work.
Size affects the way people see a firm, says ClarkeHopkinsClarke managing director Robert
Goodliffe.

"There is a perception that if you're capable of doing six or seven different areas, then you're a jack
of all trades and a master of none," Goodliffe says.

"You have to make sure your knowledge in each of the areas is cutting edge."
The flip side is that a wider spread of capabilities diversifies the business and the work the firm
does in one area, such as commercial retail work, informs and strengthens the work in another,
such as education.

Students at a vocational college with high absentee rates, for example, are less likely to desert
classes or the facility if it has a feel more like the malls they prefer to hang around in, Goodliffe says.

"You've got stay as 'boutique mentality' with a capacity to service clients without the size of the
practice being a limiting factor."It is about the scale of the markets

Other firms in the middle ground feel the same pressure.

"It is about the scale of the markets you're competing in," says Alex Kibble, the managing director of
Tanner Kibble Denton Architects, a Sydney firm of 48 professionals.
"If you're really competing against big firms like Hassell and Woods Bagot, it is hard for a firm of 40
people to convince clients we're capable of doing it. If you've got a firm of 100, it's a little more
believable."

Technology is also changing the market.

Woods Bagot managing director Ross Donaldson says realignment will be driven as processes like
BIM – building information modelling – force a greater level of collaboration on firms than ever
before.
"The industry's probably getting to a turning point in terms of how we deliver projects," Hong
Kong-based Donaldson says.

"That integrated design process is driving a lot more alignment in the industry."

Three mid-tier firms have taken different paths out of that middle ground in the past 18 months.
Sydney-based PTW sold itself to Chinese firm CDDI; national practice Suters entered into an
alliance with Bangkok-based interior design firm dwp; and Rice Daubney, another Sydney practice,
was purchased by US firmHDR Architecture.

Each move gives the companies the chance to expand in new geographical markets and offer
clients a range of skills they otherwise would not have.

For those without a distinct offering, price is the only weapon.

"The ones that don't know what to do are in a feeding frenzy of low fees, which is completely
unsustainable for the profession," says Leone Lorrimer, dwp/suters Australian chief executive.

Page43of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."We just lost a project that had two (smaller) projects in it. Some companies had put in fees like
0.82 per cent, including all engineering.

"That's the total fee as a percentage of the value of work. You can't even get out of bed for that."

In such an environment, rationalisation is inevitable, she says.

IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
garchi : Architecture | gart : Art | gcat : Political/General News | gent : Arts/Entertainment
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140117ea1i0000n

Page44of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.