Last sales finalise the Hilton

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Last sales finalise the Hilton

SARAH WEBB
470 words
7 March 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
19
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

IT has taken just over two years, some serious price slashing and a lot of heartache – but the Gold
Coast Hilton has finally sold out.
The last three apartments in the two Surfers Paradise towers sold within three days for the combined
amount of $4.12 million. It’s a figure that falls far short of the original listing prices with apartments in the
complex selling for up to a 40 per cent discount the past year.

Despite that, 360 Project Marketing founding directors Peter Malady and Trent Milburn said they were
thrilled with the latest result, which they said indicated a spike in prestige activity.
All 410 residential apartments across the Orchid and Boulevard towers have now been secured for a
total of $390 million.
The final three apartment sales included a four-bedroom, four-bathroom sub-penthouse purchased for
$2.1 million on level 54 of the Orchid Tower. A three-bedroom, three-bathroom sky home also sold for
$1.4 million on level 51 in the Orchid Tower and a two-bedroom apartment in the Boulevard Tower was
snapped up for $620,000.

The remaining apartments were listed as developer clearance and were reduced up to 34 per cent from
the original asking price.
The sales were made to three separate purchasers from both Australia and China who intend to use
the apartments as a permanent home and holiday home.
“To sell three apartments in just three days to individual purchasers is a fantastic achievement in this
market – particularly when two of those apartments are high-end product,” Mr Malady said.

“I think people realised this really was the final opportunity to secure developer stock in one of the city’s
top residential/resort developments, and that’s why we have seen an incredible spike in activity
recently.
“Savvy purchasers also recognised the value on offer, with apartments discounted by up to 30 per cent
on their original price, which translated to a saving of about $2 million on premium sky homes and
sub-penthouses.

“While we are sad to reach the end of an era with such a unique and exciting development, we are
thrilled to have been part of a project which helped to put Surfers Paradise back on the map for investors
not only locally, but also interstate and internationally.” Real Estate Institute of Queensland Gold Coast
chair John Newlands said the Hilton sellout wasn’t just a great sign for the market, but also denoted a
brighter future for the prestige sector. “It’s a very positive thing,” he said.The Hilton project was launched
by the Raptis Group and taken over by financier ANZ, which appointed developer Brookfield Multiplex to
finish it. It was completed in late 2011 with two towers sharing 410 units.

Page53of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS
RE
PUB
AN

ereal : Real Estate Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020140306ea370000v

Page54of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.