COMPANY UPDATE

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
COMPANY UPDATE

RACHEL RILEY
481 words
29 October 2014
Herbert River Express
HERBRE
HerbertRiver
4
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

NQBE breaks seven-month public silence, announces AGM NORTH Queensland Bio-Energy
Corporation Limited shareholders will finally be updated on the progress of the company’s $520 million
supermill after more than seven months of public silence.
In a statement from NQBE, chairman Robert Carey said he would provide shareholders with a company
update at an Annual General Meeting at the Knightclub from 2pm on Wednesday, November 26. Mr
Carey said NQBE general manager Ken McIntosh would also provide a report on the project at the
meeting. But Mr Carey did not reveal any other details of the meeting’s agenda, including whether or not
there will be another delay in delivering the multifunctional sugar project. According to NQBE’s website,
the company will go to open tender for the construction of its $520 million sugar, ethanol and power
generation facility later this year.

CONTINUED PAGE 4 SHAREHOLDERS TO BE UPDATED FROM PAGE 1 “THE project, which is
expected to be fully operational by June 2017, will provide a major boost for the local Herbert River
District economy,” it reads.

“Sugar cane growers will benefit from increased revenue derived from the additional products produced
and with an anticipated workforce of approximately 220-250, full-time employment will be boosted.

“Recruitment of staff to operate the facility will commence in mid 2015.” At NQBE’s last meeting in
February, attended by 150 shareholders, it was revealed the long-awaited super-mill’s operational start
date had been delayed by another year for the third year in a row.
The scheduled start date for North Queensland Bio-Energy Corporation Limited’s mill was revised to
2017.
In a statement at the time, NQBE said the current lack of financial closure from equity partners was to
blame for that setback. NQBE said shareholders threw “overwhelming support” behind that
recommendation to delay the project.
Mr Carey said delays in finalising the equity partners financial commitment meant the board had “no
choice” but to shift the mill’s start date to the 2017 season.

This followed previous year-long delay announcements in 2012 and 2013 where finalising approvals were
to blame.
NQBE played host to an international delegation from China in April, who Mr Carey said had a strong
interest in the project.
The group was the second Chinese delegation to visit following Nanning Good Fortune Heavy Industries
Company Limited’s trip in October last year when a memorandum of understanding was signed.

Page90of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.North Queensland Bio-Energy Corporation Limited was formally registered with the Australian Securities
and Investments Commission in April 2004.
NQBE does not currently hold an Australian Market Licence, it is an unlisted company and its shares are
not publicly traded.There is also no market price available for NQBE’s shares. In February 2011, the
company reportedly had 102 shareholders which then jumped to 250 by February 2012.

NS

c1511 : Annual Meetings | c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia

RE
PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document HERBRE0020141029eaat0000s

Page91of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.