FTA throws spotlight on the farm

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
FTA throws spotlight on the farm

Luke Malpass
636 words
22 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
2
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Real estate China's laws on foreign investment are similar to ours, but farmland remains a notable
exception.
When radio host Alan Jones on Tuesday asked with trademark rage, "Can Tony Abbottbuy a farm in
China?" the Prime Minister fumbled before Jones provided the answer himself: "No."

Thanks to this week's free-trade agreement between China and Australia, the threshold for formal
approval when buying commercial property in Australia for Chinese investors has moved from
$54 million to $1.08 billion.
Next week a parliamentary inquiry is set to recommend changes to the residential buying rules.
Foreign investment in property is a far more sensitive issue than foreign investment itself. Many have
an opinion, but Mr Abbott's on-air pause shows a lack of understanding about how other countries set
their rules.
Roughly speaking, foreign investment in property around the world is classified as urban residential,
commercial or farmland.
In Australia the regulation is governed by the Foreign Investment Review Board (FIRB). Foreigners
cannot buy existing houses or apartments unless they hold a valid visa, such as a work or student
visa, and they have to sell up when they leave Australia. They can buy anything newly constructed.

Based on FIRB numbers,Core Logic RP Data's national research director, Tim Lawless, says that
4.6 per cent of investment is made by foreign investors, or 13 per cent by value.
But he believes the data does not capture the true levels of foreign property investment. "I don't think
the rules will be changed; I think they will be monitored differently," he said at a Core Logic lunch in
Sydney on Friday.
The sale price restriction is designed to "increase Australia's housing stock", but its effect has been
ambiguous. Farmland in Australia can basically be bought or sold without FIRB approval for sales
worth up to $248 million.

That figure rises to over $1 billion for buyers from the United States and New Zealand – and now
China.
Across the Tasman, the converse is true. Anyone can buy or invest in urban residential property in
New Zealand, regardless of nationality. There is a category of sensitive land, which applies
to farmland but does not apply to residential land. Chinese investors buying properties is a political
issue in New Zealand, with the Labour Party even introducing a policy to try and limit certain foreign
residential purchases.

Page273of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In France in 2012, there was public outrage as the Chteau de Gevrey-Chambertin, a 12th-century
heritage building with a two-hectare vineyard, was snapped up by investors from Macau. France's
foreign investment rules, now largely dictated by the European Union, mean that foreigners can buy
established houses there.

However, the French, as is their wont, increased taxes on second homes in 2012 and are considering
a further rise. Despite these open rules, property prices in France have been falling.
Britain has very few restrictions on foreign ownership of property. Both the US and Canada have no
restriction on foreign ownership of real estate, although the sale will attract transaction taxes. But in
some US states, residents' associations have the right to veto foreign buyers of property in their
estate or development.
China's rules are, perhaps surprisingly, not that dissimilar to Australia's. A foreigner wishing to buy a
house or apartment must obtain a certificate proving they have lived or studied in China for a year
and are buying the house for personal use only.
They must also guarantee it is for personal use and make the purchase using their real name. If they
want an investment property, they need to set up a foreign company to apply for an "operations
certificate".
But Alan Jones was certainly correct: foreigners cannot buy farms in China.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141121eabm0000t

Page274of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.