Good morning Armidale l Thursday, November 27, 2014 - Your local morning blog

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

news
Good morning Armidale l Thursday, November 27, 2014 - Your local morning blog

1,181 words
26 November 2014
Armidale Express
FARMID
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

9AM
Check out what's for sale around the region

Check out this beautiful apartment in The Boulevarde's St Patricks estate. Find out more here.

Have a look at this 2011 Holden Cruze CD JG here.

How does a four bedroom house in McCarthy Crescent with two bathrooms sound? Find out more
here.

Did you know

Guyra used to have an abattoir which provided 350 jobs until it closed in 1995.

The size of the aboriginal population in the New England is unknown but has been estimated to be
between 1,150 and 1,350.

On November 20, 1857 it was reported that during a thunderstorm nine chickens were killed by
lightning at Uralla. The hen, however, escaped.

8.30AM

Volcanic ash found along Eastern Australia is helping researchers from the University of New England
determine the age and duration of climate change and mass extinction during the Permian period
millions of years ago.

UNE's Professor Ian Metcalfe hopes the project will reveal more about extreme climate-change such
as glaciations and global warming.

Permian sedimentary rocks found in the Sydney, Gunnedah and the Bowen basins of eastern
Australia show there was catastrophic super-volcano activity happening 250 million years ago.

"They were so frequent Eastern Australia could have been truly be described as the volcanic hell on
Earth," Professor Metcalfe said.

Professor Ian Metcalfe has been leading an international research team and hopes it will provide vital
information on the age and duration of major climate change.

"The presence of multiple tuff layers in the Permian-early Triassic of eastern Australia allows precise
dating of these providing the age and age-duration of major climate-change."

These include glaciations, global cooling and warming, greenhouse crises and mass extinction events,
including the end-Permian mass extinction, the largest known to science.

"Wide tracts of thick volcanic ash deposits as thick as ten metres can be found across Queensland
and New South Wales. These ash deposits are products of catastrophic super-volcanoes which
produce thousands of cubic kilometres of ash."

Page179of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The results have been published in the journal Gondwana Research where Professor Metcalfe and his
team provide a vital new framework for and international calibration of Permian-Triassic rocks in
Australia that contain immense energy resources such as coal, oil and gas.

Good morning. Need a national news snapshot first thing - well, we have you covered.

" To check out the front pages of Fairfax publications for today, click here

It was all about the ARIAs last night as hip young, and not so young, things from the music industry
celebrated 2014 in Sydney. Chet Faker and Sia were the big winners. Find out who won what here.

" Helmets could soon be compulsory in Ballarat cricket in the wake of the tragic Phillip Hughes
incident.
" A $1 million zipline course is taking shape on the Illawarra escarpment as tourism behemoth Merlin
Entertainments Group takes off on a dramatic expansion of the Illawarra Fly Treetop Adventures site.

" Farrer MP Sussan Ley has responded cautiously to Albury Council's support for same-sex marriage,
saying she was waiting for legislation to come before Parliament before spelling out her views on the
issue.

" Few people know better than cricketer Rick McCosker what a weapon a new ball can be in the
hands of a genuine fast bowler. The former Test opener had his jaw broken attempting a hook shot
against England's Bob Willis in the 1977 Centenary Test. He reflects on the Phillip Hughes incident.
" Deakin University's Warrnambool campus is worth $53 million a year to the region's economy plus
another $6m to the rest of the nation, according to a commissioned economics report.

" When Debra Tropea's little boy Cruz became severely dehydrated during a traffic jam on Friday, she
never expected the kindness of even one person - let alone 30,000 of them. Read more about the
search for the kind-hearted truckie.

" Struggling graziers have been dealt another blow with the Water Reform and Other Legislation Bill
passed in Queensland Parliament.

" Qantas's new fleet of larger, faster planes will mean 10,000 more passengers can complete the trip
from Wagga to Sydney each year.

MOUNT ISA: A cattle station worker has been flown to Brisbane after she was trapped under more
than 1000 kilograms of hay bales while working on Taldora Station near Julia Creek.
LAUNCESTON: The state government has chosen a Singapore-based company as its preferred
operator for a direct international shipping link. Infrastructure Minister Rene Hidding told State
Parliament the government expected to enter into a Memorandum of Understanding with shipping
company Swire ''in the near future''.

GOULBURN: Clive Palmer has vowed his party will extend its influence beyond Canberra's Parliament
House. However, they won't be in a position to stand a single candidate at the NSW election next
March.

WAGGA WAGGA: Plastic is not always fantastic, especially when it comes to Christmas trees. This is
the message Dennis Blackett is promoting as he urges the community to embrace the festive spirit
and buy real pine trees.

VICTOR HARBOR: The Middleton businessman who slaughtered six miniature horses at Clayton Bay
in December 2013 may be out of jail in 18 months.

REDLANDS: Brisbane's G20 meeting of world leaders, designed to promote economic growth and
peace, has fuelled the Redlands koala wars.

WARRNAMBOOL: A long-time Warrnambool drug dealer who was so desperate to make money he
substituted rock salt for ice has been jailed for six months.

"BENDIGO: With the conclusion of the international exhibition The Body Beautiful in Ancient Greece
from the British Museum, staff at Bendigo Art Gallery have been busy working behind the scenes to
install works from the permanent collection.

Page180of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved." As protests spread around the United States on Wednesday night, reinforced National Guard and
police engaged in a tense stand-off in Ferguson, sparing the township much of the violence that tore
through its streets on Monday.
" Daryl Davies, a retired commercial pilot, paid the equivalent of about $500,000 in Thai baht for his
dream three-bedroom home in Chom Tawan, one of the most prestigious residential developments
on Phuket. But a Thai court has authorised an auction of the homes of Mr Davies and more than 40
other buyers to the highest bidder if millions of dollars owed to the Industrial and Commercial Bank
of China by the project developer are not repaid by a December 17 deadline.
" Hong Kong police have arrested high-profile student protest leaders Joshua Wong and Lester
Shum, as authorities moved to clear a key protest camp at the heart of a pro-democracy civil
disobedience movement that has swept the financial hub for two months

Life is looking pretty peachy for Gracetown surfer Jacob Willcox. The 18-year-old just celebrated the
end of his high school years, as well as his success in being named this year's hottest surfing talent by
Surfing Life magazine.

CO
NS

RE

PUB
AN

unnee : University of New England
gclimt : Climate Change | gcat : Political/General News | genv : Environmental News | gglobe :
Global/World Issues | gwea : Weather
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria
(Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | queensl : Queensland
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FARMID0020141127eabq00004

Page181of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.