Business Traveller Magazine: Win Premium Economy return tickets with Qantas

HD Business Traveller Magazine: Win Premium Economy return tickets with Qantas
WC 2,777 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

18 March 2014
News Bites - Private Companies
NBPRCO
English
Copyright 2014. News Bites Pty Ltd.

NEWS BITES - PRIVATE COMPANIES
[Company Release]

TD

Win two Premium Economy return tickets from London Heathrow to Dubai with Qantas as the airline
celebrates one year of flying to the Emirate.

Fly to Australia - from Heathrow to Sydney or Melbourne, via Dubai - with Qantas aboard its
award-winning A380.

On March 31, the carrier marks one year since it began travelling via Dubai and it would like to give one
lucky Business Traveller reader and a guest the chance to celebrate and experience the superjumbo for
themselves.

Qantas A380

Qantas believes your journey should be as memorable as your destination, so provides four comfortable
cabins - First, Business, Premium Economy and Economy - to accommodate the needs of passengers.

For complete luxury, relax in your own private world in one of only 14 First suites. At the touch of a button,
your private dining suite for two becomes a long flat, wide bed. You can dine a la carte or, if you prefer,
enjoy an eight-course tasting menu with a friend.

When flying Business, you will find a dedicated upper-deck, 64-seat cabin with your own fully-flat Skybed
reclining to almost two metres in length, with a mattress and duvet for extra comfort. A Neil Perry-designed
menu can be enjoyed when it suits, complemented by a multi-award-winning wine list.

And, the onboard Business lounge means you can meet with a colleague, and then catch-up on movies
you haven"t had the chance to see.

The award-winning Premium Economy cabin offers more room and more comfort, in the private 35-seat
upper-deck. Self-service snack bars offer a range of refreshments around the clock. It feels special and it
is, with extra wide seats and leg rests to stay comfortable. There's a big screen for entertainment, and a
menu inspired by Neil Perry with wines to match.

Qantas A380 Premium Economy

Above and below: Relax and enjoy Qantas' award-winning A380 Premium Economy cabin

Qantas A380 Premium Economy

Qantas' International Economy is about delivering a friendly and helpful service in a comfortable and
restful environment. The Qantas A380 Economy seat is ergonomically designed and the Economy cabin
boasts self-service snack bars that offer a range of refreshments around the clock.

Passengers can also fly from regional destinations across the UK, thanks to Qantas' partnership with
Emirates, and on arrival in Australia, can make the most of easy connections across the Qantas domestic
network of over 50 destinations.

Become a Qantas Frequent Flyer to enjoy even more rewards by earning points across the Qantas,
Emirates and Oneworld networks.

Page257of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.To be in with the chance of winning a pair of Qantas Premium Economy return tickets from London
Heathrow to Dubai, correctly answer the question below.

How many seats are in the private upper-deck Qantas A380 Premium Economy cabin?

32

35

38

Entry is open only to residents of the United Kingdom (excluding Northern Ireland).

Make your next destination qantas.com.

Terms and Conditions

1. Information on how to enter forms part of the terms and conditions of entry. Entry into the promotion is
deemed acceptance of these terms and conditions

2. The promoter is Business Traveller of 5th Floor, Warwick House, 25-27 Buckingham Palace Road,
London, SW1W 0PP and 020 7821 2700.

3. The promotion commences at 0001 GMT on March 1 and closes at 2359 GMT on March 31.

4. Entry is open only to residents of the United Kingdom (excluding Northern Ireland) who are over 18
years of age, excluding directors, management, employees and their immediate families of Promoter and
its related bodies corporate and registered travel companions of employees of the Promoter and its related
bodies corporate (Eligible Entrant)

5. To enter, Eligible Entrants must during the Promotion Period answer the above question and enter their
email address in the space provided.

6. The Promoter is not responsible for any lost, late or misdirected entries.

7. Entrants may enter the prize draw once only.

8. Entries which are incomplete, incomprehensible, illegible, or which are received or submitted after the
deadline for receipt of entries will be invalid and will not be considered.

9. The result of the draw is final and no correspondence will be entered into.

10. The draw will take place at 0930 on April 1 at 25-27 Buckingham Palace Road, London, SW1W 0PP
and will be conducted by Business Traveller.

11. There will be one prize. The maximum total prize value is Pound3,000, based on the recommended
retail value at the time of printing. The Promoter accepts no responsibility for any variation in the value of
the prize.

12. The prize is two return Premium Economy tickets from London Heathrow to Dubai on a Qantas
operated and marketed flight. The prize does not include accommodation, transfers, travel insurance,
passports, visas, meals, taxes not included in the price of the ticket, ground transportation or any other
costs of a personal nature not stated. Compliance with any health or other government requirements is the
responsibility of the/each prizewinner and companion. Prize travel is subject to Qantas' General
Conditions of Carriage, available at qantas.com.

13. All prize travel is subject to availability at the time of booking and must be booked and ticketed by 31
May 2014. The periods travel can be taken in are 19 February to 8 April 2014, 21 April to 4 December
2014, 19 January 2015 to 26 March and 20 April to 30 June 2015. Travel must be commenced by 5
December 2014 and completed within 12 months of the date of departure from London Heathrow.
Bookings must be made at least 14 days in advance of departure.

14. Qantas makes no representation as to the safety, conditions or other issues that may exist at any
destination.

15. The winner and their companion will not accrue Qantas Frequent Flyer points on the prize travel or
accommodation. An upgrade cannot be purchased on airfares with cash or Qantas Frequent Flyer points.

16. Each prize must be taken as stated and no compensation will be payable if a winner is unable to use
the prize as stated. Prizes are not exchangeable or redeemable for cash or other goods or services. A

Page258of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.prize cannot be transferred to any other person. There can be no changes made to travel arrangements
once tickets are issued.

17. The winner will be notified by email by April 5.

18. If any act, omission, event or circumstance occurs which is beyond the reasonable control of the
Promoter and which prevents the Promoter from complying with these terms and conditions, the Promoter
will not be liable for any failure to perform or delay in performing its obligations and the Promoter reserves
the right (subject to any applicable law) to cancel, terminate or modify or suspend this promotion.

19. The Promoter, its related bodies corporate and their respective officers, employees, contractors and
agents (Promotion Parties) will not be liable for any losses, damages, expenses, costs or personal injuries
arising out of this promotion, the promotion of this promotion or the use of any prize, including but not
limited to any breach of these terms and conditions, contract or tort (including negligence) and any other
common law, equitable or statutory remedy (Damages) whatsoever, including but not limited to direct,
indirect and consequential Damages, including Damages that cannot reasonably be considered to arise
naturally and in the ordinary course of things, even if those Damages were in the contemplation of the
Promotion Parties.

20. The exclusion of liability in clause 17 does not apply to limit or exclude liability:

a) for personal injury or death suffered or sustained in connection with the supply of goods or services
which are supplied by the Promoter in the ordinary course of business. To remove doubt: third party goods
or services, which other than in connection with this promotion, are in the normal course of business
supplied by a third party unrelated to the Promotion Parties, are not supplied by the Promoter in the
ordinary course of business; and Qantas Airways' Conditions of Carriage and general booking conditions
(and any exclusions contained therein) apply despite any statement to the contrary in these terms and
conditions; or

b) to the extent it is not permissible at law to limit or exclude liability in the manner contemplated in that
clause (in which case that liability is limited to the maximum extent allowable by law).

21. The Promoter reserves the right to redraw in the event of an entrant being unable to satisfy these
promotion terms and conditions or forfeiting or not claiming a prize. For any prize that remains unclaimed
on April 11, a second draw will be held at 1230 on April 14 at 25-27 Buckingham Palace Road, London,
SW1W 0PP, subject to any written direction given under applicable law.
22. Entry details remain the property of the Promoter and Qantas Airways. The name and photograph of
the winner may be used for promotional purposes by the Promoter or Qantas Airways, unless the winner
otherwise notifies the Promoter at the time of accepting the prize. Entrants consent to the Promoter using
personal information provided in connection with this promotion for the purposes of facilitating the conduct
of the promotion and awarding any prizes (including to Qantas Airways and any applicable statutory
authorities) and to conduct marketing activities. Without limiting the foregoing, entrants' personal
information provided in connection with this promotion will be handled in accordance with the Promoter's
Privacy Statement, a copy of which is available here.

23. Entrants' personal information provided to Qantas Airways in connection with this promotion will be
handled in accordance with Qantas Airways' Privacy Statement, a copy of which is available at
qantas.com/privacy.

24. The Promoter accepts no responsibility for any tax implications that may arise from accepting a prize.
Independent financial advice should be sought.

25. The Promoter reserves the right, at any time, to verify the validity of entries and Eligible Entrants
(including an entrant's identity, age and place of residence) and to disqualify any entrant who tampers with
the entry process. Failure by the promoter to enforce any of its rights at any stage does not constitute a
waiver of those rights

Click here for the full original announcement
COMPANY BACKGROUND

ACTIVITIES

Business Traveller Magazine publishes a business travel magazine offering independent view of
worldwide travel issues for the traveling businessperson. The company¿¿¿s magazine and Web site
provides information on various aspects of travel, including airlines, airports, hotels, and car hire. It also
covers topical issues, such as health, security, and gadgets. In addition, the company¿¿¿s Web site

Page259of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.provides airline and hotel reservations, and guides to various cities. The company publishes its magazine
in the United States, Germany, the Middle East, the Asia-Pacific, China, and Hungary, as well as in the
United Kingdom and Europe. Business Traveller Magazine is based in London. As of May 19, /2005,
Business Traveller Magazine is a subsidiary of Frank Media LLC.

BUSINESS NEWS ROUND UP

15 March 2014: Business Traveller Magazine: Win an iPad Air
[Company Release] BT Wi-fi and glh. are offering one lucky reader the chance to win a 32GB iPad Air
worth over Pound500. BT has now launched a free, fast and unlimited wifi service in partnership with glh.
to all guests at their hotels across the UK, including Thistle Hotels. This "one-click" service allows
customers to log onto the Internet instantly, without the hassle of signing up and giving all their details.
iPad Air Demand for wifi in hotels is rising, with Thistle guests using over one billion minutes of wifi in
2013.

Click here for the full original announcement

15 March 2014: Business Traveller Magazine: Reviews round-up
[Company Release] Catch up on Business Traveller's January and February reviews of flights, hotels,
restaurants, technology and books. Flights Qatar Airways A320-200 first class, Doha to Dubai Qatar
Airways B777-300ER business class, Cape Town to Doha via Johannesburg Asiana Airlines B747-400
Combi business class, Seoul to Frankfurt American Airlines B777-300ER business class, Los Angeles to
London AA B777-300ER business class Cabin: Business class on an American Airlines B777-300ER
American Airlines B777-300ER business class, London to New York Asiana Airlines A330-300 business
class, Hong Kong to Seoul Hotels Conservatorium, Amsterdam Lucknam Park, Bath Doubletree by Hilton
Hotel Los Angeles Downtown, Los Angeles Oriental Residence, Bangkok Amari Watergate Bangkok,
Bangkok Restaurants Andina, London Technology HP Mobile Connect on HP Elitepad 900 Business
books The Triple Package by Amy Chua and Jed Rubenfeld Capital Wars by Daniel Pinto The Advantage
by Patrick Lencioni The following hotel reviews were published in the February and March editions of
Business Traveller and are accessible to all subscribers. Residence Inn New York Manhattan / Central
Park, New York The Marker Hotel Dublin, Dublin Trident Hyderabad, Hyderabad Rosewood London,
London The London Edition, London Great Northern Hotel, London Ace Hotel London Shoreditch,
London Doubletree by Hilton Hyde Park, London Cafe Royal, London The Nadler Soho, London Source:
Company Website

Click here for the full original announcement

14 March 2014: Business Traveller Magazine: Etihad to up its Moscow services to triple daily
[Company Release] Etihad Airways will increase its services between Abu Dhabi and Moscow to double
daily from June 1 and triple daily from October 1. The Gulf carrier currently operates seven flights per
week to the Russian capital's Domodedovo airport, a route it launched in 2008 (see news, August 2008).
The additional services will open up more connections to destinations including Bahrain, Bangkok, Doha,
Johannesburg, Perth and Singapore. Etihad plans to deploy a two-cabin A320 aircraft on the triple daily
service, meaning 5,712 seats a week - 672 in Pearl Business class, and 5,040 in Coral Economy. In 2013,
passenger volumes on the route rose 36 per cent compared to the previous year, achieving double-digit
growth for the fourth consecutive year, the airline said. James Hogan, Etihad's president and CEO, said:
"The UAE is home to almost 25,000 Russians and 400 Russia-UAE joint venture companies, and as a
result, the business and cultural ties between the two countries have never been stronger. "With flights
three times per day, Etihad Airways provides more convenient services to Abu Dhabi, the UAE and across
our global network. "Etihad Airways will offer 31 per cent of the weekly frequencies between the UAE and
Moscow, providing more direct flights than any other carrier." The flight schedule will also boost onward
codeshare connectivity with S7 Airlines beyond the Russian capital to the cities of Kazan, Krasnodar,
Saint Petersburg and Samara. etihad.com Source: Company Website

Click here for the full original announcement
14 March 2014: Business Traveller Magazine: IHG to open first Hotel Indigo in Madrid
[Company Release] Intercontinental HotelsGroup is opening its first Hotel Indigo in Madrid next month.
The central Hotel Indigo Madrid - Gran Via contains 85 individually-designed guestrooms that draw
inspiration from the local area. On the ground floor is the Gastrobar and Restaurant which serves
Mediterranean food, wine and cocktails. Hotel Indigo Madrid - Gran Via Wifi is free throughout the hotel
and there are Nespresso machines in every room. It will be IHG's second Hotel Indigoproperty in Spain,
alongside Hotel Indigo Barcelona which opened in 2012.

Page260of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Click here for the full original announcement

14 March 2014: Business Traveller Magazine: United expands tarmac transportation to SFO
[Company Release] United Airlines has this week expanded its tarmac transportation service to San
Francisco International Airport. The chauffeur service, operated using Mercedes-Benz GL-Class vehicles,
is offered to some Global Services members and United Global First passengers who connect at SFO to a
domestic or international flight. Where possible, United staff surprise Global Services and United Global
First customers with applicable itineraries who may have tight connections and will drive them across the
tarmac to their connecting flights. United tarmac transportation service The service had previously only
been available in Chicago, Houston and Newark, where it was introduced in January (see news, January
29). Jimmy Samartzis, United's vice president of customer experience, said: "We are delighted to offer our
busiest travelers, for whom time is so important, another way to make their travel easier and more
convenient. "With the tarmac transfer service, our investments in the new Boarding Area E in Terminal 3
and new terminal facilities to come, we are strengthening San Francisco as the region's premier hub and
the nation's best trans-Pacific gateway." united.com Source: Company Website

Click here for the full original announcement

CO qntas : Qantas Airways Ltd
IN
NS

i75 : Airlines | i7501 : Scheduled Passenger Airlines | iairtr : Air Transport | itsp : Transportation/Shipping
c3141 : Sales Promotions | c1521 : Analyst Comments/Recommendations | c1522 : Share Price
Movement/Disruptions | npress : Press Releases | c15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | c31 :
Marketing | c314 : Pricing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
uk : United Kingdom | uae : United Arab Emirates | austr : Australia | dubai : Dubai | doha : Doha | nyc :
New York City | thail : Thailand | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz :
Europe | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Region | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | qatar : Qatar |
seasiaz : Southeast Asia | usa : United States | use : Northeast U.S. | usny : New York State | wasiaz :
Western Asia | weurz : Western Europe

RE

IPD ACTIVITIES; BUSINESS NEWS ROUND UP
PUB News Bites Pty Ltd (Europe)
AN Document NBPRCO0020140318ea3i001gt

Page261of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.