FINANCE MINISTER CORMANN DISCUSSES DEBT LEVY AND OTHER ISSUES IN INTERVIEW WITH CNBC SQUAWK BOX

HD FINANCE MINISTER CORMANN DISCUSSES DEBT LEVY AND OTHER ISSUES IN INTERVIEW WITH

CNBC SQUAWK BOX

WC 1,514 words
PD
14 May 2014
SN
Australian Government News
SC
HTAUGN
LA
English
CY
Copyright 2014. HT Media Limited. All rights reserved.
LP

CANBERRA, ACT, May 14 -- Minister for Finance Mathias Cormann issued the following transcript:

MATTHEW TAYLOR: Let's bring in our next guest, the Finance Minister of Australia Senator Mathias
Cormann joining us here in Canberra this morning. Senator thanks very much for chatting to us.

TD

MATHIAS CORMANN: Good to be here.

MATTHEW TAYLOR: We just played some comments from the Treasurer Joe Hockey saying that the
Budget is all about changing the mindset of Australians, do you think the Budget will be successful in
being able to deliver such outcomes?

MATHIAS CORMANN: The Budget that we delivered last night is an honest Budget, it's a fair Budget, it's
a Budget that puts our government spending on a more sustainable medium to long term trajectory and it
is a Budget that essentially will put our country back on track and help us build a stronger more
prosperous economy.

MATTHEW TAYLOR: Okay, before the election the Prime Minister said that he wouldn't be a Prime
Minister that delivered surprises yet we've got quite a few in the Budget, the debt levy for one on people
earning more than $180,000 also some changes to the health space, those co-payments for visits to the
doctor. Australians you would think from reading a lot of the commentary this morning are a little bit
annoyed, what is your response to the broader public?

MATHIAS CORMANN: Well what we've done over the last seven or eight months as we've worked to put
this Budget together is assess all of the information about where we are, all of the information about where
we would be heading if we didn't take corrective action and we made judgments that we believe are in the
national interest. We have made judgments about doing the right thing for the right reasons and we are
hopeful that people across Australia will come with us. We're asking them to make a contribution to help
strengthen our country and we hope that they'll come with us.

MATTHEW TAYLOR: When I was in the lockup yesterday and crunching through all of the numbers, we
were looking through the growth estimates that you had put down, 2.5 per cent for the shorter term moving
up to about 3 per cent when you look at GDP. A number of economists were saying that those numbers
appear to be a little bit conservative and the Budget could actually be in a better position. Have you
deliberately been conservative with those estimates?

MATHIAS CORMANN: We have been realistic. The previous Government continuously overestimated
revenue, underestimated expenditure and immediately after the Budget had to chase its tail because the
Budget position was deteriorating literally within days. What we have done is we have taken realistic
forecasts and we have those realistic forecasts in the Budget. The reality is that we inherited an economy
growing below trend, rising unemployment, low consumer confidence, we are working to turn that situation
around by getting rid of taxes like the carbon tax and the mining tax, by scrapping red tape, by investing
in infrastructure in this Budget quite significantly to build a stronger economy into the future. So we are
working on lifting that economic growth into the future.

MATTHEW TAYLOR: But won't putting in new taxes or levies like this debt levy do exactly what you're
trying to avoid and damage confidence and sentiment.

MATHIAS CORMANN: We face a significant challenge. The previous Government delivered five budget
deficits, totalling $195 billion. Their last budget was another $123 billion worth of projected deficits. We

Page197of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.have implemented some structural savings in this Budget which start low and slow and which build over
time. So what we've asked Australians to do is make an immediate short term time limited special
contribution and we've sought to spread that effort as fairly and as equitably across the whole community
as possible, and the only way you can ensure high income earners participated in that effort sadly and
regrettably is through the tax system.
MATTHEW TAYLOR: Hong Kong has some questions for you.
BERNIE LO: Hello Minister, it's Bernie Lo with Susan here in Hong Kong. Minister, even ultra-capitalists
like Clive Palmer who was on with us this morning have been critical of the Budget and I guess the follow
through is that balancing the Budget aiming over a decade to balance the Budget, isn't that really an
exercise in ideology rather than pragmatism? I mean you look at the accumulated debt as a percentage of
GDP and you're sitting very pretty in Australia. You're at 15 per cent thereabouts versus north of 70 per
cent in OECD countries. You are in a very good fiscal state, to be taxing people at the top and cutting
assistance at the bottom, I mean isn't this more about ideology and balancing the Budget in a vacuum,
rather than according to relativity and your relative health compared to other places?

MATHIAS CORMANN: Well absolutely not. The only reason why our debt situation is not worse is
because in 2007, when the previous Government came in, they inherited a strong budget and a strong
economy. We had no government net debt, we had a $20 billion surplus and we had cash in the bank.
What we've inherited is essentially 16 years of successive deficits if we had not taken corrective action. So
to understand what that means, right now the Government is borrowing money in order to fund
consumption. So if we keep doing that, we're forcing our children and grandchildren to pay the price for
our consumption today with interest. That reduces their opportunity in the future because they will have to
pay a higher price because of our consumption today. The only circumstance, in our view, where it is
appropriate for governments to engage in borrowing is to investment in long lasting productivity enhancing
economic infrastructure, where there is a benefit over an extensive period of time. To fund your
consumption today is like putting all of the cost of your groceries on your credit card and asking your
children in ten years time to pay back the credit card for you with all of the interest that has accumulated in
the interim. That is not fair and it is bad economics.

SUSAN LI: Minister, you also talked about selling off some Australian assets in order to help the country
and the finances going forward and that includes selling the Australian Mint. Do you feel that you need to
do that right now? I mean this is an organisation that produces not only coins for Australia, but also coins
for foreign countries as well. Are you really at that point, at that desperation point where you need to sell
off these types of assets right now?

MATHIAS CORMANN: Well what we're looking at doing is to sell assets which whether in public hands or
in private hands will continue to provide services to the Australian community and which we believe that
the private sector would provide more efficiently and more cost effectively. The proceeds from the sale of
those assets we would reinvest, recycle if you will, by investing them in new productivity enhancing
infrastructure. So we've got infrastructure, existing assets which we can sell, which will continue to provide
benefits to the Australian economy and to the Australian community and we think that they would be able
to do that better and would be able to invest the proceeds from those sales in strengthening our economy
for the future.

MATTHEW TAYLOR: Let's talk about the infrastructure spend that you announced as well and also this
new Medical Research Fund that you will be establishing, funded through those co-payments to GP's.
What type of job creation are we going to see out of those two spends, out of the research fund and out of
the infrastructure?

MATHIAS CORMANN: Well it's a very important point you raise. So beyond the structural savings that
we've introduced in this Budget, in relation to the remaining spending there is a shift from consumption
spending to investment. In terms of the investment into infrastructure, once that programme is complete,
that will permanently add 1 per cent to our GDP. In terms of the investment through the Medical Research
Future Fund, we are very excited and very hopeful that this will lead to some cures like for Alzheimer's,
dementia, maybe even cancer. Australian researchers will be able to make a great contribution to the
world when it comes to finding cures for these sorts of diseases.

MATTHEW TAYLOR: Okay well we're out of time but thanks very much for chatting to us as always. That
was the Finance Minister Mathias Cormann joining us.

CT

NS

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com
gpol : Domestic Politics | gvtre : Treasury Department | nitv : Interviews | gcat : Political/General News |
gpir : Politics/International Relations | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter

Page198of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

austr : Australia | auscap : Australian Capital Territory | canbrr : Canberra | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
PUB HT Media Limited
AN Document HTAUGN0020140515ea5e00035

Page199of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.