ANZ ups ante on agriculture

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

Property
ANZ ups ante on agriculture

Matthew Cranston
319 words
5 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
37
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

ANZ Banking Group has lifted its exposure to agriculture by $3 billion in the past 12 months to
$32.1 billion.

The bank has participated in some of the year's biggest agriculture deals, including the Harris
family's buyout of Clyde Agriculture's remaining Australian rural properties and advising on the
Chinese purchase of prized farms in Victoria's western districts.

ANZ chief executive Mike Smith said while there were challenges in the economy, agriculture was
one sector which still shone.

"The top end of the agri-sector is going extremely well," Mr Smith said.

The bank, which reported its half-year results on Thursday, has championed Australia's agriculture
sector and built an exposure to it almost twice the size of its credit exposure to the resources sector.

In 2012 , ANZ commissioned Port Jackson Partners to write a report on the agriculture sector that
estimated $400 billion would be needed to support farm turnover in Australia by 2050. "The size of
the prize to agriculture calls for timely, transformational actions," it said.

ANZ's half-year results showed the bank had marginally reduced its non- performing loans in the
agriculture sector, where property makes up most of lending. These non-performing loans stand at
$1.12 billion or about 3.5 per cent of the bank's agricultural exposure.

According to Australian Bureau of Agricultural & Resource Economics, the debt to fund land
purchases accounts for the largest share of debt on broadacre and dairy farms, accounting for 44
per cent and 47 per cent, respectively.

The value of such non-performing loans is the largest of all ANZ's banking categories, from transport
and storage to consumer lending. In the past year, the bank had to deal with troublesome
agricultural loans such as Casterton and Burslem stations in central Queensland, which were sold
off for $4.8 million.

aanzb : Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited
ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking |
ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140504ea5500025

Page60of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Page61of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.