City & Country: Cover Story - Investing in Melbourne

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

City & Country: Cover Story - Investing in Melbourne

By E Jacqui Chan
2,345 words
15 September 2014
The Edge Malaysia (Weekly)
EDGEWK
English
© Copyright 2014. The Edge Communications Sdn Bhd. All rights reserved.

The city's real estate market is thriving and offers good investment opportunities for investors and
homebuyers, says Ian Chen of Jalin Realty. In which areas should Malaysians buy and what should they
look out for to own a property in the most liveable city in the world?

We arrived in Melbourne, Australia, on a cold winter morning, a welcome relief from the haze and heat of
Kuala Lumpur. While there was traffic (it was rush hour) on the highway on our way to the hotel, it was
light, especially when compared with the kind of traffic we are accustomed to.

Once we exited the highway, traffic eased considerably and we were surprised to see a good number of
people cycling to work in the cold weather of 5C.

Cycling and taking public transport are strongly encouraged by the authorities and highly preferred by the
locals, which have helped to ease traffic congestion in the city, says Ian Chen, founder and group CEO
of Jalin Realty.

"In fact, some office buildings here provide not only shower facilities but also free towels to those who
cycle to work," he says.

Together with several other representatives of the media, we were invited by Jalin to witness the opening
of its new Australian headquarters in Melbourne. The Malaysia-based privately owned residential
project marketing and sales company specialises in off-the-plan marketing and sale of Australian
projects.
Jalin has sold about 2,000 residential properties in Melbourne in the last five years. It has worked with
major Australian developers, such as Lend Lease and Salta Properties.

Chen himself is no stranger to Australia - his family migrated to Melbourne in 1989 and he completed his
studies there before returning to Malaysia to pursue a career in stockbroking. He later left the
stockbroking profession to set up Jalin in 2006.

With an extensive network of public transport, thriving economy, low crime rate and diverse culture, it's
easy to see why Melbourne was ranked the most liveable city for four years running by the Economist
Intelligence Unit's (EIU) Global Liveability Ranking.

Australia has long been a popular destination for Malaysians for migration, education and investments.
According to Chen, Melbourne's property market is thriving and offers good investment opportunities for
investors and homebuyers due to the high migration rate, strong demand, and ease and transparency of
doing business, among others.
Chen shares his insights into Melbourne's property market, the opportunities it presents and what
investors should look for.
City & Country: How has the Melbourne residential property market performed in the past five years?

Page54of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Ian Chen: House prices in Melbourne have been on a steady rise. According to a report from Ironfish (an
Australian-based property investment company), the median price for houses and apartments has
doubled every 10 years in the last 20 years.
The RP Data-Rismark Home Value Index (a provider of consumer, financial and property information,
analytics and services in Australia and New Zealand) puts the median dwelling price for Melbourne in
June 2014 at A$560,000 (RM1.6 million), up 9.4% year on year. This is the second largest gain among
all the different Australian states and is just under the national average of 10.1%.

Meanwhile, in June, weekly asking rents for houses in Melbourne rose 5.6% y-o-y to A$380, and rents
for apartments grew 2.8% to A$370.

What should Malaysian investors look out for when buying properties?

At Jalin Realty, we always look for properties that have either good rental yield or potential capital growth
to bring to the Southeast Asian market. We also ensure that the properties have a secondary market for
investors, which means reselling back to Australian permanent residents (PR) or citizens.

The areas that we usually bring in are those in the inner city, within a 2km to 10km radius of the central
business district (CBD), as these locations are more sought after by Australian PR and citizens
compared with properties in Melbourne's CBD. This is because Melbournians love their suburban
lifestyle, away from the congestion in the city, and lower density living. They also like to spend their free
time outdoors.

The properties have to be near public transport, such as trains, trams and buses, which are cheaper
modes of travel to work [in the CBD and business parks]. And being located near universities, schools
and public amenities will ensure high demand for the properties.

Historically, the Melbourne east and southeast locations/properties see strong demand from Malaysians
as the majority of them plan to stay there and send their children for their studies. However, the median
price in these areas is higher due to their maturity and high demand. Hence, many investors will need to
give it some serious consideration before investing in one.

Due to that, many developers are increasing their developments in the western and northern areas
(which have more room for growth and lower median prices) to attract investors and young homeowners.
These investors should see significant capital gain from their properties when more amenities and
infrastructure, such as shops, schools, roads, trams, trains and bus routes, are built to support the
increasing population.

We have projects that caters for both owner-occupiers and investors, and have received great response
for both types of properties. The properties are mainly located in inner city areas such as Victoria
Harbour, Carlton, Collingwood, South Yarra, Richmond, Abbotsford and St Kilda, and attractive suburbs
such as Clayton, Burwood, Blackburn, Maribyrnong, Maidstone and Sunshine West, with more growth
areas to be introduced soon.

Where is demand coming from, and is it matching existing and incoming supply?

Malaysians are actively looking for good properties in Melbourne/Australia for investment due to
professional property bodies that provide property management services to foreign buyers. This puts
the buyers' mind at ease, even if they do not reside in Melbourne.

The migration rate is increasing in Melbourne/Australia as well due to it/its cities being constantly rated
as the world's most liveable cities. Travel time to Australia is shorter than that to the UK and the US.

According to the Australian Government Department of Immigration and Border Protection, the total
number of migrants to Australia rose from 168,623 in 2009/10 to 190,000 in 2012-14. Another 190,000
are expected to migrate to Australia in 2014/15.

The Australian Bureau of Statistics also project that Melbourne's 1.62 million households in 2014 will
increase to 2.11 million by 2031. The city's population is growing so rapidly that it is expected to overtake
Sydney as the country's largest city by 2037.
There is great demand coming from foreign countries and regions such as China, India and Southeast
Asia, mainly for their children's education and their second home outside their country. They are drawn
to Australia's good weather, high quality of living, education, as well as transparent business
opportunities. There is also strong demand locally. The EIU ranked Australia as the fifth easiest place to
do business globally from 2009 to 2018.

Page55of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Australian government is trying to approve more developments and expand the cities' infrastructure
to accommodate the high immigration traffic; either entering as a skilled worker or family members of
new migrants. It was reported that there was an increase of 106,800 people from end-2012 to end-2013
in Victoria alone. However, the building approvals for Victoria remain at a conservative rate.

According to the Australian Bureau of Statistics, the trend estimate for the total number of dwelling units
in Victoria fell 0.8% in June and has fallen for four months. The trend estimate for the number of private
sector houses, which has fallen for three months, dipped 0.2% in June.
Australia's Foreign Investment Review Board (FIRB) gave permission for 11,668 residential property
purchases by foreigners in 2012/13, to a value of A$17 billion, an increase of 19% from the previous
financial year.
What are some of the issues unique to the Australian/Melbourne property market that a foreign investor
should be aware of?
Foreign investors who are looking to purchase an Australian property should be aware of the property
type they intend to purchase as they can only resell to Australian citizens or PR, which is different from
UK investment properties. We aim to market locations and property types that suit the Australian market
more than the Asian preference due to this reason.
If you are looking to take a mortgage to finance your investment property, do ensure that the size of the
property you intend to purchase is more than 40 sq m in total. Otherwise, it will be quite difficult to
secure a loan for your property and you will have to settle fully in cash.
There is a significant difference between purchasing residential and commercial properties as the
banks' loan margin will differ depending on the type of property. It's always good to check with the
relevant parties before committing to one.
Melbourne is the only state in Australia that allows purchasers to buy off-the-plan homes with minimal
stamp duty. This means purchasers only pay the percentage of stamp duty based on the stage of
construction of the development. All foreign investors are required to submit their purchase to FIRB.
What and where are the investment opportunities for the residential and commercial segments? Why?
If you are looking for rental yield in the residential segment, apartments or townhouses in inner city
Melbourne (within 2km to 10 km of the CBD) are the best options due to their close proximity to the CBD
and ample public transport.
In the residential segment, investors looking for higher capital gain will have to look farther at new
upcoming suburbs in the west and north (at a range of 20km to 30km from the Melbourne CBD). The
majority of the developers develop houses in these areas. They cater more for new families or those
looking for a bigger space to accommodate their expanding families.
Investors who are looking to purchase commercial properties can either choose from a range of office
suites, retail or even a whole building. Commercial properties can be resold to Australians and non
Australians. It is an open market for anyone who wants to buy. However, commercial properties usually
require a longer time to lease and the period of purchase is longer due to the higher commitments for
these types of properties.

As for offices in the CBD, there is an increasing number of SMEs (small and medium enterprises) in
Victoria to support bigger firms with their operations. There is also an increasing number of designers,
agencies, accounting firms and educational institutions that require smaller working spaces (lesser rent)
to operate their business.

Finally, for retail, business opportunities such as restaurants, caf supermarkets, banks, boutique shops
or any kind of services that are suitable for the area can be a good retail investment. Areas to look out for
are the CBD, the inner city retail precinct and residential areas.
With a good number of choices for property investment in the region, why should investors consider
Australia/Melbourne?

Investors can diversify their investments and take advantage of different market, economic and currency
performance. There are services such as ours, where we assist foreign investors from end to end even if
they are not living in Australia.

Page56of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In August, Melbourne was voted the most liveable city for the fourth year running by the EIU. It also
bagged the world's friendliest city title as well. Australia has four cities in the top 10, more than any other
country.

Properties in Melbourne have been enjoying a steady growth due to consistent migration and strong
demand for education and healthcare. Melbourne also offers stable rental yields of 3.5% to 5%,
depending on the location and type of property, and stable capital gains of about 7.6% annually.

The majority of properties in Melbourne are worth purchasing off the plan as, like the rest of Australia,
investors enjoy lower upfront commitments. Unlike Malaysia, which practises the progressive built
scheme where payments are paid in instalments progressively until the project is completed, Australia
practises the 10/90 payment scheme.
Under this scheme, buyers are required to put down 10% of the property price upfront while the balance
is required only after the project is completed (this may take two to three years), allowing investors to
consider other investments in the meantime. The 10% deposit is also placed in a trust fund until the
project is completed, which protects the investors' or homeowners' deposit.
This only applies to Melbourne - purchasers who buys off the plan get to save a huge amount of stamp
duty as they only pay a percentage of the property's construction progress. This means if the
construction has not started, you pay the most minimal stamp duty, which is only calculated based on
land value.

Currently, Australian cash rates are at their lowest. It's a good time for homeowners or investors to
consider refinancing or investing in new properties.
What are some of the challenges that the Melbourne property market will face next year?
So far, there are no known major challenges for the Australian property market. However, there is
increasing competition from property markets in other countries, such as the UK, Canada and Thailand.

It's also important to note that there are not many completed projects in Melbourne, which means that
the needs of those looking for last-minute or instant accommodations will not be met. This is because
demand is stronger than supply and stock get sold off-plan quickly.

With Jalin Realty offering end-to-end services and a strong experienced team well-versed in their
respective markets, coupled with support from our international offices, we are able to provide ongoing
advice and guide the clients along the way. With this, buyers can avoid the challenges or even take
advantage of them.

CO
NS
RE

aubos : Australian Bureau of Statistics
ereal : Real Estate Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | malay : Malaysia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
PUB The Edge Communications Sdn Bhd.
AN

Document EDGEWK0020140917ea9f0000y

Page57of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.