$A reaches year high of US91¢

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
$A reaches year high of US91¢

Vesna Poljak and Sue Mitchell With Simon Evans, Jared Lynch and Peter Ker
956 words
8 March 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
35
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Currency - Analysts say downward trend not over yet

A surprisingly strong run of economic data in the past week, including evidence of higher retail
spending and building approvals, has pulled the Australian dollar back above US90¢ and raised
familiar frustrations for companies on the foreign exchange front.

On Friday it was fetching US91.13¢, the highest level this year.

Reserve Bank of Australia governor Glenn Stevens described the currency as still "high by historical
standards" in a statement that morning.
Goldman Sachsequity strategist Matthew Ross said the general rule was that a lower currency was
better for the Australian sharemarket. However, it was important to identify what conditions were
underpinning the move in foreign exchange.

"If the currency is going lower because commodity prices are declining, then that would be the best of
both worlds for the average Australian industrial company that's not that leveraged to the Australian
resource sector," Mr Ross said. "[For] sectors like retail that have higher levels of input costs priced in
US dollar terms it's potentially not that good."

However, this time currency traders appear to be responding to the fact the Australian economy is in
an upswing and the prospects of further rate cuts are diminishing.

"It is quite clear the Australian dollar remains above fair value and in a sense the Australian economy
would perform better were the currency lower," said BT Financial Group chief economist Chris Caton,
who thinks the RBA is finished easing and that realisation is setting in.

"It's above fair value so the odds are that markets will eventually realise that. Therefore I don't think the
downward movement is over yet."

He added that while companies had a right to complain when the exchange rate was over $US1, at
these levels – albeit above fair value – "if you can't compete at US90¢ then you may not be able to
compete".

Citigroup economist Paul Brennan said the ideal combination, regardless of the currency, was an
improvement in productivity and a pick-up in demand. "At US90¢ and above with lower commodity
prices it's still too high," he said. "What we've seen recently is the iron ore price has fallen and we
haven't seen the currency fall – it's strengthened. I'm hopeful that as we get better data on the US
economy . . . that will in turn mean that the exchange rate will moderate."Mixed response from business

Views on the currency tend to be split by what sector a business operates in.

Page210of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Panoramic Resources managing director Peter Harold said he longed for the days when US75¢ was
the long-term forecast. "I hate it. Every US1¢ rise costs us $2.5 million per year," he said.
Mr Harold felt the economy was struggling enough to warrant a lower dollar. "I'm not so bullish on how
the economy is going and I would have thought that would start to have an impact on it, but it seems
other factors are getting in the way," he said.

Bega Cheese executive chairman Barry Irvin said dairy farmers and processors were in a different
position. They needed the combination of a weakening Aussie and strong commodity prices to
generate good returns.

''The [$A] has stayed stronger than we had expected but so has the commodity price,'' Mr Irvin said.
The currency's stubbornness was not ideal and its strength was hindering the ability of milk processors
to capitalise on rallying commodity prices.

"It's a bit frustrating because you do worry that we're looking at very, very strong global prices for dairy
and inevitably those prices will soften a little. We'd like to think that the [$A] will at least soften in
parallel or indeed soften ahead of it.''

Mr Irvin said Australia would benefit more as the US and European economies improve. He is not
alone in that view.

The most supportive conditions for currency weakness were those which pointed to an uptick in global
demand from the US and Europe, said Goldman's Mr Ross. (Goldman anticipates the RBA has one
more rate cut left in this easing cycle).

Hills Ltd chief executive Ted Pretty said he didn't think the benefits of a broadly lower Australian dollar
over the past few months had flowed into the local economy yet. "The extremes are never good for
anyone,'' he said.

Hills imported a large amount of raw materials and products. "With a [$A] at around US90¢ it neither
hurts us nor benefits us,'' he says. But it was easier for planning and to run the overall business when
the currency was consistent.

A lower Australian dollar would benefit businesses exporting, and make them more competitive in
offshore markets. "The lower Australian dollar from an export perspective is helpful,'' Mr Pretty said.

In retailing, companies which source stock directly from overseas rather than through agents are most
exposed to currency fluctuations. Specialty Fashion chief executive Gary Perlstein says when the
currency is weaker the retailer has to work harder at sourcing to keep its cost of goods down and
maintain selling prices.

The stronger dollar takes some of the pressure off margins for the retailer, which sources about 70 per
cent of its products from China, up from 55 per cent previously. Retailers such as Specialty Fashion
hedge their currency exposure. Mr Perlstein says it's not the currency's level that causes problems, but
volatility. "I'm less concerned with where the dollar goes than the speed," he said. "It's the speed at
which it moves that forces you to recalibrate supply sources," he said.

NS

RE
PUB
AN

m132 : Foreign Exchange News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market
News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140307ea380003n

Page211of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.