Aquila holder bows to 'opportunist' Baosteel

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Aquila holder bows to 'opportunist' Baosteel

Amanda Saunders
622 words
24 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
17
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

One of Aquila's 20 biggest shareholders has summed up the mood among some investors about
Baosteel and Aurizon's $1.42 billion takeover bid, saying he will be a reluctant seller into a
ridiculously cheap deal.

Perth investor David Banovich, who has been a shareholder for 14 years, stands to make roughly
$8 million from selling his holdings into Chinese steel giant Baosteel and rail major Aurizon's $3.40
a share offer, which last week got the blessing of Aquila's board.

Mr Banovich bought his Aquila shares for about 20¢ each in 2000, on the recommendation of his
broker.

But he is a reluctant seller, and says the bid is opportunistic and grossly undervalues Aquila.
"The offer prices the project's iron ore at $13 a tonne, and puts no value on the coking coal (at
Eagle Downs)," he said.
"It is ridiculously cheap. Chinese companies need to worry about their PR. You can make an offer
that's fair; you don't have to steal assets."
Mr Banovich said iron ore majors Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton would be mad not to consider a
counter-bid, as the Aquila deal will allow China to build its own port in the Pilbara, at Anketell Point.
However, he said it was unlikely they would put an offer on the table.
At the heart of the jousting for Aquila is the iron ore junior's majority shareholding in the $7.4 billion
West Pilbara iron ore project.

On Wednesday, Aquila's board recommended that shareholders accept the offer, and at same time
rejected a counter-offer, of all scrip at $3.75, from Perth mining services firm Mineral Resources.

The Aquila board had handled the bid process with dignity, particularly by avoiding responding to
negative public comments from Baosteel executives, Mr Banovich said.
"The Chinese have been bully boys and the board have been fantastic in the face of that," he said.
"They have avoided mudslinging and responded in a measured, unemotional way."

Aquila's board last week recommended the offer in the absence of a superior bid.
Mr Banovich said the bid prices the West Pilbara iron ore at $13 a tonne, based on an annual
shipping rate of 40 million tonnes for 40 years.

He said a fair price was about $4.50 to $5 a share, given where Aquila was trading (about $2.40)
before Bao and Aurizon lobbed their bid.

Page21of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.His figure falls within the $3.90 to $5.24 a share valuation range that Grant Samuel said was fair, in
their independent expert's report released on Friday night. Grant Samuel said the bid was
reasonable but not fair.
Mr Banovich has been a committed shareholder and has held about the same stake since first
buying in 14 years ago. "I'm disappointed the project didn't come into production," he said. "I was
hoping if I waited long enough Aquila would start paying a dividend and become a leading company.

"I was determined to treat it as a long-term holding. It's not a good outcome for my grandchildren."

But Mr Banovich feels he has no choice but to sell; the alternative would be to have a minority
shareholding in a privately owned company.
Aquila chairman Tony Poli, who is also the company's largest shareholder, has said he will punt his
28.9 per cent stake into the offer, but has the "right to revisit this". He has recommended
shareholders wait until July 3 before accepting the offer, which closes on July 11, in case a superior
bid is made.

Aquila shares closed Monday at $3.37, just below the offer price.

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

baois : Shanghai Baosteel Group Corp | dorval : Aurizon Mines Ltd | hclamn : Hecla Mining Co
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying | isteel : Steel Production
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c18
: Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140623ea6o0001k

Page22of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.