Investa preps $130m riverfront sale

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Investa preps $130m riverfront sale

Matthew Cranston
392 words
27 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
40
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Investa Commercial Property Fund is looking to capitalise on the growing demand for shovel-ready
residential projects in Brisbane by deciding to sell its riverfront Kings Row project.

The complex, located on Coronation Drive on the edge of the city centre, is forecast to sell for more
than $130 million.

ICPF's fund manager, Peter Menegazzo, confirmed that since getting development approval, they
have received "quite a number of approaches" from parties interested in acquiring the site as the
Brisbane residential market continues to gather steam.

A raft of major development sites along the Brisbane River have come to market but many have
been without the development approvals in place.
Building materials company Hanson is selling off its major waterfront property in South Brisbane
with market expectations of up to $40 million, while Knight Frank, with Colliers, has been appointed
to sell Parmalat Australia 's riverfront sites at Montague Road. Both are without development
approvals.
ICPF, which purchased the remaining 50 per cent stake in the Kings Row office park from Investa
in 2008 for $65.25 million, has since gained council approval for the construction of two residential
buildings of 293 apartments.

Another two existing office buildings can be held as income producing assets for future
development, with approvals in place to add further floor space up to 20 storeys.
When Investa gained approval for the development, its general manager for commercial
development, Mark Tait, said it would create more than 850 construction jobs over a 10-year
program with construction cost at about $350 million.The development would also include the
restoration of Milton House.

Milton has become a hot spot for developers in Brisbane, with billionaire Lang Walker buying there
in 2012 at the bottom of the cycle and now constructing hundreds of apartments. The approaches
made to Investa may include a number of Chinese developer interests .
The Australian Financial Review revealed Chinese groupR&F Properties had contracted to
buyMetro Property Development's major South Brisbane and Kangaroo Point sites for as much as
$65 million earlier this year.
Other major sites that have come up for sale in Brisbane include the state government's 4.6 hectare
riverfront site at Yeerongpilly and another major site at Hamilton.

Both sites are at the business end of their marketing campaigns.

Page62of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO
IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

wptaus : Investa Property Group
ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i85 : Real Estate Transactions
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141126eabr00015

Page63of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.