Blackstone deal puts Circular Quay in play

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

MarketWatch
Blackstone deal puts Circular Quay in play

BEN WILMOT
347 words
2 September 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
27
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE apartment boom is set for its biggest test yet, with private equity giant Blackstone calling in real
estate agencies CBRE and JLL for advice on the future of Gold Fields House that sits right on
Sydney’s Circular Quay.
That building on its own could be converted into a $1 billion luxury apartment project, but other parts of
the Circular Quay block have been earmarked by rival developers Lend Lease and AXF for office and
apartment projects.

The agents’ mandate was to canvass options rather than run a sales process, sources said.

The greatest value could lie in a consolidation play, as one player could take control of the entire block
and seek to win a favourable planning and development outcome.

Given the heat in Sydney’s apartment market, it is likely the site will attract parties ranging from
London’s Candy & Candy to Chinese giant Greenland Holding.

The building has been earmarked for a luxury apartment development for more than six years and the
joint owners, Valad and one of its managed funds, in which global pension funds hold sway, have
fielded several aggressive offers.
Gold Fields House was last bought in 2006 for $274 million, with Valad teaming up with its wholesale
Australian V-Plus Fund — that reportedly includes the Abu Dhabi Investment Council, Dutch pension
fund APG and the Telstra super fund as investors — owning the rest.

The site could now sell for $400m.

In 2008, Valad gained stage-one development approval for a commercial and residential tower on the
block, and secured approvals for luxury apartments, before Blackstone took control of the company
and appeared to put these plans on ice.The time they have taken to consider their strategies may pay
off, as Gold Fields House, at 1 Alfred Street, is the most prominent building on the Circular Quay block.
Last month, The Australian reported that Lend Lease was negotiating with Richard Gu’s AXF Group on
a joint-venture to develop a $1bn-plus commercial, apartment and hotel project.

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB

blgrou : The Blackstone Group LP
i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150203 : Private Equity | ialtinv : Alternative Investments |
ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
News Ltd.

Page14of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document AUSTLN0020140901ea920003c

Page15of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.