Santos secures more gas for GLNG

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
VOL
LA
CY
LP

TD

Asia Pacific
Santos secures more gas for GLNG

Christine Forster
642 words
28 March 2014
Platts Oilgram News
PON
ISSN: 0163-1284, Volume 92, Issue 62
English
(c) 2014 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

Inks agreement with owners of Meridian CSG fields

Australia's Santos has secured more third-party gas to supply its Gladstone LNG project, signing a
binding heads of agreement with the owners of the Meridian coalseam gas fields in the eastern state of
Queensland.

The agreement will commence in 2015 for gas supply over a 20-year period, Santos said in a
statement Thursday. The price of the gas will be oil-linked from 2016.

The Meridian fields are a joint venture between operator and 51% holder WestSide Corporation and
Mitsui E&P Australia, with 49%. The fields have an installed compression capacity of 30 terajoules/day
of gas, but are currently producing at about 12 Tj/day.

"The terms of this agreement provide for the staged ramp up in volumes to match deliverability and
available financial resources to achieve an optimum economic outcome for the joint venturers," said
WestSide Managing Director Mike Hughes . He added that the agreement provided for future sales
volumes of up to 65 Tj/d.
"This contract is a company-maker which will transform WestSide into a significant gas producer,"
Hughes said. "A conservative development plan could see the Meridian joint venture supplying 40 Tj/d
by 2017, in which case WestSide's share of revenues over the contract term could significantly exceed
A$1 billion [$920 million]."
WestSide said stepping production up to this level over three years would require around A$40 million
in financing. Expansion to 65 Tj/day or more would require additional investment.

The gas is to be delivered into the GLNG pipeline which passes adjacent to the Meridian field. The
project will continue to supply the domestic gas market through its connection to the Queensland Gas
Pipeline.

GLNG 80% complete

GLNG's vice president of downstream Rod Duke said the project, which will have capacity to produce
7.8 million mt/year from two trains at its liquefaction facilities on Curtis Island in Gladstone, was
approaching 80% completion. The $18.5 billion project remains on schedule and budget for first LNG
in 2015, he added.

"Upstream field performance from Fairview and Roma continues to perform either in line or above
expectations," Duke said. "All of the gas transmission pipeline is now buried and work has commenced
on pushing the pipeline through the marine crossing tunnel, and the first train two module shipment left
the yard last week."

Duke added that the agreement with the Meridian joint venture would build on GLNG'S existing gas
supply portfolio, which includes gas from the GLNG acreage, underground storage, supply from

Page163of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Santos' portfolio and other third parties. GLNG has previously signed agreements for 750 Pj from
Santos' portfolio over a 15-year period, and for a total of up to 559 Pj from Origin Energy 's
Queensland acreage.

"When combined with GLNG's quality offtake agreements, this gas supply portfolio delivers significant
value to the project," Duke said.

Santos operates and holds 30% of GLNG. Its partners in the project are Malaysia's Petronas (27.5%),
French major Total (27.5%) and Korea Gas Corporation (15%).
Earlier this month, privately owned Chinese company Landbridge Group unveiled plans to make an
A$0.36/share off-market takeover offer for WestSide. Shandong province-based Landbridge's offer
values WestSide at A$160 million.
WestSide said its board had determined that entry into the gas sale agreement with Santos was a
"commercial imperative," delivering the central element of a business plan which was well publicized
prior to Landbridge's initial approach.
"Entry into this gas sale agreement provides the certainty that is lacking in Landbridge's conditional
proposal," WestSide added. "In addition, the board has considered the price included in Landbridge's
conditional proposal, and has formed the view that it is manifestly inadequate."

Christine Forster

CO
IN

NS

RE
IPD
PUB
AN

sants : Santos Ltd
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural
Gas/Oil Extraction
c184 : Joint Ventures | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Projects
The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Document PON0000020140425ea3s00001

Page164of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.