Victorian dairy company goes into receivership

Victorian dairy company goes into receivership

20 November 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) News
ABCNEW
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

By Helen Brown

HD
BY
WC 550 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

The parent company of a large milk processor, sold just earlier this year to foreign interests, has had the
receivers called in, raising questions about some of the investments being made in the red hot dairy
industry.
Corporate restructuring firm PPB has stepped in to run Five Star Foods, and put in a new manager to
oversee operations of its three United Dairy Power subsidiaries, which buy and process milk from farms
in Victoria and South Australia.

The new managing director Marcus Derwin told the ABC that he understands any nervousness, but it is
business as usual.
"I do know that fundamentally we've got a good business, it's been trading since 1999 and it has a strong
brand presence," he said.

Mr Derwin is organising regional meetings to further meet and talk with the roughly 150 farmers who
supply the company, and who are paid a premium for their fresh milk.
"I'm not aware of anyone jumping ship, which is great," he added.
The Melbourne-based business processes more than 200 million litres of milk a year into products
including cheese and butter.

Industry body the United Dairyfarmers of Victoria said its "major concern is that farmers continue to have
a place for their milk and keep getting paid."

"As far as we are able to ascertain, no-one is adversely affected at this point. But we are keeping an eye
on it," said UDV President Tyran Jones.
United Dairy Power was bought for $70 million in January by Hong Kong businessman William Hui, who
at the time said it could be a way to break into China's multi-billion-dollar powdered milk market.
Dairy ventures have been in hot demand by both domestic and overseas investors for their potential to
supply rising middle-class Asian markets, particularly in China, with several deals signed in the past few
years to supply dairy products, develop manufacturing plants or take over established businesses.

According to the UDV there are many large established companies who understand the industry, but the
receivership of Five Star Foods could serve "as a cautionary tale to those who want to rush in and
purchase a business they may not necessarily understand."
Dairy takeover frenzy continues
A large Chinese dairy and food producer is currently looking for investors for a new company that plans
to buy dairy farms, and build two new processing plants.
Speculation has been rife in Victoria's south-west dairy industry over the plan to acquire at least 50 farms
and launch a venture that would aim to capture a significant volume of the area's fresh milk production.

Page121of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It is the type of farm model that will arise, according to the UDV, as investors consider how to move into
the industry.

"The best models are slow, cautionary investment in collaborative models with people who understand the
local environment, economic and regulatory frameworks," said Mr Jones.
In the statement from PPB Advisory, which is overseeing the receivership of the parent company, partner
Greg Quinn said the priority had been to speak to all concerned and stabilise the business.

"This has been successfully achieved and we've been encouraged by the positive response from key
suppliers and customers of UDP," he said.

IN

i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i413 : Dairy Products | i0 :
Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

NS
RE
IPD UDV
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCNEW0020141120eabk0003g

Page122of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.