Joyce looks to China to make up for lost trade

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Joyce looks to China to make up for lost trade

Luke Malpass, Tim Binsted
760 words
9 August 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
4
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

TRADE SANCTIONS

Agriculture Minister Barnaby Joyce says Australian exporters can make up for lost Russian sales "in a
heartbeat" by increasing exports to China or Indonesia, but the dairy industry is less certain.

In response to criticism of Russia's handling of the MH17 disaster, Russia announced export sanctions
valued at $405 million, including a $158 million export ban announced in April.
The sanctions, to last a year, mainly affect beef, butter and nuts.Hides and skins, worth $44 million a
year along with sheep meat and horse meat, are not on the banned list.

Citing Russia's April ban on Australian beef, Senator Joyce said: "When we say it's not going to have
the effect everybody thinks, we are serious about it.
"Everything Russia doesn't use we'll sell to China in a heartbeat, and last night I was having dinner with
the Indonesians, it was the same deal. [They said] If you've got any spare stuff just give us a phone
call," he said.
"It's like a person who comes into your shop, once in a while with not a lot of money, and says, 'I'm not
coming here any more'. You don't dismiss it, you treat them as a client, you treat them with respect, but
you don't ring your bank manager either.

"The only people this ultimately hurts is the Russian consumer. The idea of having grocery stores with
only one product in it that no one could buy, I thought were over in Russia," he said.
Australia's burgeoning dairy trade to Russia will be hardest hit by import sanctions announced on
Thursday. Rival dairy exporter New Zealand escaped the sanctions entirely.
Russia has been a fast-growing, but volatile market for dairy products in the past few years, and is now
worth $112 million, 83 per cent of it butter. Although Russia accounts for only 3 per cent of dairy
exports, it took 46 per cent of Australian butter exports in 2013-14, according to Dairy Australia.
Bega Cheese chairman Barry Irvin said the impact the ban could have on global diary commodity
prices was worrying.
After China, Russia is the world's second-biggest importer of dairy products.

"It is a concern for the industry but the level of impact is difficult to assess," he said. "The ban has left
out New Zealand and that could present an opportunity for New Zealand."
The impact on Australia is difficult to measure, but European and American dairy products destined for
Russia will now be displaced into other markets, which may hurt prices.

Page97of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Gary Helou, managing director of Australia's biggest dairy exporter Murray Goulburn, said the ban was
another blow for the industry after the recent decline in dairy commodity prices. "Russia is a very
important market. It's disappointing and it's frustrating," he said.

Fonterra Australia said its exposure to Russia was "negligible".

"Fonterra Australia is part of a wider global network, accessing over 100 markets. We are monitoring
the situation closely - it's still early days," director of ingredients and operations Bruce Donnison said.

"When politicians play around in the market, it never works out well for anyone," the chairman of the
Federated Farmers of New Zealand dairy industry group, Andrew Hoggard, said.
The impact of the move was uncertain and the New Zealand dairy industry would certainly not be
thrilled about the development, he said.

The impact on sheep and beef is also expected to be negligible.

At the start of the year, Beef and Livestock Australia projected only 3000 tonnes of beef for the Russian
market out of a total of 1.5 million tonnes.

"We haven't sent any beef in any form to Russia since April," Meat and Livestock Australia chief
economist Mark McRaysaid.

"We've got markets that are clamouring for our product and paying high prices," Mr McRay said,
pointing out that while Russia was briefly a large market worth about 70,800 tonnes in 2008-09, other,
closer markets have emerged making Russia less important.

"The interesting thing will be the effects on global supply. Worst-case scenario: there is a glut of
products on international markets. It's a bit of a waiting game," he said.

"Any disruption to export markets is a concern to the sector. That said, there is high demand for high
quality, safe product," said Tony Maher, National Farmers Federation general manager of policy.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

c312 : External Markets | gtrade : Tariffs/Trade Barriers | gesanc : International Sanctions | c31 :
Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News |
gcat : Political/General News | gdip : International Relations | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat
: Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
russ : Russia | austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eeurz : Central/Eastern Europe |
eurz : Europe | ussrz : CIS Countries
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140808ea8900036

Page98of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.