Rinehart protege flies coop for PNG start-up

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Rinehart protege flies coop for PNG start-up

Amanda Saunders
609 words
30 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
21
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Mining  Hancock coal boss Paul Mulder is off to try his luck at a new iron sands, coal, and
copper-gold play in PNG.

It was a long-dormant entrepreneurial streak that led Gina Rinehart protege Paul Mulder to leave the
helm of the mining magnate's coal and infrastructure businesses to lead a resources start-up in
Papua New Guinea.

A consortium of Asian investors agreed to back the privately owned iron sands, coal and
copper-gold play Mayur Resources on the condition that Mr Mulder be installed as chief, banking
industry sources say.

Mr Mulder, 38, was made managing director last week. Since taking the helm, he has been in Asia
to drum up more interest in Mayur.

"People know smart money follows the fund manager not the fund," he says. When asked about the
risk of operating in PNG, Mr Mulder said local authorities had been "accommodating of the business
so far" and "the media plays up stories of violence and political instability".

"This lazy and confused journalism ultimately leaves more opportunity for those entrepreneurial
groups that can see through this," he said.

Mayur is fully funded, but Mr Mulder is trying to broaden the share registry to include prospective
customers and traders.
He is spruiking Mayur as a low-cost producer, with the potential to create a new mining "province" in
PNG: "The question I'm asking is: Where else do you see an asset on the coast, near China, that
needs no infrastructure, with iron ore at 58 to 61 [per cent grade] and coal that is literally sticking
out of the ground?"

In a dig at start-ups that ramp production early on, Mr Mulder said he planned to start production
slowly, and was targeting an annual rate of one million tonnes of iron sands product in 2016.

Mr Mulder was group managing director of Ms Rinehart's private vehicle Hancock Prospecting, and
spent almost seven years with the firm. Before that he was at BHP Billiton for 14 years.

He said Ms Rinehart was "years ahead of the curve" and her leadership style was "direct, nimble
and adaptable".

"Gina keeps it lean and that provides a flat, clearer level of accountability."
She had earned her success, contrary to the labelling of her as an "iron ore heiress".

Page49of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."You don't generate that type of wealth and success by accident, particularly when originally the
odds were against you.

"Having seen things from the inside I know Gina amassed the real Hancock fortune after her father's
passing."

Mr Mulder says working as an executive for Ms Rinehart saw him "gain skills very few asset
presidents or CEOs in a blue chip resources house would even get."
He has spent the past two years running the $15 billion Alpha and Kevin's Corner coal, rail and port
projects in the Galilee Basin, after Ms Rinehart sold a majority project stake to Indian's GVK. He
stayed on until the bulk project approvals were won.

"I've always had an entrepreneurial side but its been about waiting for the right time [to leave]," he
said.
Mayur, a diversified iron sands, zircon coal and copper-gold play – has one of the largest tenement
holdings in PNG, stretching 30,000 square metres and abutting the coast.
Mr Mulder is pitching Mayur as a play to establish two new bulk commodity industries in PNG – coal
and iron ore sands and zircon. The group's copper and gold exploration rights include one "right
next door" to Lihir Island, home to Newcrest's largest gold asset.

IN
RE
PUB
AN

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140529ea5u0002h

Page50of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.