Newcrest Mining Cuts Hundreds of Jobs in Papua New Guinea

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Newcrest Mining Cuts Hundreds of Jobs in Papua New Guinea

By Rhiannon Hoyle
721 words
23 April 2014
16:03
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

SYDNEY-- Newcrest Mining Ltd. said it cut hundreds of jobs in Papua New Guinea in a push toward
austerity. The decision comes after the company launched a raft of cost-cutting projects across its
operations last quarter.
The Melbourne-based gold miner, one of the world's biggest, said it cut 208 jobs across a range of
roles at its Lihir site from January to March. Newcrest said it also eliminated another 32 vacant roles at
the site, its most expensive to operate.

Newcrest pinned its 11% drop in third-quarter gold production on maintenance work at sites including
Lihir and Cadia East in eastern Australia.

Newcrest's priority is now on bolstering cash flow, "not maximizing production ounces," said Chief
Executive Greg Robinson.

Some of the world's largest resources companies, including BHP Billiton Ltd. and Anglo American PLC,
have been cutting spending, shelving major projects and looking to run existing operations harder after
pledging better capital discipline after years of heavy investment in new mines. This has resulted in
hefty job cuts across the industry.
Commodity prices from coal to gold slumped as mine supply increased, the U.S. moved to tighten
monetary policy and economic growth in China cooled.

Newcrest has curbed spending over the past 18 months, which included closing its Brisbane office in
Australia's Queensland state. This came after a sudden halt to a more-than-decadelong bull run for the
gold market. Spot gold prices are currently down about 25% from 2013's highs.
In February, Newcrest reported a slide in first-half net profit--to 40 million Australian dollars (US$37
million) from the A$323 million in the same period a year earlier--as it posted write downs against
exploration assets and extra tax charges tied to research and development.
"I think there is more room for us to move," said Mr. Robinson of the company's ability to cut costs
further, on a call Wednesday with analysts and investors. He said the Lihir mine would be a focus for
cash savings and productivity improvements in the period ahead.
It costs the company A$1,344 an ounce to sustain operations at Lihir, compared with A$875 an ounce
at its Telfer mine in Australia, and A$381 an ounce at its Cadia Valley site.

Newcrest separately confirmed Mr. Robinson would stand down in early July, and will be replaced by
Sandeep Biswas. The former Rio Tinto PLC executive joined Newcrest as chief operating officer in
January with the expectation he would take over Mr. Robinson's role in the latter half of 2014.
Shares in the company were recently up 1.5%, outperforming a 0.5% rise in the broader S&P/ASX
200. While third-quarter gold output fell to 551,590 ounces from 621,125 last quarter, production was
still up 7% compared with a year earlier.

Page8of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The company also stuck to earlier estimates that gold output would reach the higher end of its
2.0-million ounce to 2.3 million-ounce guidance range this fiscal year.

Still, some fund managers are cautious. "Its balance sheet remains quite constrained, burdened by too
much debt, and some of its major assets are simply being run for cash generation, which I believe is a
very short-term approach," said Ben Lyons, a Sydney-based portfolio manager at ATI Asset
Management, who sold his fund's holdings in Newcrest about 18 months ago.

In its half-year report in February, Newcrest said its operational cash flow had nearly halved, while
debt-to-equity level jumped above 30% from 17% in the same period a year earlier.

Write to Rhiannon Hoyle at rhiannon.hoyle@wsj.com

Corrections & Amplifications

This story was corrected at 0652 GMT. The original incorrectly said Chief Executive Greg Robinson
spoke with investors and analysts on a call last Wednesday. The call was this Wednesday.
23 Apr 2014 02:36 ET Correction to Newcrest Mining Story
"Newcrest Mining Cuts Hundreds of Jobs in Papua New Guinea," at 0538 GMT, incorrectly said Chief
Executive Greg Robinson spoke with investors and analysts on a call last Wednesday. The call was
this Wednesday.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

April 23, 2014 02:36 ET (06:36 GMT)

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

newmoh : Newcrest Mining Ltd
i22472 : Precious Metals | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals |
ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining
c41 : Management Issues | c411 : Management Moves | c42 : Labor/Personnel Issues | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | cslmc : Senior Level Management | ncmac : Commodities Asset Class
News | ncrx : Corrected Items | nenac : Energy Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News
| credun : Lay-offs/Redundancies | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E
Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | papng : Papua New Guinea | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | dvpcoz
: Developing Economies | pacisz : Pacific Islands
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document DJDN000020140423ea4n000kv

Page9of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.