BHP Billiton Vows to Focus on Investor Returns

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
ED
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
BHP Billiton Vows to Focus on Investor Returns

By Rhiannon Hoyle
754 words
20 November 2014
13:20
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

ADELAIDE, Australia—BHP Billiton Ltd. sought to reassure investors of its commitment to boosting
cash returns even amid tumbling commodity prices, as shareholders who have endured years of heavy
investments in new projects demand higher paybacks from the world’s No. 1 mining company.

Still, at BHP’s annual general meeting here, Chief Executive Andrew Mackenzie knocked hopes of a
near-term share buyback—a move that many investors want to be a key part of its
capital-management strategy.

Resources companies world-wide, including BHP and Anglo-Australian rival Rio Tinto PLC, have taken
to shedding unwanted assets and driving downs costs to strengthen their balance sheets, in a bid to
entice investors with the promise of higher returns at the tail-end of a decadelong mining-investment
boom.

BHP said it was meanwhile charging ahead with a spinoff of businesses, including aluminum and
manganese operations, into a new company that could be worth as much as US$18 billion. It hopes
the demerger will enable it to focus on large, profitable operations like copper and petroleum.

“Everything we’re doing, including productivity accelerated by the demerger, is aimed at increasing
cash returns to you, our shareholders,” Mr. Mackenzie told investors at the AGM on Thursday. The
company said it would hold an extraordinary general meeting in May so that shareholders could vote
on the demerger plan.

Mr. Mackenzie said a buyback of shares wasn’t the top priority for his management team right now.
Speaking to reporters later, he said the key focus was to keep the company’s balance sheet
strong—which included maintaining what he described as its solid A credit rating in the face of the
recent downturn in commodity prices.

“Then we look after what we think is a strong dividend, then we selectively invest in what we have for
growth, and only then if we can see excess cash might we consider that,” Mr. Mackenzie added.
“People can debate that, but our priorities are in that order.”
BHP said it had already returned US$64 billion to investors through dividends and buybacks over the
past decade, although it had disappointed investors in August when it failed to outline plans to
repurchase stock. UBS said recently that it didn’t expect any such buyback until at least the middle of
next year given the steep commodity-price falls. Iron ore, which accounts for around half of BHP’s
earnings, has plunged by close to 50% this year.

Other analysts are even more pessimistic on the chances of an imminent buyback. “Without
commodity prices going higher than expected, BHP is likely to underwhelm from a capital returns
perspective,” Christopher LaFemina, an equity analyst at U.S. brokerage Jefferies, said last month.
Global commodity markets have been roiled by a rising U.S. dollar and concern China’s economy is
cooling faster than anticipated. The world’s No. 2 economy has been losing momentum—with growth

Page134of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.in investment, factory production, exports and retail sales all slowing in October. The economy grew by
7.3% year-over-year in the third quarter, the slowest pace in more than five years.
Mr. Mackenzie said BHP continued to make a decent profit despite the weaker prices. “Our company
is ready for this. We have a very strong strategy of productivity, which allows us to effectively follow
this price down and look after its profitability,” he told reporters.

Still, Mr. Mackenzie said he couldn’t predict exactly what BHP would do with any spare cash in a
fast-moving industry where commodity prices were so volatile. He said decisions would have to be
made “in real time.”
BHP isn’t the only mining company promising to boost returns to investors. Last month, Rio Tinto told
shareholders that the slump in iron-ore prices wouldn’t stop the company giving more cash back to
investors starting from next year.
In August, Glencore PLC said it would buy back US$1 billion of its own shares, and signaled that it
was prioritizing cash returns to shareholders over any major new investments. The Switzerland-based
resources company said it was able to do so partly because of the US$7 billion it received from
selling the Las Bambas copper mine in Peru.
BHP’s chairman, Jac Nasser, said the Melbourne-based company had made good progress in recent
weeks toward plans for the demerger, which included getting regulatory approval from Australia’s
foreign-investment regulator.

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | rtz : Rio Tinto PLC | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC | craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
cspin : Spin-offs | cshbuy : Share Buybacks | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c02 : Corporate
Changes | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c17 : Funding/Capital | c171 : Share Capital | c18 : Ownership
Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio : Corporate Actions | cncc : New Companies
Creation | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
adelai : Adelaide | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | saustr : South Australia | austr :
Australia
Asian Business News
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document WSJO000020141120eabj0000y

CO
IN
NS

RE

IPD
PUB
AN

Page135of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.