Short-sighted politicians just selling off the farm

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Short-sighted politicians just selling off the farm

387 words
31 January 2014
Townsville Bulletin
TOWNBU
Townsville
33
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE ABC Indonesia correspondent George Roberts has recently reported that Indonesians have
been directed by their government, to buy a million square kilometres of prime grazing and farm land
in Northern Australia.
Having developed a taste for our beef, and tired of trying to do business with Australia, the
Indonesian government has acted to ensure the supply of food is secured for their people.

Millions of square kilometres of prime country will now benefit Indonesian interests instead of
Australia’s.

Forward thinking governments (unlike our own) are acting to combat any hint of food shortages, by
making sure they have land tied up that can produce food for the next generations.
The proposal is only in the planning stages, however, we have recently seen China buy our biggest
cotton farm, as well as buying up sugar cane farms right up and down the east coast.
We are watching our future being sold off to the highest bidder so a politician can get re-elected next
term.

The politicians are trying to outdo each other in a rush to offer voters the “most” at the next election.
When the cupboard is bare, when the last vital asset has been sold off to offset debt, what will be left
to call “our country” then?

Our future generations will be fed a diet of second-rate imported food, from questionable sources,
while the prime food will go overseas to the hungry mouths of other countries.

These countries recognise the necessity of food.

The average age of our farmers is above 65, with skill shortages already having far-reaching effects
on productivity in rural areas.

Massive green tape (that other trading countries do not have to contend with), bad tax systems,
duopoly supermarkets killing our farm incomes and ignorance of Aussie consumers of the truth about
food production is spelling the end of the man on the land.

We have insulted and pushed our biggest neighbour into self sufficiency at our own loss.

Jenny Brown and her band of vegetarians are as short sighted as our governments. Our farmers are
suffering as never before. Jenny you are right about one thing, the next generation will judge us;
harshly I fear, when they cannot get fresh milk or fresh anything.

DEBRA GIBSON,Pinnacles

NS

gpol : Domestic Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations

Page164of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

PUB
AN

indon : Indonesia | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
News Ltd.
Document TOWNBU0020140203ea1v00044

Page165of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.