Banyan Tree branching out into serviced apartments

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Banyan Tree branching out into serviced apartments

LISA ALLEN, property
462 words
6 June 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
23
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

LUXURY Singapore hotelier Banyan Tree has branched out from five-star opulence to serviced
apartments, announcing yesterday a new low-cost brand designed for properties it plans to build on
the Gold Coast, in Brisbane and parts of Asia.
Banyan Tree’s new serviced apartment brand, Cassia, will offer one and two-bedroom units and will
compete with existing serviced apartment brands in Australia such as Quest, Meriton and Oaks.

Banyan Tree founder and executive chairman Ho Kwon Ping spent this week in Brisbane hunting for
sites to build a serviced apartment complex, confirming yesterday that he would bid for up to three
sites.
But Banyan Tree’s plans are more advanced on the Gold Coast, with the group recently buying a site
on The Esplanade for a $US100 million ($107.7m) serviced apartment tower of up to 200 rooms.
Depending on planning approvals, Banyan Tree might also build a couple of penthouses atop the
tower that it will also sell off.

“We are looking at Brisbane because we can’t find anything in Sydney and Melbourne. We seem to be
a little bit late in the game,” Mr Ho told The Australian yesterday.

“Since we are already committed to the Gold Coast it would make sense from an overall project point
of view to have one in Brisbane and one on the Gold Coast — there would be synergies. We think the
serviced apartment space is seriously underwhelming right now and seriously under-serviced, bland
and boring.” Mr Ho plans to sell the serviced apartments to investors, saying this business model is
appropriate for the high operating costs in Australia.
“The serviced apartment sector has not to date seen the kinds of innovation in design and services
that even the low-cost pure hotel space has seen,” he said.

The serviced apartments Banyan Tree is planning on the Gold Coast will be aimed at the leisure
traveller. Whether the Brisbane development would be aimed at business or leisure travellers
depended on which site the company bought, Mr Ho said.

Five Cassia projects are already in development in Phuket, Thailand; Bintan, Indonesia; Beruwala, Sri
Lanka; Lijiang, China and Australia’s Gold Coast. Interest has been strong, with 70 per cent of Phuket
and 45 per cent of Bintan being sold in phase one.
Banyan Tree is not the first major hotelier to branch into lower-cost accommodation. US hotel giant
Starwood launched its Aloft Hotels brand in 2008 and will open its 60th hotel in North America this
year.Quest, Oaks and Meriton presently dominate the serviced apartment sector, which has
undergone rapid growth — particularly among corporate travellers in the past few years because it is a
cheaper alternative to hotel stays.

IN

i5010022 : Residential Building Construction | i501 : Building Construction | iconst : Construction | icre
: Real Estate/Construction

Page165of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS
RE

PUB
AN

ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140605ea660003v

Page166of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.