'ANGEL MONEY' WINGING IN FROM ASIAN INVESTORS

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

'ANGEL MONEY' WINGING IN FROM ASIAN INVESTORS

By CATHERINE HARRIS
645 words
21 September 2014
Sunday Star-Times
SUNSTT
18
English
© 2014 Fairfax New Zealand Limited. All Rights Reserved.

NEW ZEALAND'S rock star economy is only part of the reason why the country is seeing a flood of
overseas investment come into the country, the Property Council's chief executive Connal Townsend
believes.
The influence of overseas investment in property markets was one of the key themes of a sold-out
Property Council national conference in Wellington recently. While much of the comment was about
Chinese investment, Townsend said Germans, Indonesian, Malaysian and other Asians were also
very active in New Zealand commercial property at present.

Their interest appeared to be as much about New Zealand's risk profile as its robust economy.
The recent sale of Auckland's Lumley centre to German investment fund Deka Immobilien, for $146
million was a good example, Townsend said.
While commercial property in New Zealand is averaging total returns of just over 11 per cent, the
political situation in Europe was another possible factor. "From the Ukraine to Germany is not a large
distance and I suppose . . . certain European investment is coming to New Zealand trying to find a
safe- haven because it is perceived to be low risk."
Diversification also appeared to be the reason why strong economies like Indonesia and the Chinese
were in our market, said Townsend.
The Chinese were "very much concerned about the high level of debt that is in the Chinese economy
and they're just seeking to spread their options".

Other speakers included Jeff Kennett, a former premier of Victoria state. He warned that New Zealand
and Australia were benefiting from the growth of Asia's middle-class but it also made us vulnerable.
"People in China, I believe, are starting to read the tea leaves and they're trying to move some of their
money offshore very quickly indeed and they're prepared to pay prices that are substantially above the
odds."
Australia was experiencing a boom in residential high-rises and many of the units were being built
specifically for the Chinese, Kennett said. The problem was, the apartments were very small and
Australians were unlikely to buy them if they were put back on the market.
Kennett likened Australia's situation to that of the gambling island of Macau, which would close
"overnight" if China shut its borders.

"My great fear is that they may do that with wealth leaving the country and if they do that, Australia,
and to a lesser degree New Zealand, is going to be substantially squeezed."
However, David Mahon, a long- time New Zealand resident in China, said he felt much of the concern
in New Zealand over Chinese buyers was being fuelled by politicians.

Page171of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mahan, who now runs a private equity firm and helps firms enter China, said many Westerners were
still coming to grips with the centre of the world's economy shifting to North Asia. As a result, China
was often portrayed as a threat.
But the Chinese had been through hard times and it was no surprise that they wanted to improve their
lives.

They would continue to come to New Zealand to live and invest and he urged the audience to try and
understand China better as they could go elsewhere for most things.
"I think New Zealanders don't understand that it is not a handful of Chinese buyers of houses and
buyers of agricultural assets that are making it difficult to own our own properties."
Speaking for the commercial property sector, Townsend said foreign investment was something of a
godsend. There had been a constant shortage of capital in the country's development sector after
mezzanine finance "dried up with the crash in 2008".

Thus, developers were quite desperate to see investment money coming into the country to keep the
industry going.

"So we do see overseas investment as angel money with wings, really."

CO
IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

dgdk : DekaBank Deutsche Girozentrale
i814 : Banking | i81403 : Savings Institutions | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
gcat : Political/General News
china : China | nz : New Zealand | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax New Zealand Limited
Document SUNSTT0020140920ea9l0006z

Page172of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.