Fears $15m visa will inflate house prices

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Fears $15m visa will inflate house prices

Agnes King, Su-Lin Tan and Lisa Murray
525 words
16 October 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
10
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Advisers have cheered the creation of a $15 million fast track to permanent residency for wealthy
foreigners, in a move by the Abbott government to harness Asia's wealth to boost economic growth
and job creation.

They said it puts Australia on the front foot in the competition for rich investors looking to safeguard
their wealth in stable offshore markets.

"Australia competes with many countries for high net wealth migrants, making it an attractive
prospect is in the national interest," migration lawyer Alan Rigas said.

The premium investor visa program, announced on Tuesday as part of the government's
competitiveness agenda, gives permanent residency to applicants investing $15 million in certain
assets after 12 months.
"The changes can only lead to more investment," Prosperity Fountainguard Advisers' Luke Malone
said, who led a nine city investor roadshow throughout China in June.

Fountainguard has a second investor delegation currently en route to Shanghai, where it will present
to more than 20 individuals looking to invest up to $20 million each. He said the visa, available from
July 2015, will be "highly attractive" to this group.

But business migration agent John Findley feared much of this investment will be attracted to
property assets. It will drive up prices, which many, including billionaireLang Walker, said are
already inflated by a flood of Chinese developers.
"The likelihood of the $15 million going into property is very real and very high," said Mr
Findley.Investment choices to broad

He said investment choices for compliant funds are too wide and the government should direct it
towards infrastructure, or new investment in small and medium businesses.
NSW recently scrapped the requirement for significant investor visa applicants to park $1.5 million
into low yield Waratah Bonds.

As part of the changes announced on Tuesday, Austrade will be handed responsibility for drawing up
the list of complying investments.

While details are yet to be released, the government has indicated compliant investments will align to
five sectors earmarked for growth: food, agri-business, mining technology and services, gas and
energy resources, medical technology and pharmaceuticals, and advanced manufacturing.

Page80of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Latest figures show that to July 1 2014, the federal government has granted 286 significant investor
visas, out of a total of 1027 applications, bringing $1.4 billion worth of foreign investment. Most
came from China.

The significant investor visa program, which began in 2012, grants permanent residency to
foreigners who invest a minimum of $5 million in prescribed assets after four years. A review by the
department of immigration found other countries with similar investor visa programs "have less
onerous application criteria and processing requirements".

The government wants to "target premium investors more effectively", and streamline the
administration of the program. It also wants to "diversify the sources of investors" under the program,
while maintaining safeguards to ensure it is not abused.Safe haven risk
Basis Point managing director David Chin said investment from China has only just begun.
"Research indicates that 5 per cent of the wealth of Chinese high net worth individuals was allocated
outside of China.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

e1101 : Economic Growth | e1121 : Home Sales/Housing Affordability | emhpr : Housing Prices | e11
: Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | ereal : Real Estate Markets
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141015eaag0003l

Page81of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.