Singapore’s Banyan bull keen to get back on block

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PrimeSpace
Singapore’s Banyan bull keen to get back on block

LISA ALLEN, Resorts
645 words
29 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
30
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Exclusive SINGAPOREAN luxury resort owners will visit Brisbane and the Gold Coast in the next few
weeks, declaring the time is ripe to buy and develop opulent hotels and serviced apartments in
southeast Queensland.

Ho Kwon Ping, a journalist turned hotelier who founded Banyan Tree Hotels and Resorts, which
controls more than 130 properties including hotels, spas, golf courses and retail galleries from Mexico
to the Seychelles, will scour Brisbane and the Gold Coast for sites for the brand, which seeks to
re-establish itself in Australia.

But the executive chairman of Banyan Tree, worth about $US345 million ($372m), according to
Forbes, has dismissed talk of buying two heritage-listed sandstone buildings slated for a hotel
conversion in Sydney — even though the properties in the heart of the financial district have attracted
international interest, particularly from Asian groups.

“In a place like Australia where renovation costs are very high we try to stay away from heritage
buildings,” Mr Ho told The Australian. “People always end up with a lot of unpleasant surprises. We are
experienced hoteliers (but) we are just beginning to learn about regulations in Australia.’’ Mr Ho is
more bullish on new builds. He has just bought a site on the Gold Coast for a $US100m 40-level hotel
and serviced apartment tower of up to 150 keys, which Banyan Tree will fund via bank financing and
equity.
And he is looking for more sites. “We are likely to come out in the next few weeks on the Gold Coast
and Brisbane around that area (to look for more sites.) “I have been looking very hard in Sydney (but) I
have turned down a number of sites there.” In a surprise move, the opulent new build on the Gold
Coast, the first luxury resort property to be built in southeast Queensland since the global financial
crisis, will not be branded a Banyan Tree.
Mr Ho revealed the company would soon announce a new global brand. Along with properties being
built in Phuket, Indonesia’s Bintan Island, Sri Lanka and China, the Gold Coast property will be
launched under a yet-to-be-revealed new moniker.
“We will use this new Gold Coast property as one of the anchors for a new brand we are announcing
on June 5,” Mr Ho said. “We want to have a critical mass of four or five (hotel projects) before we
announce the brand and the project itself.

“It will be a sister brand to Banyan Tree, it will be very design-oriented … but it is going to be quite
different (from Banyan Tree), otherwise why roll out a new project?” Banyan Tree is presently
designing the Gold Coast hotel and serviced apartments and knows the local council is about to
launch a new development plan.

“We will be applying when the plan is approved,” Mr Ho said. Banyan Tree started developing in the
inner-Sydney suburb of Leichhardt several years ago.

Page120of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In February, it sold the Angsana Resort and Spa Great Barrier Reef at Palm Cove to a consortium of
suite owners.

It was also continuing to negotiate to acquire a management contract for a resort in Western
Australia’s scenic Margaret River region, a deal flagged by The Australian last year, Mr Ho confirmed.

“We don’t own anything (built resorts) in Australia, we want to come back into the market — we think
the timing is pretty good,” Mr Ho said.

Meanwhile, the NSW government continues to field interest in the sandstone buildings in Sydney’s
Bridge Street.Singapore’s Royal Group, the US-based Travel Corporation and Eureka Funds
Management are said to be jockeying for the buildings in the city’s financial district. The state
government received 42 registrations of interest to buy the Lands Building and the Education Building.

IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

ihotel : Hotel Construction | i501 : Building Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real
Estate/Construction
gtour : Travel | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | queensl : Queensland | singp : Singapore | sydney : Sydney |
apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales | seasiaz :
Southeast Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140528ea5t000bv

Page121of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.