Rio Tinto shines in grim week for ASX

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Market Wrap
Rio Tinto shines in grim week for ASX

Equities Sally Rose
567 words
9 August 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
41
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Australian investors followed global markets sharply lower on Friday after United States President
Barack Obama authorised air strikes on Iraq. After ending the week with a 1.3 per cent fall, the
Australian equity market has lost 3.6 per cent over the past six sessions, shedding $40.5 billion in
value.

The S&P/ASX 200 Index lost 2.2 per cent to 5435.3 points for the week, in what was the worst week
for the local sharemarket since March.

It was early December the last time the market suffered a six-day losing streak, just before the US
Federal Reserve started reducing its stimulus.

If Aussie shares fall for a seventh consecutive session on Monday, it will be the market's longest
losing streak since an eight-day run of falls in July 2010.

"News that the US ordered air strikes on Iraq just added to the geopolitical risks coming from Ukraine
and Gaza that have seen volatility return to the market as investors awaken from their complacency,"
Quest Asset Partners portfolio manager Michael Evans said. In domestic news, the Reserve Bank of
Australia elected on Tuesday to keep the official cash rate at its record-low 2.5 per cent for the 12th
month in a row.

The decision was widely expected, but after jobs numbers for July released by the Australian Bureau
of Statistics on Thursday showed unemployment at a 12-year high of 6.4 per cent, traders upped their
bets that the RBA will cut rates this year.Expectations high for results season

The big four bank stocks, which have enjoyed a two-year rally amid record-low interest rates, all
moved at least 3 per cent lower over the week. Citing concern about credit growth amid high
unemployment, Bell Potter strategist Charlie Aitken advised clients on Friday to sell the big banks and
reinvest in cheaper stocks.

Among other major industrial blue-chip stocks, Telstra Corporation fell 0.9 per cent to $5.39 over the
week. In retail, Woolworths lost 2.2 per cent to $35.67, and Wesfarmers, owner of Coles, shed 2 per
cent to $42.44.
Company reporting season delivered mixed results. On Friday, real estate website operator REA
Group dropped 8.7 per cent to $42.78, despite meeting expectations with a 37 per cent surge in
underlying net profit.

"With the market's price-to-earnings ratio above average, expectations for results season are high,"
Mr Evans said. "Meeting guidance is unlikely to be enough to boost stock prices, and the focus will
really be on looking for stronger outlook statements."

Page99of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.A reporting season highlight was Rio Tinto. Australia's biggest exporter of iron ore climbed 1.6 per
cent over the week to $66.43, with investors delighted with blockbuster half-yearly earnings and the
prospect of bigger capital returns early next year.

Main rival BHP Billiton fell 1.7 per cent over the week to $37.74. The resources giant is widely tipped
to meet guidance when it reports later in the month.
The spot price for iron ore, delivered in Beijing, rose four sessions in a row to $96. However, when
the ASX closed on Friday, futures traders in China were tipping a fall overnight that would wipe out
the past week's gains.

fed : Federal Reserve Board | rtzcra : Rio Tinto Group
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | m11 : Equity Markets | c15 : Performance | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North
America
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140808ea890001h

CO
IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page100of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.