OPERATION ASIAN SALVATION

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Lifestyle
OPERATION ASIAN SALVATION

JESSICA IRVINE
1,022 words
5 April 2014
Daily Telegraph
DAITEL
Telegraph
62
English
Copyright 2014 News Ltd. All Rights Reserved

Australia is sending a high-powered business delegation to asia. much rests on the outcomes, writes
JESSICA IRVINE Less than two years ago, a slimmed down and newly focussed James Packer fronted
a conference discussing “Australia in China’s Century” and shared a public lament.
“There is a perception, whether fair or unfair, within China that Australia is, for want of a better
description, a less grateful friend than it should be,” said the head of Crown Group, which owns a stake
in casinos in Macau.

Fellow billionaire and head of Seven Group Holdings, Kerry Stokes, was similarly worried.

The decision by the Gillard government to host US troops in Darwin had sent a hostile message to
Australia’s biggest trading partner, China, said Stokes, whose interests include a company which sells
Caterpillar trucks and equipment in northeast China.
This weekend, both businessmen — along with fellow billionaire and mining magnate Andrew Forrest,
whose Fortsecue Metals Group has shipped more than 27 million tonnes of iron ore to China — will
join Prime Minister Tony Abbott on a high-level business delegation to Asia.

Designed to smooth the diplomatic waters and open doors to greater trade, it will be the biggest
business delegation we have ever sent to the region.
More than 600 Australian business people will make the trip which will include Japan, South Korea and
China. All seven state Premiers will also make the trip, along with a cacophony of corporate captains
including, BHP Billiton CEO Andrew Mackenzie, Orica’s Ian Smith, Westpac’s Gail Kelly,
Commonwealth Bank’s Ian Narev and ANZ’s Mike Smith.
The head of the Business Council of Australia, Jennifer Westacott, says it will be the most important
trade mission in living memory.

“I don’t think you can underestimate just how much of a signal it sends to our trading partners when the
PM turns up with a major business delegation with extremely senior people and premiers of all our
state governments,” she said.

“Nothing can send a more powerful message than this type of delegation.” It’s not hard to see why
Australia’s billionaires have China on the brain. China’s demand for our mineral exports has fuelled an
unprecedented rise in our living standards over the next decade.
As the mining boom winds down, Asia’s burgeoning middle classes are now seen as the next big
business opportunity.
More than a billion people will join the ranks of the global middle class in the coming decade — most of
them in Asia.

Page277of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.They’ll want more beef, milk, cheese, wine and financial services as they rise out of poverty and into
prosperity. And the businesses on Abbott’s delegation will want to sell it to them.
Says Westacott: “It is important there is a strong business contingent to make it really clear to Asian
countries, in particular China, that we are open for business. We see this relationship as hugely
important to Australia’s trade and investment opportunities and to our broader prosperity.” Boosting
trade is what this mission is all about.

Next Tuesday, Abbott will sign a free-trade agreement with Australia’s fourth largest trading partner —
South Korea — the first of what he hopes will be a trifecta of deals in the region.

By slicing tariff barriers, the Korea deal will boost trade and investment between the two countries and is
expected to create 1000 extra Aussie jobs every year.
Australian beef, dairy and fruit and vegetable growers will benefit as their products become cheaper to
Korean consumers.

And Australian consumers too will benefit as tariffs drop on imported Korean cars, clothing and
electronic goods.
Abbott hopes to unlock these benefits from deals with Japan and China. But substantial progress is
unlikely.
The China deal has already been nine years in the negotiating. China wants greater access for foreign
direct investment into Australia — a thorny issue for the Coalition’s Nationals partners.

Securing some sort of progress on this and the Japan deal will be important if this trip is to be deemed a
success.

Another test will be how Abbott handles the tense relationships between Asian nations.

Abbotts’ declaration early in his Prime Ministership that Japan was “Australia’s best friend in Asia”
caused offence in both Beijing and Seoul.

Abbott may want to talk about trade, but trade and geopolitics are inseparable. So what will success
from this trip look like?

First, and most obviously, Abbott must survive the trip without making any diplomatic faux pas and
adding strength to all three relationships.
Second, he must securing some kind of success on trade negotiations. “Obviously business will be
looking for progress on free trade agreements,” says Westacott. Negotiations are further along in Tokyo
than in Beijing, but beef exports remain a sticking point.

But, ultimately, says Westacott, the success of this trip will be in the relationships forged not just at a
government level, but on a business to business level.
So will the success of this trip be measured in banquets and bottles of wine consumed?

It’s a suggestion Westacott rejects.

“I don’t think it’s just a big talkfest,” she says. “It gives real momentum to those free trade deals and
that’s really what opens the doors. I don’t think you can put a dollar figure on it, but the benefits to
Australia come from the bilateral business to business deals that flow.” Back at home, the trip has
already been a success with the business community. “It’s certainly warmly welcomed by the business
community, who feel very much they’re being taken seriously as a part of this mission,” says Westacott.
“I don’t think we have seen for a long time such a strong commitment to bring the business community
to the table for this.” Almost as important will be the “quality time” business will get to spend with the
Prime Minister while abroad, Westacott adds.“We have been very impressed with the Prime Ministers’
commitment to this business delegation. It’s about business and government working collectively to
improve Australia’s position,’’ she says.

NS
RE

e512 : Physical Trade | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

Page278of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

News Ltd.
Document DAITEL0020140404ea4500054

Page279of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.