ACCC clears Wilmar bid for Goodman

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
ACCC clears Wilmar bid for Goodman

Sue Mitchell
233 words
26 September 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
29
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Takeovers
Singapore oils trader Wilmar International and Hong Kong investment company First Pacific have
cleared the first regulatory hurdle in their $1.3 billion takeover of bread and spreads maker Goodman
Fielder.

The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission said on Thursday it would not oppose the
acquisition, even though it would increase Wilmar's share of the edible oils market to more than 50
per cent.

Goodman Fielder is Australia's largest supplier of branded packaged edible oils including salad
dressings, cooking oils and table spreads, with brands including Meadow Lea, Crisco, Gold'n Canola
and ETA. Wilmar refines and packs edible oils overseas and supplies them to supermarkets, which sell
them under private label brands.
Goodman Fielder is estimated to have about 52 per cent of branded edible oil sales, while private label
oils account for between 55 and 60 per cent of sales.
The acquisition would give Wilmar more than 50 per cent of packaged edible oil sales.
The ACCC was concerned that, as a result of the acquisition, Wilmar and Goodman would be in a
position to raise prices. After making market inquiries, the ACCC decided that Wilmar and Goodman
would continue to be competitively constrained by existing and potential suppliers.

Goodman shares have been trading at a discount to the offer price, at about 62.5¢.

CO
IN
RE

PUB
AN

fdgl : Goodman Fielder Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods
austr : Australia | hkong : Hong Kong | singp : Singapore | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | china : China | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | seasiaz :
Southeast Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140925ea9q0004v

Page4of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.