Rosehill design draws top price

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Rosehill design draws top price

Sales wrap Mercedes Ruehl
487 words
15 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
45
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Craig & Co Pty Ltd has purchased a 3125-square-metre residential development site in Sydney's
Rosehill from a private vendor for $8.5 million. The site, at 9-11 Weston Street, is directly to the west
of Rosehill Gardens Racecourse, in the increasingly popular residential suburb of Rosehill. The
property is about a kilometre from the M4 Motorway and 1.6 kilometres from Victoria Road.
Numerous bus routes operate in the area and Rosehill train station is about 280 metres away.
The property is DA approved for 68 apartments and a single level of basement parking, with the
construction of a part five- and part seven-storey residential flat building.

Scott Timbrell of JLL brokered the deal. "The DA had a very clever and well-planned architectural
design which attracted the buyers and the top price that was achieved," he said.
The Haven Inn Motel in Sydney's inner west has sold for $13.5 million to a private Chinese investor.
The 196 Glebe Point Road property in Glebe is a four-storey building comprising 833 square metres.

It has 59 guest rooms and a swimming pool.

The auction was handled by Knight Frank's Dominic Ong and Foxwood's Clint Willoughby.

Belbaker Bus Charter has acquired a new depot, paying $2.18 million plus GST for an
office/warehouse property at Zillmere, in Brisbane's northern suburbs. The 6126-square-metre
property has an office/warehouse and a large concrete hardstand. The previous occupant was
Jetmaster Fireplaces.
CBRE's Nick Witheriff and Dan Munnich negotiated the sale of the 59 Pineapple Street property at an
auction that attracted competitive bidding from two other parties. "The real driver was the auction and
we are seeing increased inquiry from owner-occupiers due to the low interest rate environment."

Rob Pilch Investments Pty Ltd has offloaded a modern industrial complex in Brisbane for $5.25 million.
Located at 6-8 Radium Street in the suburb of Crestmead, the fully leased industrial facility comprises
4358 square metres of floor area, with features such as column-free floor plates, cross-flow ventilation
and generous internal clearances.
The property has three tenants, including global company Unistrut and Australian-based company
Parkridge Holdings. 
CBRE's Sam Higgins and Edward Bull negotiated the sale.
Mr Higgins said the property attracted strong interest from a range of private investors – most notably
self-managed super funds.

Page168of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.A two-storey building in the Melbourne suburb of Footscray has sold for $1.47 million at auction. The
site, in Footscray mall, has a total area of 196 square metres, and three frontages totalling over 48
metres.

Improvements comprise a two-storey building, including ground-floor retail and store, a first-floor open-
plan office/showroom and mezzanine offices.

Fitzroys agents James Gregson and David Bourke handled the auction campaign.

Submissions to mruehl@afr.com.au

IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
| nswals : New South Wales | queensl : Queensland
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140514ea5f0000p

Page169of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.