Sheds are real sizzlers

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Sheds are real sizzlers

ALISTAIR BONE
551 words
6 August 2014
Cairns Post
CAIRPO
Cairns
25
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

GO Commercial’s Stuart Carr sells his barbecue days as hard as he sells his sheds.

The days are a gourmet experience with a specialist butcher – there’s coconut and lime sausages for
instance – and marketing manager David Whitehouse is an ex-caterer and great chef.

Mr Carr started the “open shed” concept, where people in the trade or in the market or part of a related
industry come along for the fancy sausage sizzle and a meet and greet in one of the commercial
properties they have for sale. He stole the idea from someone else, who stole it from a New Zealander.

“We get up to 25 people, it’s a good opportunity to come along and bring their business card. The
whole idea is you don’t have to be interested in the shed,” he says.
Their real estate company, Go Commercial, is a boutique dealer. It sells commercial properties,
“sheds” in the lingo, only.
They don’t do residential.

“We get asked all the time, but it’s a totally different animal,” Mr Carr said. “If you have too broad a
brush, you can’t be the best. Commercial is great because there’s no emotion, it either stacks up or it
doesn’t.

“We collate the data and present it and it largely sells itself.” He sees good times ahead, with a
green-light for Aquis meaning commercial properties will be as rare as hens’ teeth almost straight
away.

But, even if the resort-casino falters, he believes sunny skies are coming. “What a lot of people don’t
realise is that the US is going to be self-sufficient in oil,” he said. “Manufacturing is coming back to
Silicon Valley from China. The Australian dollar is going to drop against the US dollar and that’s going
to be great for Cairns.” He says investors from overseas and southerners are starting to enter the
commercial market and more and more occupiers are looking to stop renting and buy property.

He has started the “Make it Happen” foundation, a not-for-profit for kids’ or community organisations.

Mr Carr said they wanted to give back to the community, but didn’t want to just hand over a cheque to
an organisation and see it eaten up by administration fees.
“Organisations put in a request for funds and we go and buy them, using our negotiating experience to
get a good deal.” The Northern Beaches Scout Group is the first beneficiary, with six tents secured in a
deal with Go Commercial client Rays Outdoors.

This week’s “open shed” with free sausages is at the Hollingworth St address pictured above. Next
week’s will see another barbecue and the official launch of the “Make it Happen” foundation.

Page189of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Meanwhile, the quality of the modern, newly constructed sheds in Hollingworth St plus their excellent
location and street exposure are just a few of the attributes that will appeal.
The property has existing two level airconditioned offices/showroom and internal toilet amenities and
many other features.

It also has a fully insulated roof, electric roller door, and an electronic security system.

There is a kitchenette and internal toilets.■ For more information, contact Stuart Carr on 40 543 888 or
0408 066 517

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document CAIRPO0020140805ea860000t

Page190of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.