Seven ways for investors to boost their income

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Wealth
Seven ways for investors to boost their income

Darren Katz
492 words
7 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
21
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

DIVIDEND DETECTIVE Billionaire Kerry Stokes’s diversified industrials business, Seven Group
Holdings, is struggling with the mining downturn that has hurt its Caterpillar distribution business,
WesTrac.

The tough trading conditions have cut earnings and its share price, which has fallen from over $9
last year to $6.80.

But the fall has created significant value and a solid dividend yield, and along with relatively stable
earnings this year, we think that makes Seven Group a good option for income investors.
The slump in the price of commodities such as coal and iron hasn’t just hurt miners; their
belt-tightening has spread pain to the likes of WesTrac, which distributes Caterpillar in Australia but
also China.

The slowdown in demand made a big dent in Seven Group’s result last financial year. Revenue fell
35 per cent and net profit was down 46 per cent to $261 million, with the company reporting very
limited new demand for new equipment.
Seven Group also has exposure to the media industry through its stake in Seven West Media,
which owns the Seven Network and print asset such as The West Australian newspaper.

But times are also tough in media land, with the internet challenging free-to-air television and
newspapers; the advertising market is also subdued with low consumer confidence.

In this environment the Seven Network has continued to perform well and hold its position as the
top-rating network.

Seven isn’t standing still; it is restructuring its businesses and announced a share buyback to take
advantage of its share-price fall. Its Coates business will benefit from stronger construction markets,
and its $1 billion investment portfolio also continues to perform well.
Seven is also looking to make further acquisitions to diversify, particularly in oil and gas, which it
believes has strong potential.
The company paid a total dividend per share of 40c fully franked and that is likely to be repeated in
the new financial year, which gives investors a strong 6.1 per cent dividend yield.
Seven says that trading conditions in the mining and industrial services sectors remain challenging
with heavy cost-cutting, though over the longer term it expects demand to return to normal levels
with ageing fleets replaced.

All up, it is forecasting a flat underlying EBIT in 2015, which would be a solid performance given
such challenging conditions.

Page63of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Trading at $6.55, Seven Group’s shares are well below our value of $7.90 so it offers good value.

Seven Group is not without risk and it could be some time before we see an upturn in the resources
and media sectors, but that value, its solid performance and healthy yields does make it attractive
to dividend investors.

Darren Katz is head of distribution at Clime Asset Management. Seven Group Holdings LimitedASX
Code: SVW Security price: $6.55 Industry: IndustrialsForecast distribution: 40c per share fully
franked

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

tvaus : Seven Group Holdings Ltd.
i97411 : Broadcasting | i9741102 : Television Broadcasting | imed : Media/Entertainment
c1512 : Dividends | c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion
Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141006eaa70001i

Page64of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.