Time we got used to China playing a major role in life

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

OpEd
Time we got used to China playing a major role in life

ED GANNON
650 words
16 May 2014
Herald-Sun
HERSUN
HeraldSun
34
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

HAS there been a country since we were a devoted servant of the British Empire that has dominated
Australia as much as China does today? The effects of this increasingly powerful giant are being felt in
every part of our lives.
Our hip pocket, jobs, retirement age, food prices, even our education are directly affected by China.
Let’s start with Tuesday’s Federal Budget. The reason we are in such bad shape — bad shape never
mentioned by any party during last year’s federal election campaign — is purely due to China.

Remember the mining boom? Those heady days of flouro in business class, of jet skis and shiny
twin-cab utes being compulsory for 19-year-olds. Yes, the stream of cash into government coffers from
that boom allowed the Howard government to buy its way to a couple of election wins by handing out
largely unnecessary middle-class welfare payments, such as the baby bonus, schoolkids payment and
family allowance payments to people who didn’t need them. And all funded by money from China.

So now, with the boom having dropped a few cogs, the money is no longer flowing so freely, prompting
Henchman Hockey to do his bit.
China is not to blame for Hockey’s axe. Far from it. But without money flowing from that country, we
wouldn’t have the fiscal hangover we have today.
But China’s influence is far from waning.
There’s been plenty of attention on Chinese buyers in our property market. Many were shocked when
a Hawthorn mansion recently sold for $20 million to a Chinese buyer — and news the buyer was in
the market for two or three more at a similar price.

Yet rural Australia has been watching that play out in the property market for some time.
A recent farm sale was the 2025-hectare property Lal Lal Estate, near Ballarat, which sold for an
undisclosed sum. This is a showpiece property, with a 1911 homestead and 2.5-hectare garden. That’s
a garden roughly about the size of 50 suburban blocks.
What makes this sale of note is that it was sold by Geoff Fisken, president of WoolProducers
Australia, the peak body representing wool growers.
It is probably not surprising that when it came time for Mr Fisken to sell, it would be to a Chinese
buyer.

There is no clearer example than the wool industry of how we have moved from a British-based
economy to a Chinese-based one.
While once we sold nearly all our wool to the woollen mills of northern England, today we sell virtually
all our wool to China.

Page21of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The fine stuff still ends up in Italian suits, but it does so via the mills of China.

The next frontier is food.
China and its Asian neighbours have long been buyers of our food. But much of it was bulk product,
such as powdered milk and grains.

Now, the revolution is in processed and packaged food.
The Weekly Times this week identified 13 dairy factories across Victoria that have undergone major
upgrades in the past two years, based entirely on demand from China and Asia. One such factory is
the Pactum Dairy Group plant at Shepparton. It just opened to supply UHT milk to China.
It had expected to hit 100 million litres of production in three years. It now expects to reach that target
next year.

What is really interesting about this plant is that the UHT containers coming off its lines are branded
entirely in Chinese.
There is a wariness about China buying our farms and our houses. But at the end of the day China is
here to stay — and it will have a bigger impact on your lives than many realise.ED GANNON IS
EDITOR OF THE WEEKLY TIMES

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
china : China | austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document HERSUN0020140515ea5g0001u

Page22of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.