Medibank Private's $4b listing before Christmas

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Medibank Private's $4b listing before Christmas

PrivatisationJessica Gardner
653 words
30 August 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
2
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Retail investors are expected to lap up shares in the $4 billion float of Medibank Private, which will
proceed before Christmas.

The timeline for Medibank's listing on the Australian Securities Exchange, which will be the biggest
since the $4.6 billion privatisation of rail freight business QR National in 2010, was outlined by
Finance Minister Mathias Cormann on Friday.

After previously allowing a window that extended until the end of the 2015 financial year, the Coalition
government said Medibank will list in December. The early flick of the switch was flagged this month by
Street Talk, which noted bankers working on the deal had recently stepped up the pace to allow for a
float before year's end.

Australian retail investors will be able to pre-register for a prospectus towards the end of September.
The prospectus will be lodged with the corporate regulator in late October. Fund managers said
mum-and-dad shareholders usually support government sales, especially when the asset being sold is
a well-known brand.

Medibank Private is the country's largest health insurance fund; 50 per cent of people have some form
of hospitals or extras coverage.

Daniel Moore, an equities analyst at fund manager Investors Mutual, said although investors may not
have a complete understanding of the sector and its risks, they are familiar with the service. "Medibank
Private obviously is a very well known brand. They're on TV all the time," he said. "People understand
the product, what it costs and the benefits of it."

There is also an assumption that government floats are often priced cheaply, to avoid disappointing
shareholders who are also voters. "Generally governments tend to be a little bit kinder on pricing than,
say, private equity," Mr Moore said. "They [would not] like to rip off the mum-and-dad investor just
before Christmas."

The managing director of fund manager Argo Investment, Jason Beddow, said there was strong
appetite for healthcare stocks, as shown by the $3.6 billion listing of private hospital operator
Healthscope in July.

Increasing demand for private healthcare, underpinned by an ageing population and governments
seeking to decrease the costs of public care, are "good thematics", Mr Beddow said.
"They're not dollar-dependent, they're not China-dependent, so I guess they resonate with retail
investors."

Mr Moore said whether Medibank will be a good investment will depend on the price. The level of
capital the insurer will have on hand after the listing, as well as what opportunity there will be to take
out costs, will also influence his view. QR National, now Aurizon, this week said it had identified almost

Page65of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.$300 million in cost savings since listing, he said. The company also listed with plenty of capital. "If
Medibank is very lowly geared and has excess capital to invest or do [share] buybacks down the track
that may be attractive," he said.
Investment banks working on the float as joint lead managers include Macquarie Capital, Deutsche
Bank and Goldman Sachs.

Senator Cormann announced the final spots in Medibank's sell-side deal team earlier this month. He
appointed Bell Potter Securities, Commonwealth Bank of Australia, Morgans Financial and UBS
Wealth Management as co-lead managers, while Evans & Partners and Ord Minnett were
co-managers alongside syndicate brokers Macquarie Equities, JBWere and Wilson HTM Investment
Group.

Labor said the decision to privatise Medibank was driven by ideology. Shadow Health Minister
Catherine King said the Coalition had already spent $2 million on focus groups and advertising to
"spin" the sale of Medibank. "The Abbott government is unable to demonstrate how the privatisation of
Medibank Private benefits either the health system or health insurance policyholders," she said.
Key points Mum and dad expected to dive into health insurance company listing. Labor says
privatising not shown to benefit health system or policyholders.

qrntnl : Aurizon Holdings Limited | medpv : Medibank Private Ltd
i71 : Railroads | i82 : Insurance | i82003 : Non-life Insurance | i8200301 : Health/Medical Insurance |
icargo : Freight/Cargo Transport | ifinal : Financial Services | ihmo : Health Maintenance Organizations
| iprivhea : Private Health Insurance | irailtr : Road/Rail Transport | irfrght : Railroad Freight | itsp :
Transportation/Shipping
c1711 : Initial Public Offerings | c14 : Stock Listings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c02 : Corporate
Changes | c17 : Funding/Capital | c171 : Share Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140829ea8u00065

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page66of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.