Bribery now big business and CEOs know, OECD warns

HD
BY
Peter Ryan
WC 688 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Bribery now big business and CEOs know, OECD warns

3 December 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation Transcripts
ABCTRS
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

TD

The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development says most international bribes are paid by
big companies. The report says that in many cases, senior management and chief executives are aware
of the corruption.

CHRIS UHLMANN: A report out this morning into bribery around the world shows that in many cases the
corruption goes right to the top of companies, Rather than rogue staff doing what it takes to win contracts.

The study by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development says senior managers and
chief executives often know bribes are being paid.

Business editor Peter Ryan has been going through the report.

And Peter, where is most of the corruption taking place and how high does it go?

PETER RYAN: Well Chris, around 60 percent of bribes are paid by big companies. And the report says in
41 per cent of the cases management level employees either paid or authorised a bribe and a company's
CEO was involved 12 per cent of the time.

Now, the popular perception is that bribes - or facilitation payments - are rife in the developing world
mainly, where the need for a secret commission is sometimes seen as part of business.

Now that's not necessarily the case. The OECD says bribery is "big business" in advanced economies as
well. It's being conducted by companies in the United States, Britain, Germany, France where you'd
expect to see tighter enforcement.
But of course bribery feeds on itself so it's also getting worse in China, Russia, India, Korea, Indonesia.

And Australia doesn't get a specific mention but all these bribery and corruption hotspots are places
where Australian business and government agencies want to make deals and do business. And at the
moment the Australian Federal Police is examining a few big Australian companies accused of bribery
activity around the world.

CHRIS UHLMANN: So what's the average bribe worth and what sort of people are either getting them or
expecting some sort of payment?

PETER RYAN: Well the OECD has looked at more than 400 cases around the world and found the
average bribe was around $US14 million. That represents 11 per cent of the total transaction, or 35 per
cent of the profit made.
Most were paid to win contracts from state owned or controlled companies in four key sectors: mining,
construction, transportation, information and communication.

And the bribes are going to employees of the state owned enterprises, people like customs officials, heath
officials, defence officials. And also heads of state or ministers have their noses in the trough and were
bribed in 5 per cent of the cases, but they managed to gouge a higher 11 per cent of the total bribes.

CHRIS UHLMANN: Why doesn't that surprise me? So how is this bribery uncovered and investigated?

Page203of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PETER RYAN: Well mainly whistleblowers who see this corruption. But there's a lot of self reporting that
comes through checks and balances - internal audits, due diligence before a merger or acquisition. But
also investigations conducted as part of the United Nations Food for Oil Programme.

CHRIS UHLMANN: From corruption to the economy. We'll be seeing the latest economic growth figures
out later this morning. What can we expect?

PETER RYAN: Well the third quarter GDP reading will be closely watched as Treasurer Joe Hockey
prepares to adjust his budget forecasts for the mid-year economic update.

Economists are expecting to see growth in the quarter of 0.7 of 1 per cent. That translates into economic
growth over the year of 3.1 per cent, so in line with RBA and Treasury estimates.
What's most important is the detail behind the big picture and impact of course of the falling price of iron
ore. Economists will be also look for any signs of the transition from the mining investment boom back
into more traditional parts of the economy, and as the Reserve Bank has been noting time after time, that
particular transition has been taking much longer than expected

CHRIS UHLMANN: Business editor Peter Ryan, thank you.

CO oecode : Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
NS

gcorrp : Corruption | gbrib : Bribery | gpol : Domestic Politics | ntra : Transcripts | gcat : Political/General
News | gcrim : Crime/Courts | gfinc : Financial Crime | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter |
niwe : IWE Filter
austr : Australia | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe

RE

IPD bribery
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCTRS0020141203eac30002u

Page204of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.