Galilee deal has potential to power India, says Modi

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

TheNation
Galilee deal has potential to power India, says Modi

Michael McKenna, Andrew Fraser
510 words
18 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
8
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THERE is a “vast potential’’ for Queensland’s resource sector to fuel the urbanisation of India and turn
it into a world manufacturing hub, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi said yesterday.
Speaking in Brisbane, Mr Modi said the Newman government’s move to invest in Indian energy giant
Adani’s development of the largest proposed coalmine in Australia would be the new standard in the
relationship between the two countries.

The Newman government yesterday formally announced that it was negotiating a deal to invest in
Adani’s $2.2 billion rail line out of the Galilee Basin to Abbot Point, where its coal will be used to fuel
power stations in India.

While Deputy Premier Jeff Seeney refused to disclose the amount of funds available to Adani as part
of the investment, he said hundreds of millions of dollars would help pay for infrastructure throughout
the Galilee Basin.

Mr Modi said the offer and Adani’s proposed $16bn project was part of a ramp-up of investment in
Australia as India developed its manufacturing and urban base.
“Queensland can be an important partner in India’s development — in energy, mineral resources,
agriculture and food security, education and advanced technology in some areas,’’ he said.
“Coal is already a major item of exports to India; but, I see vast potential in resources in general, as
Indian industrial sector gathers momentum and grows.

“You can make India a manufacturing hub, for India, for exports and for import back into Australia.”
There are three major coal projects proposed for the Galilee Basin by Indian companies Adani and
GVK as well as Clive Palmer’s Waratah Coal and many smaller proposals. But Waratah Coal is
unlikely to sign up to the Newman government’s offer to help fund the railway line despite having one
of the largest coal deposits in the area.
Waratah Coal has substantial holdings in the north of the basin, and the proposed Adani line runs
east from the southern part of the basin. Another railway line from the Galilee to Abbot Point which
has been mandated by the Queensland government runs from the north and is backed by GVK in
partnership with railway coal carter Aurizon.

Mr Palmer yesterday questioned why Adani had been singled out for special treatment, and said the
Newman government had ignored his “China first” project, despite it being the only major proposal
which was fully funded with $10 billion in funding from financial services group Credit Suisse.

GVK is believed to be at least a year away from a final decision because it still needs to survive legal
challenges to various environmental and mining approvals as well as finalise contracts for the sale of
coal from the Galilee and get its funding in place.Adani yesterday announced that it has received a
$1bn line of credit from the State Bank of India, but even with this it too still had to get all its funding in
place before a final decision.

Page163of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

i111 : Coal Mining | i1 : Energy | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
gpol : Domestic Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations
india : India | austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | indsubz : Indian Subcontinent | sasiaz : Southern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141117eabi00053

Page164of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.