Students raise a glass to the business of wine

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY

LP

TD

BUSINESS EDUCATION
Students raise a glass to the business of wine

By Jonathan Moules
799 words
27 October 2014
Financial Times
FTFT
London Ed1
16
English
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and
redistribute by email or post to the web.

Global growth in the wine industry has led to an increase in opportunities for executive education, says
Jonathan Moules

A glass of wine is a way to relax after a day's studying for many MBA students. But at Sonoma State
University, whose Napa Valley campus is nestled amid the vineyards north of San Francisco, the
business of producing the fermented grape is a growing opportunity for executive training.

Sonoma is one of a handful of business schools around the world to offer specialist wine industry MBAs.
Other programmes are run in France, Germany and Australia.

Such has been the demand for these courses at Sonoma that the business school is to run a new
executive MBA programme from its main campus and expand its wine industry research operation. The
plan is to build upon Sonoma's existing Napa Valley-based wine MBA programme, creating places for
an additional 100 students.

Sonoma is creating a wine institute building with classrooms that are designed for more flexible learning
and video conferencing with experts around the world. It is looking to appoint a wine business chair and
to fund more research into the changing shape of the global wine industry.

Demand for executive training is being driven by growth in wine production, especially in Asian markets,
according to John Stayton, executive director of graduate programmes at Sonoma. "Over the last 20
years the wine industry has become increasingly global and increasingly complex," he says.
China is the fastest growing market for wine consumption and the sixth largest wine producer, according
to International Wine and Spirits Research. It estimated that 2.2bn bottles of wine were sold in China in
2013, making it the fifth-largest wine market by sales and the largest market for red wine.

Sonoma's aim, says Mr Stayton, is "to become the global wine business programme". Its existing wine
MBA programme has attracted students from Argentina, Chile and China, Mr Stayton notes. They work
with Kokomo Winery and Timber Crest Farms to learn how to market and sell wine. The hope is that the
new programme will attract more students from outside the US.

Among those who have taken up the wine MBA programme at Sonoma is Christian Ahlmann, whose
parents own the Six Sigma winery in California. Mr Ahlmann was keen to follow in his parents' footsteps
but his first instinct was not to get an MBA but a bachelors degree in agriculture. "I figured, it's about
learning to grow things. That was obviously a true assumption, but growing plants is only half of the
game."
While he mastered the production of the grape, he found himself woefully short on commercial
knowledge. He resorted to ploughing through business books to communicate with his accountant and
to understand best practices on human resources and marketing.

Page177of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."Soon I realised that an MBA would give me a serious competitive advantage in the wine industry," he
says.

Sonoma's focus on the wine industry is a big deal, Mr Ahlmann says, because the market has some
unique aspects. For example, wine producers only receive stock once a year, so it is no use if the sales
team exceeds expectations because doing so will only mean a company runs out of inventory before
the next vintage is ready.

"I got a real appreciation for the value of financial statements and how to interpret them," adds Mr
Ahlmann. "It was like being handed the rule book on a game and the MBA programme was able to
decode it."
After completing the financial statement class, Mr Ahlmann replaced his company's accountancy firm.
"I found that I communicated much better with them," [the new firm], he says. "We have become
considerably more profitable since I learnt the value and application of numbers."

A big selling point of Sonoma to Mr Ahlmann, apart from its relative proximity to his family's winery, was
the fact that it incorporates several instructors from nearby Silicon Valley. Although Mr Ahlmann's family
has been running Six Sigma's 4,000-acre estate since 2000, he claims the business is still in "start-up"
mode.

He also liked the way that the teaching staff used real-world examples. One professor, a consultant to
Napa Valley wineries, presented the students with a handful of his own consulting jobs. The students
then solved these case studies and presented their findings to the proprietors, with supervision from the
professor.
"Another professor scratched out the names on an $800m acquisition his company was considering,
presented the details to the class and led us through a lively debate evaluating the pros and cons of
making the deal," Mr Ahlmann recalls. "It doesn't get more real than that."

IN

NS

RE

IPD
IPC
PUB
AN

i426 : Wine | i983 : Educational Services | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ialco : Alcoholic
Beverages/Drinks | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer
Goods
c18 : Ownership Changes | gcntsu : Continuing Education | gedu : Education | guni : University/College |
cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gcom :
Society/Community/Work | gcrpln : Career Planning | gjob : General Labor Issues | ncat : Content Types
| nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | fra : France | gfr : Germany | namz : North America | usa : United States | apacz : Asia
Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | dach : DACH Countries | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz :
Europe | medz : Mediterranean | weurz : Western Europe
Company News
CN
The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)
Document FTFT000020141027eaar0000u

Page178of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.