WHILE Elders is about to sell its 776-hectare feedlot

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

AGRIBUS
WHILE Elders is about to sell its 776-hectare feedlot

ANDREW MARSHALL
504 words
29 May 2014
Queensland Country Life
FQLCOL
25
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

WHILE Elders is about to sell its 776-hectare feedlot and cropping property at Charlton in Victoria, it
could well be looking to expand its lotfeeding activities elsewhere, says chief executive officer and
managing director Mark Allison (pictured).
The decision to make use of Charlton's capital value to help trim the company's debt load was not a
sign that Elders would quit its involvement in the feedlot sector, including its Killara operation near
Quirindi in northern NSW, or its Indonesian facility.

Although Charlton is one of Victoria's biggest beef feedlots with 150ha of livestock infrastructure, feed
mills, flaking plants and related facilities, Mr Allison said its contribution to Elders' balance sheet had
been variable at times, considering the capital expenditure involved.

It was "not absolutely necessary" to future plans.
The site, estimated by industry analysts to be worth about $10 million, is currently custom-feeding
cattle for Elders clients, operating at near capacity because of the good availability of stock and grain
in southern NSW.
Killara, owned fully by Elders since 2010, was considered more strategic to the company's broader
network operations, and was not in Elders' sale catalogue.

"It could be that we invest further in lotfeeding in Australia and overseas once we've reduced our debt
to acceptable levels," Mr Allison said.
The company was making a "conscious and deliberate decision" to prioritise capital where it was
needed most, and produce the best returns.

That priority had also led to Elders' New Zealand merchandise and livestock operations, and its
part-owned Elders-Primary wool-marketing assets going on the market.

Elders has about 108 staff in NZ, plus another 100 contracted agents associated with its sites across
the North and South Islands, but has already closed four branches in the past year because they were
unprofitable.
The company's merchandise, agro nomy, seed and fertiliser business in NZ has notched up losses
for the past two trading years.
The Elders brand has been in the NZ market for some time, but the company sold out once before to
a management-run syndicate, which subsequently offered the business back to the company about
five years ago.

Elders' live export business was also making strategic decisions about how it responded to
opportunities in short-haul markets to Indonesia and Vietnam, or long-haul routes to China and
eastern Europe.

Page75of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Allison said costs had been re duced by Elders' management team (rebuilt after numerous staff
defected to rival Ruralco last year).

The key was to manage and watch cost options closely and have tight financial reporting processes.

"We're largely running a shipment-by-shipment decision process to determine whether or not and
where we want to be involved," he said.

Fortunately, the Elders brand was well recognised overseas and it had attracted more orders than the
company had opted to take advantage of at this point.

CO
IN
RE
PUB
AN

futris : Elders Limited
i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FQLCOL0020140623ea5t0000t

Page76of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.