Big buyers eye-off city

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Big buyers eye-off city

Karina Barrymore
726 words
31 May 2014
Herald-Sun
HERSUN
HeraldSun
61
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

PROPERTY MELBOURNE has been nominated in a global research report as one of the next “prime”
cities of the world, as multi-millionaire investors look outside traditional overpriced housing markets.
It ticks almost every box on the “wanted list” of these super-rich property buyers, coming second in
the list of up-and-coming cities around the globe.

The research identifies 12 cities “set to outperform the prime world cities and show strong residential
price growth”.
It is published by London-based developer Candy & Candy, the research arm of real estate
groupSavills and the asset management division of German investment banking giant Deutsche Bank.

“Investors are looking at alternatives away from the fully valued established safe havens, both in
secondary markets and second tier cities,’’ the report said.
The existing prime global cities are Hong Kong, Moscow, Singapore, New York and London — where
an apartment developed by Candy & Candy sold recently for more than $180 million.
These cities account for 40 per cent of the $US 2.2 trillion ($2.36 trillion) of global property
investments held by the world’s super wealthy, known as ultra high net worth individuals.

However, these markets have become too concentrated and investors are looking to the next tier
cities around the world for better diversification, the report says.

Although Melbourne was higher priced then many of the other cities on the list, it rates well for
personal safety and investment regulation, making it more desirable.

“An Australian city that vies hard with Sydney for dominance, Melbourne is one of the most highly
developed and high-functioning cities on our list,’’ Candy & Candy chief executive Nick Candy said.

“Given it’s premier status and strength of the Australian economy in recent years, it has one of the
highest priced real estate markets of our cities but would provide strong ‘safe haven’ status.’’ David
Morrell, director of up-market buyers advocacy group Morrell and Koren, said Melbourne was
frequently preferred to many other large cities in the Asian region, including Sydney.

“Melbourne is easy to get around and it’s very secure,” he said. “If you’re one of these big heavy
hitters, unlike other cities, you don’t have to have body guards, your kids can go to and from school in
comfort, there’s a good transport system and a good raft of schools.

“It’s also a very appealing city, there’s parks and beaches, it’s multicultural and it tends to have a more
stable population.

Page238of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“When people come to Melbourne they tend to put their tent pegs in the ground for a lot longer,
especially compared with very transient cities such as Sydney.” Property adviser Catherine
Cashmore said the report highlighted the potential for growth in Melbourne to ultra wealthy investors,
however there had already been a jump in demand from international buyers, residents and students.

Within 10 years, the Asian region was forecast to account for almost half the world’s economic output
and to be the world’s biggest consumer, she said.

“If we play our cards right, Australia, particularly Melbourne and Sydney, are best placed to take
advantage,’’ Ms Cashmore said.

“Trade flows, research, business development, education, tourism and increased levels of migration
have given us the potential to capitalise on the inflow.

“The trouble of course, comes down to management. The influx, which will push prices higher, will not
benefit us over the long term — especially the next generation of priced-out buyers.’’

THE RISING STARS • Tel Aviv, Israel • Melbourne, Australia • Miami, USA • Chicago, USA • Dublin,
Ireland • Panama City, Panama • Beirut, Leabanon • Istanbul, Turkey • Cape Town, South Africa •
Jakarta, Indonesia • Lagos, Nigeria • Chennai, India

What makes a prime city?

• English as first or second language • Large and well-educated population • New technology
industries • Cultural and arts facilities • Greenery or high quality environment • Architectural and urban
heritage • Openness to visitors • Openness to international companies • Finance centre • Water, such
as rivers, beaches, lakes

WHAT THE EXPERTS LIKED ABOUT MELBOURNE • Highly developed and well-functioning
metropolis • Has strong claims to “world city” status • An important financial centre in the Oceania
region • Has strong technical and R&D (research and development) sectors • Benefits from the
strength of the Australian economy • Should be an investment “safe haven” despite high house
pricesSource: Candy GPS Report

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | usa : United States | melb : Melbourne | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia)
| apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North America | nswals : New South Wales
News Ltd.
Document HERSUN0020140530ea5v00037

Page239of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.