EXCLUSIVE INTERVIEW WITH MR AFTAB SYED, CEO AINiT CONSULTANCY SERVICES (PVT) LTD

HD

BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
VOL
LA
CY
LP

TD

EXCLUSIVE INTERVIEW WITH MR AFTAB SYED,
CEO AINiT CONSULTANCY SERVICES (PVT) LTD
KHALIL AHMED
2,826 words
19 January 2014
Pakistan and Gulf Economist
ASGULF
33
English
Copyright © 2014. Pakistan and Gulf Economist

PAGE: CAN YOU TELL ME SOMETHING ABOUT
YOURSELF AND YOUR BUSINESS, PLEASE?

AFTAB SYED: I was born in 1965 in a well-to-do
religious family in Pakistan’s biggest Metropolis,
Karachi. Karachi is a port city and an industrial hub, a
city which never sleeps and the one which has the
capacity of embracing every individual from all over
Pakistan. I received my early education in Karachi and
completed my SSC from Karachi as well. I did my
Bachelor’s of Science from University of Karachi in 1987
and further enhanced my education by doing electrical
engineering from Sydney in 1994. By profession I am an
electrical engineer, specialising in ISDN and worked for
Telstra, Australia in the capacity of Senior Telecom
Technical Officer from 1994 till 1999. It has always been
my passion to keep myself abreast with the latest trends
and terminologies and just because of this I have always
kept myself updated regarding industry standards, which
in one way or the other led to various certifications and
professional body memberships. Relevant details are
outlined as under:

Became Qualified Education Agent Counsellor- QEAC
with the PIER, Australia in Sept 2010.QEAC
Registration No. F309

Got Immigration Advisory licence in March 2010 from
Immigration Advisory Authority-New Zealand
Government. To see current registration please visit
http://www.iaa.govt.nz/adviser-
register/Adviser/Details/8b4b5fc0-9121-df11-ba0d-
005056ac4763.

Registered as a Registered Migration Agent in June
2009 with Office of Migration Agent Registration
Authority, Australia a subsidiary of Australian
Government. To see current registration please visit
https://www.mara.gov.au/search-the-register-of-
migration-agents/registered-migration-agent-
details/?id=048350f6-a252-e311-9402-005056ab0eca

Page21of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Completed Graduate certificate in Australian
Immigration Law and Practice in April 2009 from Victoria
University, Melbourne, Australia

Completed a certificate of Immigration Law for Migration
Agents in 2002-2003 from Deakin University, Australia.

Have been managing three off shore offices including
two offices in Pakistan, one office is Riyadh, Kingdom of
Saudi Arabia and one office in Sydney, Australia since
2001, primarily promoting Australian immigration/New
Zealand Immigration and education sectors.

Have successfully catered and assisted thousands of
aspiring students and migrants for Australia and New
Zealand, under applicable various visa subclasses. We
have sent most of the Professionals People and their
families to Australia in the field of Accountants, IT
Professionals, Engineers and students.

We have also sent hundreds of students for their further
studies to various countries including Australia, New
Zealand and now we focussing to other countries like
China, Turkey, Malaysia, Canada and Germany.

Considering the immense talent of Pakistani
professionals and immense availability of experts from
diverse industry sectors simply made my mind to
emerge as an entrepreneur.

AINiT is a large customer based service provider which
includes customers from diverse sectors of the industry.
Australian immigration network and IT was established
way back in 2001 and since then AINiT has made its
name in the industry, by adhering strictly to quality
standards and its sheer commitment towards the
establishment rationale. As we are the trend setters in
the consultancy industry, therefore people are using our
services with great satisfaction such as professionals,
associate-professionals, trades personnel, students and
business personnel. We firmly believe that our success
is purely because of our strong observance to quality
services at affordable rates.

I am a registered member with the following professional
authorities:

In conjunction to the explanation provided above and the
educational needs foreseen regarding Middle eastern
students, AINiT Consultancy services (Pvt) Ltd has
finally established an office in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia,
thereby catering to the needs and requirements of
students belonging to Saudi Arabia and other adjoining
middle eastern countries.

AINiT consultancy services (Pvt) Ltd with its sheer
passion and commitment towards effective delivery of
service is always considered as a benchmark and a
beacon light for others to follow.

PAGE: YOUR VIEWS ON IMMIGRATION TO
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND FROM PAKISTAN
IN 2014:

AFTAB SYED: The last three decades saw Australia
develop into one of the world’s most prominent
international destinations for professionals. Immigration
to Australia and New Zealand is a booming prospect

Page22of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.and these countries are in need of professionals in the
field of IT, Engineering, Accounts/Finance HR. etc. It is
expected that due to scarcity of professionals in
Australia and New Zealand along with development
work being going on in both countries down under the
demand of such professionals will continue for the next
decade.

AUSTRALIAN DEMOGRAPHY:

Figures from a reliable source indicate that there are
about 31,277 Pakistani Australians. Sydney has one of
the largest Pakistani communities in Oceania, and has
been increasing since the point system was introduced
to allow immigrants into Australia. According to the 2006
Census in Victoria there were an estimated 4,703
Pakistani born persons, with the majority living in
Melbourne. The number has since tripled from the
previous census which was in 1996. Those living in
Victoria that are Pakistani born are highly educated with
more than a third working in professional positions and
about half working in clerical, production, service,
transport and sales positions. There are many other
shops with Pakistani and other South Asian related
items for sale such as Pakistani clothing and
entertainment. It is home to the largest South Asian
marketplace in Oceania.

In 2012, around 7,400 Pakistani international students
were studying in Australia, an increase from close to
5,000 in 2007. Under the Australia-Pakistan Scholarship
Program, 500 scholarships were available to Pakistani
students from 2005-2010 to facilitate postgraduate
studies in Australia. Australia has become one of the
largest markets for Pakistani students outside the United
States and United Kingdom.

DEMOGRAPHY OF NEW ZEALAND:

According to 2001 statistics, Pakistani Kiwis size around
a population of 3,000. However, since that time, the
population of Pakistani Kiwis has been growing at a fair
pace across many parts of the country with significant
figures in Auckland. Now the population has grown to
5,000. Pakistanis are located in almost all the major
cities and towns of New Zealand, including Auckland,
Hamilton, Wellington, Christchurch, Tauranga, Otago
and Dunedin.

As per the demography of both the countries,
professionals along with vast number of students will
make their way to these technologically advanced
countries. Pakistan is a hub for professionals, whether
its an engineer, doctor, other field champions, majority
of them are appropriately qualified and thoroughly
experienced, which particularly in some way or the other
fulfill the requirements of the relevant assessing
authorities and mainly the respective immigration
department in question. Year 2014 will see a major brain
drain and this will be primarily due to the high number of
professionals needed in these countries.

PAGE: DO YOU THINK YEAR 2014 COULD BRING
PROSPERITY TO PAKISTAN IN TERMS OF
REMITTANCES FROM FOREIGN COUNTRIES?

Page23of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AFTAB SYED: The remittances of Pakistanis living
abroad have played an important role in Pakistan's
economy and foreign exchange reserves. In 2013,
Pakistan received a total of $14.9 billion from its
nationals working abroad, says a report prepared by a
US think-tank, Pew Research Centre. Prosperity is
something which every Pakistani is looking forward to,
remittances, foreign currency reserves do provides
stability to the economy, but there are other factors too,
which if worked upon can simply provide Pakistan with a
better future.

PAGE: HOW WOULD YOU COMMENT ON POLICY
FOR IMMIGRATION?

AFTAB SYED: Immigration policy is normally governed
by the requirements of a country’s labour market
demands. Every country whether big or small, moves on
with the statistical figures provided by their relevant
statistics department, it basically provides them with a
clear picture that should the policy be tightened up or it
should be relaxed, thus creating a ground to attract
sound professionals from abroad. Australia has been
accepting migrants since a long time, a giant leap has
occurred since the inception of point based immigration
policy.

Australia is an English speaking nation and they are
keenly asking for those technically sound professionals
who have confident familiarity with English language and
can intermingle with Aussie environment easily. Take
my home as an example, not everyone is allowed to
enter the house, there is a standard, a decorum which
needs to be followed and accordingly the ones who fulfil
the criteria are more than welcomed. Australia is an
extremely popular destination for highly skilled young
people wishing to start a new life in another country.

The country's economy is strong and Australia is
actively encouraging the immigration of skilled migrants.
Skilled migrants wishing to work in Australia will be
assessed on a points based system with points awarded
for work experience, qualifications and language
proficiency. Other ways of obtaining immigration visas to
Australia include the Australian Family Migration and
Humanitarian Programs. Australia's Migration Program
for 2007-2008 provides for up to 152,800 places, with
102,500 of those under skilled migration -- such as the
Australian Skilled Independent visa.

New Zealand has been actively encouraging skilled
immigration to fill labor shortages as well as providing
numerous other paths to residence. New Zealand's
Skilled Migration Category (SMC) allows people with the
skills and qualifications that New Zealand values to get
residence or a permit to work. Applicants are scored
against a points-based system and entered into a pool
of potential migrants. Applicants are chosen every
fortnight for an invitation to apply for migration to New
Zealand. If a professional has good experience and has
a relevant job experience along with competency and
fluency in English he is eligible for immigration to
Australia and New Zealand.

PAGE: YOUR VIEWS ON TALENT IN PAKISTAN:

Page24of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AFTAB SYED: Pakistan is blessed with highly talented
individuals who are a great asset for Pakistan waiting to
be exploited. It is necessary to channelize and utilize
this talent for economic prosperity of the country.
Unfortunately due to slow progress in terms of
development work in Pakistan they are not being
properly and effectively utilized.

PAGE: YOUR VIEWS ON JOB PROSPECTS IN
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND FOR PAKISTANIS:

AFTAB SYED: This answer to this question can be
linked with the previous one. The untapped talent in
Pakistan, due to recessive development work, can better
be utilized by sending them to Australia and New
Zealand abroad. Australia and New Zealand both have a
booming and highly developed economy in need of
professionals for their development work. There are
currently shortages of skilled workers in many sectors,
including IT, Engineering, and Finance/Accounts. It’s
estimated, for example, that there will be thousands of
vacancies in these sectors in the next decade.

STATISTICAL ANALYSIS AUSTRALIA:

Australian employers report encouraging signs for job
seekers in the first quarter of 2014 with 20 percent
expecting to increase staffing levels, according to the
latest employment outlook survey from Manpower. The
results show nearly all sectors and regions in Australia
are expecting a modest increase in hiring to bring in the
New Year. Overall, employers in the Australian Capital
Territory and Northern Territory reported the strongest
employment outlook. In the ACT, hiring outlook is
expected to increase by 9 percent quarter on quarter to
reach a Net Employment Outlook of plus 17 percent,
while in the Northern Territory the outlook is set to
improve by 2 percent. In Queensland, employers expect
hiring to increase by 8 percent quarter on quarter to a
Net Employment Outlook of plus 6 percent, an
adjustment to the market after a sharp fall last quarter.

Hiring in New South Wales continue to follow the
national average, rising 4 percent to plus 7 percent.
Employers in Victoria reported a slight increase in
overall hiring outlook of 1 percent to an outlook of plus 8
percent. Western Australia should experience a similar
increase in hiring, moving from a forecast of 4 percent to
5 percent in the first three months of the year. In
Tasmania and in South Australia the Net Employment
Outlooks should lift 3 percent to 1 percent, and 4
percent respectively. Across the sectors employers in
finance insurance and real estate and mining and
construction expect the largest hiring increases, both
seeing a 6 percent jump in outlook to 16 percent and 1
percent, respectively. The mining sector is starting to
see movement in projects after a tough year; however,
this activity will take time to flow through to jobs on the
ground.

Employers in the services sector are planning to
increase hiring by 4 percent to an Outlook of 12 percent,
while those in the manufacturing sector also report a 4
percent rise to a Net Employment Outlook of 6 percent,
the sector’s strongest outlook since the middle of 2012.
Transport and utilities should see a small increase in
hiring up 2 percent to a Net Employment Outlook of 7

Page25of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.percent while employers in wholesale and retail trade
expect no changes to hiring and the Outlook will remain
at 3 percent. In line with federal government cut backs,
the public administration and education sector is
expecting a slight fall in hiring intentions, down 2 percent
to a Net Employment Outlook of 4 percent. `The most
important factors for organisations to succeed in 2014
will be adaptability, a willingness to embrace innovation
at both an individual and corporate level, and the ability
to look ahead in terms of human capital needs.

The new Australian government has promised to work
more closely with businesses and it is expected that it
will answer positively to the demands and needs of the
labor market.

STATISTICAL ANALYSIS NEW ZEALAND:

Employment up, unemployment down as labour market
continues to improve. The number of people employed
in New Zealand increased by 0.7 percent for the quarter
ending September 2013, according to Statistics New
Zealand’s Household Labour Force Survey. Both
full-time and part-time employment increased in the
quarter. Over the year to September 2013 the number of
people in the workforce rose 0.9 percent.

The September survey also recorded a drop in
unemployment, with the number of unemployed going
from 6.4 to 6.2 percent. Unemployment was down from
7.3 percent a year ago. It is now at its lowest point since
January 2010, though still well above pre-recession
levels.

The improving employment and unemployment rates
stem from the on-going economic recovery, which has
translated into businesses being in a better position to
take on new staff. Growing optimism that the economy is
on the right track is reflected in employers hiring
intentions for the year ahead.

AUCKLAND AND CANTERBURY LEADING THE WAY
Auckland and Canterbury continue to lead the way in
employment growth. Much of this growth has been
driven by retail trade, accommodation and food services,
construction and manufacturing.

In the year to September 2013, Auckland employment
rose by 55,500 people, while unemployment decreased
by 12,000 people. The Auckland unemployment rate fell
1.9 percent to 6.7 percent over the year to September
2013.

PAGE: APART FROM GENERAL SKILLED
MIGRATION AND STUDENT VISAS, WHAT OTHER
VISAS COULD PAKISTANI CITIZENS GET?

AFTAB SYED: We have been processing and getting
the following:

Partner visa

Tourist Visa

Temporary Residency Visa

Family Visa

Page26of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Employer Sponsorship Visa

State Sponsorship Visa

Refusal Via

MRT Visa

PAGE: WHY SHOULD PEOPLE MIGRATE TO
AUSTRALIA?

AFTAB SYED: Because of:

Lowest Unemployment ratio.

Migrant can get un-employment benefits

Family allowance

Free education for your kids

Free medical

Politically stable and booming economy

World class quality health care system

Australian Passport can be obtained after spending 4
years in Australia as an immigrant

Australian Passport holder can visit most of the top
world countries without a visa

PAGE: WHAT SORT OF SKILLED WORKERS DOES
AUSTRALIA NEED FROM PAKISTAN?

AFTAB SYED: There are three main skilled categories
which Australia needs and we also successfully
recruiting the following professionals:

ACCOUNTANTS:

Experience: Internal and External Auditor, Accountant
General, Management Accountant etc

Qualification: ACMA, ACA, FCA, ACCA and CIMA

We need at least three years of post qualification.

IT PROFESSIONAL:

Computer Network and System Engineers, Network
Administrator, Data Base Administrator, Software
Quality Assurance Engineers, Software Tester, ICT
Business Analyst, System Analyst, Analyst Programmer,
Software Engineers, Developer Programmer, etc.

ENGINEERS:
Civil, Electrical, Mechanical, Petroleum and Mining and
Agriculture, Engineer Manager, Electronics etc

OTHERS:

Architect, HR Manager/Advisor, Financial Investment
Advisor, Sales and Marketing Manager, Finance
Manager, Supply and Distribution Manager, University
Lecturer etc.

Page27of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.BUSINESSMEN: Owners, Investors and Entrepreneurs
-- NO IELTS*

PAGE: WHY PEOPLE SHOULD MIGRATE TO NEW
ZEALAND?

AFTAB SYED: Because of:

One of the safest and clean country

Politically stable and blooming economy

Advance technologies

Sustainable growth due to stable environment

Freedom of speech and rich cultural diversity

State-of-the-art health facilities

World class universities

Vibrant cultural diversity

Safe and secure environment

Mild climate

NEW ZEALAND NEEDS THE FOLLOWING SKILLED
WORKERS:

Food Technologist

Systems Analyst

Developer Programmer

Software Engineer

Net Programmer

Computer Network and Systems Engineer

ITC Business Analyst

Multimedia Designers (Film Animator)

University Lecturers

unsthk : University of Karachi
icnsl : Business Consultancy | iacc :
Accounting/Consulting | ibcs : Business/Consumer
Services
niex : Interviews with Corporate Executives | nitv :
Interviews | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters
| nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter
austr : Australia | pakis : Pakistan | saarab : Saudi
Arabia | auckl : Auckland | sydney : Sydney | victor :
Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Region | indsubz :
Indian Subcontinent | meastz : Middle East | nswals :
New South Wales | nz : New Zealand | sasiaz :
Southern Asia | wasiaz : Western Asia
Pakistan and Gulf Economist
Document ASGULF0020140118ea1j0000f

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page28of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.