Epping site could get $40 million

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Epping site could get $40 million

Samantha Hutchinson
460 words
5 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
38
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Chinese buyers are circling a residential slab in Epping in Sydney's north-west, with a potential sale
price of $40 million, that could yield more than 210 apartments.

Twelve homes lining the quiet cul-de-sac of Hazlewood Place in the Cliff Street precinct fall within the
newly rezoned Epping Town Centre Urban Activation Precinct.

The rezoning has paved the way for residential lots within 800 metres of Epping Train Station to be
converted into five-storey apartment buildings.
Some streets within 400 metres of the station have been zoned for mixed-use retail and residential
development up to 22 storeys high.

Councillors and planning experts have recommended that residents in the traditionally quiet suburb,
known for its leafy streets lined with 1920s workers' cottages, align themselves with neighbours so
they can sell in blocks of two or more, to increase the yield potential for apartments. But sales of
more than four homes in a row are exceptionally rare.
While twin and triple sold signs on adjoining properties are common in an area known as the Cliff
Street Precinct and another set of streets surrounding Forest Grove, the sale at Hazlewood Place
will represent the area's largest slab to change hands in one line since the area was rezoned.
The Australian Financial Review on two occasions has encountered a number of Chinese
developers touring the street with local agents and interpreters. In both instances the developers
declined to give their identities.
Local agents say another factor sweetening the appeal of an in-line transaction in the strip is that
there could be a possibility for the purchaser to buy the street and nature strips from the council,
making the 12,448-square- metre site substantially bigger.
McGrath agent Heath Dockary, who holds the listing, declined to comment on a potential sale except
to call the slab one of the area's "premier sites".
On Friday, the agent sold two homes at 18 and 20 Cliff Road for a price believed to be higher than
$3 million a piece, equating to more than $3600 a square metre. Developers including Lyon Group,
Developcorp, Greenark Property and CBD Core are actively buying properties in the area.
Hewlett Property Group, a developer who has secured more than $95 million in development sites
in the past nine months across Sydney, has also purchased a site in Epping. Chief executive Ben
Hewlett said competition for sites is reaching a fever pitch.

"It's seriously attractive because it's in the middle of a transformation. You've got good access to
transport and great access to jobs," he said, adding that the planned North West Rail Link is another
reason developers are flocking to the area.

Page66of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
gplan : Urban Planning/Development | c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio
: Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir :
Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters
| nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140504ea5500001

Page67of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.