Material Matters: Thermal Coal , M &A In Oz Resources, Mount Gibson

HD Material Matters: Thermal Coal, M&A In Oz Resources, Mount Gibson
WC 962 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

15 May 2014
FN Arena
FNAREN
English
Copyright 2014. FN Arena Ltd.

-Thermal coal advantages erode -PanAust signals more M&A -Mount Gibson strategy disappoints  

By Eva Brocklehurst

TD

Thermal coal demand is in structural decline and the first blow was delivered via the shale gas revolution.
That's Citi's assessment of the sector. Alternative energy sources such as wind and solar are also
experiencing declining costs while the spread of unconventional gas production techniques is set to erode
coal's long time cost advantage over alternative electricity sources. Citi also notes thermal coal is facing
strong supply growth, and this should remain the case in 2014 and 2015, waning thereafter as capex falls.
Supply curtailments may increase but the analysts do not expect this will be enough to push prices higher.
Project delays and reduced capex are expected to eventually return the market to equilibrium ...but at
lower prices compared with recent years.

Citi observes Australian projects have dramatically succumbed to the reality of lower prices and high
capex intensity. Aside from minor brownfield expansions the only significant greenfield thermal coal
project is Whitehaven Coal's ((WHC)) Maules Creek. There are plenty of resources but, with most of the
infrastructure capacity being utilised, the next generation of projects are largely in areas which require
significant rail and port infrastructure investment. The broker forecasts average ex-Newcastle prices of
$72/t in the June and September quarters with a rebound in December quarter. The 2015 price forecasts
has been downgraded to $79/t but a moderate recovery is expected thereafter.

Demand in the Pacific Basin is expected to outpace supply while the opposite is the case in the Atlantic
Basin. Citi observes India has passed China as the largest source of incremental thermal coal demand.
These two are expected to account for around 45% of imported coal by 2020. Supply growth is currently
led by Australia which is expected to contribute around 40% of global supply growth over 2013-2015.
Colombia and Indonesia are the other main sources of incremental supply.
There have been six major Asian-led merger and acquisition deals in Australia's resources sector over
the past 12 months, notes UBS. These transactions are mostly focused on copper and iron ore. The
sixth and latest in that scenario belongs to Guangdong Rising Assets' recent bid for PanAust ((PNA)). The
price, at $2.30, has been rejected as too low by the board, but the data room has been opened to allow
for due diligence in the hope that a better offer may be forthcoming. Guangdong Rising Assets holds a
23% interest in PanAust. UBS believes, from an equity perspective, 2014 was always going to be difficult
for PanAust in terms of free cash flow.

Moreover, with managing director Gary Stafford signalling his retirement in the next 18 months, UBS
takes the view the stock is vulnerable. The offer captures some exploration and development upside but
UBS feels further value is unaccounted for, especially ahead of the finalising of the Frieda River
acquisition and the soft copper price.

Talking recent deals generally, UBS thinks they show that Asian interests are not shy about what
Australians would deem as marginal assets. UBS suspects investors could re-visit the exploration and
development potential in resource names which have recently been discounted, as the momentum is with
free cash flow growth rather than development potential. UBS wonders whether Asian investors are more
confident in the longer-term outlook for commodities.
Speaking of mergers & acquisitions, JP Morgan believes Mount Gibson Iron's ((MGX)) strategy creates
uncertainty. The broker is wary that the company could spend its cash on acquisitions rather than

Page153of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.distribute it to shareholders. Brokers recently made a site trip to Koolan Island, the company's flagship
project. JP Morgan observes this is the jewel in the portfolio with expectations it will ramp up to 4mtpa the
end of the year. Koolan Island has a reserve grade of 64% iron with low deleterious materials. A third of
the product is sold as lump and the mine life is seven years. There is limited capacity to push the
operation above 4mtpa and extension to the main pit would require a further pushing back of the sea wall.
CIMB notes the company has listed growing via acquisition as a priority, as well as lengthening the life
of the business which, while positive, the broker notes is yet to show significant progress. The company
has extended the last mining year to FY21 from FY20 by incorporating additional reserves and the Shine
project. CIMB believes it is important that management balances returning cash to shareholders with
growing the business for the longer term. After the visit CIMB was more confident that the major
shareholders, Shougang and APAC, support pursuing growth opportunities. Citi is confident that
management can meet production and cost guidance for this year but, given the board's reluctance to
return cash, struggles to see any catalyst, given the bearish picture on iron ore. This broker notes a
preference for the acquisition of an early stage, mid west project.  

Find out why FNArena subscribers like the service so much: "Your Feedback (Thank You)" - Warning this
story contains unashamedly positive feedback on the service provided.

FN Arena is building the future of financial news reporting at www.fnarena.com . Our daily news reports
can be trialed at no cost and with no obligations. Simply sign up and get a feel for what we are trying to
achieve.

Subscribers and trialists should read our terms and conditions, available on the website.

All material published by FN Arena is the copyright of the publisher, unless otherwise stated.
Reproduction in whole or in part is not permitted without written permission of the publisher.

B9C8B94E-D466-97CE-7582A7D7F01B3934

RF
CO whitt : Mount Gibson Iron Ltd
IN

NS

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB FN Arena Ltd.
AN

Document FNAREN0020140619ea5f000gv

Page154of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.