Rio Tinto's Aluminum Strategy in Focus -- Market Talk

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Rio Tinto's Aluminum Strategy in Focus -- Market Talk

1,554 words
20 June 2014
08:59
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

2257 GMT [DOW JONES] Analysts and investors later this month will tour Rio Tinto's (RIO) North
American operations, and J.P. Morgan says it will be keen to gain some insight into the strategy of the
mining company's new aluminum boss, Alfredo Barrios. The market also is keen for an update on
production cuts and the sale of non-core assets, given optimism in the aluminum sector is improving and
Rio Tinto's strategy is to lift the profitability of the division, J.P. Morgan's analysts say. At the same time,
they say they hope to get a better handle on the grade profile at the Kennecott copper operation
following a landslide more than a year ago at the Bingham Canyon open-pit mine. J.P. Morgan
recommends RIO at overweight with a A$81/share target. The shares ended Thursday at A$59.24.
(robb.stewart@wsj.com; Twitter: @RobbMStewart)

22:58 GMT [Dow Jones] The S&P 500 has 10%-17% upside potential amid low volatility in the coming
months according to Citi. "We will likely see a 'pop' (in volatility) in the months ahead, if as we expect,
data improves, inflation continues to rise and yields start to go higher again," Citi Technical Analyst Tom
Fitzpatrick says. "However overall volatility does not look likely to see a breakout surge like we saw in
2008 but rather a 'normalization' within a range of around 9%-17% (maybe a little higher). We believe
this will be coming from better news overall and therefore the reaction will not be a big 'risk off' dynamic.
Ahead of that a move higher in the S&P 500 above 2,000 (2,150-2,300) is likely in the coming months."
S&P 500 rose 0.1% to 1959.48 overnight, hitting a record high of 1959.87. (david.rogers@wsj.com;
Twitter: @DavidRogersWSJ)

2250 GMT [Dow Jones] New Zealand lamb prices continue its gradual ascent, with the ASB Lamb Price
index up 4.1% over the last four weeks and now sits 20.1% higher than a year ago, says ASB in a note.
ASB adds that the increases are due to U.K. and European appetite for lamb returning, Chinese
demand continuing to grow at a rapid place, New Zealand supply remaining subdued and the Australian
sheep sector further downsizing; "All up, we see these factors continuing to play out over the new
season, resulting in further lamb price increases. Moreover, in the case of growing Chinese demand and
the downsizing of the Australian sheep sector, these factors will help to underpin prices this season and
beyond." (lucy.craymer@wsj.com;Twitter: @lucy_craymer)

22:51 GMT [Dow Jones] TV revenue guidance from Ten Network (TEN.AU) highlights the risk to
concensus expectations for the broadcaster's FY15 Ebitda, says J.P. Morgan, which is roughly 70%
below the concensus forecast. It remains underweight TEN due to a lag between the company's
investment in content and any revenue recovery, its lack of premium sports rights and lack of evidence of
a material recovery in ratings. TEN has guided for a 3.5%-4.5% decline in TV revenue in FY14. J.P.
Morgan says it prefers Seven West Media (SWM.AU). TEN shares last traded at A$0.27.
(robb.stewart@wsj.com; Twitter: @RobbMStewart)

22:46 GMT [Dow Jones] Credit Suisse upgrades McMillan Shakespeare (MMS.AU) to Outperform from
Neutral on valuation grounds, but cuts its target price 12% to A$10.75 after increasing its discount for
regulatory risk. "MMS stock has fallen about 17% in the last month, reflecting a combination of concern
over the CEO resignation, uncertainty over earnings and regulatory risk," the broker says. "Despite this,
we believe regulatory risk is relatively 'low-cycle', due to better informed stakeholders, low likelihood of
removing demand-side vehicle industry stimulus and numerous other, larger budgetary challenges."
MMS last A$9.42. (david.rogers@wsj.com; Twitter: @DavidRogersWSJ)

Page252of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.22:39 GMT [Dow Jones] GDF Suez (GSZ.FR) and Santos's (STO.AU) decision to shelve an Australian
floating LNG project, while not entirely surprising, still has negative implications for the cost structure of
the emerging technology, says J.P. Morgan. "It implies that floating LNG might not be a cure-all wonder
elixir for the plague of capex cost escalation in the Australian LNG industry," analyst Benjamin Wilson
says. The decision has implications for Woodside (WPL.AU), which intends to use floating LNG to
develop its Browse resource. The broker estimates build costs for Browse at US$37 billion, valuing it at
about A$6.85/share. "A significantly higher cost estimate would reduce this value materially," Mr. Wilson
says. Shell is currently building the world's first floating LNG vessel to develop gas from the Prelude field
from 2016. (Ross.Kelly@wsj.com)

18:33 EDT - JB Hi-Fi (JBH.AU) banished the winter blues afflicting other Australian retailers by
reiterating expectations for full-year profit of up to A$129M. But it wasn't all good news. JB Hi-Fi's
forecast of 5.3% sales growth in FY14 is below its previous guidance of at least 6%, implying it's also
suffering from the broad pullback in consumer spending following the federal government's budget that
mixed spending cuts with tax rises. But JPMorgan says it still thinks "JB Hi-Fi is well positioned
compared to other mid-cap discretionary retailers with no exposure to weather risk, improving industry
trends such as TV replacement, and lower impact from falling AUD/USD." Broker lifts its price target
marginally to A$21.64. JBH last traded at A$18.97. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

18:29 EDT - Amazon.com (AMZN) yesterday unveiled its Fire phone, which includes software that
makes it easier for the ecommerce giant to poach customers from brick-and-mortar rivals. The feature,
called Firefly, allows consumers to take a picture of a product in a store from their smartphone and then
generates a link to that product featured on AMZN's website. Firefly can recognize 70M products,
including household items, books and video games. Analysts say such software could make it easier for
consumers to purchase items they find in physical stores more quickly from AMZN--a practice known as
showrooming. "It's showrooming on steroids, absolutely," says John Jackson, an IDC analyst who covers
mobile technology. (clint.boulton@wsj.com)

18:26 EDT - JP Morgan reiterates its Overweight rating on Asciano, saying it's on track to deliver higher
earnings and dividends. "In our view, AIO has undertaken the right strategy of replacing outdated and
inefficient equipment and automating the business and will be nicely placed to leverage from any
improvement in economic activity," the broker says. Target price rises to A$6.14 from A$6.00 after
Thursday's trading update and job cuts. AIO last A$5.55. (david.rogers@wsj.com; @DavidRogersWSJ)
18:20 EDT - The New Zealand 2014 wine vintage "is a cracker" with not only the volumes of grapes up
30% but also grape quality looking equally high, says ASB. "The larger 2014 harvest combined with its
high quality sets the industry up well for export growth over the year." It adds that economies of key
markets such as the US and the UK are improving, "which should help boost demand for NZ wine,"
while at the same time emerging markets such as "China represent longer-term opportunities for New
Zealand wine exports." (lucy.craymer@wsj.com; @lucy_craymer)
18:17 EDT - Iraqi oil production has not been affected by the Sunni insurgency in the country, but prices
have soared to $115/barrel on fear alone in the past week. "If ever there were an experiment on defining
a risk premium, this is it," says Ed Morse of Citi at a panel in New York. Long-term buyers such as
airlines and utilities rushed to lock in prices last week, he says, and now prices are being driven by
shorter-term traders and hedge funds. (nicole.friedman@wsj.com; @NicoleFriedman)

18:16 EDT - Red Hat (RHT) on Wednesday acquired eNovance to help speed up testing and launching
of cloud software systems. The deal, for which RHT is paying 70M euros ($95M), hinges on the
companies' collaboration on OpenStack, an open source approach to building cloud systems. RHT's
OpenStack software enables businesses to manage servers, storage and networking devices as if they
were a single resource. ENovance sells automation tools and integration services that let developers
deliver rapid iterations of code for OpenStack systems. RHT and eNovance are chasing pieces of a
potentially large pie: business sales related to OpenStack will exceed $1B by 2015, according to the
451 Research. (clint.boulton@wsj.com)

To contact the Market Talk Editors,
Kevin Kingsbury, 212 416-2354, kevin.kingsbury@wsj.com
Cynthia Lin, 212 416-4403, Cynthia.lin@wsj.com
John Shipman, 212 416-2181, john.shipman@wsj.com
Patrick Sullivan, 212 416-2326, Patrick.sullivan@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

June 19, 2014 18:59 ET (22:59 GMT)

Page253of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO
IN
NS

rtz : Rio Tinto PLC | rtzcra : Rio Tinto Group | craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | namt : All Market Talk | ncmac : Commodities Asset Class
News | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | ncat : Content Types | nfact
: Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | eurz : Europe | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020140619ea6j003vm

Page254of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.