Grass is greener for mainland firms bent on diversification

The Eastern Front; Blog

SE
HD Grass is greener for mainland firms bent on diversification
BY Megan Zhao
WC 827 words
PD
SN
SC
VOL Issue: 83078
LA
CY
LP

20 November 2014
SNL Real Estate Daily: Asia-Pacific Edition
REAP

English
Copyright 2014. SNL Financial LC

TD

In the latest sign of top Chinese developers feeling the need to diversify, Shanghai-based Greenland
Holding Group has set its sights on the Australian food and agriculture sector.
According to a report by The Australian, the state-backed company is in talks to buy major Australian
companies involved in beef, dairy and wine businesses for export to mainland China, the world's most
populous country and one with rapidly changing consumption habits.

Chairman Zhang Yuliang revealed the expansion plan on the day after Australian and Chinese
governments signed a free trade agreement, saying that the group would have a local presence in the
industry within six months.
As of today, Greenland has spent more than US$15 billion acquiring land and real estate projects in 14
cities and 10 countries since the end of 2012, in what is seen as the most aggressive Chinese developer
expansion overseas. Earlier this year, Zhang told reporters at the B20 Summit in Australia that he
estimated overseas revenues to be 20 billion Chinese yuan this year and 40 billion yuan in 2015.
While the group continues to widen its scope of investment to commercial and residential properties
globally, the latest interest in agriculture indicates that real estate deals no longer outstrip all alternatives
as a potential source of profits, CRIC analyst Zhu Yiming told SNL Financial.

"Since Greenland's past overseas investment was extravagant, we expect the investment into potential
deals in the agriculture sector to be fairly large too," the Shanghai-based analyst added.
But rather than a sign of dulled ambition in further overseas real estate expansion, Zhu explained that the
company's decision shows that it is taking opportunistic advantage of the lower tariffs for Australian
agricultural imports into China under the free trade agreement. "It doesn't seem to be the case to me that
Greenland turns to the agriculture sector because they are having problems with the overseas property
business. At least for now, their projects still sell very well."

If Greenland's bet on Australian agriculture is purely opportunistic, its mainland peers' efforts to branch
into non-real estate segments appear to be more strategic as they look for ways to maintain revenues
amid a housing market slowdown, according to Zhu.
Just days before Greenland made its move public, another top 10 Chinese developer, Evergrande Real
Estate Group Ltd., planned to shovel about HK$950 million into a controlling stake in a Hong
Kong-based magazine publisher called New Media Group Holdings.

The developer, which also owns the Guangzhou Evergrande football team, has been busy diversifying
into a broader base of industry sectors over the past year. In October, it was mulling an investment of
about HK$1.2 billion in the new energy sector by subscribing to shares of U.S.-based Solar Power and
Hong Kong-listed Guocang Group. In September, the company ventured into baby formula through the
acquisition of Cowala Dairy in New Zealand. During the same month, Evergrande also launched three
new agribusiness subsidiaries in grain and oil, dairy and animal husbandry.
Evergrande rival China Vanke Co. Ltd., which made its name building residential developments, is also
among the ranks of mainland developers venturing beyond its real estate roots. In October 2013, Vanke

Page92of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.moved to purchase an 8.28% interest in Huishang Bank, becoming the biggest shareholder in the Hong
Kong-listed bank.
It has become a firmly established trend for Chinese developers to reduce their reliance on the mainland
housing sector, Zhu said. "I think they have learned to diversify to hedge against the declining returns of
the residential market."

Although it can be seen as wise to step beyond the traditional base in housing projects during a market
downturn, Moody's Franco Leung, when analyzing Evergrande's solar energy investment, issued a word
of warning against such moves from a from a financing perspective.
"We believe the company's investment in noncore businesses will take time to generate meaningful cash
flows, and that they will contribute loss and consume funding over the near term," the vice president and
senior analyst said.
Evergrande's nonproperty businesses generated only around 1.2% of total revenue of 63.34 billion yuan
in the first half, Leung noted. However, the revenue was offset as these segments contributed an
operating loss of around 2 billion yuan, compared to 700 million yuan in the same year-ago period.

While its nonproperty businesses are still at an early stage of development, Leung said Evergrande has
shown increased appetite to venture into businesses in which it does not have a track record.
Moody's expects the company's debt leverage to worsen to above 80% over the next 12 months, since it
will need to cover "increased investment in nonproperty businesses, construction spending and land
premium payments."
As of Nov. 17, US$1 was equivalent to 6.12 Chinese yuan.

CO sgregc : Greenland Holding Group Company Limited
IN

NS
RE

i501 : Building Construction | i5010021 : Land Development/Subdivision | iconst : Construction | icre : Real
Estate/Construction
c11 : Plans/Strategy | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
china : China | austr : Australia | greenl : Greenland | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America

IPD Lines of Business
PUB SNL Financial LC
AN

Document REAP000020141125eabk00003

Page93of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.