Chalk ruling up to commonsense at ASIC

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Chalk ruling up to commonsense at ASIC

John Durie
1,259 words
19 June 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
19
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Australian Securities & Investments Commission boss Greg Medcraft has won an important victory for
commonsense in corporate disclosure by finally following through right to the Federal Court, where
corporate Australia fears to tread.

The facts of the Newcrest case are so simple it beggars belief that the old regime led by former
chairman Don Mercer and outgoing chief Greg Robinson could have not seen the bleeding obvious
from day one.

The gold price was plummeting, the stockbroking analysts were asleep at the wheel and the
company did what every big corporate does and talked to the analysts to lower forecasts.

All that was needed was a statement to the market letting us all know the facts rather than rely on
analyst reports that go to the privileged few.

That’s pretty basic stuff and over the course of a bit over a week the Newcrest stock price fell some 15
per cent, trimming the company’s value from Continued on Page 26 Continued from Page 19 $11.3
billion to $9.5bn, but still no market announcement.

The investor relations person kept the management informed but no one at Newcrest had the
commonsense to suggest that all shareholders should be kept informed. Mercer compounded the
mistake by trying to pre-empt ASIC by commissioning his old mate Maurice Newman to prepare a
report on the issue.

Instead of finding the bleeding obvious, Newman managed to find fault in everyone but the
management and the board that hired him. What a disgrace that was at the time, and in the wake of
yesterday’s admission, the exercise looked downright mischievous.

Thankfully Medcraft and his team at ASIC saw through the nonsense from the top end of town in
corporate Australia and won a valuable court victory. Too often for procedural simplicity the corporate
plod has accepted early pleas rather than take offences to the final stage as it did here.

Medcraft has promised more litigation and yesterday’s ruling should serve as a valuable lesson to
both the corporate plod on how it should operate and corporate Australia to remember that
management and the board are there to serve and look after shareholders, not the other way around.

Truth in advertising THE Australian Competition & Consumer Commission also scored a significant
victory in its battle to ensure corporate Australia actually tells the truth when it advertises.

So-called credence claims are big in ACCC boss Rod Sims’s to-do list, and Chief Justice James
Allsop’s judgment was fulsome in its condemnation of Coles and its bread claims.

He noted he would not presume to say what Coles should have said, but he said “a start would,
however, be to make it tolerably clear to the public that the recent baking was the completion of a

Page29of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.baking process that had taken place sometime before off site, and that ‘freshly baked’ actually meant
the completion of the baking process of frozen product prepared and frozen off site by suppliers”.
That doesn’t sound nearly so tempting. Regulators like nothing better than to hold big business
accountable for their actions and that is precisely what Sims has done with Coles.

Coles has since changed its labels and an appeal is unlikely.

Fresh face in liquor NEW Coles boss John Durkan made some big changes of his own yesterday, the
most notable being to move fresh food king Greg Davis to head the liquor turnaround.

The big news is to shift Sydney-domiciled finance chief Ross Scott back home to head a new division
called “managing director financial services’’.

As noted previously Coles, following the British tradition, is building out sales by adding new
merchandise like home and car loans, for which it now has some 300,000 customers.

Car insurance is not a big money spinner but it is another product to keep you at Coles, which is why
the retailer wants to expand. In rough terms, a $650 car insurance sale would see Coles clip the ticket
for around $50, with the real dollars being collected by the risk taker, IAG.

Coles’s credit card contract with GE expires next year, so expect Scott to talk terms on a new deal,
which could be extended to wider banking services lined to the flybuys card, which is how British
retailer Tesco plays the game.

The more transactions you do on your Coles flybuys bank account the more flybuys points you earn,
and so goes the virtuous circle that sees you buying more groceries and developing more brand
loyalty to Coles.

Another big appointment is Roger Sniezek to run the digital division, which is a new position at the
supermarket operation.

Liquor was the laggard under the McLeod turnaround and, as much as he tried to downplay the
underperformance, the reality is the opportunity costs are huge, and while Coles has established
momentum in food, Woolies’ Dan Murphybrand is leaving it dead in the water.
Liquorland is the star brand and, given its stores are attached to supermarkets, that is where the
attention will start. Internally, no one is agreeing with Ben Gilbert at UBS, who sees the upside at $140
million a year in earnings, but there is upside.
Former Kevin Rudd staffer Andrew Charlton has moved from liquor back into business development,
the in-house M&A team at Wesfarmers run by Tim Bult.

Aquila caves in TONY Poli has blinked. In the face of Baosteel’s threatened withdrawal, he has
backed down and accepted its $3.40-a-share bid for his companyAquila Resources.

In doing so he has given Mineral Resources boss Chris Ellison a problem because his $3.75
conditional scrip bid was deemed inadequate in the absence of a rival cash bid.
This gives Ellison the option of sitting there with 12 per cent in a company controlled by Baosteel, or
taking the loss and accepting $3.40 each for the 49 million shares he paid $3.75 for last week.

Baosteel won the day with last week’s declaration that its $3.40-a-share offer was final.

That gave Poli a clear choice and certainty, and he has decided he won’t get a better offer, so the best
way to get his iron ore project off the ground was to jump into bed with the Chinese steel major and
Aurizon.

In the scheme of things this was a smart choice and tactically Baosteel has played the game superbly.

Talk of any deal between Poli and Ellison was clearly aimed just at getting a better bid on the table
and in the end that failed to materialise.

Now comes the hard part — actually putting its plan into action. In concept it is an important
breakthrough with a Chinese steel mill taking a direct interest in a rival project to the two iron majors,
BHP and Rio Tinto, and indeed the so-called third force of Fortescue Metals. It is also a boon to
Aurizon boss Lance Hockridge because, presuming the deal goes ahead as planned, he will have the
chance to develop the port and rail project.

Page30of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Ellison can plead for part of the action on the port build, but he will be coming very much from left field
having attempted to upset the Baosteel bid.

Deutsche Bank advised Baosteel and Goldman Sachs advised Aquila Resources.The market told the
story, with Aquila closing up 7 per cent at $3.35 and Mineral Resources down 2 per cent at $9.35.

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

ausic : Australian Securities and Investments Commission | newmoh : Newcrest Mining Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal Action | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140618ea6j00013

Page31of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.