Asciano chief bides time on Patrick sale

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Asciano chief bides time on Patrick sale

Sarah-Jane Tasker
486 words
24 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
24
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

ASCIANO chief John Mullen says he is in no hurry to sell a stake in its Patrick Ports business but he
expects to make a decision “one way or the other” in the coming months.
Mr Mullen, delivering the company’s first quarter update yesterday, said the company was not going to
sell the stake “cheap”.

Market speculation suggests Asciano is in talks with China Merchants to sell close to half its stevedore
company Patrick for about $1.1 billion. State-owned China Merchants has ports, shipping and
logistics operations and through a deal could provide Asciano with an operating presence in China.

“There is no particular panic or hurry on the other parties’ side, or ours. We will just keep that going
forward and I would hope that in the next few months we would have some progress one way or
another,” he said.

“We are not just negotiating with one party ... there are a number of opportunities potentially open to us
here.” The chief executive added that while it was portrayed in the media that the world had “turned
upside down” while Asciano was negotiating with these parties, the reality was that the division had not
been affected by the deal talks.

“Provided that remains the case, then there is no, or little, downside to seeing these things through for
however long they take.” The company highlighted that for the first quarter of 2015, coal tonnes hauled
had increased, but it was only a slight increase in Queensland given there were maintenance outages
in the Goonyella network and stockpile issues.
Mr Mullen said that while coal haulage volumes continued to remain at high levels, volumes across its
other businesses remained patchy.

“In response to this environment we are very focused on our business improvement programs and in
particular the integration of our two rail businesses,” he said.

Asciano continued to expect underlying EBIT growth in 2015 to be higher than the underlying EBIT
growth of 5 per cent reported in 2014. “At this stage we see no reason to change the outlook we gave
at the beginning of year ... we feel quite positive for the year,” Mr Mullen said.

“Volumes are flatter than where we would like across many areas but they are in line with what we
expected, unfortunately.” China, in efforts to burn cleaner coal, recently introduced import restrictions
on lower quality coal. The economic powerhouse also introduced a tariff on imports, which is set to be
removed for Australian producers once the two countries finalised a free-trade agreement.Mr Mullen
said at this stage there did not seem to be any impact on Asciano’s coal producing customers. “When
we talk about the tariff, the dollar coming down is offsetting that at the moment,” he said. “At this stage
none of our major customers have changed their volume outlook.”

CO

ascian : Asciano Ltd. | lclaus : Patrick Corp

Page93of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

itsp : Transportation/Shipping
c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141023eaao0003i

Page94of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.