Toast to bounteous year

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Commercial realestate
Toast to bounteous year

Carolyn Cummins COMMERICIAL PROPERTY EDITOR
724 words
1 February 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
36
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

A new round of sales and potential new floats will dominate the pub sector in the coming year, with
more than $50 million having changed hands in the past two months.
Private investor Anthony Medich paid $6 million for the Centennial Hotel at 88 Oxford Street,
Woollahra, from Cos Psaltis, and it is expected there will be a newly launched restaurant joint-venture
at the pub with celebrity chef Justin North.

Two of the biggest sales this year, yet to be finalised, were by Coles of The Palms at Chullora for $22.5
million to Iris Capital and the Long Jetty at Wyong to private investor Peter McDougal for $4.9 million.

In November, Coles put the assets on the market as part of its continued non-core pub divestment.

The potential float of the Australian Pub Fund is still to be finalised.

The sales come as the NSW pub sector works through the new late-night closing regulations
introduced by NSW Premier Barry O'Farrell. Pub investors say most hotels will be immune, because
most have midnight closing times. Only those with 3am closings will be affected.

Other recent sales by Jones Lang LaSalle Hotels pub investment sales director John Musca and
associate Sam Handy include the Lansdowne Hotel, Chippendale, for $6.2 million to the owner of the
Oscars Hotels chain, and Triple 888 Hotel, Chinatown, for $10 million to a private chinese investor.
Late last year the Jacksons on George Hotel in the city was bought for $23 million by developer Lend
Lease, while the Lantern Hotel Group bought the Crown Hotel, Surry Hills for $15.5 million.
Mr Musca said he was not surprised to see a rush of hotel transaction activity in the last half of 2013
as recognition of the differential between hotel earnings and the cash rate inevitably transcended
market investment malaise.

"The movement of the equity markets towards yield will preface interest in larger suburban hotels,
where earnings histories are transparent, barriers to entry highest and growth manifestly evident," he
said.

Andrew Jolliffe, managing director of Ray White Hotels Australia, said he had spoken to a number of
major lenders during the past week and all were pragmatic about the likely impacts of the proposed
legislative amendments.

"Fundamentally, hotels are well positioned businesses with both loan-to-value ratios and interest cover
ratios in better than good working order," he said.
"Few industries are as resilient as the hotel industry."

Page156of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Jolliffe sold the Plumpton Hotel for about $20 million last year and the Ray White Hotels Darwin
office recently sold two hotel assets, with Woolworths hotel arm Australian Leisure and Hospitality
rumoured to be the buyer.

"Darwin and the Northern Territory are emerging markets and hence key strategic objectives for our
national business," Mr Jolliffe said.
A new deal on the market is the Carrington Hotel at 563 Bourke Street, in Surry Hills, being sold by the
private group of investor Greg Magree, Drink'n'Dine.

The inner-city venue forms part of Drink'n'Dine's pub portfolio, which includes the renowned Forresters
and Norfolk hotels.

Dan Dragicevich and Joel Fisher, of CBRE Hotels, who have been appointed to sell the venue, said the
sale was in line with Drink'n'Dine's expansion strategy.
"Having entered the industry initially with the 2009 purchase of the Norfolk Hotel, Drink'n'Dine has
expanded rapidly, adding to its stable of five venues with the recent reopening of the Oxford Hotel in
Petersham," Mr Dragicevich said.
The sale marked the first time Drink'n'Dine had sold one of its venues, and the divestment would free
the group up for further expansion.

Drink'n'Dine co-founder Jaime Wirth said the decision to sell was bittersweet. "It's difficult parting with
any of our venues, but we have decided that streamlining the group is best for the immediate future."
Mr Fisher said the sale came after a watershed year in 2013 for the pub market, where yields had
sharpened considerably and sales activity had continued to grow.

"There is a resounding appetite from current players, as well as new entrants for quality metro assets.
This can be directly attributed to continued low rates and a lack of stock available," he said.

CO

IN

RE
PUB
AN

iriscm : Iris Capital Management | ozpubz : Australian Pub Fund | colsgj : Coles Group Ltd | wsfrm :
Wesfarmers Ltd
i6651 : Hotels (except Casino)/Motels | i662 : Bars/Public Houses | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | i66
: Hotels/Restaurants | i665 : Lodgings | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality |
ireest : Real Estate | itourm : Tourism | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i656 : Mixed Retailing | i6560002 :
Department Stores | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150203 : Private Equity | i8150206 :
Investment Trusts/Funds | i815020602 : Real Estate Investment Trusts | ialtinv : Alternative
Investments | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | iretail : Retail | iventure : Venture
Capital
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140131ea210005m

Page157of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.