Rymill the latest winery on sale

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Rymill the latest winery on sale

Michael Bleby
326 words
4 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
36
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Rymill Coonawarra is selling a half stake in the business for between $15 million and $20 million
as the family-owned wine maker seeks to boost export sales.
The business, run by fifth-generation managing director John Rymill, has 143 hectares planted in
the famous red wine-growing area of SA, with a capacity 80000 cases annually, but has averaged
only 41000 over the past five years.

"They have got this resource that is not being fully utilised," said Gaetjens Langley partner Toby
Langley. Exports make up 10 per cent of Rymill sales, but with investment that figure could rise, Mr
Langley said.

"Any material that doesn't make the branded product, they sell in bulk," he said. "But that could
easily be converted to branded wine sold in international markets."
Following the Schild family in the Barossa and fellow Coonawarra wine-making Hollick family, the
Rymills are the latest face of a family-dominated industry that is trying take advantage of growing
investor interest to bring in capital and boost sales to growing overseas markets.
In April, Hollick sold a controlling interest to Hong Kong Yingda Investment Co. Schild Estate,
which went on the market in July, is in talks with two potential buyers, both Chinese, chairman Ed
Schild told The Australian Financial Review on Monday.

"I dare say within the next month or so there'll be an outcome," he said.

Sales are picking up, he said.

"In the last month we've been flat out. It's probably the best month we've had for the last 3 to 4
years. Most of it is going into the US and a lot into Canada and even into Malaysia."

The majority of Rymill's product is cabernet sauvignon, which accounts for more than half of its
vineyard area and much of which goes to the US. Other plantings include shiraz, sauvignon blanc,
merlot and chardonnay.

IN
RE
PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141103eab400022

Page8of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.