Intrepid Mines fights board spill

HD
CR
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Intrepid Mines fights board spill

AAP
288 words
7 May 2014
13:07
news.com.au
NLNEWW
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

EMBATTLED Australian exploration company Intrepid Mines has hit back at claims from a shareholder
that it should be wound up.
It is nearly two years since the Australian miner was kicked off its $4 billion-plus Indonesian gold mining
project by a local joint venture partner.

The dispute culminated in a settlement in February in which Intrepid Mines received $80 million, leaving
the project in Indonesian hands.
Hong Kong hedge fund Quantum Pacific - Intrepid Mines' fourth largest shareholder - will make a second
attempt to oust the miner's board at an extraordinary general meeting on Tuesday.
Quantum, which has a 5.7 per cent stake in Intrepid Mines, says the company should return all capital
including cash to shareholders, and its remaining assets be liquidated.

It also seeks to replace most of the board with its own nominees, including Quantum founding partner
Greg Mazur.
"With the sale of the Tujuh Bukit project in Indonesia, the existing board and company has outlived its
original purpose and all available company capital should be returned to shareholders without further
delay," Quantum said in a statement.

Intrepid Mines chairman Ian McMaster has told shareholders there are alternatives to shutting down the
company.
A vote is due to be held on a return of capital to shareholders at the company's annual general meeting
on May 30, and if rejected other alternatives will be presented at another meeting in August, he said.
Mr McMaster also accused Quantum of using misinformation to gain control of the company and its cash
reserves without making a takeover bid.
Tujuh Bukit is regarded as one of the richest undeveloped copper-gold deposits in the world, and a
potential 10-year project.

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

NS
RE
PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document NLNEWW0020140507ea570005q

Page93of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.