Oil Plunge Dims Outlook for LNG Projects; Companies Including Chevron and Shell Have Invested Nearly $250 Billion in LNG Projects

SE
HD

BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Markets
Oil Plunge Dims Outlook for LNG Projects; Companies Including Chevron and Shell
Have Invested Nearly $250 Billion in LNG Projects
By Ross Kelly
1,145 words
11 December 2014
18:31
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

SYDNEY—Investors in giant gas-export terminals from Australia to Canada are facing the
prospect of losing billions of dollars plowed into the projects as plunging oil prices darken the
outlook for the industry.

Unless prices recover, the decline could wipe out returns for companies such as Chevron Corp.
and Royal Dutch Shell PLC, which have committed nearly $250 billion combined to
liquefied-natural-gas projects over the past seven years to meet rising Asian demand for the
cleaner-burning fuel.

LNG is natural gas compressed into liquid form inside huge refrigeration units, making it
possible to ship it on tankers to places unconnected by pipelines.

To fund their plans, the companies have typically agreed to sell most of the gas up front,
ahead of the completion of their projects, at rates linked to oil prices. The oil-linked pricing
means LNG producers stand to get much less revenue when they deliver their first shipments
than if crude had remained nearer its peak of $116 some six months ago. On Thursday, Brent
crude, the global oil-price benchmark, was near $64 a barrel in European trading.

Already, the decline has claimed a casualty in Canada. Last week, developers led by
Malaysia’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd., or Petronas, indefinitely delayed starting construction of a
$32 billionLNG planton the Pacific coast.

Crude futures have been weakening for months, but declines accelerated last month following
a decision by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countriesto maintain its production
limits, despite concern over a glut of oil.

Page132of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.LNG prices in Asiahave sunk below $10 per million British thermal units, meaning many of the
projects may struggle to turn a profit. “OPEC’s come along and burst the bubble,” said Mark
Samter, a Sydney-based analyst at Credit Suisse. “Project returns are awful at these prices.”

To break even, most Australian LNG projects would need to sell the commodity for at least
$12-to-$14 per million British thermal units, according to estimates from Credit Suisse and
Wood Mackenzie, a resource-industry consultancy. The price would need to be even higher for
some of the more-expensive developments.

To be sure, most experts believe demand for LNG will soar over the coming decades as
countries such as China attempt to drive their modernization using fuel that burns more
cleanly than coal. Demand for LNG will also likely remain high in economies such as South
Korea and Japan, which lack fossil-fuel reserves. Japan has been using more LNG since the
2011 Fukushima disaster prompted it to close its nuclear reactors.
Typically, LNG is sold through contractsspanning up to 30 years. A swift recovery in the oil
price could allow projects to make money eventually, if their owners can withstand the financial
pressure long enough. Santos Ltd., a big investor in Australian LNG, has been forced to cut
spending across its business after the fall in oil prices prompted it to defer raising cash
through a sale of so-called hybrid securities.

Even as companies struggle with lower prices, Australian LNG projects have suffered from
cost overruns caused by everything from unfavorable currency swings to labor shortages. The
challenges are different for producers in Middle Eastern countries such as Qatar, where labor
costs are lower.
On the east coast of Australia, U.K. oil-and-gas companyBG Group PLC is running
last-minute checks before starting up a vast facility that cost more than $20 billion to build,
having overcome budget overruns of more than a third of the original price tag. The
project—clustered on an island with two giant plants owned by rivals including Santos, Total
SA and ConocoPhillips—is due to ship its first LNG cargoes to Asia this month.

BG said it remained optimistic about the prospects for its Queensland Curtis LNG project,
which counts China’s Cnooc Ltd. as a minority investor and a key customer. “The economics
for QCLNG are sound and competitive across a wide range of oil prices,” a BBG spokesman
said.
The company bolstered its balance sheet this week by selling the project’s main pipeline to
Australia’s APA Group Ltd. for $5 billion.

On the country’s west coast, the cost of building the Gorgon LNG project, operated by
Chevron with backing from Shell and Exxon Mobil Corp., has already swelled by around 45%
to $54 billion since building started in 2009. The work is expected to be completed sometime
next year, when the project is also supposed to come online. A spokesman for Chevron
declined to comment on the weakening oil price, but Chief Financial Officer Pat Yarrington
said in October that four major projects it is building, including Gorgon, would rapidly turn from
being “cash consumers” to “cash generators.”

“Clearly, many Australian projects are at risk of delivering inadequate returns,” said Ian
Ashcroft, a U.K.-based gas analyst at Wood Mackenzie. “Some are already suffering due to
cost overruns, but the impact of the oil price on early cash flow is also critical to project
economics.”

Elsewhere, companies that haven’t started building dozens more planned LNG terminals in
Canada and East African countries such as Tanzania and Mozambique will likely be
questioning the timing of hundreds of billions of dollars in proposed new investments.
U.S. shale-gas producers looking to export their product are affected less by the drop in oil
prices because they typically signed contracts overseas linked to U.S. domestic-gas prices,
which are low due to the boom in the local production of shale gas. But on the flip side, thanks
to crude oil’s fall, LNG producers offering oil-linked contracts will be able to compete better in
the international market against their U.S. rivals.

Page133of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Currently, two LNG terminals are under construction in the U.S. Several more have received
the go-ahead from regulators. Construction of the Sabine Pass project in Louisiana, operated
by Houston-based Cheniere Energy Inc., began two years ago and is expected to be
completed late next year. Freeport LNG Development LP last month began a project in Texas;
it expects to begin shipping gas in 2018.

Both projects involve converting LNG import terminals into export facilities. They are expected
to be less expensive than the Australian ones because pipelines and storage tanks are already
in place. Cheniere declined to comment, while a spokeswoman for Freeport said it had signed
contracts that would absorb its plant’s projected output for decades.

Daniel Gilbert in Houston and Mari Iwata in Tokyo contributed to this article.

Write to Ross Kelly at ross.kelly@wsj.com
| Bloomberg News | A liquefied natural gas tanker is berthed in Japan. Weaker oil prices are
dimming prospects for LNG projects.
rnlp : Royal Dutch Shell PLC | socal : Chevron Corporation
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra :
Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
m14 : Commodity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | nimage : Images | c11
: Plans/Strategy | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | asiaz : Asia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Mark Samter
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document WSJO000020141211eacb00335

ART

CO
IN

NS

RE
IPD
PUB
AN

Page134of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.