Free trade with China will unlock opportunities for farmers: Joyce

Free trade with China will unlock opportunities for farmers: Joyce

17 November 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation Transcripts
ABCTRS
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

Chris Uhlmann

HD
BY
WC 1,691 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

The importance of China's relationship with Australia will be front and centre today when president Xi
Jinping addresses Parliament. And, a concrete demonstration of what the relationship means will come
shortly afterwards when the president signs a free trade deal that is expected to unlock billions of dollars
worth of opportunities for Australian exporters - especially farmers. Barnaby Joyce joins AM to discuss the
new deal.
CHRIS UHLMANN: And as Louise mentioned, the importance of China's relationship with Australia will be
front and centre today when president Xi Jinping addresses Parliament.

TD

And a concrete demonstration of what the relationship means will come shortly afterwards when the
president signs a free trade deal that is expected to unlock billions of dollars worth of opportunities for
Australian exporters.

The deal has been 10 years in the making and will open up markets across a host of goods and services
and the Government says it will be a boon for farmers.

Barnaby Joyce is the Agriculture Minister, good morning.

BARNABY JOYCE: Morning Chris, how are you?

CHRIS UHLMANN: Good thanks, now Barnaby Joyce, some in the National Party haven't always been
keen on free trade; do you think it's a good thing?

BARNABY JOYCE: Well, obviously Chris no trade agreement is ever totally free; there are bilateral trade
agreements euphemistically called free trade agreements but um, I have a strong belief that this one will
be extremely well received, um, it's very important that we keep up with our trading partners, especially
New Zealand.

And, we've all been very much focused on the last, since we've been in government for the last year to
make sure that we're good friends just as good friends as New Zealand is, and I think that is what has
been asked of myself; certainly it's been asked of Minister Robb to make sure that we do our very best to
get a better return back through the farm gate to make sure more money arrives back on the kitchen table
for the mums and dads of Australia and I think that Minister Robb's to be commended for the work he has
done.
But I'll leave that up to the Prime Minister to disclose and currently I'm sitting here looking at our
biosecurity arrangements at Sydney Airport so it's another section of our trade.

CHRIS UHLMANN: Alright, you talked about the New Zealand deal though, people have been hoping that
Australian famers would get as good a deal as New Zealand got, will they?

BARNABY JOYCE: You know, I'll leave that for the announcement.
The one thing I'm absolutely certain about is, if you start opening your Christmas presents early, then not
much fun being around the tree when the rest of the family's there, so obviously I know what it is, in fact,
I've got it sitting here in front of me, so..

Page42of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CHRIS UHLMANN: You could read a line or two out to us..

BARNABY JOYCE: Yeah that would be, that would be a great way if I wanted to end up back on the
backbench I suppose; I couldn't think of better way to go about it. Rather then, then I reckon they might
detect me as having Ebola and I'll be staying here in the airport.

CHRIS UHLMANN: So, how much can you give us a rough idea, what do you think this deal will worth to
the Australian economy over time?

BARNABY JOYCE: Well generally you know, they put through numbers, I just look at what we're actually
doing Chris, like, I'll give you one example: in the last year, the sheep in our sheep exports has gone up
by 12,660 per cent.

I know that New Zealand has basically redeveloped their economy and is rebalancing their books on the
back of basically one commodity - dairy. And if Australia can match that, then that's a great assistance to
our nation and how we pay our bills and rebalance the books, especially in the current downturn in some
of the other rocks we sell: coal and iron ore. If we can alleviate that in some way by exports of dairy and
exports of beef and exports of wine, then that - horticultural produce, fish - then that is a good outcome for
us Chris, and I want to make sure that everybody understands that you don't have to be on the land to be
a benefactor of a soft commodity exports.

If you're walking Pitt Street or Collins Street, you need our farmers to make a buck so that we can
rebalance our books and my role as part of this Government is to do my very best to see that that
happens and the only way it happens is if farmers get more return through the farm gate for their produce.
CHRIS UHLMANN: Well looking at dairy, although you won't read agreement out to us, someone's been
whispering in the ears of newspapers this morning because it's on the front page of almost every one that
dairy farmers are going to do well out of this, is that your expectation?
BARNABY JOYCE: Well, our exports to China in the last year is around about half a billion dollars so, we
have a massive capacity and you can see people who are not known for making stupid commercial
decisions such as Gina Rinehart are sniffing the wind on this and her half a billion dollar investment just
into the South Burnett in southern Queensland is a classic example of how smart business people are
going to be part of this deal.
Norco, exporting up to I think, 90,000 litres of milk a week, getting between $7 to $9 a litre, that puts,
when you think about the $1 rubbish that you get paid in Australia, that gives an example of why people
are very enthusiastic about this and why Australian superannuation funds, if they're smart, if they sharpen
their pencil, they just think about it for a little while, should be playing into the space of investing in
Australian agriculture.

CHRIS UHLMANN: Why are deals on sugar, rice, wheat and cotton so much harder?

BARNABY JOYCE: Well, all things- every country um, really has a great sympathy for their farming sector
and you've got to really make sure that you don't, in getting a deal for our farmers, threaten their farmers.

That's why I've always been saying, Chris, that we will not be the food bowl for Asia, that's an absurdity,
what we'll do is we'll be providing a premium product into a premium market.
And, whilst I was over in China last month, talking to minister Han; I think they really respected that and
the same does for the fact is what we say is that we want to see Chinese farmers also getting a better
return as their people make it to the middle class and that they can clearly understand that Australian
farmers are not going to put Chinese farmers or Indonesian farmers or Indian farmers or Japanese
farmers or Korean farmers out of a job.

In fact, we want to see the agricultural sector across the globe increase in its return to the farm gate,
because these are the people who overwhelmingly do most of the work but in some instances, get a very
small part of the endeavours that they are part of.

CHRIS UHLMANN: Now, it's a separate matter, but are we closer to signing a deal on live cattle with
China, which was really about clearing a health protocol?

BARNABY JOYCE: Ah yes, and look, I'll be more factual about that, if the story hadn't leaked and I didn't
want it to leak, I think we'd be a lot closer than where it is.
You've got to understand that ultimately this is the deal that China does the final announcement on and
they will put it on their website and they you'll know it's official and that is about as close to the facts as I
can allay them.

Page43of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.I have always worked very closely with the Chinese to make sure that we get this through; I think it puts
real competition back into our cattle market. We have a problem in Australian where you've got a couple
of processers that really have had a walk in park over the last couple of years and we need to make sure
that they're paying the right price when they go to the rails to buy sheep or cattle at the Dubbo saleyards
or the Roma saleyards or wherever.

CHRIS UHLMANN: Barnaby Joyce, why did the Australian Government get caught so flat-footed on
climate change over the weekend when the American president clearly came here with an agenda to put it
on the agenda?
BARNABY JOYCE: Well, you know, when you actually think about it, China's natural downturn of carbon
emissions is going to be about 2030; America has had a boom in gas exploration and obviously their
capacity to go to natural gas, not natural gas, fracking basically, and their change in their motor vehicle
fleet has meant that they are naturally becoming more carbon efficient and I am always one who looks for
the facts.

When the actual facts start turning up, not the promises, but the facts, the actual delivery, then you know, I
suppose they will be a part of it.

But I think we can't go, our job is to repay our bills, we don't repay our bills, then this discussion in
sophistry; we've got to make sure that we've got an economy that is not basically hijacked by promises but
reacts to actual delivery.

CHRIS UHLMANN: Barnaby Joyce, we'll have to leave it there, Thank you.

BARNABY JOYCE: Good on ya.

CHRIS UHLMANN: And Barnaby Joyce is Australia's Agricultural Minster.

IN
NS

RE

i0 : Agriculture
c312 : External Markets | gpol : Domestic Politics | ntra : Transcripts | c31 : Marketing/Markets | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter |
nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

IPD free
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCTRS0020141116eabh0002y

Page44of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.