Hard slog for locals as China cash pours in

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CommercialProperty
Hard slog for locals as China cash pours in

BEN WILMOT, LISA ALLEN, APARTMENTS
511 words
10 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
34
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Suburban sites that can house 500 or 600 flats are in demand
MORE Chinese developers are entering Sydney’s real estate market, outbidding locals in their quest
to build thousands of apartments.

The Shanghai-based Chiway Holding Group, a large privately owned corporation with a long record in
real estate development and commercial property investment, has beep scouring Sydney for sites.
Not to be outdone, China’s second-biggest listed developer, Poly Real Estate Group, has also been
scouting for large sites in Sydney’s suburbs as it looks to escape China’s cooling housing market.
“There is fairly strong evidence that the fact you can sell an apartment in Beijing for $700,000 and
buy something for considerably less here is no doubt a factor explaining the current boom in
apartments in Australia,” said prominent social researcher Bob Birell.
The developers are chasing sites that can sustain between 500 and 600 apartments, preferring to buy
via off-market deals, rather than competing with seasoned local groups on the open market.

Scott Timbrell, JLL senior negotiator, metropolitan sales and investments NSW, said the developers
were looking to capitalise on a wave of redevelopments and an under-supply of apartments. They
were targeting sites in Sydney’s Epping, Hurstville and Campsie with strong Asian-born populations.
While Meriton in March picked up the last major site in Zetland, with a $47.5 million purchase in
Epsom Road, a nearby site with approval for more than 600 units is being offered by JLL at more than
twice this level and is gaining traction among the new breed of deep-pocketed Chinese investor.

Local groups are also cashing in on the offshore interest.
Greg Shand’s private Barana Group is dealing with a party at between $97m and $98m on a Milsons
Point office tower that has been promoted as the suburb’s last significant harbourside residential
development opportunity. CBRE and JLL are the selling agents for the 61 Lavender Street property.
The Goodman Group, which this week revealed it controlled a pipeline of 35,000 unit sites, is also
capitalising. It sold a $73m site in North Ryde to China’s Country Garden, which is planning three
landmark apartment towers.
Other Chinese players include JQZ, which is rolling out 1000 apartments across Sydney’s suburbs,
and Starryland, which is undertaking a $550m project in Parramatta.
Property investment from China to the rest of the world jumped by 25 per cent to $US2.1 billion
($2.24bn) in the first quarter, compared with the same period in 2013, according to JLL figures.
The US and Australian real estate markets attracted most of this capital from China over the quarter
— with the US winning $US732m and Australia receiving $US400m.JLL global capital markets

Page167of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.research director David Green-Morgan said: “The residential development investment (by China) is
up 80 per cent (from $US600m to $US1.1 billion), with the United Kingdom, Australia and the United
States seeing most of the investment.”

CO
IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

pyresg : Poly Real Estate Group Co., Ltd.
i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest : Real Estate
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
china : China | austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140509ea5a0006z

Page168of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.