CHASING NEW HIGHS

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Insight
CHASING NEW HIGHS

RORY CALLINAN
1,902 words
11 January 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
13
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

The Queensland sex shop employee is understandably nervous talking about her industry’s profitable,
but illegal, sideline. ‘‘I could get into real trouble for this. I’m pretty sure there’s a corrupt policeman
involved who is tipping people off,’’ she says, asking that her name not be used.

‘‘They’re making tens of thousands of dollars a week travelling down to NSW getting the stuff from
postboxes just over the border. Then they drive it north to where it is distributed among the adult shops.

‘‘The suppliers won’t send it to Queensland because they know it’s illegal. That’s why it comes to a
postbox just over the border.’’
They call it a sort of aphrodisiac tea and it’s sold under the counter, she says. This so-called
‘‘aphrodisiac tea’’ is a synthetic cannabis, or cannabinoid, and the shop assistant’s admissions provide
a glimpse into the rapidly evolving trade in ‘‘new psychoactive substances’’, or synthetic drugs, in
Australia.

During the past five years, authorities have watched the lucrative trade explode and have been left
struggling to deal with the horrific fallout that has caused five fatalities in just over a year.

In November, health authorities warned Victorians to avoid synthetic drugs, particularly one called
‘‘Marley’’ after three users became seriously ill. The three men who smoked it, after buying it from a
Pakenham sex store, wound up in intensive care.

About the same time, Newcastle truck driver Glenn Punch injected a substance known as bath salts. He
stripped naked and jumped a fence before he started foaming at the mouth, had a fit and stopped
breathing.

Less than a month later, NSW schoolboy Nick Mitchell, 15, died in his bedroom after taking NBOMe – a
synthetic substance supposedly designed to mimic the effects of LSD, but far more dangerous. Other
deaths have been linked to the same drug.

This loss of life prompted outrage and changes to laws. The Victorian government has slapped a ban
on 10 synthetic drugs since 2011. But the jury is out on whether the legal moves are working – experts
say the drugs can be easily doctored to circumvent the laws – or whether they have had an impact on
the Mr Bigs of the trade.
What is obvious is that the business of ‘‘new psychoactive substances’’ (as the police call them) has
rewritten the old rules of the ‘‘highs’’ industry and turned on its head the paradigm of drug dealers,
suppliers and users, while generating millions in profits.

Producers of the raw materials are not machinegun-toting Afghan farmers or tattooed bikie speed
cooks, they are white-coated lab technicians based in legally operated industrial complexes in southern
China, India and Pakistan, where they brew deadly substances designed to mimic illegal drugs. The

Page91of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.chemical structures of the potions are engineered to fall outside existing laws in the buyers’ countries,
but often the potions are illegal anyway.

The buyers – the top-level dealers – are not gangsters, but often hip young university graduates, whose
operations turn over six-figure sums in days and who know more about the structure of their personally
ordered chemicals than the government chemists who regulate them.
Using the internet, these entrepreneurs advertise and co-ordinate their business online and use slick
marketing, packaging and incentive deals to attract customers using the ‘‘legal highs’’ tag.

The local postman becomes an unwitting mule, delivering to users and low-level dealers, who can be
anyone from the owner of the local sex or tobacco shop to naive teenage school students or mine
workers and military personnel trying to dodge drug-testing regimes.

In the sex-shop case, the drugs are supposedly being imported into Victoria, posted to northern NSW,
then driven into Queensland to take advantage of the variations in state laws.

Governments, law-enforcement and medical authorities have been left scrambling to implement major
changes to procedures and laws in a bid to catch up.

‘‘It has been a wild, unrestrained evolution that kind of came out of left field. You have a hierarchy of
well-informed, chemically educated people, who are speculating and commissioning the manufacture of
novel products,’’ says British emergency medicine specialist David Caldicott, who has been studying the
synthetic drugs in Australia and Britain for years.

‘‘I get concerned because the rate of change is so fast that something big and ugly is just around the
corner.’’

Caldicott is monitoring the new drugs via the emergency department of Canberra’s Calvary Hospital.
His concerns are shared by the acting chief executive of the Australian Crime Commission, Paul
Jevtovic.

‘‘The reality is, we can’t keep up,’’ Jevtovic says. ‘‘The European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug
Addiction has found that since 2011 we are seeing a new drug in this category every week.’’

An indication of the increasing amounts coming into Australia is to be found in Customs seizure records.
Last financial year, the agency recorded an increase of more than 1000 per cent in the size of seizures
of synthetics.

Until now, the source of the drugs and their distribution have been difficult to track. However,
information has started to trickle out of the first prosecutions under new laws, which are yet to be tested
in higher courts.

In Queensland, one man was committed to face trial in Brisbane District Court charged in connection
with the alleged supply of a product that allegedly contained alpha-PVP
(alpha-Pyrrolidinovalerophenone), an analogue of the substance Methcathinone, which is supposed to
act like an amphetamine.

District Court documents relating to a restraining order sought by the Australian Federal Police over the
man and his company’s assets reveal the company turned over hundreds of thousands of dollars and
allegedly supplied a network of adult shops and tobacconists.
Much of the money appeared to go to a NSW company that had been set up by a man from a wealthy
Sydney family. The NSW man cannot be named because he is facing charges.

The same court documents reveal a connection with New Zealand through credit card records
associated with the Queensland company, showing a transaction with a company from Christchurch.
This NZ company has previously been known to supply herbal products and other so-called relaxant
substances. Efforts to contact the Christchurch company were unsuccessful.

It’s not the only connection with New Zealand, which has recently introduced laws that could see the
legalisation of the drugs in a manner similar to the way medicines are regulated. Before the laws come
into force, sellers of the drugs can apply for an interim licence.
One seller that has applied for a licence is a company called Lightyears Ahead Limited, an Auckland
operation that was allegedly owned by the country’s ‘‘King of Kronic’’, Matthew Wielenga. Kronic is a
synthetic form of cannabis and Wielenga earned his nickname through his promotion and selling of the
synthetic drug prior to its ban.

Page92of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.His business has previously been linked to the so-called ‘‘father of legal highs’’, Kiwi rock star Matt
‘‘Starboy’’ Bowden.

Bowden has boasted how he pioneered the trade in a legal and supposedly harmless party pill that
mimicked the effects of ecstasy – something he was able to sell for years before it was also banned by
the government. The profits appear to have made him a wealthy man, to the point where he and his
former Penthouse pet wife, Kristy, made headlines when they celebrated his 40th birthday with a
$130,000 party.

Fairfax believes that at one point, Bowden supplied some products to Wielenga’s operation but was not
directly involved in the Kronic business, and he denies any involvement or interest in selling the drugs
to Australians.

In 2011, Wielenga allegedly branched into Australia and began selling other synthetic drugs in
Queensland through a company called Subliminal Marketing Pty Ltd, according to documents filed in
Queensland’s Supreme Court.

The same year, Queensland Police raided Subliminal Marketing’s Gold Coast operation and have since
alleged the company was selling cannabinoid products intended to be similar to already banned
compounds and therefore in breach of the state’s laws aimed at the new synthetic drugs. Wielenga
denies any impropriety.
Authorities have sought a restraining order over the company’s assets, which include a $4 million
shopping centre.

Several Australian entrepreneurs are trying to mimic these profits while avoiding any illegalities. Fairfax
has obtained an order form for various substances that lists a company allegedly owned and run by
one of the pornography industry’s major figures. Efforts to contact the man were unsuccessful.

One positive for police is that they believe organised crime has not been heavily involved. But, Jevtovic
says, ‘‘there are strong indicators that this is exactly the type of market they will want to control’’.

Suppliers of the engineered chemicals are thought to be openly operating legal labs in Asian countries
that don’t regulate production of these chemicals, police say.
‘‘Most of the stuff is coming out of China – if not all from China – and it can come two ways: already
pre-packaged, or in a powder form,’’ says Detective Superintendent Nick Bingham of the NSW drug
squad.
‘‘We have seen this a few times, where a person buys the powder out of China and they mislabel it as
white milk or something, and they bring it here, mix it with acetone, and then spray it on an inert leaf,
not in sterile conditions, and bag it.’’
Jevtovic says the ACC has seen evidence that the China-based suppliers have a significant influence
on the market, even to the point where the suppliers have told people how to evade detection at
Australian borders.
David Caldicott says the key area is in Guangdong, in south-west China. ‘‘There’s a very big
pharmaceutical concern based in that region that is making legitimate pharmaceuticals. But for the
same process, they can manufacture 100 kilograms or so of something more speculative and turn a
nice profit,’’ he says.

Despite the producers being out of reach, Australian authorities believe the laws they have introduced
have been effective in starting to control the trade, with several arrests.

Detective Clay Butler, of Queensland Police, says that state’s legislation refers to 35 synthetic
cannabinoid compounds, but also has an extended definition of the dangerous drugs legislation that
includes any substance that is intended to have a substantially similar pharmacological effect to already
banned substances.

‘‘That’s the one the industry doesn’t like,’’ he says.

Butler says there are several cases before the courts in relation to the new laws, but they are all yet to
be decided.

While Australian politicians are establishing a new legal framework, others who work closely with the
industry, such as Caldicott, believe banning the drugs is not going to work.

Page93of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.‘‘There is this mythology about consumers who are pursuing the recreational high that they must be
dumb. You can’t infer that assessment of their IQ from their behaviour. Some of these people are
incredibly clever and they have very detailed and sophisticated knowledge of chemicals. They are
chemists,’’ Caldicott says.

‘‘What about euphoria. If someone gets happy eating chocolate, are they going to ban it? People always
find a way around it. That’s why a knee-jerk approach of banning products will not work in years to
come. We need to be more clever and nimble.’’

NS

RE
PUB
AN

gdrug : Drug Trafficking/Dealing | ghea : Health | nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | c32 : Advertising |
c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gcrim : Crime/Courts
| gtraff : Trafficking/Smuggling | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive
News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140110ea1b00058

Page94of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.