Record migration Kiwis leaving for Australia fell to a record low last month,...

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Record migration Kiwis leaving for Australia fell to a record low last month,...

501 words
22 May 2014
The Daily Post (New Zealand)
APNTDP
English
Copyright 2014 APN New Zealand Ltd - Regionals. All Rights Reserved

Record migration Kiwis leaving for Australia fell to a record low last month, boosting New Zealand's net
migration to levels the Reserve Bank says will help drive up house prices and stoke inflation. The
country gained a seasonally adjusted 4100 net new migrants in April, the second highest net gain on
record, and up from 3800 in March, said Statistics New Zealand. A net 200 people left for Australia in
April, the lowest since the Government began tracking the data in 1996. Profit for airport Wellington
International Airport, which is two thirds owned by Infratil, boosted full-year profit by 44 per cent while
keeping returns within the range prescribed by regulations. Net profit for the year ending March 31 was
$23.5 million, up from $16.2 million a year earlier. More vehicles recalled

General Motors has issued four recalls covering 2.4 million cars and trucks bringing the total number of
recalls to 29 or 13.6 million vehicles in the US so far this year. The bad news is part of the fallout from
GM's recall of 2.6 million Chevrolet Cobalts and other small cars for defective ignition switches - and a
consequence of government regulation. GM says it's redoubling efforts to resolve safety issues.

Butcher's sales slow Veritas investments, which owns the Mad Butcher franchise chain, has affirmed its
forecast annual earnings as last year's acquisition of Kiwi Pacific Foods made up for slower than
expected sales at the butchery business. The company sees net profit of $4.2 million in the 12 months
ending June 30, unchanged from its last update in February, Veritas said. Third-quarter sales at the Mad
Butcher business were weighed down by product shortages created by last year's drought, and aren't
expected to recover in the fourth quarter. But the company's half-stake in Kiwi Pacific Foods is
expected to make up for the shortfall. Still waiting
The waiting game continues for local export companies trying to get their infant formula into China.
While five firms have been certified, another eight are still waiting to be approved under the new import
regulations.

Tourist plan outlined

Prime Minister John Key has outlined plans to get more international visitors to stay longer and spend
more. Speaking at the Trenz tourism conference in Auckland, he says more flights from China and more
marketing in emerging markets are helping drive a tourism boom. He says new convention centres,
national cycle trails and the $32 million of government investment into the Tourism Growth Partnership
are also part of that plan. Extension sought
Petroleum company Anadarko has applied to extend its exploration permit off the Otago Coast.
Anadarko has been exploring for oil and gas in the Canterbury Basin since the start of the year.
Anadarko spokesman Alan Seay said they drilled a well earlier in the year and need more time to study
the results.

CO
NS
RE
PUB
AN

stnzlw : Statistics New Zealand
gcat : Political/General News
nz : New Zealand | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
APN New Zealand Ltd - Regionals
Document APNTDP0020140527ea5m000an

Page190of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.