Press Release: Voting Shareholder of EZCORP Announces New Leadership

Press Release: Voting Shareholder of EZCORP Announces New Leadership

HD
WC 1,097 words
PD
19 July 2014
ET
06:35
SN
Dow Jones Institutional News
SC
DJDN
LA
English
CY
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
LP

Voting Shareholder of EZCORP Announces New Leadership

PR Newswire

TD

AUSTIN, Texas, July 18, 2014

AUSTIN, Texas, July 18, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- The Voting Shareholder of EZCORP, Inc. (NASDAQ:
EZPW), a leading provider of easy cash solutions for consumers, today announced, effective immediately,
the appointment of Lachlan P. Given as a director and non-Executive Chairman of the Board, and the
removal of Paul Rothamel as Director, President and Chief Executive Officer, William Love as Chairman
and Joseph Beal as Director. The actions were taken by MS Pawn Corporation, which is the Voting
Shareholder and the beneficial owner of 100% of EZCORP's outstanding Class B Voting Common Stock,
which it has owned since the Company was listed on NASDAQ in 1991. Phillip Ean Cohen owns 100% of
the Voting Shareholder.
Following these actions, the Board of Directors of EZCORP is comprised of four directors, including three
currently serving directors, Pablos Lagos Espinosa, Santiago Creel Miranda and Charles A. Bauer.
Executed shareholder consents have been delivered by the Voting Shareholder to effect the changes.
The Company and the Voting Shareholder intend to announce the appointment of an Interim CEO
shortly.
Mr. Given said, "The changes to the composition of the Board and management have been made to
address and significantly improve the operating and financial performance of EZCORP, to strengthen
corporate and regulatory governance and to realign corporate strategies in support of all shareholder
interests. We are confident that EZCORP will now be able to capitalize more effectively on its growth
opportunities and return to creating significant value for its shareholders."
Mr. Given continued, "I look forward to working with and expanding the Board and management team of
EZCORP in order to achieve its full potential. As representatives of all EZCORP shareholders, the Board
will refocus on guiding and overseeing the execution of the Company's corporate strategy in order to
pursue existing and emerging domestic and global opportunities in specialty finance and non-standard
banking."
Mr. Given noted that Madison Park, LLC, a business and financial advisory firm, is not seeking the
reinstatement of the advisory service arrangement with EZCORP at this time.
The Voting Shareholder also today announced the amendment of the Company's bylaws. Additional
information regarding the bylaw amendments will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
on Form 8-K.

Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP is serving as legal advisor to the Voting Shareholder.

About Lachlan P. Given
Lachlan P. Given is a member of the board of directors of The Farm Journal Corporation, a 134 year old
pre-eminent US agricultural media company. He is also on the boards of: Senetas Corporation Limited
(ASX: SEN), the world's leading developer and manufacturer of certified, defense--grade encryption

Page69of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.solutions; CANSTAR Pty Ltd, the leading Australian financial services ratings and research firm; and
RateCity.com Pty Ltd, one of Australia's largest Internet based financial services comparison
organizations.
Mr. Given began his career working in the investment banking and equity capital markets divisions of
Merrill Lynch in Hong Kong and Sydney, Australia, where he specialized in the origination and execution
of a variety of M&A, equity and equity-linked and fixed income transactions. Mr. Given currently serves
as a consultant to Madison Park LLC, and has also served as a consultant to EZCORP and Cash
Converters International Limited (CCV.ASX)("Cash Converters"), an affiliate of EZCORP.

Mr. Given graduated from the Queensland University of Technology with a Bachelor of Business majoring
in Banking and Finance (with distinction).

About EZCORP

EZCORP, Inc. is a leader in delivering easy cash solutions to its customers across channels, products,
services and markets. With approximately 7,500 team members and approximately 1,400 locations and
branches, EZCORP provides its customers multiple ways to access instant cash, including pawn loans
and consumer loans in the United States, Mexico, Canada and the United Kingdom. The Company offers
these products through four primary channels: in-store, online, at the worksite and through mobile
platforms. At its pawn and buy/sell stores and online, EZCORP also sells merchandise, primarily
collateral forfeited from pawn lending operations and used merchandise purchased from customers.

EZCORP owns controlling interests in Prestaciones Finmart, S.A.P.I. de C.V., SOFOM, E.N.R. (doing
business under the names "Crediamigo" and "Adex"), a leading provider of payroll deduction loans in
Mexico; and in Renueva Commercial, S.A.P.I. de C.V., an operator of buy/sell stores in Mexico under
the name "TUYO." The Company also has a significant investment in Cash Converters, which franchises
and operates a worldwide network of over 700 stores that provide personal financial services and sell
pre-owned merchandise.
For the latest information on EZCORP, please visit the Company's website at:
http://investors.ezcorp.com/.

Forward-Looking Statements
This announcement contains certain forward-looking statements regarding the Company's expected
operating and financial performance for future periods. These statements are based on the Company's
current expectations. Actual results for future periods may differ materially from those expressed or
implied by these forward-looking statements due to a number of uncertainties and other factors, including
fluctuations in gold prices or the desire of EZCORP's customers to pawn or sell their gold items, changes
in the regulatory environment, changing market conditions in the overall economy and the industry, and
consumer demand for the Company's services and merchandise. For a discussion of these and other
factors affecting the Company's business and prospects, see the Company's annual, quarterly and other
reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Contact:

Joele Frank / Tim Lynch / Joe Snodgrass

Joele Frank, Wilkinson Brimmer Katcher

(212) 355 4449

SOURCE MS Pawn Corporation

Access Investor Kit for EZCORP, Inc.

Visit http://www.companyspotlight.com/partner?cp_code=A591&isin=US3023011063

18 Jul 2014 16:35 ET *Voting Shareholder Of EZCORP Announces New Leadership

18 Jul 2014 16:37 ET *Ezcorp Names Lachlan P. Given Director, Non-Executive Chairman >EZPW

18 Jul 2014 16:37 ET *Ezcorp Voting Shareholder Announces Removal of Paul Rothamel as Director,
President, CEO

18 Jul 2014 16:38 ET *Ezcorp Voting Shareholder Announces Removal of William Love as Chairman,
Joseph Beal as Director

Page70of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.18 Jul 2014 16:38 ET *Ezcorp: MS Pawn Corp Is Voting Shareholder, Beneficial Owner of 100% of
EZCorp Class B Stock
18 Jul 2014 16:38 ET *Ezcorp: Board of Directors Now Has 4 Memebrs >EZPW

(MORE TO FOLLOW) Dow Jones Newswires (212-416-2800)

July 18, 2014 16:38 ET (20:38 GMT)

CO ezcoin : EZcorp Inc
IN
NS

i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i654 : Specialty Stores | i6540032 : Used Merchandise Stores | iretail : Retail
c411 : Management Moves | cboard : Board of Directors | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cslmc :
Senior Level Management | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | npress : Press Releases | c41 :
Management Issues | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North
America

RE

PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020140718ea7i00333

Page71of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.