Platina Resources Limited ( ASX:PGM) Second Scandium HoA signed with Major Chinese Processor

HD

Platina Resources Limited (ASX:PGM) Second Scandium HoA signed with Major Chinese
Processor
WC 837 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

20 August 2014
09:35
ABN Newswire
ABNENG
English
Copyright 2014. Asia Business News Pty Ltd.

Brisbane, Australia, Aug 20, 2014 - (ABN Newswire) - Platina Resources Ltd (ASX:PGM)
(OTCMKTS:PTNUF) is pleased to announce that it has signed a Heads of Agreement (HoA) with Hunan
Oriental Scandium Co. Ltd, the largest Chinese manufacturer and processor of scandium.

Under the terms of the HoA, the companies will negotiate an Off-take Agreement as well as a Supply,
Technology, Processing and Marketing Agreement for the Company's Owendale Scandium Project in
central New South Wales, Australia (refer Figure 1 in link below).

TD

Highlights

- Heads of Agreement signed with Hunan Oriental Scandium Co. Ltd (HNOSC) for the proposed supply of
5 tonnes of scandium oxide at 99.9% purity

- Platina and HNOSC to finalise a Supply, Technology, Processing and Marketing Agreement

- Agreement will, potentially, include all additional metals in the Owendale deposit (platinum, nickel, cobalt
and copper)

- Negotiations with HNOSC represent additional support for Platina to commence early production from its
Owendale Scandium Project

- Final binding Agreements to be signed within three months

Platina and HNOSC will negotiate an Off-take Agreement for the supply of 5 tonnes of scandium oxide at
a 99.9% purity grade and at a commercially acceptable price. Whilst pricing and other terms are yet to be
agreed, in the past four years scandium oxide (99.9% purity) has sold within a range of USD$1,400-3,700
per kg.

Platina and HNOSC will aim to finalise and execute the two agreements within the next three months.
The agreement with HNOSC is Platina's second HoA with a Chinese manufacturer. On 21 July, 2014,
Platina announced agreement with Inner Mongolia Honfine Zirconium Industry Co Ltd (Honfine) for 15
tonnes of scandium oxide at a 99.9% purity grade.

Platina and HNOSC will also evaluate the viability of transporting scandium concentrates grading
1000ppm Sc or higher from Australia to China to be processed at HNOSC's factory in Changsha, Hunan
Province and marketed throughout China and the world.

Platina continues to progress work on a metallurgical test work program to produce high grade scandium
concentrate from the Owendale Project.

The production of a scandium concentrate could significantly reduce capex and operating costs.

Owendale is the highest grade, laterite-hosted scandium deposit discovered globally, and offers a stable
and potentially large tonnage operation. Current world consumption of scandium is approximately 8
tonnes per annum, however, research and development indicates significant future demand for scandium
in the aerospace industry and fuel cell technology.

Page45of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The potential for Platina to export a moderately upgraded concentrate from Owendale for further
processing in China (with a targeted optimum grade of 1000ppm Sc in concentrate compared to a head
grade of 384ppm Sc) presents an opportunity for Platina to advance Owendale to low cost early
production.

Platina Managing Director Rob Mosig said: "The HoA with Hunan Oriental Scandium Co. Ltd provides
further support for Owendale to achieve its aim to be the leading scandium producer worldwide."
The Owendale Project hosts an Indicated and Inferred Mineral Resource (JORC 2012) of 24 million
tonnes of scandium grading 384ppm Sc (at a cut-off of 300ppm Sc) and contains a total in-situ content of
9,100 tonnes of scandium metal (Table 1 in link below). Details of the resource are in the technical
description of the Company's ASX release dated 3 October 2013.

About Hunan Oriental Scandium Co., Ltd
Hunan Oriental Scandium Co., Ltd (HNOSC) is a Chinese corporation with major expertise in the
scandium and rare earth industry in China and was co-founded by Hunan Metallurgy Material Research
Institute, Hunan Rare Earth Technology Development Co. Ltd and Hunan Ronghua Technology Ltd. The
Hunan Metallurgy Material Research Institute is a Government owned institution which carries out
research for defence and scientific purposes, and it holds equity of approximately 15% in HNOSC.
HNOSC is currently the only company in China which commercially recovers scandium oxide from
wastewater. HNOSC engages mainly in research, production and supply of scandium products. The
Company's main products are scandium oxide, scandium metal and aluminium-scandium alloy. HNOSC
are also the supplier of rare earth oxide, rare earth metal, rare earth compounds and other rare
nonferrous metal products. HNOSC has proprietary technology to extract and concentrate Sc in
mass-production from tailings or residues with trace Sc and techniques for the refining and manufacturing
of high-purity Sc.

To view figures and tables, please visit:

http://media.abnnewswire.net/media/en/docs/ASX-PGM-812405.pdf

About Platina Resources Limited:

Platina Resources Limited (ASX:PGM) (OTCMKTS:PTNUF) has a global portfolio of Platinum Group
Metal (PGM), gold and scandium projects, with a core focus on the development of two key advanced
assets – the Skaergaard PGM-Gold Project in Greenland and the Owendale Platinum and Scandium
Project near Fifield, NSW, Australia.

Contact:
Platina Resources Limited
T: +61-7-5580-9094
F: +61-7-5580-9394
WWW: www.platinaresources.com.au
Source:

Platina Resources Limited

ABNEN77880

RF
CO rscsp : Platina Resources Limited
IN
RE

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
china : China | austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | nswals : New South Wales | queensl : Queensland |
hunan : Hunan | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries |
chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz :
Eastern Asia

PUB Asia Business News Pty Ltd.
AN

Document ABNENG0020140820ea8j0002t

Page46of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.