Ellison share raid throws spanner in Aquila bid

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Ellison share raid throws spanner in Aquila bid

Sarah-Jane Tasker, Iron ore
573 words
13 June 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
20
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

WEST Australian mining millionaireChris Ellison has dealt himself into Chinese giant Baosteel’s $1.4
billion bid for Aquila Resources with an ambitious plan to develop the target’s key iron ore project.
Mr Ellison’s Mineral Resources yesterday confirmed it had purchased about 50 million Aquila shares
at $3.75 a share, giving it a 12.78 per cent stake. The move on the coal and iron ore company has
secured Mineral Resources a firm seat at the negotiating table as Baosteel and its joint-venture bidder,
Brisbane-based freight operator Aurizon, attempt to sell its $3.40-a-share offer. Baosteel, which already
has a 20 per cent stake in Aquila, said when it launched its bid last month that it had become frustrated
at the slow progress of the target’s plans to develop the $7.4bn West Pilbara iron ore project.

Mr Ellison revealed yesterday that prior to the launch of Baosteel’s hostile bid on May 5, his company
had already been working on a plan to develop, own and operate the proposed iron ore development.

Aquila Resources, which told its shareholders to take no action on the offer as it prepared its target
statement — to be released next week — did not comment yesterday on its previous dealings with
Mineral Resources.

But on its new major shareholder, Aquila referred favourably to the $3.75-a-share Mineral Resources
paid to acquire its stake, giving its first major hint it was likely to reject the $3.40-a-share bid by
Chinese state-owned Baosteel.
The market had been speculating on a higher bid emerging from China, which had seen Aquila’s
shares comfortably trade above the offer price, but its shares fell slightly yesterday as it became clear
Mineral Resources was not positioning to launch a rival bid.

Shares in Aquila fell 1.93 per cent to $3.54, while Mineral Resources lost 4.3 per cent to $9.70.

The Baosteel and Aurizon bid team said it was reviewing the latest development on its target’s share
register, adding that it continued to encourage Aquila shareholders to accept its offer.

“The offer gives shareholders certainty of value in contrast to remaining a shareholder of Aquila and
facing the challenges of declining commodity markets, large capex financing, potentially dilutive capital
raisings and the challenge of developing genuinely economically acceptable greenfield projects,” a
spokesman from the joint bidders said.
Mineral Resources, a mining services provider that also operates small iron ore mines in Western
Australia, said its stake in Aquila would ensure it was well positioned to be actively involved with other
stakeholders in the iron ore project.

“We have the financial capacity to make a meaningful contribution to the development of the project
and will now proceed to engage with all major stakeholders, including Aquila and Baosteel to facilitate
the best outcome possible,” Mr Ellison said.

Page76of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mineral Resources’ share purchase agreement with institutional investor M&G Invest-ment
Management included a clause to cover a potential increase in Baosteel’s $3.40-a-share offer.The deal
outlines that if Baosteel increases its offer price in the next six months, and Mineral Resources accepts
the bid, then Mineral Resources has to pay M&G 50 per cent of the difference between $3.75 and a
new offer price.

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

aqures : Aquila Resources Ltd. | baois : Shanghai Baosteel Group Corp
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys |
i111 : Coal Mining | i1 : Energy | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | igoldm
: Gold Ore Mining | isteel : Steel Production
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140612ea6d00054

Page77of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.