Laser focus amid thorny issues

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Laser focus amid thorny issues

Matthew Stevens
1,185 words
9 December 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
34
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Matthew Stevens

Oh dear. So we are to call the third son of BHP Billiton's long reconstruction South32.

Apparently it has something to do with the shared latitude of Australia and South Africa, and the idea
bubbled up from a future staff member. But it all sounds more like a Pixar movie than a mining
company. But there you go. After OneSteel, then BlueScope, BHP has added South32 to the
corporate lexicon.

Much more immediately important than the name of this demerger is whether or not South32 should be
released to its new freedom by June next year as is currently planned.

While the logic remains sound, the timing of fulfilment has been rendered a question by the potential
concern that the assets BHP no longer wants to waste time and capital on, might end up being just as
unloved by newly cautious equity markets.

Like everyone else getting to the pointy end of the sort of divestment cycle that routinely follows a
boom gone bust, BHP has asserted that shareholder value comes before strategic priority.

So it is that deals that might make life easier, but that do not at least match internal valuation are
not pursued.
A classic of that kind in BHP's case is the decision to close the Nickel West sale process without a
deal. The bargain hunters came. But the deal could not be done.

The demerger process creates a different sort of decision making dynamic to the rather clearer
mathematics generated by a vanilla trade sale. The process has the effect of transferring the challenge
of valuation to the open market and then directly to the owners.Buyers market bargain

And there's the rub. BHP is releasing South32 into what is plainly a buyers market. The risk implicit is
that the initial valuation of this business will not reflect the long term fundamentals of the minerals and
metals it produces. So a trade buyer with a longer view than that of the situation-driven equity market
could well end up with a real bargain here.

Back in August, when BHP confirmed reports that the demerger was in the making, estimates of the
value of South32 ranged to about $US20 billion ($24 billion).
More recently people have talked $US15 billion with some downside risk to that.

In October, it was reported in London that the man who made Xstrata, Mick Davis, had come shopping
for everything BHP planned to demerge.

Page249of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.After surrendering Xstrata to its parent Glencore in a deal laced with increasingly obvious bitterness,
Davis went out and started a new resources fund. Rather pointedly, he called it X2 Resources – and
then went out and raised a bundle of equity from Noble Group, TPG Capital and a bank of sovereign
wealth funds including the Abu Dhabi Investment Council and Caisse de dépôt et placement
du Québec.
It is estimated X2R is sitting on about $US4.5 billion in equity.
And it is speculated that Davis offered BHP $US10 billion for the South32 assets.

The gap between that and estimates of South32's listing value is eroding fast. South32X2R anyone?

The thing to appreciate here is that, for all the fun people have had with the CrapCo stuff, there are a
bunch of sizeable minerals princelings sitting inside South32.
The Cannington silver-lead-zinc mine is a wonderfully reliable cash flow machine that has a life
extending expansion already mapped out.Serious, expandable manganese

There is a world-leading manganese business, a very serious and expandable Colombian nickel
operation, an integrated aluminium business and some pretty productive coal operations that have
plenty of room for improvement under the undivided focus they will now earn from management. The
other critical thing to appreciate about the South32 portfolio is that they support a second-generation
China-boom story.

The boom and retreat in steel raw materials is well appreciated. Enduring structural growth in demand
resulted in an extended period of higher prices.

That resulted in a natural supply side response that has mitigated pricing. But demand will stay higher
for longer.
But across the mining world long bets have already been laid on China's move to a consumption
driven growth story as the capital investment phase of its transformation slows.
For miners the consumption story becomes all about getting longer in lighter metals and energy. That
is why BHP is so keen on copper and petroleum. And that is why Rio wants more copper, and is
banking on better days for its oft-written down aluminium investment case.

The South32 upside is based on a thinner, but broader spread of commodities. It has an aluminium
business that has endured serious tough times that still sits in the second cost quartile of the industry,
but is reasonably well set to generate margins on the recovery in pricing that seems in train.

The fundamentals of nickel are rather more uncertain and flukey, but its Cerro Matoso operation in
Colombia (latitude North 4) is a high quality and expandable business.

It is the increasing visibility of this second-gen potential and the certainty that South32 will be born with
a protective bank of professional investors that leaves BHP still confidently wedded to both the concept
and timing of the next big step towards it learner, laser focused future.

Talking of divestments set to endure the chill of price recession, we hear that Apache is determined to
continue with the sale of its 13 per cent share of the Wheatstone LNG project and to get a deal
announced before Christmas, as promised. The talk is that Woodside has moved into full due diligence
of a deal once flagged as a $2.4 billion transaction.

Sources say Woodside was left the only buyer in the Apache process with the retreat this week of an
unnamed second bidder that was refusing to match the growth-challenged Australian's price.
Apparently, both bidders trimmed their pricing over recent days, but Woodside emerged with a more
compelling set of numbers.

The deal is said to include a giant slice of blue sky in the form of Apache's 50 per cent share in a
Canadian LNG project called Kitimat. Like Wheatstone, Chevron is the operator of the Canadian
project.

Woodside's medium-term growth outlook remains arguably the only problem boss Peter Coleman has
failed to come to terms with in his three years in control. The ramp up of the Pluto project has
generated cash to burn, Woodside has been unable to fulfil the project's potential for want of the gas
that would feed the second and third LNG trains that, under the original plan, would have been built by
now. While chasing options to feed Pluto's growth, Coleman has successfully added a challenging
slate of options for long term growth across a broader globe of the gas and oil world.

Page250of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Now we hate to link the thorny issue of institutional ownership unrest and Woodside, but that is what
we are hearing has been triggered by a deal that now looks pretty close.

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
cspin : Spin-offs | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c02 : Corporate Changes | c11 : Plans/Strategy |
c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | cncc : New Companies Creation | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141208eac90001z

Page251of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.