REFILE-UPDATE 2-Australia, China set to sign live cattle export deal

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

REFILE-UPDATE 2-Australia, China set to sign live cattle export deal

756 words
7 November 2014
17:36
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.

(Adds editing credit)
* Australia-China close to live cattle export pact

* Trade seen worth $1 billion a year
* China's appetite for red meat rising fast

By Lincoln Feast and James Regan
SYDNEY, Nov 7 (Reuters) - Australia will export up to 1 million head of cattle a year to China, worth
around A$1 billion ($856 million), to help meet a growing appetite for red meat, Australian officials said
on Friday citing a long-awaited deal set to be signed shortly.

Australia Agriculture Minister Barnaby Joyce said negotiations to finally reach an agreement after a
decade of on-again-off-again discussions were "progressing well" and close to being announced jointly
by the two countries.
The latest talks over shipping live cattle from Australia to China resumed in February. Australia's trade
minister is currently in China where the cattle deal is expected to get a final sign-off.
"It's a million cattle, worth A$1 billion. The ink is not dry on the contract though. It's a great
breakthrough," Australian cabinet minister Christopher Pyne told Australia's Channel Nine television
network on Friday.
China is Australia's largest trading partner, with two-way trade of around $150 billion in 2013. The two
countries are in the final stages of reaching a free trade agreement (FTA) that Prime Minister Tony
Abbott wants signed by the end of the year.

Agriculture minister Joyce said talks over live cattle exports were being conducted outside those for an
FTA and at this late stage were focused on technical aspects of breaking into the Chinese market, such
as biosecurity requirements.

Nevertheless, greater access for Australian agricultural goods has been a key sticking point in Abbott's
push for an FTA.

"It's a very big deal," said ANZ senior agricultural economist Paul Deane. "The far northern cattle
industry is very dependent on live cattle and the trouble is, it's very reliant on Indonesia" making it a far
riskier investment.

Australian live cattle exports to Indonesia collapsed in 2011 after footage emerged of animals being
mistreated in Indonesian abattoirs.
Talks over live cattle exports to China have in the past been hit by a series of setbacks, such as the
allegations of inhumane treatment of cattle exported to Indonesia and concerns over fly-born disease in
Australian herds.

Page75of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The presence of Bluetongue disease, a virus spread by a tiny fly, in some Australian cattle has held up
live export talks. While the disease typically has little effect on cattle, it would pose a threat to China's
140-million-strong sheep flock, the world's largest.
Despite buoyant demand for meat, limited land, water and feed is keeping China's cattle herd from
growing in size. Many feedlots and abattoirs are all but empty.
China already imports large quantities of Australian red meat, buying A$785 million worth in 2013/14,
according to Australian government data.
"There's no question that the fundamentals for beef in China are positive regardless of whether it's live
cattle or boxed beef," ANZ's Deane said. "Beef prices generally would be our standout (pick) over the
next 12-18 months over all the ag commodities we look at."
Investors have been positioning for a breakthrough in the Australia-China cattle talks.
Andrew "Twiggy" Forrest, who has made billions of dollars mining iron ore near the cattle ranch
where he grew up in far west Australia, this year paid $40 million for a beef processing and exporting
company already gearing up for the China market.
After visiting a supermarket in China and inspecting Australian beef on offer, Forrest said he hoped to
build a beef success story to rival last decade's boom in mining.
Another iron ore magnate, Gina Rinehart, bought a 50 percent stake in two large cattle farms in June.
Rinehart's private company, Hancock Prospecting, paid $A40 million for the stake.

But Australia may struggle to meet a surge in demand for live cattle exports.

Queensland state, home to about half the national herd, has been plagued by drought, forcing farmers
to slaughter animals at a record rate this year.

And while Bluetongue-free cattle from southern Australia will be allowed access all year round, cattle
from northern Australia will be restricted to the few months of the year when the virus is less prevalent,
according to the Australian newspaper. ($1=1.1678 Australian dollar) (Editing by Michael Perry)

RF
NS

RE

IPD
IPC
PUB
AN

Released: 2014-11-7T07:36:30.000Z
c312 : External Markets | mcattl : Beef/Dairy Cattle Markets | e512 : Physical Trade | mlvstk :
Livestock/Meat Markets | c31 : Marketing/Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e51 :
Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m141 : Agricultural
Commodity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Business
SERVICE:AUF
Thomson Reuters (Markets) LLC
Document LBA0000020141107eab7003tq

Page76of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.