Supplier to defend $4m lawsuit

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Supplier to defend $4m lawsuit

Jared Lynch
517 words
6 January 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
15
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Agribusiness Chinese company claims it was misled over infant formula
A Melbourne infant formula maker will "vigorously defend" a $4 million lawsuit claiming it misled a
group of Chinese investors about where it sourced its milk.

Hong Feng Investments is suing Milk Powder Solutions, which employs 25 people at its factory in
Melbourne's south-east, because it sourced its milk powder from New Zealand instead of exclusively
from Australia.
According to documents lodged in the Federal Court last month, Hong Feng said it was told by Milk
Powder Solutions employee Jenny Fang in July 2011 that its milk came "entirely from the Tatura region
of Victoria".
But Milk Powder Solutions director Simon Hansford said this had never been the case.

He said Ms Fang was a clerical assistant and interpreter, and "in this instance she was pointing out the
seasonal implications of the dairy industry".
While his company sourced milk predominantly from Australia, he said, "from time to time" it used
product from areas other than Victoria, including New Zealand, to ensure continuity of supply.
"At no time has Milk Powder Solutions or any of its employees assured Hong Feng or any of our clients
that all [our] product will come from Victoria at all times."

Mr Hansford's lawyer said the Federal Court action comes almost six months after a similar claim
lodged by Hong Feng was dismissed by the South Australian District Court, and Hong Feng ordered to
pay Milk Powder Solutions' costs.
The court action began about the same time Beijing banned products from the world's biggest dairy
exporter and New Zealand's main milk processor, Fonterra, after it was discovered some of the
company's products contained bacteria that could cause botulism.
New Zealand did not have the same reputation Australia has in China for quality and safety, Hong
Feng said in its Federal Court application.
But Mr Hansford said all product his company supplied to Hong Feng qualified for use of the Made in
Australia logo, although "to our knowledge Hong Feng did not apply for the licence to do so".
He started his company five years ago after a Chinese infant formula killed six babies and put another
54,000 in hospital after it was found to be contaminated with melamine - which causes renal and
urinary problems - in an attempt to increase its protein content.

Page275of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Hansford, who has 33 years in the milk powder business, having previously operated an ice-cream
and yoghurt company, said he was inundated with requests to supply milk powder to China soon
afterwards. "In China, they call infant formula milk powder, and ... suddenly I had thousands of
requests asking me if I could supply them with it. I did some research and that's how we got started."
Hong Feng was going to buy a minimum of 160,000 units of baby formula over three years from Milk
Powder Solutions. It claims it has lost a business opportunity worth about $US3.8 million.

A directions hearing is scheduled for February 7.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal Action | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | nz : New Zealand | china : China | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140105ea160001b

Search Summary

Text

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or entitys) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
01/01/2014 to 30/04/2014
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
2,564
29 August 2018 1:50

Page276of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.