Anglo drops pre-election bomb

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Anglo drops pre-election bomb

Matthew Stevens
1,218 words
18 December 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
28
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Matthew Stevens

Anglo American has presented the NSW government with a pre-election problem in the form of a
changed development plan for the Hunter Valley coal mine which was stopped in the name of
thoroughbred health.

The new Drayton South extension offered for approval has been reduced from four pits to two, with
mining now pulled back beyond a second natural ridge that will ensure drag lines cannot be seen
from one of two horse studs of international renown.

The redraft was presented to government this week and will be offered for environmental assessment
early in the New Year.

In October, the NSW Planning Assessment Commission rejected Anglo's proposal for an extension of
its existing Drayton coal mine, a decision that immediately put 530 jobs in peril.

Two weeks ago, Anglo management told workers that there would be no job cuts until March or April
of next year. Beyond that, it will seek voluntary redundancies and from June, the exhausted Drayton
operation will go into a long wind-down that would likely see the mine close by the end of 2015.
The reduction in scope required to further hide mining from the horses has halved the targeted
production from the mine to 75 million tonnes and trimmed 12 years from the original 27-year life of
the expansion project.
The two ridges that are proposed to stand between mining and horses sit on top of an estimated
130 million tonnes of coal.Direct economic loss

Anglo estimates that the direct economic loss to the state of the concessions forced by a recent
regulatory rejection is about $7 billion, even at this current low point of the coal price cycle.
That number includes a reduction of $360 million worth of state royalties because of the 12-year
reduction in the life of the mine and the loss of wages and other benefits to suppliers and the local
community.

In its public commentary on the re-application to sustain the mine's 530 jobs, Anglo will observe that
these concessions effectively represent a state subsidy to two horse stud operations that do not pay
any taxes.
The company will call on the government to make good on its recent promise to industry to reform
the planning process.

Page149of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."This is not about Anglo American," Anglo coal chief executive Seamus French says in a statement
that will be released on Thursday. "It is the people of NSW who miss out on the significant community
and state benefits that have been forgone to appease the two horse studs."

Back in October, the PAC accepted that the Drayton South mine – as then proposed – would
generate a net benefit to the economy and would do so within the hurdles designed to protect the
health and amenity of local people.Not enough evidence of no harm to horses

But it rejected the proposal needed to secure Drayton's jobs, in large part, for want of evidence that
coal mining does not hurt horses. Effectively, the regulator concluded that the mine was okay for
people but not for horses.

The facts of that decision were that Drayton South would have reached within two kilometres of the
Darley Woodlands and Coolmore studs.
Anglo spent "several millions" on studies that the original proposal would have no effect on nearby
horses. But the PAC was motivated instead by the proposition that there was not enough scientific
evidence to conclude that mining did not hurt horses.

The stakes were then raised with threats to move the studs out of the Hunter Valley as Drayton was
extended. The thoroughbred industry claimed that would apparently rob the NSW economy of up to
$370 million annually.
The coal miners trumped that with analysis that valued the loss of Drayton at $588 million in annual
direct and indirect output and turnover; $268 million annually direct and indirect value-add,
$86 million in direct and indirect household income and 785 direct and indirect jobs.

"We have fully addressed the PAC's specific concerns regarding proximity to the horse studs by
moving operations back behind the PAC-prescribed second ridgeline, which means the mine will be
more than two kilometres from both Darley and Coolmore's main operating areas and fully complies
with the PAC's boundary requirements," the Anglo statement says.

"The really frustrating thing about all of this process is that every single part of that plan was worked
through with the studs," French told the AFR on Wednesday.

"The original design was not ours, it was the horse stud's design, right down to the height and
location of the bunding that will block the view of the mine from all but one point of the Coolmore
stud."'Circuitous and tortuous' process

"We are never looking for a free ride or favours," French continued. "We are looking for an efficient,
transparent and predictable approval process. All we are asking is for a fair, informed hearing. We
have worked with everyone over eight years, we have complied with a circuitous and tortuous
approval process and had the proposal rejected for reasons that made little obvious sense."
Anglo digs for coal across the globe but French rates NSW as the most difficult of his jurisdictions. "It
is well behind even British Colombia," he said. "There at least people are more willing to work with us
on solutions, rather than start from a position of opposition and a policy of non-engagement."

French warned that the changing of the cycle would bring with it immediate and longer term
challenges for Australia generally and NSW particularly.

"The world of resource has changed significantly over the last 12 months, it has moved from a long
period of plenty to an era of austerity, of reduced capital availability and of real choices over new
projects," French said.

"People can no longer rely on development coming to them. They are going to have to work to attract
investment. I am not sure this has sunk in yet. Governments will have to think a lot harder abut how
they are going to earn investment."

The relationship between Rio Tinto and its major shareholder looms critical to any designs Ivan
Glasenberg might have for the Anglo-Australian.
China's Chinalco acquired a 9 per cent stake in Rio back in 2008 after being introduced to the
register by a board and management desperately defending BHP Billiton's takeover offer.
Just more than seven years on, China Inc could well find itself sitting central to another debate over
Rio's control.

Page150of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.If Glasenberg makes the move so many expect, Chinalco needs to find but another 1.1 per cent to
block him. Or, alternatively, it can give the keys to Glencore.
It has been rumoured for some time that China Inc is anxious at the value that has been extracted
from Chinalco's special relationship with Rio. There is talk now that fissures have become fractures
with the slow progress of the Simandou iron ore project in Guinea.
In 2010, Chinalco paid $1.35 billion for a 47 per cent share of Rio's Simandou joint venture. While
everyone else seems to have understood that progress would be slow, there is a sense China Inc
expected a bit more a bit sooner.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

almcor : Aluminium Corporation of China Limited
i22 : Primary Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | i2245 : Aluminum | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141217eaci0001i

Page151of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.