Guinea, Rio Tinto Seal Deal On $20B Mine

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Guinea, Rio Tinto Seal Deal On $20B Mine

By Alexis Flynn
729 words
27 May 2014
03:03
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

LONDON --A landmark agreement on Monday has brought an end to three years of contractual
wrangling over how best to develop Africa's biggest mining project, a $20 billion iron-ore deposit
nestled in the remote forests of Guinea.

But even though Monday's deal resolves years of contractual uncertainty, it sets a new challenge:
Finding deep-pocketed investors willing to spend tens of billions of dollars building the railroad and
port needed to make the huge deposit economically viable.

For months, Rio Tinto and its partners Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd., or Chalco, and the International
Finance Corp., the private-sector arm of the World Bank, have been in talks with President Alpha
Condé's reformist government to figure out a way for the Simandou mine to be financed and executed.
Rio Tinto currently holds a license to mine around half of the deposit, around $10 billion worth of iron
ore at current prices. The infrastructure and mining project will cost an estimated $20 billion to build,
of which two-thirds is infrastructure costs.

Part of the new plan unveiled on Monday is to create a new consortium to fund and manage the
construction of a 650 kilometer railway from the mine to Guinea's Atlantic coast, as well as building a
deep-water port to ship the iron ore to China and Europe.

Rio Tinto and its partners will now pitch this idea to potential financiers. Investors will be offered
decades of steady yields, generated through tariffs charged on goods transported by rail, all the while
helping one of the world's poorest countries transform its economy.

"We are already in serious talks with around 30 different institutions," said the person, who wasn't
authorized to speak publicly on the matter.
Sovereign-wealth funds, private equity, iron-ore customers and export credit agencies are among
those who have been approached, said the person, though they declined to specific which ones.
In a phone interview, Guinea's Mining Minister Kerfalla Yansané said U.S. giant General Electric had
already expressed an interest in participating in the new consortium.

GE couldn't wasn't immediately available for comment.

Concluding a financing deal could finally push the mine into production by early 2019, bringing in
foreign investment and creating tens of thousands of jobs.

"This project is of critical importance for the people of Guinea. It's a nationwide priority that goes
beyond the mines and far beyond our generations," said Mr. Condé.
By linking a publicly listed multinational with a Chinese state-owned company and a global
development financing body, Monday's deal breaks new ground in bringing together a disparate set of
groups whose African interests don't always converge.

Page32of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."Today is an important milestone in the development of this world-class iron ore resource for the
benefit of all shareholders and the people of Guinea," said Rio Tinto Chief Executive Sam Walsh.

The pact, which will have to be ratified by parliament, consolidates a dizzying array of existing
agreements signed with Mr. Condé's predecessors. It also hands Guinea a significant share of the
project, potentially growing to a 35% stake over the next 20 years.

Simandou has had a fraught history since Rio Tinto first secured exploration rights in 1997.

Already stymied by the lack of rail and port infrastructure, plans to turn it into a working mine have
been further complicated by political upheavals, commodity-price volatility and contractual wrangling.

Mr. Condé, a veteran opposition leader elected in 2010 on a promise of securing fairer deals for
Guinea's mineral riches, has sought to promote an agenda of transparency and good governance.
However, Guinea's recent history contains enough examples of broken government promises to make
some funders cautious.

The architects of the deal, senior executives at Rio Tinto and the IFC, say that was part of the reason
they sought to conclude a clear and legally watertight framework agreement before raising the
financing.

"This agreement is bankable, if it gets ratified by parliament. It's a very solid framework. We haven't
had that yet. It enables us to have discussions with potential lenders," said the executive at the IFC.

Write to Alexis Flynn at alexis.flynn@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

May 26, 2014 13:03 ET (17:03 GMT)

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

rtz : Rio Tinto PLC | rtzcra : Rio Tinto Group | craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | i2245 : Aluminum | i502 : Heavy Construction |
iindstrls : Industrial Goods | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i22 : Primary Metals | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction
c333 : Non-governmental Contracts | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncmac : Commodities Asset
Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | c33 : Contracts/Orders | ncat : Content Types | nfact
: Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | eurz : Europe | gurep : Guinea | uk : United Kingdom | africaz : Africa |
apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater
China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
| eecz : European Union Countries | wafrz : West Africa | weurz : Western Europe
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document DJDN000020140526ea5q001ag

Page33of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.