Oil Search Stands Out Due to PNG LNG Potential, CS Says -- Market Talk

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Oil Search Stands Out Due to PNG LNG Potential, CS Says -- Market Talk

1,456 words
19 September 2014
09:40
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

2340 GMT [Dow Jones]--There are no better dollars spent in oil and gas than on debottlenecking, says
Credit Suisse, as it lifts its price target for Oil Search (OSH.AU) by 12% to A$10.90/share. Oil Search is
a major investor in the ExxonMobil-led (XOM) PNG LNG project in Papua New Guinea, which began
exporting liquefied natural gas earlier this year. "With many LNG projects around the world running well
above nameplate capacity, we increase production at PNG LNG from 6.9 million tons/year to 7.6 million
tons/year from 2016 onwards," Credit Suisse says. Oil Search is the "clear pick" among Australian oil
and gas producers, despite exploration risk in its recently acquired Elk and Antelope gas assets in Papua
New Guinea, the broker says. It rates the stock at outperform. OSH last traded at A$9.19.
(david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

7:40 p.m. EDT [Dow Jones] The Mexican unit of Wal-Mart Stores (WMT) says that four of its outlets in
and around Los Cabos were damaged by Hurricane Odile, and subsequently looted. The retailer is
investigating reports that the looting has gone well beyond theft of essentials like food to include
equipment such as scales that Wal-Mart de Mexico (WALMEX.MX) will need in order to reopen the
stores, according to a spokesman. Four other company stores on the Baja Peninsula are open and
serving customers, albeit while running on backup emergency power generators.
(Amy.guthrie@wsj.com)
2336 GMT [Dow Jones]--Iron-ore prices have pulled back again, falling 1.4% to US$83/ton. ANZ
analysts say Chinese demand remains lackluster. "Chinese steel mill restocking has been confined to
small parcels this week and recent stimulus measures haven't yet markedly improved sentiment," they
write in a note. (rhiannon.hoyle@wsj.com; Twitter: @RhiannonHoyle)

2312 GMT [Dow Jones] Argentine industrial production fell 6.1% on year in August, led lower by
plummeting output of cars and other vehicles, says Orlando J Ferreres & Asociados, a consulting firm.
So far this year, output is down 3.3% from the first eight months of 2013. Lower Brazilian demand for
Argentine-made cars has pummeled the auto industry, and with Brazil's economy in recession, there are
no indications demand will pick up any time soon. The same is true of domestic demand, which has
fallen amid a homegrown recession and annual inflation estimated around 40%. If the economic
problems drag into next year, it could help opposition candidates in the 2015 congressional and
presidential elections. (taos.turner@wsj.com; @taos)
2252 GMT [Dow Jones] Asian markets are likely to move higher on the day, following the U.S. lead, but
given the result of the Scottish vote will likely be announced while Asia is trading, "it will be interesting to
see how investors react," says Hamilton Hindin Greene broker Grant Williamson. He says Asian markets
may also see some selling as investors look to free up money to buy Alibaba after Alibaba Group's
(BABA) IPO priced at $68 a share, the high end of its recently raised range. The NZX-50 has opened up
0.2% or 9 points at 5162.919 in very light trading as investors await Saturday's general election in New
Zealand. (rebecca.howard@wsj.com; Twitter: @FarroHoward)
6:47 p.m. EDT [Dow Jones]--Many food makers are facing capacity issues at their factories, as
consumer demand is lagging. General Mills (GIS) told about 600 factory workers today that they would
be closing their two plants in the next year and a half. The workers make cereal, yogurt and other foods,
for which GIS yesterday reported sales volume declines in the U.S. in the latest quarter. Kellogg (K) and
ConAgra (CAG) have similar problems and are undergoing major business overhauls. But analysts worry

Page29of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.that cutting costs and acquiring growth companies will only mask the underlying problems, and that
better innovation and revitalizing old brands is necessary. (annie.gasparro@wsj.com)

18:23 EDT - Even at the top of the range, Alibaba (BABA) is still a relative bargain, at least next to its
closest comparables. At $68 a share, Alibaba is valued at about 26 times its projected next-year
earnings, taking into account potential issuance of stock from options grants and using the consensus
underwriting bank projection of $6.8B in 2015 net income, adjusted for one-time items. Rival Chinese
Internet company Tencent (HK:0700) usually trades at around 30x, and Facebook (FB) closer to 40x.
Some analysts think BABA should get Tencent's multiple, which means BABA came out at a 15%
discount -- right where IPO bankers like to price deals. But maybe the market thinks BABA should get a
handicap for its complex structure and governance fears. Post-IPO stocks sometimes trade below their
full potential because traders fear future issuance. (@telisdemos; telis.demos@wsj.com)

18:21 EDT - The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services says the average premium for Medicare
Advantage plans submitted by health plans for next year would increase by $2.94 to $33.90 a month.
The agency says it estimates that the actual average will go up by $1.30 as beneficiaries opt for
lower-cost plans. CMS also says 61% of Medicare Advantage enrollees won't see any premium
increase. Managed-care investors closely monitor trends in Medicare Advantage pricing and enrollment,
as the private version of the federal program is a key driver of insurance-industry results.
(anna.mathews@wsj.com)
18:16 EDT - Negative economic news about China hasn't deterred Shoreline Capital Management. In
fact, the P-E shop focused on distressed investing in the Middle Kingdom is on the success track, having
collected more than half of the $500M target for its newest fund. Shoreline's co-founder, Ben Fanger,
anticipates wrapping up the vehicle by year-end amid ample opportunities as Chinese banks unload bad
loans at steep haircuts and cash-crunched businesses seek capital. "Because it is a buyer's market, it
doesn't hurt to wait until prices fall further and borrowers become more stressed," Fanger says.
(shasha.dai@wsj.com; @ShashaDai1)

18:04 EDT - A slate of more than $8B worth of stock that could potentially be sold tomorrow by Alibaba
insiders, in addition to the $21.8B the company and insiders already sold at $68 a share, could actually
be the key to stable trading tomorrow, market sources are saying. With Alibaba pricing the deal within
expectations rather than above, it likely slashes the number of buyers who will opt to flip the stock
immediately Friday. That means the un-locked-up inside sellers may be called upon to help generate
enough volume to keep BABA from being highly volatile. Low volatility will be key to making sure BABA
doesn't quickly give back whatever bounce it gets on Friday. (@telisdemos; telis.demos@wsj.com)
17:57 EDT - Exxon Mobil (XOM) and Linn Energy (LINE) played a round of Let's Make a Deal. The two
companies agreed to swap acreage positions, with Linn giving some 17,800 net acres in the booming
Permian Basin in west Texas and New Mexico in exchange for some of Exxon's acreage in California's
South Belridge Field. Though Permian is one of the hottest oil-producing regions in the US, master
limited partnerships like Linn typically prefer staid, mature oil fields. Though production from these fields
is typically on the decline, their stable output allows MLPs to reliably cover the cash distributions they've
promised to shareholders without laying out massive capital expenditures. (alison.sider@wsj.com)

17:51 EDT - Yahoo (YHOO) trading volume picks up dramatically after hours as Alibaba (BABA) prices
its IPO at the high end of expectations. YHOO up a fraction in late trading, though it's off its off-hours
highs seen before the IPO priced. Some analysts say YHOO's significant stake in BABA accounts for
much of YHOO's value. Nearly two hours after the close, 1M shares had traded in YHOO, more volume
than some S&P 500 components typically see in a full day. (matthew.jarzemsky@wsj.com)

To contact the Market Talk Editors,
Kevin Kingsbury, 212 416-2354, kevin.kingsbury@wsj.com
Cynthia Lin, 212 416-4403, Cynthia.lin@wsj.com
John Shipman, 212 416-2181, john.shipman@wsj.com
Patrick Sullivan, 212 416-2326, Patrick.sullivan@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

September 18, 2014 19:40 ET (23:40 GMT)

CO
IN

oisa : Oil Search Ltd
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas

Page30of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE

mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcrntg : Crude Oil/Natural Gas Product Markets | namt : All
Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | nenac : Energy Asset
Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | m14 :
Commodity Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E
Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter
papng : Papua New Guinea | austr : Australia | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | namz : North America | pacisz : Pacific Islands

PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020140918ea9i004a0

Page31of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.