SHORT WAY TO PAIN IS LIKE POURING WINE DOWN A DRAIN

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
SHORT WAY TO PAIN IS LIKE POURING WINE DOWN A DRAIN

JOHN BEVERIDGE
599 words
21 May 2014
Herald-Sun
HERSUN
HeraldSun
24
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

IN THE BLACK IT SEEMS the rash of mergers and acquisitions that have kept the US market
buzzing for months has finally made it Down Under.
On the resources scene Chinese companies in particular have been very busy with Baosteel joining
Aurizon to bid $1.42 billion for Aquila Resources and Guandong Rising Asset Management bidding
$1.46 billion for copper and gold miner PanAust.

Goodman Fielder has surrendered in the face of a $1.37 billion bid from Singapore’s Wilmar
International and Hong Kong’s First Pacific.
And the race is on to see who will end up with Treasury Wine Estates, now that private equity
groupKKR’s spurned $3.1 billion bid has gone public.

This will be a really interesting battle and it certainly started off that way with an epic short squeeze
on the market, which is why the shares jumped so hard when the news hit.
Don’t let anyone tell you that there is nothing easier than to find an ailing company and scoop up
profits by short selling the shares.

That strategy can certainly work but when something unexpected like yesterday’s takeover action
happens, shorting can lead to massive and instant pain.
Those TWE shorters simply had to buy around 52 million shares in a real hurry to cover their
loss-making positions, which is why the sellers were playing hard to get and the price action was
extreme.

In an uncanny similarity to what happened to short term boss John Pollaers at Foster’s — the
company which spawned TWE before being taken over by SABMiller — chief executive Michael
Clarke has only been in the chair for seven weeks.
While he put out a statement about not running the company for the short term and being
encouraged by the quality of TWE’s assets, brands and people, chances are that he won’t get an
opportunity to implement his planned ramp up of the marketing spend and cost cutting exercise.

A conga line of bidders will be interested in different bits of the TWE empire and now that the
auction has been announced, a sale of some sort is the most likely outcome.
What remains to be decided is whether a private equity player like KKR gets to do a slice and dice
job or whether one of the big global beverage groups such as Constellation Brands, Pernod Ricard
or others decide it might be cheaper and easier to do it themselves.

Page103of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Both Constellation and Pernod have been specifically denied as bidders by the TWE board but now
that the auction has effectively started, all of them will be running the ruler over TWE to see if it
makes any sense as a bolt-on acquisition.
For those brave enough to successfully grab the falling knife and buy TWE recently, you have the
option of selling into the short squeeze and bid speculation or hanging on to see what happens next.

You’re a winner either way but you could always sell half and enjoy the ride. If you are not on the
TWE register, there is probably a better than even chance of a higher bid but the easy gains are in
the rear vision mirror.
Telstra’s $100 million wi-fi urban rollout is a crafty bid to build customer loyalty, take congestion off
the mobile network and create a cheap mini-NBN. A long term buy.The Herald Sun accepts no
responsibility for stock recommendations. Readers should contact a licensed financial adviser.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

fdgl : Goodman Fielder Ltd | trzwn : Treasury Wine Estates Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i426 : Wine | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge :
Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document HERSUN0020140520ea5l0006x

Page104of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.