The a2 Milk Company Limited; Full Year results for period ending 30 June 2014

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

The a2 Milk Company Limited; Full Year results for period ending 30 June 2014

2,798 words
28 August 2014
07:21
New Zealand Exchange Company Announcements
NZXCOM
English
Copyright (c) 2014 New Zealand Exchange Ltd ( )

28 August 2014
The a2 Milk Company Limited

Record earnings in Australia, growth progressing in other markets

Overview
- Total Operating Revenue of $111.300 million in FY14, an increase of 17% over the prior corresponding
period (pcp)

- Net Profit After Tax of $10,000, significantly impacted by an adverse movement in the NZD/AUD
exchange rate compared to the pcp

- Strong balance sheet with $16m cash on hand and no debt
- Increased market share in Australia with fresh milk sales up 24% over the pcp
- Modest sales of a2Platinum infant formula into China due to regulatory issues

- Successful launch of a2Platinum infant formula in Australia
- New UK business structure from January 2014

- World's first human pilot study recently released confirms A2 beta casein protein digestive benefit
The a2 Milk Company (a2MC) has had a strong year and continued to progress its growth initiatives,
during what has been a challenging FY14. This included significant competitor activity in our core
Australian market, regulatory interruptions to our infant formula growth plans in Asia and taking full
control of the former joint venture business in the UK.
Notwithstanding these challenges, progress has been made on all fronts. The Australian business
achieved record sales and earnings, we have developed a broader portfolio of products to complement
infant formula sales into Asia and are implementing a new business plan for the UK business. In
addition, we have established a new management and board structure to support our growth agenda and
the new a2 Milk global brand positioning is being finalised.

Managing Director, Geoffrey Babidge says the continued strong performance in Australia has funded the
development of the growth platforms in China and the UK consistent with the strategic agenda and the
supporting corporate resources.
"The Board continues to be very pleased with the performance of the Australian business and its
potential for further growth, and remains confident in the plans for Asia and the UK. Slower build in
distribution and awareness, rather than the core a2 Milk product proposition, contributed to slower
revenue growth in China and the UK markets. However, the potential for growth remains significant.
Furthermore, the Company has progressed its planning for its fourth global growth initiative, the launch
of a2 Milk into the United States fresh milk market, to commence during calendar 2015."

Page67of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Chairman Cliff Cook says: "The Company today is stronger and better positioned than at any time
previously. Our conservative balance sheet provides a secure basis for our current growth plans in
international markets."

For the 12 months to 30 June 2014, revenue exceeded expectations in Australia and, with modest sales
in the United Kingdom and to China, resulted in Group Sales of $110.621 million for the year, an
increase of 17% over the pcp. Net Profit after Tax of $10,000 compared to the pcp of $4.120 million.
Cash on hand at year end was $16 million. Preliminary audit clearance has been obtained for these
results pending finalisation of the 2014 annual report.

The trading result included:
- EBITDA before license fees for the Australian market of $18.708 million; - EBITDA for the UK and
China markets totaling ($7.527) million; - Employee share scheme expenses (Non cash) of $1.190
million; - Other corporate costs of $6.839 million; - Income tax charge of $0.710 million
The appreciation of the NZD to the AUD reduced Operating Revenue by approximately $14 million and
EBITDA by approximately $2.7 million on the pcp.

Strategic Agenda - charting the future
The Strategic Agenda of the Company is based on funding revenue growth in priority international
markets from increasing Australian profits. The plan continues to be refined as a result of changing
market dynamics and opportunities.
The Company previously advised of the plan to develop products such as UHT milk for sale in Asian
markets. This plan is now being progressed. In addition, the sale of fresh a2 Milk sourced from Australia
into China is a further opportunity now underway, with the first trial shipment having been made in late
August 2014. These opportunities are potentially attractive in their own right and will strengthen both the
a2 Milk brand and our infant formula business in Asia.
The Company has commented previously that an entry into the United States fresh milk market is under
consideration. The Company has both strong intellectual property rights and know-how, and consumer
research confirms the significant potential for a2 Milk brand in this market. The Company has developed
market entry plans with the objective of a targeted, regionally focused initial launch in calendar 2015. The
current business model assumes a cash investment of around USD20m to be funded from cash flow
and internal sources over a three year period. Our focus has been to develop a plan which captures the
potential of the United States market whilst, at the same time, providing the Company an appropriate
balance of risk and reward for this positive initiative.
Advances in the science supporting the a2 Milk proposition included the publication of the first human
trial conducted by Curtin University. The trial confirmed a clear difference in gastrointestinal function in
adults consuming the A1 versus A2 beta casein protein types, both for milk intolerant and normal milk
drinking people.

The 2016 Revenue projection contained in the 2012 Private Placement Memorandum, amended in 2013
and adjusted for movements in exchange rate assumptions at 30 June 2014, results in adjusted Revenue
from operating segments and JVs of approximately NZD230m. The Company considers this remains an
appropriate overall projection based on the stages of development of each regional business and the
current prospects for sale of additional products. Whilst revenue growth in China and the UK are
presently well behind original plan, this shortfall should be compensated by sales of infant formula in
Australia and other products in both Australia and Asia. Revenue from a prospective launch into the USA
market is not included in this update.
During the year the Company undertook a review of the structure, composition and remuneration of the
Board. A number of changes were approved at the November 2013 annual meeting to support the
strategy to evolve the composition of the Board in an orderly way and ensure the skills and experience of
directors support the strategic agenda. Two new non-executive directors have joined the Board, Ms Julia
Hoare and Mr David Hearn. These appointments are consistent with the revised structure of designating
directors specific responsibilities, with Julia Hoare assuming the role as Chair of the Audit & Risk
Committee and David Hearn designated the lead director for the UK and European regional markets.

Further, the management structure was re-organised into regional and corporate functions and
strengthened with additional experienced executives to assist the new market initiatives. This included
Susan Massasso as Chief Marketing Officer, Philip Wohlsen as General Manager Asia and Scott
Wotherspoon as CEO UK.

Australia - continues strong growth

Page68of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Australian business continued to perform very strongly in FY14 with sales growth and operating
earnings well ahead of plan. Total revenue growth in AUD on the pcp was 31%. Revenue and earnings
were unfavourably impacted by the movement in the NZD/AUD exchange rate when compared to the
prior year.
Fresh milk sales of a2 Milk increased on the pcp in AUD by 24%. This is a result of the growing
consumer awareness to the benefits of the product and the breadth of distribution now achieved in the
retail trade. We estimate the market share of fresh a2 Milk in Australia to have grown to around 9.0% by
value in the grocery channel (Australian Grocery Weighted Scan June 2014 quarter).
The Company achieved higher efficiencies at its Smeaton Grange processing facility in Sydney which
contributed to an improved gross margin for fresh milk compared to the pcp. We continue to pursue
improvements in supply chain processes and building milk supply. As part of this, in November 2013,
Brownes Food Operations commenced processing fresh a2 Milk in Western Australia under a supply
and contract pack arrangement.

Sales of a2Platinum infant formula in Australia have shown strong growth, significantly ahead of plan, in
both grocery and pharmacy channels, since launch in September 2013. Conversely, sales in New
Zealand have been hampered by limited distribution. Whilst sales are strong in the Australian domestic
market, it is assumed a proportion is being purchased and subsequently shipped to consumers in China
relying on the assurance of an Australian-sourced product. Whilst it is not possible to determine sales to
this grey market, this further confirms our confidence in the China market opportunity.

The launch of a2 Thickened Cream into grocery has also been successful with sales in the period
achieving expectation. The success of these latest innovations provides confidence in further broadening
the product portfolio and plans are being progressed to build on the growing reputation of the brand.
The business experienced the first significant responses from competitors during the year. One
company challenged the science around dairy free from A1 beta casein protein and a second more
recently highlighting the protein composition of their own milks. a2MC has actively responded to these
initiatives and encouragingly our sales have continued to grow. The Company welcomes a broader focus
on the positive attributes of the A2 protein content of dairy milk on the proviso consumers are not misled
by claims that the unique benefits of a2 brand products are available from any other dairy products or
brands which contain A1 beta casein protein.
United Kingdom - new business plan under way
The UK business has operated as a wholly owned subsidiary, with a new local board and management
structure in place, since the acquisition of the 50% interest of Muller Wiseman Dairies (MWD) in the
former joint venture from January 2014. This new structure enables the business to build sales and
distribution in a more focused way whilst continuing to access the scale and operational capabilities of
MWD under a supply and contract pack agreement. The new UK Board comprises three directors -
David Hearn as non-executive Chairman; William (Billy) Keane, the former Managing Director of Robert
Wiseman Dairies (RWD) and current Chairman of Dairy UK, who is also a non-executive Director; and
Geoffrey Babidge.
The original joint venture established with RWD intended to grow sales quickly across the UK fresh milk
market. The sale of RWD to the Muller Group in early 2012, with the resulting change in priorities of our
partner, contributed to a slower than planned distribution build and ultimately created the necessity to
restructure this alliance going forward. Taking back control of the venture has ensured the Company will
benefit from 100% of the future value created in this market.

These events have resulted in much lower sales than originally planned and consequently required a new
approach to the market. The Board and Management have developed a new positioning strategy more
targeted on providing a solution to the approximately 20% of individuals who have an issue with
consuming standard dairy milk - to bring them back to the pleasure of drinking dairy milk. The revised
plan is being implemented on a phased basis to meet customer requirements and we anticipate being
fully in-market by the first quarter of calendar 2015.

The new model focuses on three key elements - building distribution in existing accounts from the current
small base, particularly in the South East UK market; increasing awareness of the unique attributes of the
product in a more targeted manner, primarily through alternative direct and digital media; and enhancing
our price positioning through new packaging formats to improve margins. Therefore, while the model
draws on the experience in Australia, the revised plan recognises the market dynamics and pricing in the
UK are more challenging.
The Company is committed to the development of the UK business, whilst at the same time conscious
of the need to balance investment and returns to build shareholder value. The investment in the

Page69of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.business during the second half FY14 was 2.2m Pounds. The revised business model assumes a lower
funding requirement in calendar 2014 than advised in February 2014 and an investment for the FY15
year of approximately 3.5m Pounds. We are targeting cash breakeven on a monthly basis during the
second half FY16.
Infant formula into China - regulation changes slowed momentum
The launch of a2Platinum infant formula to Chinese consumers commenced in November 2013 targeting
baby maternity stores, high end supermarkets and on-line sales.
The regulatory environment for infant formula sold in China has been evolving, given the Chinese
Government's aim to improve product quality and bring confidence back to the industry. As part of this,
there have been changes to access arrangements for imported infant formula including a requirement for
manufacturing companies and brands to achieve a new form of registration from May 2014. Whilst we
believe this approach should ultimately be positive for quality producers, the short term impact of these
changes has brought uncertainty into the market which has impacted many participants including a2MC.
The initial round of registrations did not include our manufacturing partner, Synlait Milk Limited (Synlait),
primarily because its new canning facility had not been commissioned. The Minister of Primary industry
advised in April 2014 that most if not all New Zealand based infant formula manufacturers will ultimately
achieve registration.

As a result of the uncertainties around registration impacting the confidence of sub-distributors and a
slower build of the network by our distributor China State Farm, our infant formula sales into China were
well below plan in the second half FY14. A delay in shipments from December 2013 to February 2014
arising from new quality processes and an ingredient supply shortage also slowed sales. Notwithstanding
this, our infant formula sales at a group level were ahead of plan given the strong performance in
Australia.
The access arrangements into China continue to unfold and a2MC continues to monitor developments.
In July 2014, the Company advised that an interim contract provider, New Zealand New Milk Limited
(New Milk), had achieved manufacturer registration with Certification and Accreditation of the People's
Republic of China, which enabled a2MC to resume shipments of a2Platinum packed by New Milk.
A further requirement advised by Chinese authorities will be to demonstrate "close association" between
brand owner and manufacturer over the manufacturing process and formulation of brands. a2MC is of
the view the form of its relationship with Synlait and the quality management processes across the entire
supply chain should ultimately satisfy this test. We are also in discussion with China State Farm on ways
to enhance our business processes and build momentum as the regulatory environment stabilises and
confidence is restored.
The Company remains confident both in the infant formula opportunity in China and the processes in
place in conjunction with Synlait to achieve continued access to this growing market. We are also
pursuing opportunities in China and other Asian markets for sale of both UHT and fresh milk which will
strengthen the a2 Milk brand and broaden our business in Asia.

Intellectual Capital - investment continues
Advances in the science around the benefits of dairy products free from A1 beta casein protein have
been reported in respected international publications over the past year. They support the position that a2
Milk makes dairy nutrition accessible to many consumers who limit or avoid their intake of dairy. In
addition, a2MC's research and development program continues to improve efficiencies around
proprietary processes and have contributed to the filing of additional patents.

The results of a human digestion trial conducted by Curtin University of WA and sponsored by a2MC
have been published in the European Journal of Clinical Nutrition in August 2014. This trial established
strong support for the digestive benefits of a2 Milk (free from A1 beta casein protein) in humans. These
findings complement the broad conclusions of the substantial body of earlier animal studies conducted in
New Zealand and other countries. As the first human digestion study of its type in the world, this new
research marks a significant step forward in understanding the difference between A1 and A2 beta casein
milk proteins on digestion.
The potential for a2 Milk to benefit children predisposed to neurological or behavioral conditions has also
been supported by a study undertaken at North Eastern University (Boston) and sponsored by a2MC and
was recently published in the Journal of Nutritional Biochemistry.

Page70of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Company made significant progress in developing a new global brand vision which will be
progressively implemented during the coming year. The first step of this was the change of company
name for the corporate and trading entities to "The a2 Milk Company" from April 2014.
For further information contact: Geoffrey Babidge Managing Director The a2 Milk Company Limited +61
2 9697 7008

CO
IN
NS

RE

atwocp : The a2 Milk Co Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy Products | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
c184 : Joint Ventures | npress : Press Releases | c151 : Earnings | c15 : Performance | c18 : Ownership
Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | uk : United Kingdom | china : China | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz :
Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union
Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe

PUB New Zealand Exchange Limited
AN

Document NZXCOM0020140827ea8r000ul

Page71of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.