Sinosteel buys out local uranium partner

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Sinosteel buys out local uranium partner

BARRY FITZGERALD, Energy
343 words
16 July 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
20
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

FOREIGN ownership of Australian uranium has moved up another notch with Chinese state-owned
Sinosteel snapping up the 40 per cent interest held by ASX-listed PepinNini in South Australia’s
Curnamona project area.

The deal gives Sinosteel full ownership of the joint venture and was struck at a straw-hats-in-winter
price of $2.3 million, serving to highlight China’s long-term interest in securing future uranium
supplies for its fast-growing fleet of nuclear power reactors while uranium prices are depressed.

The Curnamona tenements are home to the Crocker Well and Mt Victoria uranium deposits, as well
as being prospective for magnetite and other minerals. Until 2009, Crocker Well in particular was
considered a development opportunity by the partnership.
But it has been on hold ever since pending an improvement in uranium prices. Crocker Well includes
six deposits containing a uranium oxide resource of about 12 million pounds.
Uranium prices have collapsed from more than $US70 a pound before a large earthquake in March
2011 triggered the tsunami that caused Japan’s Fukushima nuclear power plant to melt down.
Uranium was last traded for $US28.35 a pound.
PepinNini would not elaborate on the reasons for the sale of its Curnamona stake. But the current
depressed state of the uranium market, and a push by the company into nickel and other metals
exploration in Western Australia’s Musgrave region, explain the decision.
Shares in PepinNini climbed 18 per cent to 1.9c, valuing the company at $2.7m, just shy of the
$2.3m to be received from Sinosteel, assuming a number of conditions and approvals are cleared.

PepinNini’s exit follows the recent decision by ASX-listed Alliance Resources to put its 25 per cent
stake in the world’s newest uranium mine, the Four Mile project in South Australia, up for sale.The
collapse in uranium prices and a fractured relationship with project operator and 75 per cent owner
California’s General Atomics were the main factors.

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i1610109 : Electric Power Generation - Nuclear | iuran : Uranium Ore
Mining | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16101 : Electric Power Generation | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | ieutil : Electric Utilities | imet : Mining/Quarrying | iutil : Utilities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140715ea7g0007y

Page238of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.