Trapped at Kogan

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

news
Trapped at Kogan

LIZ WELLS
854 words
11 May 2014
Queensland Country Life
FQLCOL
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

WHEN Tangalooma Brahman stud principals Bill and Lynette Dahlheimer first listed their property,
Campbells Camp, for sale, they had retirement on a few acres in Chinchilla in their sights.

But five years and eight agents later, they feel they are further away than ever from selling their
455-hectare block at Brigalow, and all because of the neighbour, CS Energy's Kogan Creek coal mine
and power station.

Mr Dahlheimer said dealing with dust, noise, gas and water problems the operation had created for
them, and trying to get the company and its owner, the Queensland government, to ensure they get a
reasonable price for the place is like "death by a thousand cuts".
"They just bugger your life up. Who is going to buy next to a coal mine?" Mr Dahlheimer said.
He believes there is only one answer: the coal mine itself.

But because Campbell's Camp sits outside the power station and mine footprint and required buffer,
where CS Energy acquired all the properties it needed to prior to start-up in 2007, a CS Energy
spokesman said it had "found no commercial justification or legal requirement" to buy the place.

"The only offer they've made is to wash our walls and filter our water," Mr Dahlheimer said.
A CS Energy spokesman said this "has been done in good faith and in an attempt to address the
concerns Mr and Mrs Dahlheimer have raised."
And the company wants its position to be clear: "CS Energy considers that it has no legal obligation
to provide any assistance to the Dahlheimers."
According to CS Energy, independent testing it has organised has shown the Dahlheimer home's
rainwater showed "no significant deposition to the drinking water system related to power station or
coal mine operations".

Similarly, dust from within the home was found to be mostly "rock/soil dust (clay) and biological
materials".
"Only very minor traces of coal and power station fly ash were detected."

However, having lived where they do since 1986, the Dahlheimers believe the colour and the amount
of dust have changed markedly of late.

"Now you wipe a wall and the dust you get is black," Mr Dahlheimer said.
Mr Dahlheimer has lodged a number of complaints about CS Energy, while Mrs Dahlheimer tries to
keep on top of the dust in and around the home.

Page135of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."Each complaint has been thoroughly investigated by CS Energy and the Department of Environment
and Heritage Protection has been informed of these complaints and investigation findings," the CS
Energy spokesman said.
"In each case investigated to date, it has been found that CS Energy has met all of its environmental
obligations."

That means Bill and Lyn Dahlheimer are stuck doing not just the normal things associated with running
90 registered breeders

and a home and farm, but temporarily destocking paddocks closest to the mine whenever there is a
blast.

"That's because of the gases - the oxides of nitrogen - that can be given off during mine blasts, which
are done two kilometres away from our boundary."
CS Energy informs the Dahlheimers well in advance of the blasts taking place, and two have occurred
this year.

"Then we move the cattle up around the house, which is a kilometre back (from the river) to give them
a bit of protection."
Mr Dahlheimer said Campbell's Camp had been "a most magic little property", but now had little hope
of fetching what he

believed was its pre-mine value of about $1700 per acre.
Mr Dahlheimer said he had contacted the offices of Premier Campbell Newman, Minister for Energy
and Water Supply Mark McArdle and Treasurer Tim Nicholls, looking for some support in getting his
property sold. But none has been forthcoming.
"I'm not asking for a donation. We just want to get for our property what it was worth before all this
started."
Property Rights Australia vice chairman Dale Stiller said one option may be to sell Campbell's Camp
at auction and have CS Energy pay the Dahlheimers the difference between what it fetches under the
hammer and its pre-mine value.

"The Dahlheimers understand bank managers won't approve loans with Campbell's Camp as collateral
because they do not believe they could recoup the value of the loan if they have to sell the place up.
It's put Bill and Lyn in an awful situation," Mr Stiller said.

The Dahlheimers hope their local MP Howard Hobbs can help them get the government's ear, but they
aren't holding their breath. "We've lost four years of our retirement already."
They have engaged a lawyer and are considering legal action if CS Energy, currently the subject of a
scoping study which may see it privatised, does not help them sell up for what they see as a
reasonable price.

"A rural counsellor has told us we should brace ourselves to walk off penniless," Mr Dahlheimer said.

"We'd love to retire and put dollars back in the economy but we're trapped."

RE
PUB
AN

nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FQLCOL0020151217ea5b0004d

Page136of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.