VTT Vendetta Mining firms option deal for Pegmont

HD
CR
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

VTT Vendetta Mining firms option deal for Pegmont

Stockwatch
801 words
11 August 2014
Canada Stockwatch
CNSW
English
(c) 2014 Canjex Publishing Ltd.

Vendetta Mining Corp (TSX-V:VTT)

Shares Issued 11,911,625

Monday August 11 2014 - News Release

Mr. Michael Williams reports
VENDETTA MINING LTD AND PEGMONT MINES LIMITED EXECUTE DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT
REGARDING THE PEGMONT PB-ZN-AG PROPERTY
Vendetta Mining Corp. and Pegmont Mines Ltd. (the vendor) have executed definitive agreements for the
previously announced option deal on the Pegmont lead-zinc-silver deposit in Queensland, Australia.
The Pegmont lead-zinc-silver deposit is located 25 kilometres east of BHP Billiton's world-class
Cannington silver-lead-zinc mine and 28 kilometres north of Chinova Resources' Osborne copper-gold
mine. It is proximate to existing infrastructure that includes roads, railhead and natural gas for power
generation. At the project, discovered in 1971, shallow drilling has defined historical resources that the
company, in concert with AMC Consultants, has been working to bring into CIM (Canadian Institute of
Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum) and National Instrument 43-101 compliance. In addition, numerous
untested targets defined by drilling, geophysical and geochemical methods remain to be explored.

Updates on the option and finance terms follow below.

Option terms (all dollar amounts are in Australian dollars)
The company has been granted an option to acquire 100 per cent of the Pegmont property, comprising
three mining leases and two exploration tenements, by a combination of cash payments, exploration
commitments and advanced royalty payments.
Cash option payments totalling $3-million are as follows: $250,000 within two days of approval of the
TSX Venture Exchange of the transaction; $250,000 on the 12-month anniversary; $500,000 on the
24-month anniversary; $750,000 on the 36-month anniversary; and finally $1.25-million on the 48-month
anniversary. In addition, the company has agreed to reimburse Pegmont for $350,000 of exploration
expenses incurred during the year. These expenditures will be applied to the overall expenditure
requirements.

Exploration expenditures for the property comprise a minimum of $800,000 per year or meeting minimum
requirements by the State of Queensland (whichever is greater) by Aug. 10 of each year during the first
three years of the option, for a minimum commitment of $2.4-million. A minimum 17,000 metres of
drilling must be completed within a 42-month period commencing the day of TSX-V approval of the
transaction, with 2,000 metres of this total to be drilled by the end of the 2014.

In the event of Vendetta exercising the option, and as part of the final transfer of project titles, the
company has also agreed to pay an advance royalty to the vendor of $3-million. Vendetta will receive a
royalty credit of the cash option payments and advanced royalty for a total of $6-million, to be credited
against future royalty payments.

Page4of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The vendor will retain a royalty right on future concentrate production from the property of 1.25 per cent of
net smelter return, subject to the credit of $6-million in favour of the company. In the case where ore is
sold rather than concentrate, a separate royalty formula allows for a royalty of $1.05 per tonne of ore
sold, indexed to lead prices, to be conveyed to the vendor, again subject to the $6-million credit. Where
ore that is sold contains silver at concentrations above 64 parts per million, an additional royalty amount
is payable, starting at six cents per gram, indexed to the price of silver.

Update on finance terms (all dollar amounts are in Canadian dollars unless otherwise noted)
The company is pleased to announce an update on its previously disclosed non-brokered private
placement (see news release dated Nov. 21, 2013).
The $2.2-million financing comprises 26-cent units, with each unit consisting of one common share and
one-half of one common share purchase warrant, with each whole warrant exercisable at a price of 35
cent for a period of three years.

Subject to the approval of the TSX-V, Vendetta expects to close the financing shortly and prior to
receiving the necessary TSX-V approval of the Pegmont transaction. Subsequent to receiving TSX-V
approval of the Pegmont transaction, the company will make the initial option payment and reimburse
the vendor for the exploration expense incurred by the vendor during the negotiation period.

A finder's fee in favour of Adrian Ryan of Mt. Waverley, Victoria, Australia, is payable upon the successful
conclusion of this transaction. The finder's fee is subject to TSX-V rules and limitation ranges, and will be
paid in instalments at the time of each of the option payments to the vendor. The maximum finder's fee
payable would amount to $182,500 (Australian) should Vendetta complete its earn-in under the executed
call option.

We seek Safe Harbor.

CO

IN

NS

ivaaus : Chinova Resources Ltd. | pegmnt : Pegmont Mines Limited | vdttmn : Vendetta Mining Corp |
sdccg : Shanxi Donghui Coal Coking Group Co. Ltd.
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2113 : Lead Ore/Zinc Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
cnatrd : Natural Reserves/Resources Discovery | npress : Press Releases | c24 : Capacity/Facilities | ccat
: Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types
austr : Australia | cana : Canada | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North America
News Release

RE
IPD
PUB Canjex Publishing Ltd.
AN

Document CNSW000020140811ea8b006mx

Page5of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.