Dram of optimism amid caution over China deal

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Dram of optimism amid caution over China deal

ROGER HANSON
552 words
14 November 2014
Tasmanian Country
TASCOU
TasCountry
4
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

TASMANIA is poised to benefit, but an air of caution hangs over a free-trade agreement with China,
expected to be signed off next week.

Prime Minister Tony Abbott said from the APEC summit in Beijing this week there were still a few
things to finalise, but an agreement was “very much on track for success in the next few days”.

Chinese president Xi Jinping will be in Brisbane for the G20 summit next week and then visit
Tasmania.
About 22 per cent of Tasmanian exports, worth about $610 million a year, go to China.

Tasmanian primary producers are calling for tariffs to be phased out to fully benefit from a free-trade
deal.

Derwent Valley’s Redlands Estate owners Peter and Elizabeth Hope, who share the estate’s whisky
distillery with Bill Lark, aim to produce 139,000 bottles of premium whisky to be sold at $150 a bottle
into the Chinese market.

The whisky is made from barley grown on the estate.
Mr Hope re-established Redlands Estate’s trade links with China that first started more than a century
ago.
“We are excited about trade deal opportunities, this deal is enormous. But the Chinese want
high-quality produce and there will be a spin to all Tasmanian whisky producers,” Mr Hope said.

The state’s peak farmers’ body, the Tasmanian Farmers and Graziers Association, remains cautious
about the proposed deal.

“We haven’t seen any detail.

We have been disappointed with all previous trade agreements done with other countries,” TFGA chief
executive Jan Davis said.

“In agriculture we are yet to see a proper free-trade agreement because essentially Australia has
nothing left to trade, we gave away our trade barriers years ago. It is vital biosecurity is not
compromised.” Tasmanian firm Reid Fruits is one of Australia’s leading cherry exporters to China.

Managing director Tim Reid said local producers were being slugged 13 per cent tariff to export their
cherries to China.

“This puts us behind other competitor countries, I’d like to see that tariff eliminated.
Our focus is premium products, but the opportunities into China are huge,” Mr Reid said.

Page228of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“The visit to Tasmania by the Chinese president next week will shine a good light on our pure island
image.” Tasmanian Irrigation chief Chris Oldfield said the deal would encourage investment in the
state, which should be welcomed by farmers.

“Our farmers will never be major suppliers, but we are in a global market and if this deal is good for
producers interstate then it will be good for Tasmania,” Mr Oldfield said.
Dairy Tasmania executive officer Mark Smith said dairy farmers could benefit from improved access
and reduced tariffs for cheese, milk and infant formula.
China is now the hot destination for Tasmanian exports, but the historic Redlands Estate can boast a
link to China dating back to 1819 and founder George Frederick Read, a son of King George IV.
“Chinese trees grow on the estate which are highly important to the Chinese Government,” Mr Hope
said.

NRM South and University of Tasmania partner Redlands to maximise crop quality and yield for a
sustainable whisky.NRM South chief executive Donald Coventry said sustainable agriculture practices
provided a unique basis for the market in China.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

gtrade : Tariffs/Trade Barriers | e512 : Physical Trade | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat :
Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gdip : International Relations | gpir :
Politics/International Relations
china : China | austr : Australia | tasman : Tasmania | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document TASCOU0020141113eabe00004

Page229of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.