Million -dollar offshore buyers propel top-end property market

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
TD

News
Million-dollar offshore buyers propel top-end property market

Alice Stolz, Christina Zhou
736 words
16 August 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
2
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Toorak
$ 18.6m
St Georges Road
Marble spa, tennis court (right)
$16.8m
Hopetoun Road
Tennis court
$15m
Hopetoun Road
Sauna, lift,
wine cellar, tennis court
$13.8m
Clendon Road
Library, hedge mazes
$11.8m
Irving Road
Tennis court and pool
$11.6m
Myoora Road
Gym, pool
$9.5m+
Stonnington Place
Wine room, pool
$8.65m
Clendon Road
Butler’s pantry
$8.6m
Toorak Road
Lift, cinema, cellar
Brighton
$10.9m
William Street
Cinema (former home

Page284of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.of Shane Warne)
$18m
Moule Avenue
Beachfront land, spa,
pool and tennis court
$8.2m
Mulgoa Street
Lift, sauna and
communications room
$8m
The Esplanade
Near beach
Hawthorn
$19.8m
Shakespeare Grove
Teppanyaki bar (right) in one of seven kitchens, two pools, ballroom,
cinema
Hawthorn East
$10m+
Harcourt Street
Tennis court
Albert Park
$12m
St Vincent Place
Walkway over 10-metre pond, lap pool, stables guesthouse
Kew
$10m+
Grange Road
Four marble en suites
East Melbourne
$10.2m
George Street
Gym, nanny’s loft, pool
SALES IN THE PAST 12 MONTHS.
SOURCES: DOMAIN GROUP, LAND TITLES, INDUSTRY SOURCES
Anyone doubting the strength of the Melbourne property market should take a look at the upper end.
But look closely, many of these sales are happening behind closed curtains.
Agents say the lucrative prestige segment has properties being bought and sold at an unprecedented
rate in suburbs rich in cachet, large blocks and wide, leafy streets.

Marshall White director John Bongiorno said activity in the top end had been "as strong as ever".
The agency sold a home in Grange Road, Kew, for an undisclosed price in the "eight-figure territory"
this week to an international buyer looking to relocate before Christmas, with the help of James Buyer
Advocates.
Marshall White also sold a property in Beaconsfield Parade, Middle Park, for more than $3.5 million
and another home in Mathoura Road, Toorak, for more than $5 million.

"The international buyer interest is ramping up for spring and for buyers who are looking to move over
the Christmas period; to get their kids settled into school next year," Mr Bongiorno said.
RT Edgar's managing director, Jeremy Fox, said $13 million was spent on two separate sales in
Toorak last week - both sold to offshore buyers. In May, Mr Fox sold one of Melbourne's most
extravagant estates, Avon Court in Hawthorn, for $19.8 million.

Page285of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Kay & Burton managing director Mike Gibson says there has been a rise in offshore buyers this year,
and more people shopping at the top end of the market. His agency sold three homes, including one in
Toorak, for more than $10 million, and one just nudging that figure in the past two months, but he
declined to comment on the details.
"The volume of people prepared to pay $5 million or more for a property has increased," he said.
"Even at the $10 million-plus range, that market has picked up quite substantially over the past 18
months, and we don't see that stopping."

Mr Fox said he had not experienced such demand for prestige properties before. "This is
unprecedented in my career in real estate. [What's changed] is the amount of Chinese buyers in the
marketplace - they're everywhere."

He said the bounce in the prestige market started about two years ago but it was now at its highest
level. "[It started when] the Canadian government changed their laws [axing the visa scheme that was
designed to attract wealthy foreigners]. Overseas buyers have diverted all their attention to Australia.

Prestige heartland in Melbourne is Toorak, but suburbs such as Brighton, Hawthorn and Albert Park
have their fair share of clout when it comes to the upper end of the market.

Whether buyers are local or international, they all have the same brief for agents: easy access to
Melbourne's exclusive schools, close to the city, wide, leafy streets and good land size.
Yet while these buyers might be poised to buy, agents say that stock levels need to be maintained.
Mr Gibson said it could take six months to two years to match a buyer with a $10 million-plus house.
Domain Group senior economist Andrew Wilson said the suburbs with the highest proportion of $3
million-plus sales during the first half of 2014 were Toorak, Middle Park and Deepdene.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140815ea8g0003i

Page286of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.