Agnew still betting on Keppel casino

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CommercialProperty
Agnew still betting on Keppel casino

LISA ALLEN, BEN WILMOT, CASINOS
548 words
13 September 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
38
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

EXCLUSIVE PROPERTY entrepreneur Terry Agnew has not given up hope of winning a casino licence
for his $2 billion Great Keppel Island development after losing out to rival operations on the Gold
Coast and Cairns in May.
The real estate developer admits to pouring tens of millions of dollars into the Great Barrier Reef
project — which has attracted interest from Southeast Asia and mainland Chinese investors — even
though construction is yet to commence.

Mr Agnew has ambitious plans for the island, off the coast of Yeppoon, including 700 houses, 300
apartments, an airport, a Greg Norman-designed golf course and a 250-berth marina.

“We have not given up hope of obtaining a casino licence,” Mr Agnew said. “When Queensland deputy
premier Jeff Seeney announced those two licences he said that he would work with the other applicants.
It’s public knowledge that (the casino for) Wavebreak Island on the Gold Coast is getting a huge
amount of backlash from locals. Thousands of people have demonstrated against it. We would think we
would have a pretty good chance, if those two licences got shaky.” The Chinese-backed ASF
Consortium, which is working on the Gold Coast proposal, said its proposal for a $7.5bn Broadwater
development was progressing.

Meantime, Mr Agnew takes heart from the success of the new One & Only resort on Hayman Island and
the nearby Qualia resort, the opulent six-star hotel developed by the Oatley family on Hamilton Island,
given his ambitions for a luxury branded hotel to be developed on Great Keppel.

“The success of One & Only has confirmed that this is more than viable,’’ he said. “This (Great Keppel)
is the prettiest island on the reef, there is no doubt.

“A lot of people get interested in islands. I will get it done, but you need big pockets, we have got it to
this level debt free. You need someone with pretty big pockets to partner us. We feel confident on the
pricing and the income over five to 10 years. At this stage we ask for equity for the whole thing, except
for the hotel.” Ten cashed up Asian investors — including six from Mainland China — are in due
diligence.
Mr Agnew wouldn’t comment on how much of a stake an external partner would take, but he wants
equity, not debt, to fuel construction, which he hopes to start in the middle of next year.

“This is a complicated deal ... We have very good interest. We have given them costings ... they are
doing their own due diligence. To be honest it will take a couple of months for a buyer coming in, they
want to be happy with the figures we have given them.” Apart from mainland Chinese interest, Mr
Agnew has snared potential investors from Singapore, Hong Kong, Malaysia, and Indonesia. The
investment partner could take over one part of the development or contribute to the whole
scheme.Separate to the Asian investors, Mr Agnew said major hoteliers including the Hilton Group,
Marriott, which would operate a Ritz Carlton or Westin, Starwood, with it’s high-end St Regis brand,
Outrigger and Four Seasons have all expressed interest in the process run by Jones Lang LaSalle.

Page144of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

i97912 : Gambling Industries | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality
gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140912ea9d0005u

Page145of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.