Aurizon pushes ahead with Galilee project

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Aurizon pushes ahead with Galilee project

Jenny Wiggins
564 words
23 September 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
17
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Aurizon has rejected claims that its Galilee Basin rail and port project is in danger of not proceeding,
claiming there is "no change" to its plans to develop infrastructure to support coal mines in
Queensland.

Environmental groups on Monday questioned the viability of Aurizon's plans to expand existing rail
networks in the Galilee Basin after a deadline to submit an environmental impact statement (EIS) for
one of its rail expansion proposals to the Queensland government expired.

But Aurizon said it no longer needed to submit an EIS because the Galilee Basin had been declared a
"state development area" by the Queensland Government in June, and an earlier proposal to expand
its existing Newlands rail network no longer required separate environmental approvals.

The Newman government's decision to declare the Galilee Basin a state development area means
the government will only approve two 500 metre-wide rail corridors from the Galilee Basin to Abbot
Point, rather than several different rail corridors that had previously been proposed. Aurizon hopes to
build a new rail network to expand to existing networks in partnership with coal miner GVK Hancock.

"There is no change to Aurizon's plans to develop rail and port infrastructure to support future mines
in the Galilee Basin," Aurizon said.

"Aurizon is also continuing positively in discussions with GVK Hancock towards a transaction to
secure majority ownership (51 per cent) of GVK's rail and port project including the current approvals
by early 2015."

However, the signing of a final agreement between the two companies has been delayed as
GVK Hancock tries to secure funding for the $10 billion mine, port and rail project.

GVK Hancock has been working with Aurizon to get approvals for the first stage of the proposed rail
corridor, a 310-kilometre rail line.
The corridor will connect with Aurizon's rail network, enabling coal to be hauled to Abbot Point. The
coalminer has started consulting landholders along the proposed rail route. It needs their consent
before proceeding with the rail line.

GVK said last week it had negotiated "term sheets" (non-binding agreements) with landholders on
compensation for acquiring land for around 75 per cent of the rail corridor but has not specified when
it hopes to complete the negotiation process.

It also needs to secure approvals for the expansion of port facilities at Abbot Point, which have been
delayed by controversy over where sand dredged from the sea should be dumped.

Page60of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.GVK Hancock and coalminer Adani Group, which is also trying to develop rail and port networks,
earlier this month agreed to dump dredge spoil on land rather than in the sea to avoid any impact on
the Great Barrier Reef.

Aurizon chief executive Lance Hockridge has been cautious on the outlook for the Galilee project,
indicating at the company's annual results in August that its Pilbara expansion plans could proceed
faster than its Galilee plans.
Aurizon plans to develop a new 430 kilometre rail line to Anketell Point in the Pilbara to export iron
ore after teaming up with China's Baosteel to buy Aquila Resources' 50 per cent stake in the West
Pilbara Iron Ore Project.

Key points Aurizon says Galilee Basin is a state development area so no EIS is needed for rail. But
environmentalists query viability of the coalminer's rail plans.

dorval : Aurizon Mines Ltd | qrntnl : Aurizon Holdings Limited | hclamn : Hecla Mining Co
i5020017 : Harbor Construction | i502 : Heavy Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i71 : Railroads | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources |
icargo : Freight/Cargo Transport | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying | irailtr :
Road/Rail Transport | irfrght : Railroad Freight | itsp : Transportation/Shipping
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140922ea9n0001u

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

Page61of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.