Local players getting pushed out

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Local players getting pushed out

Rosanne Barrett
498 words
8 December 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
21
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

COMPETITION for development sites in Brisbane is pushing out local players in the fast-growing city.

The influx of interstate and international players into the Queensland capital’s development scene this
year has included Chinese R&F, Singaporean Aspial and Banyan Tree and “southerners” Urban
Construct, Billbergia, Pellicano and Gurner.

Queensland property veteran David Devine — who is set to profit $20 million after flipping two sites in
less than a year to R&F — said the new entrants had spurred some vendors to overreach on their
price expectations.

“The prices have now been elevated above what is a good business investment,” he said. “All the
vendors are reading about increasing prices and they’ve all jacked their prices up. The market will take
a period of settling down to see what happens over the next three to six months.” Mr Devine — whose
company Metro Property Development settled 500 apartments this year and expects another 1000 in
2015 — said site prices in South Brisbane, West End and Fortitude Valley were “now getting too high”.
Local developer PointCorp co-managing director Chris Vitale said the firm was increasingly selective
about its sites as competition grew and site prices rose.

“Whereas 12 months ago, 18 months ago you might have two or three competing bids, now you’re
talking about six or seven,” he said. “It has pushed site values up. In some ways it was easier
developing in the GFC because we had less competition, but that’s the cycle.” Melbourne-based young
rich-lister Tim Gurner, who himself burst into the Brisbane market with his $600 million triple-tower
Flatiron precinct in Fortitude Valley, said some sites were selling for “crazy money”.

“I think people are paying too much and I think they (the projects) won’t get up,” he said. “When they’re
paying $70,000 to $80,000 per apartment site then I think it’s crazy.” Mr Gurner purchased the
5000sq m site he is transforming into the Flatiron precinct for $25m, buying out an appliance shop,
church and small business owners.
But he said he had been offered more than $70m to onsell the site. “We’ve had some crazy, crazy
offers from the Asian developers.” But national director of real estate transactions for Deloitte
Capland Real Estate Advisory, James Walsh said value was relative.
“Some of the local developers that purchased sites several years ago at lower prices are having a
harder time getting their head around some of the prices being paid today,” he said.

“But for developers interstate and offshore it’s quite the opposite. Brisbane represents what is
perceived to be good value.”He cited the recent $150,000 per unit price paid in western Sydney’s
Parramatta compared to prices ranging from $70,000 to almost $90,000 in South Brisbane. He said
several offshore developers, including those among the biggest in China, would enter the Brisbane
market in 2015.

NS

gcat : Political/General News

Page51of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141207eac80002l

Page52of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.