PRIVATE PROPERTY Penthouse in Toorak may set benchmark | INSIDE STORY visits Brighton

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Domain
PRIVATE PROPERTY Penthouse in Toorak may set benchmark | INSIDE STORY visits Brighton

EMILY POWER and MARC PALLISCO
1,513 words
1 November 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
6
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Penthouse in Toorak may set benchmark

It's a prestige address - and this apartment fits the bill with city views and some classic flourishes.

A deluxe Toorak penthouse is poised to push the apartment price record for the prestige suburb. The
opulent new penthouse of 11 Trawalla Avenue - one of Toorak's finest streets, where power brokers call
home - is expected to fetch north of $6.5 million.

The full-floor, 480-square-metre property has expanses of glossy floorboards, classic flourishes such as
marble bathrooms and a marble kitchen, off which is a city-view terrace. All three bedrooms have a
sparkling en suite, and the master has a dressing room and balcony.

The apartment captures the CBD lights from its elevated position in the boutique development, which
was built by Metrobuild and designed by the Demaine Partnership.
The sale of the Trawalla penthouse looms as a new price benchmark for an apartment in Toorak, which
is no easy feat in a blue-ribbon suburb boasting rows of trophy homes.

Marshall White's Marcus Chiminello is accepting expressions of interest, which close on November 18.
The Toorak apartment record is $6.2 million paid for a pad in Washington Street before Christmas last
year, which was also sold by Mr Chiminello for Marshall White. EP

- - -

The big Mornington Peninsula deals aren't just happening in Portsea and Sorrento. This week, in
Flinders - considered another millionaire's playground - fund manager Richard Fish and his wife Anne
sold their dramatic estate overlooking the Bass Strait and Phillip Island.

On 22 hectares in Punchbowl Road, and with an architect-designed home, Kaloon Park carried price
expectations of about $3.3 million when it was listed in winter.

Kay & Burton's Andrew Hines marketed Kaloon Park.

The vendors, who are building a house nearby, bought the Flinders property from St Kilda Football Club
president Rod Butterss - a regular in the Domain pages for trading in some of Melbourne's most
exclusive homes. MP

- - -

Expressions of interest closed this week for one of Victoria's most prestigious farms - a sprawling,
Arizona-ranch style estate - in Victoria's thoroughbred heartland.

Page168of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The spectacular Shadow Creek on McKenzie Road in Seymour is owned by transport mogul Douglas
Kefford, who sold his bus company to Cabcharge Australia for $150 million and is recognised for his
charity work. The estate, which carried price hopes above $10 million, has a five-bedroom mansion with
a lift, framing views of the Strathbogie Ranges.

The 538-hectare property has fencing, a water system, pastures and yards in impeccable condition,
making it suitable for bloodstock.

Kefford has used his enormous rural retreat for growing and trading cattle and a new owner could retain
the property as a cattle farm or equine stud. Agent Sam Triggs, from Inglis Rural Property, said he has
received interest from Melbourne-based parties and some inquiries from international prospective
buyers, particularly in Asia.

Abercromby's Coast and Country are sharing the listing with Inglis. EP

- - -

It is out with the old and in with the new on another of Melbourne's exclusive suburban strips.

In Brighton, the Pollard family is selling the building which for 46 years housed popular dealing and
valuing family business Mildenhall Antiques. Established by Birdie and Charlie Pollard then taken over
by their son, David, in 1970, Mildenhall was the place to go for silver, jewellery, porcelain, clocks,
militaria and other collection pieces.
Since the business closed in 2008, the three adjoining double-storey brick terraces between 423-427
Bay Street have been leased.

Covering a substantial 705-square-metre block, the asset is being marketed to developers - with
airspace in the ritzy strip in recent years making way for luxury shop-top apartments.

RT Edgar Greg Costello and Rowan Thompson are representing David and his wife Wendy, who are
retiring to an apartment at Rylands, also in the bayside suburb.
In Armadale, four months ago, developers paid $7.5 million for the High Street property which
accommodated the popular Graham Geddes antiques store. An application was recently lodged to
replace the block with a seven-level, 67-unit apartment complex. MP

- - -

A prominent arts couple are calling curtains on Brunswick. Virginia Lovett, the executive director of the
Melbourne Theatre Company and her partner Rose Hiscock, the director of Sydney's Powerhouse
Museum, have listed their charming inner-suburban home.

The three-bedroom property, tucked between Sydney Road and Lygon Street at 11A Laura Street, has
polished timber floors, period features and a pretty, vine-draped pergola shading the entertaining deck in
the north-facing garden, which has been the scene for Christmas parties that draw a who-who's of
Melbourne arts and culture.

The couple have fallen in love with the north side of Melbourne and are to set up home in Northcote on a
block that opens on to Merri Creek, where Hiscock can indulge her green thumb.

Nelson Alexander's Jacqui Knapsey is putting the house under the hammer on November 15, with price
hopes between $900,000 and $990,000. EP

Shhh!

D-Day is ahead for one political leader with the looming state election, but one former politician is
toasting success. Ex-pollie Neil Pope's Camberwell home sold for $1.28 million at auction, almost
$200,000 more than expected. The three-bedroom home on a 415-square-metre block is in tree-lined
Through Road. Pope was a state member and minister in both the Cain and Kirner administrations. In
August, another ex-ALP politician, Evan Thornley, pocketed $10 million from the sale of his home in
Grange Road, Kew. MP

Former Swan flies

Ex-Sydney Swans footballer John Stevens and his wife, author, model and triathlete Grace McClure are
selling a spectacularly located three-bedroom home on the Great Ocean Road at Cinema Point.
Caprington - where McClure says the couple and their two children have spent the past eight summers -
also has direct access to a private beach cove. It is one of only a handful of homes on the beach-side of

Page169of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.the road described as one of the world's most scenic coastal drives. Hodges Simon Chin and Ian
Lawless from Great Ocean Properties will auction the home on November 14 with price expectations
between $3.5 million and $3.75 million. MP

Victoria’s storybook look

A Mount Martha landmark on a super-sized waterfront parcel has been listed by the children of late
Malvern doctor Geoffrey Wilson. Green Gables, at 474-475 Esplanade, sits on a 3478-square-metre
block which the agents are marketing for its sub-division potential. Developed in 1927 for windmill
merchants the Alston family, Green Gables resembles a grand English estate, with gables, oriels and
diamond pane casement windows - most of which capture north-facing views over South Beach. Abode's
Sam Danckert is marketing Green Gables with Kay & Burton's Andrew Hines. It is expected to sell for
more than $3.5 million after an expressions of interest campaign which closes on November 10. MP

Artists’ own in Ripponlea

A picturesque property in the tiny pocket of Ripponlea is set to change hands for the first time in 35
years. Tringingham at 2 Glen Eira Road is an 1890 Victorian with charm in spades and has had only two
owners since it was built. The vendors, Helen and Peter Morley, own the fine art foundry Meridian
Sculpture in Fitzroy, working with artists including the renowned Peter Corlett. The property has four
bedrooms, soaring decorative ceilings with gold detailing in the formal lounge and fireplaces throughout.
Hodges' Michael Townsend is handling the private sale, with price expectations hovering around $1.6
million. EP

INSIDE STORY visits Brighton
FOR SALE: $4 million

A grand 19th-century home in the beachside suburb of Brighton harks back to the area's elegant past.

Brighton's Church Street is where well-heeled locals queue for a brunch table at the latest hot cafe and
boutiques do a roaring trade in new collection threads. But for all its trendiness, Church Street holds
reminders of the beachside suburb's elegant past.

A landmark property just a breakfast bagel roll from the shops along one of bayside Melbourne's streets
goes under the hammer this month, carrying a $4 million price hope.

The stately Andover at 165 Church Street, built around 1885, is set on 1075 square metres and stands
handsomely, bearing an intricate lacework verandah.

The five-bedroom property set in manicured gardens has been lovingly restored and inside lofty,
four-metre ceilings, marble open fireplaces, chandeliers and a corbel arched hallway speak to its
heritage.

As expected at this price point, the home has swish extras like a teppanyaki grill in the Calacatta marble
kitchen, a 300-bottle wine cellar - fit for storing a fine Penfolds Grange - a workshop and a solar and
gas-heated swimming pool.

Buxton's Stefan Whiting will put Andover to auction on November 8. EP

IN

NS
RE

irreal : Residential Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest :
Real Estate
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania

PUB Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
AN

Document AGEE000020141031eab10006r

Page170of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.