Audacious plays put city's Chinese investment under scrutiny

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Features
Audacious plays put city's Chinese investment under scrutiny

BEN WILMOT, GREG BROWN
582 words
20 March 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
25
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

OFFSHORE
SURGING Chinese investment in apartment tower developments is set to become a focus of a
parliamentary inquiry into foreign investment in residential real estate, as mainland groups make
ever more audacious plays in the local market. Two major properties in the heart of Sydney have
emerged as targets for Chinese and Southeast Asian developers, the scale of the proposed projects
potentially topping $1 billion.

Developers planning to sell a portion of the units into their home markets would be wary of any
tightening of rules that allow offshore investors to buy Australian apartments off-the-plan. One group,
associated with Michael Guo's Visionary Investment Group, has approached building owners on a
block at the southern end of Sydney's central business district, in the hope of assembling a significant
site.

The block, bounded by Pitt, and Castlereagh and Liverpool streets, includes properties that are
already in play - notably AMP Wholesale Office Fund's 338 Pitt Street and GDI Property Group's
tower at 233 Castlereagh Street.
Assembling the entire site could cost more than $300m and hinge on the prospective buyer's dealings
with sitting tenants and capacity to under-tax a major development, with sources emphasising the
preliminary nature of the deal.

The market for converting office towers into apartments is running so hot that the A-grade landmark
201 Elizabeth Street, which sits on Sydney's Hyde Park, co-owned by listed Dexus Property Group
and Perth-based Perron Group, is also being targeted.
Dexus last month nominated the tower as one of the assets that it was exploring for residential
conversion, which could have a total end value of $1bn.

Multiple sources said that -indicative interest had been -between $320m and $340m - well above the
building's book value of $280m.

The building's height gives it value, as planning restrictions would mandate a rebuilt building on the
site to be a third of the

Continued on Page 28

From page 25
height, property executives said.

"It's got pricing power by virtue of its height in that location," a source said. "All the units on the north
side would have views, all the units on the east side will have views and even the units on the south
side would have reasonable views."

Page124of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.But the co-owners have played down prospective interest in the property.
Dexus declined to comment and Perron Group chief executive Ross Robertson denied that an offer
had been made.

"We'd love to see if there's something there but we're not a seller and there is just a bit of a rumour I
think," he said.

Some sources say that longterm leases are close to being secured at the building, which would limit
its value for a residential developer.

Dexus is also focused on the forthcoming offer of Sydney's 50 Carrington Street, which it picked up for
$58.5m two years ago and could now sell for $90m as international groups target the city.
The moves come as the parliamentary inquiry into foreign investment in residential real estate
released its terms of reference yesterday.

The inquiry, headed by Liberal MP Kelly O'Dwyer, will investigate whether foreign investment is
directly increasing the supply of new housing and bringing benefits to the local building industry and
its suppliers; and how Australia's foreign investment framework compares with international
experience.
The committee has denied targeting Chinese investment.

IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

irreal : Residential Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest
: Real Estate
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | china : China | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140319ea3k0005e

Page125of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.