DJs targets tourists with Chinese New Year event

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
DJs targets tourists with Chinese New Year event

Sue Mitchell
509 words
25 January 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
35
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

David Jones is hoping windows dressed in red and gold, gold Jimmy Choo shoes and the face of
model Jessica Gomes will entice shoppers into its stores during Chinese New Year celebrations.

The 175-year-old department store has identified the Asian market as a new revenue growth
opportunity and is targeting big-spending Chinese tourists and temporary residents with a taste for
luxury brands.

The retailer kicked off its Asian strategy last May, becoming the first Australian department store to
accept UnionPay, China's national credit card.

On Friday, David Jones chief executive Paul Zahra and Jessica Gomes (who was hired as fashion
ambassador last year partly because of her Chinese heritage) launched a new promotion timed to
coincide with Chinese New Year.
As the clearance period comes to an end, David Jones's window dressers are replacing "sale"
signs with red and gold window displays.
Merchandisers have stocked the stores with goods such as gold Jimmy Choo stilettos (a snip at
$1129) red Giorgio Armani handbags, L'Occitane cherry blossom fragrance packs, S&P gold
noodle bowls, Michael Aram snack plates and Godiva Chinese New Year chocolates.
David Jones is also selling red and gold gift cards with Mandarin script and is offering UnionPay
cardholders a $50 gift card for every $500 they spend on their card in-store.
"I truly see this as a real opportunity for the company," said Mr Zahra. "We knew we had an Asian
customer base but this is the first time we've overtly celebrated Chinese New Year.
"We did some work last year to dabble in the Chinese market and this year we've strengthened it
significantly."'Aspirational' shoppers
According to a Bain report released this month, Chinese consumers have the highest per capita
spending on luxury goods in the world and prefer brands such as Balenciaga, Giorgio Armani,
Bottega Veneta and Valentino.
Despite a Chinese government crackdown on corruption and excessive consumption, luxury gifting
is still a strong cultural ritual driving luxury spending, the report said.
"The Chinese are aspirational and very much into international designers," said Mr Zahra. "They
love brands and we are the premier department store for brands."
More than 700,000 Chinese nationals visited Australia last year and numbers are expected to rise
rapidly, especially as the Australian dollar weakens.

Page225of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Zahra said there had been significant use of UnionPay cards in David Jones in the last few
months but declined to give figures.

"That customer, particularly the travelling customer, in many cases doesn't speak English and
UnionPay has become a swifter form of communication," he said. "We were missing out on the
customer who had a card but was shopping at other retailers."
Chinese tourists spent $4.2 billion in Australia last year and spending is expected to reach
$10 billion by 2020, according to Tourism Australia.
David Jones is not the only company targeting the Chinese consumer: ANZ Banking Group ran
advertisements in Chinese at the Australian Open.

CO
IN
RE

PUB
AN

djsaus : David Jones Ltd
i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i656 : Mixed Retailing | i6560002 : Department Stores | iretail : Retail
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric
: BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140124ea1p00019

Page226of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.