Australian regulator blocks Yancoal's USD 2.3 billion equity issue

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY

LP

TD

Australian regulator blocks Yancoal's USD 2.3 billion equity issue

480 words
17 December 2014
Jpost.com (The Jerusalem Post online edition)
JPSTEN
English
© 2014 The Jerusalem Post. All Rights Reserved. Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com
company

The Australian takeovers regulator has stopped Yancoal from raising up to USD 2.3 billion in
securities, after minority shareholders objected, fearing this to be a backdoor strategy by China's
Yanzhou Coal to gain near complete control of the loss-making coal mining firm.
Noble Group and Hong Kong hedge fund Senrigan Capital, who hold around 22% of Yancoal said
that if they did not participate in the fundraising, Yanzhou would be able to raise its stake in Yancoal
to more than 98% and take complete control of the company.

Yancoal was seeking to raise the USD 2.3-billion by issuing convertible notes and use most of the
money to repay debts owed to its 78% shareholder, Yanzhou Coal.

The Australian Takeovers Panel ruled, ''Yanzhou can only convert any SCNs it holds to maintain (but
not increase) the level of its voting power in Yancoal as at the date of the orders, unless it obtains
approval from minority shareholders.''
Yancoal had last month said that Yanzhou will extend a fresh USD 1.4 billion loan and subscribe to
USD 1.8 billion rights offer of subordinated capital notes of the USD 2.3 billion fund raising and use
the proceeds towards repaying existing loans to its major shareholder Yanzhou and improve the
company's capital structure and gearing ratio.
Any remaining proceeds will be used to part fund Yancoal's exiting coal operations and further
growth projects, including starting Stage II of its Moolarben Coal Complex JV
In addition to the fund raising, Bank of China and China Construction Bank will extend the repayment
dates of their USD 2.6 billion loan for 3 years.
Since the notes will be treated as equity, some minority shareholders fear that Yanzhou is trying to
take full control of the company through this debt-for-equity swap.
Mr Reinhold Schmidt CEO of Yancoal said that the recapitalisation is to strengthen the company's
balance sheet, and to pursue future growth opportunities and not a fresh bid by Yanzhou to privatise
the company.
Following its USD 2.1-billion acquisition of Gloucester Coal, Sydney-based Yancoal was listed at
more than USD 1.34 on the ASX in June 2012, in what was Australia's largest listing since December
2010 (China's Yanzhou acquiring Australia's Gloucester Coal for USD 2.23 billion).
But the company has lost more than 85% of its value since its listing and is now trading as low as
16.5%, giving it a market cap of less than USD 160 million. It posted a loss of AUD 832 million last
year on revenues of AUD 1.5 billion, and reported a post-tax loss of AUD 192.7 million in the 6
months to the end of June 2014 on revenues of AUD 655 million.

CO

IN

yaptyl : Yancoal Australia Limited | yankua : Yankuang (Group) Corp | ynzmn : Yanzhou Coal Mining
Co Ltd
i111 : Coal Mining | i1 : Energy | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i112 :
Coal Mining Support Activities

Page254of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

IPD
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Financial Services
The Jerusalem Post
Document JPSTEN0020141218each0010c

Page255of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.