An unexpectedly good agreement

An unexpectedly good agreement

By The Canberra Times

18 November 2014
Canberra Times
CANBTZ

HD
BY
WC 724 words
PD
SN
SC
PG B002
LA
CY
LP

English
(c) 2014 The Canberra Times

The Canberra Times TO SERVE THE NATIONAL CITY AND THROUGH IT THE NATION

An unexpectedly good agreement

TD

T

ony Abbott's appearance on Alan Jones's talkback radio show on Monday, just before the formal
announcement of an Australia-China free trade agreement, ought to have been a moment of some small
acclaim for the prime minister. The FTA is the third such agreement overseen by Mr Abbott in his first 14
months in office, after deals with Japan and South Korea, and one potentially that will open new markets
for Australian exporters worth billions of dollars. Yet Mr Abbott was hectored by Mr Jones, who said the
FTA failed to pass the "pub test", and that its benefits, particularly for dairy farmers and wine producers,
were illusory. To which Mr Abbott responded: "This is at least as good for our agriculture as New Zealand
got" - a reference to that country's FTA with China signed in 2008, which has resulted in its exports to
China surging 26 per cent. Despite Mr Jones's hasty condemnation, this agreement has much to
commend it. It is mercifully free of the investor state dispute resolution mechanisms that the Koreans
demanded in the KAFTA, and the phasing out of tariffs on Australian agriculture products are not nearly as
long as those that were included in the Australia-Japan FTA. Moreover, the easing of restrictions on
Australian service providers wishing to do business in China represents a huge fillip for our economy,
although of course it will be up to those industry players to demonstrate they have the smarts and the
patience to turn potential into reality in what is a competitive marketplace. Australian households should
also benefit, the abolition of tariffs on Chinese-made goods such as clothes, shoes, cars and electronics.
Negotiations for the Australia-China Free Trade Agreement began in 2005 and the fact that it is still not
entirely complete - the key issue of investment in Australia by Chinese state-owned enterprises has been
deferred - illustrates the complexity and range of trade and investment between the two nations. In 2011,
two-way trade in goods and services was worth about $149 billion, with a significant proportion of that in
Australia's favour. So keen is the world to beat a path to China's door that it might be supposed Beijing
could, and would, play hard to get in its bilateral trade dealings. But in fact the Chinese seem to have
been as keen as Mr Abbott to conclude a deal within the deadline he unwisely set on coming to office late
last year. Australia's attraction as a reliable producer of food undoubtedly played a part in Beijing's
calculations during these FTAQ negotiations. Indeed, it has displayed an almost unprecedented
willingness to buy Australian dairy farms and to ship all of the product direct to China - a fact that galls
commentators like Mr Jones. That China's private companies can invest now in agricultural land and
agribusinesses to the same threshold level as American and South Korean companies ($13.5 million and
$48 million respectively) will be a source of some satisfaction to Beijing. But this bilateral agreement will
also have other attractions for Beijing, namely in helping to bolster the country's ambitions to play a more
significant role in global trade and investment. President Xi Jinping's announcement that Sydney is to
become a currency trading exchange for the yuan, where Australian dollars can be exchanged directly into
yuan instead of having to be converted first into greenbacks, is a manifestation of that ambition. And it
could prove very beneficial to Australian banks wanting to do more business in China. No free trade
agreement can be categorised as wholly beneficial or detrimental to the parties involved, something Mr
Jones ought to have understood and appreciated - although countries with less to offer during negotiations
can end up with deals that reflect the relative weakness of their initial bargaining positions. Only time will
tell whether this FTA ends up being judged that way. Sugar and rice producers, for example, will be

Page140of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.particularly scathing of the inability of Australian negotiators to prise open Chinese markets. On balance,
however, and from what we know thus far, this is a good deal for Australia's economy.

RF
NS
RE

62250118
e512 : Physical Trade | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News
china : China | austr : Australia | auscap : Australian Capital Territory | beijin : Beijing | apacz : Asia Pacific
| asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

PUB Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty Ltd
AN

Document CANBTZ0020141117eabi0000y

Page141of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.