BC puts Pilbara revival in motion

BC puts Pilbara revival in motion

The Australian

HD
CR
WC 596 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

12 August 2014
00:00
theAustralian.com.au
NLAUSW
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

TD

BC IRON will look to springboard from its surprise $256 million acquisition of Kerry Stokes’s Iron Ore
Holdings into negotiations.

The deal will provide the growth projects BC was looking for to complement its profitable but small
Nullagine iron ore project, which has a limited mine life. And IOH’s $800m-plus Buckland iron ore
development will enjoy a stronger prospect of going ahead courtesy of BC’s cashed-up balance sheet.

The offer of 10c and 0.44 BC shares for each share in IOH is a windfall for Mr Stokes, who owns a 53 per
cent stake in the target. He will emerge with a 19 per cent stake in the enlarged BC.

BC’s bid values IOH at about $1.59 per share, representing a 67 per cent premium to IOH’s previous
closing price of 95c.
BC owns a 75 per cent interest in the 6 million tonne-a-year Nullagine mine, with Andrew Forrest’s
Fortescue Metals owning the balance.
IOH is preparing to receive in the coming months the first cashflow from the Iron Valley mine, which is
operated by Chris Ellison’s Mineral Resources under a mine gate sales agreement, as well as the
undeveloped Buckland project. Those two projects have combined reserves of almost 270 million tonnes
of iron ore, compared to the 33 million tonnes at Nullagine.

Studies have found Buckland could be developed as an $800m mine and infrastructure project including a
new port facility at Cape Preston East. But BC chief executive Morgan Ball told The Australian the
company would explore collaboration with China’s Baosteel and Brisbane’s Aurizon, which recently
picked up neighbouring iron ore ground through their $1.4 billion acquisition of Aquila Resources.

“We believe the combined entity could fund (the development of Buckland) potentially without having to go
to the equity market,” Mr Ball said.

“That said (IOH chief executive) Alwyn (Vorster) has done a lot of work around third parties who might be
interested and … it may be there’s a lower capital solution that achieves everything we want to achieve.”
The West Pilbara iron ore project acquired by Baosteel and Aurizon involves the construction of a larger
port at Anketell, northeast of IOH’s proposed Cape Preston East facility. “I can’t help but feel there might
be some sort of Anketell-Cape Preston East combination that works in the West Pilbara,” Mr Ball said.

“Anketell could be a rail-focused solution, Cape Preston could be a road-based solution that caters to all
the producers.”

BC yesterday promised a 15c-a-share fully franked final dividend, lifting total 2014 payouts beyond its
targeted payout ratio of 30-50 per cent of profit.

Mr Ball said the enlarged group would continue to target that range. “We believe there will be a happy
medium whereby we can develop these projects and continue to reward shareholders from a dividend
basis, but we need to see where the balls fall,” he said.

Macquarie analyst Hayden Bairstow noted that BC had worked hard to cultivate a reputation for paying
dividends and would need to convince its shareholder base of the merits of a costly growth project.

Page16of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“They’ve designed their register to be dividend-orientated, so it’s going to take some time to get it back the
other way,” Mr Bairstow said.

IOH’s shares surged almost 40 per cent to $1.325, the highest in more than two years, while shares in BC
fell 8.5 per cent to $3.03.

CO ironoa : Iron Ore Holdings Ltd.
IN

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

NS
RE
PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document NLAUSW0020140811ea8b000ma

Page17of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.