Mansell quits controversial Hanlong - EXCLUSIVE -

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Finance
Mansell quits controversial Hanlong - EXCLUSIVE -

PAUL GARVEY, MANAGEMENT
706 words
24 January 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
15
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

The troubled Chinese investment group loses its chairman
VETERAN company director Peter Mansell has quit his chairmanship of Chinese investment group
Hanlong Mining.

Mr Mansell, a former chairman of West Australian Newspaper Holdings and Zinifex, was recruited to
chair the Australian arm of private Chinese outfit Hanlong Group in early 2011 in what was widely seen
as a move to boost the company's credibility in the eyes of Australian stakeholders.

But Mr Mansell told The Australian he had resigned from Hanlong late last year. He was not prepared
to elaborate on his reasons for leaving the group.

His departure comes at a sensitive time for Hanlong, which continues to find itself beset by
controversy.
Hanlong owns a majority stake in Perth-based iron ore miner Moly Mines, which has experienced a
procession of board and senior management changes over the past year, including three chairmen in
less than three months and four different company secretaries in the past seven months.

The group was also behind failed takeover bids for Australian-listed duo Sundance Resources and
Bannerman Resources.

The Australian revealed yesterday that there were growing concerns that the founder and owner of
Hanlong, businessman and so-called ``warlord'' Liu Han, had been executed by Chinese authorities
over allegations of corruption. Mr Liu had been arrested in March last year for allegedly harbouring his
brother, who was wanted for murder, but several sources told The Australian they believed Mr Liu may
have fallen foul of China's recent crackdown on corruption.

Mr Mansell told The Australian he had never met Mr Liu and had no knowledge of his whereabouts or
his fate.

Hanlong's remaining directors in Australia include Nelson Chen and Simon Yang, both of whom were
linked to Australia's biggest ever insider trading investigation.

Hanlong's former investment director Calvin Zhu is serving a 27-month prison sentence for his role in
an insider trading syndicate that allegedly included Mr Chen and Mr Yang, although investigations into
those two men were suspended last year.

Former Hanlong managing director Steven Xiao was recently arrested trying to cross the border from
China into Hong Kong, having previously fled Australia while under investigation for his alleged role in
the insider trading. Any testimony from Mr Xiao could eventually see regulators reopen their
investigations into Mr Chen and Mr Yang.

Page271of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Last week Mr Mansell stepped down from his directorship of Moly Mines, less than three months after
he was installed by Hanlong. Mr Mansell said his appointment had only ever been intended as a
short-term one while the company searched for other new directors. Mr Mansell -- a former managing
partner with law firmFreehills -- was elected to the board of Moly Mines last October alongside fellow
former Freehills partner Bruno Camarri, who was installed as chairman. But Mr Camarri quit the board
suddenly just before Christmas, and was replaced by Mr Chen.

Moly Mines has said for more than two years that it is looking to use its cash position to find new
mining project opportunities, but so far has nothing to show for those endeavours.
The $85.8 million in cash it reported at the end of September compares with a market capitalisation of
$44.3m at its current share price of 11.5c.

Continued on Page 16

Continued from Page 15
The company runs the small Spinifex Ridge iron ore mine, but its key asset, the Spinifex Ridge
molybdenum deposit, was mothballed after studies found it was uneconomical to develop.
Mr Mansell continues to serve as chairman of ASX-listed gold explorers Ampella Mining and
Bullabulling Gold. In addition to its majority ownership of Moly Mines, Hanlong continues to hold stakes
in Sundance -- for which it made a failed $1.4bn takeover bid -- and North American group General
Moly.
It is estimated that Hanlong has lost more than $300m on its international mining investments to date.

----- PETER MANSELL -----

Former managing partner of Freehills (Perth)

CURRENT DIRECTORSHIPS
Ampella Mining chairman
Bullabulling Gold chairman

Ferngrove Vineyards director

Foodbank of Western Australia chairman

Cancer Research Fund chairman

FORMER CHAIRMANSHIPS INCLUDE

Zinifex

WA Newspaper Holdings

Western Power

FORMER DIRECTORSHIPS INCLUDE

Moly Mines

Nyrstar NV

Hardman Resources
Tethyan Copper Co

CO
IN

NS

wanhl : Seven West Media Limited
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | i475 : Printing/Publishing | i4751 : Newspaper Publishing | imed :
Media/Entertainment | ipubl : Publishing
cinsdl : Insider Dealing | c411 : Management Moves | reqrmm : Suggested Reading Metals/Mining |
c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal Action | c41 : Management Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat
: Political/General News | gcrim : Crime/Courts | gfinc : Financial Crime | gfraud : Fraud | gsfra :
Securities Fraud | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter |

Page272of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested
Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140123ea1o0001o

RE

PUB
AN

Search Summary

Text

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or entitys) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
01/01/2014 to 30/04/2014
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
2,564
29 August 2018 1:44

Page273of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.