Free trade agreement a catalyst for injecting Chinese investment capital into Australia

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Free trade agreement a catalyst for injecting Chinese investment capital into Australia

Carl Hinze
929 words
25 November 2014
Mondaq Business Briefing
BBPUB
English
(c) 2014 Mondaq Ltd

ChAFTAOn 17 November, Australia and China signed a Declaration of Intent formalising the conclusion
of the China-Australia free trade agreement ("" ) negotiations. Both sides will now prepare legal texts of
the Agreement for signature and go through their normal treaty-making processes. The agreement itself
will be signed in 2015 after the draft is translated and legally reviewed.

Much will be written about the impact that ChAFTA will have, upon entry into force, on Australia's two-way
trade with China, which currently stands at around $150 billion. China is Australia's largest export market
(for both goods and services), accounting for nearly a third of total exports. Australia's exports to China
will certainly increase under ChAFTA. For example, New Zealand's free trade agreement with China,
which it entered into in 2008, has seen New Zealand's exports to China rise almost 400% from NZD2.2
billion in 2008 to NZD 8.6 billion in 2012. New Zealand's dairy industry has been the primary beneficiary
of the FTA, accounting for NZD2.8 billion of the export total in 2012, followed by the wood and meat
industries.

ChAFTA certainly has good news for the Australian agriculture, resources, and services industries, but
the focus of this article is on the impact that ChAFTA will have on China as a growing source of foreign
investment in Australia. Chinese investment in Australia has risen from $3 billion ten years ago to around
$32 billion today, but this still only accounts for 1.3% of total foreign investment in Australia.
With China's middle-class expected to reach 850 million people by 2030, China is eager to find ways to
increase output from its key trading partners, including Australia. This will inevitably lead to greater
Chinese investment in Australia as China seeks to increase the size of the pie. Chinese investment in
Australia has been concentrated in the resources sector. We can expect to see greater diversification of
Chinese investment in Australia into areas such as agribusiness, commercial property, healthcare and
aged care services, retail, tourism and infrastructure.
FIRBChAFTA will promote further growth of Chinese investment into Australia, by raising the screening
threshold at which investments in non-sensitive sectors by private sector entities from China are
considered by the Foreign Investment Review Board ("") from $248 million to $1,078 million.
Australia will need to handle perceptions of mistrust and discrimination which have been held by Chinese
investors in Australia. In the past, in response to public concerns, the Australian Government set out
additional FIRB considerations when assessing applications by State-Owned Enterprises and Sovereign
Wealth Funds. These included: the investor's independence from government; whether the investor has
clear commercial objectives; corporate governance practices; and whether an investment may hinder
competition or lead to undue concentration and control. These additional considerations have led to the
imposition of conditions (or 'undertakings') by the Treasurer on Chinese (and other foreign) investors.
Such conditions include: local listing requirements; the number of Australian-based directors; where
meetings and decisions by directors are made; as well as specific requirements that contracts be made
on an arm's length basis. These measures are aimed at preventing non-commercial behaviour and
non-arm's length transactions.

Although all FTAs are 'living' documents, ChAFTA is expected to evolve over time. A sticking point in the
decade-long negotiations was China's desire that its State-Owned Enterprises would be exempt from
FIRB scrutiny for investments of $1 billion or less. The Australian Government has held firm on this, so
under ChAFTA FIRB will continue to screen all investment by Chinese State-Owned Enterprises,

Page37of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.regardless of the transaction size. ChAFTA does not change these arrangements in any way. That said,
a final determination on this issue is expected to be negotiated in the future. China will no doubt urge the
Australian Government to eventually allow its desired concession, since China wants its State-Owned
Enterprises (which continue to represent more than half of China's GDP) to be allowed to invest in
Australian companies to hasten much needed technology and know-how transfer to China.
Further, the Australian Government has retained the ability to screen Chinese investments at lower
thresholds for sensitive sectors, including: media, telecommunications and defence-related industries.
And the Government will be able to screen investment proposals by private investors from China in
agricultural land valued from $15 million and agribusiness from $53 million.
The investment obligations in ChAFTA can be enforced directly by Australian and Chinese investors
through an Investor-State Dispute Settlement mechanism, which aims to promote investor confidence.
There can be little doubt that the unfolding of the ChAFTA will coincide with unprecedented Chinese
investment in Australia in sectors where investment capital is very much in demand.

This publication does not deal with every important topic or change in law and is not intended to be relied
upon as a substitute for legal or other advice that may be relevant to the reader's specific circumstances.
If you have found this publication of interest and would like to know more or wish to obtain legal advice
relevant to your circumstances please contact one of the named individuals listed.

Mr Carl Hinze

Holding Redlich

Level 8

555 Bourke Street

Melbourne

3000

AUSTRALIA

Tel: 39321 9999

Fax: 39321 9900

E-mail: inquiries@holdingredlich.com.au

URL: www.holdingredlich.com.au

Click Here for related articles

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2014 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com

CO
IN
NS

RE

holred : Justice Services Pty Ltd
i835 : Legal Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
e512 : Physical Trade | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat :
Economic News
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

IPD Government
PUB Mondaq Limited
AN

Document BBPUB00020141125eabp000b9

Page38of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.