stock watch

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
stock watch

500 words
18 January 2014
Townsville Bulletin
TOWNBU
Townsville
47
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Telstra Corp Garry O’Neill , Morgans Financial SO far this summer Telstra has reached agreement to sell
two assets it no longer considers core.
The CSL sale will realise A$2.0 billion by 4th Quarter 2014. We think it is a well-timed sale with CSL
performing well but with limited growth options in the Hong Kong market. Telstra has extracted about
A$1.1 billion in value from Sensis, including A$0.45 billion from a sale of 70% of much of the operation.
While it has realised some value from declining earnings the key effect is to remove a key source of
earnings dilution.

Depending on the use of funds from the two sales, we think Telstra is better placed to achieve modest
earnings per share growth in the medium term than it was prior to the disposals. Telstra reports 1st Half
2014 results on 13 February. We think the market should use this result to consider the rebased level of
underlying earnings and medium term growth prospects on the network platforms in Australia and
globally.
We consider there is valuation upside from a well-considered, well-managed and modest acquisition
program that adds to utilisation of Telstra’s extensive network platforms both domestically and globally.

Downside risks include increased mobile competition and higher capital expenditure. We consider that
Telstra could increase their dividend per share payment to 29 cents per share in the year end 30 June
2014.
Newcrest Mining Jason Fittler , Grow Your Wealth Newcrest Mining Limited (NCM) is a gold producer
with its main operations in Australia, Indonesia, Papua New Guinea and Fiji. Newcrest has interests in
six production provinces in four countries and a portfolio of brown and greenfield exploration projects.
With recent purchase of Lihir and Cadia Valley mines the company has move into expansion by
acquisition as opposed to exploration. These purchases has put a strain on the company’s capital
given that price paid was considered on the high side. Couple with the downgrade in longer term gold
production the price has fallen quite considerably.
Gold price has also come off its high which makes the decision to invest in this company more complex,
if the price falls further Newcrest will start to struggle. All of that said the company is currently trading at
$9.23 and has a fair value of $22.00 making it a buy at these levels. This, however, is only for those who
are able to deal with the risk levels. It is not a dividend stock as it has stopped dividend for the time being
and even before this the dividend was not worth mentioning.This is a play on the gold price and the
ability for Newcrest to get back on track with production and exploration. It has a massive gold reserve
and if managed right should produce the results. The price recently bottomed at $7.20 and recent good
news on production has had a good move back up.

CO
IN

tcoma : Telstra Corporation Ltd | newmoh : Newcrest Mining Ltd | nworpl : CSL Limited
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining | i7902 : Telecommunications | ibasicm :
Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying

Page45of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

c1521 : Analyst Comments/Recommendations | c18 : Ownership Changes | c15 : Performance | c152 :
Earnings Projections | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document TOWNBU0020140120ea1i0002t

Page46of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.