Rinehart's Roy Hill project gets the go-ahead

HD
BY
Sue Lannin
WC 558 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Rinehart's Roy Hill project gets the go-ahead

21 March 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation Transcripts
ABCTRS
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

TD

After more a year of negotiation, billionaireGina Rinehart's flagship project has received the billions of
dollars it needs to proceed. The Roy Hilliron project in Western Australia's Pilbara region aims to produce
55 million tonnes of iron ore a year.
PETER LLOYD: After more a year of negotiation, billionaireGina Rinehart's flagship project has received
the billions of dollars it needs to go ahead.

The Roy Hill project in Western Australia's Pilbara region aims to produce 55 million tonnes of iron ore a
year.
Last night in Singapore, Mrs Rinehart signed a $US7.2 billion deal with a consortium of banks to help
build the project.
For more I'm joined by resources reporter Sue Lannin in Perth.

Sue, what are the details of this deal?

SUE LANNIN: Yes, well Peter, as you mentioned there is 19 commercial lenders that have agreed to lend
Roy Hill $US7.2 billion, so that's nearly $8 billion Australian dollars. So of those 19 commercial lenders,
that includes the Big Four Australian banks; Westpac, Commonwealth Bank, ANZ and National Australia
Bank.
It also includes lenders from Japan, Europe, China, Korea and Singapore, as well as five export credit
agencies, including the US export credit agencies. So it's a really big deal, it took a long time to negotiate,
it's very complex, but it's a very, very significant project because it's in fact the biggest mining
construction project in Australia.

Let's have a listen to Barry Fitzgerald, he's the chief executive.
BARRY FITZGERALD: And we believe very strongly that the quality of the iron ore, the economics of the
project, will make this viable over the long run.

The quality of the project is reflected in the amount of interest we have from the commercial and export
credit agency institutions and also the support we have from our major equity holders.

PETER LLOYD: That's Roy Hill chief executive Barry Fitzgerald.

Sue Lannin, that's 19 lenders, lots of oars in the water. Will they all pull in the same direction for this
project?

SUE LANNIN: Well, certainly Roy Hill and Hancock Prospecting have been doing a lot of negotiation and
there was a lot of due diligence that was needed to sign off on the loans. In fact originally Roy Hill said it
would have all the finance last year and so it became very much a waiting game. It had set very
aggressive targets, it intended to start producing by the end of this year, but because it took so long to get
the finance, this $7.2 billion package, it's had to delay its ambitions.

So it says that it will product first or in September next year.

Page227of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Now also Hancock Prospecting, Gina Rinehart's company, is putting in $3.2 billion. Now it's 70 per cent
owned by Gina Rinehart but it's also got some equity partners and they include big Asian steel-makers
including the South Korean giant, Posco.
So there's certainly a lot at stake. It's certainly a political deal as well and I'm sure there had to be some
very diplomatic negotiations over the negotiating table.

PETER LLOYD: Sue Lannin, resources reporter in Perth, thank you.

NS

ntra : Transcripts | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex :
FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
IPD Roy
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCTRS0020140321ea3l0008d

Page228of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.