Digest

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Digest

1,936 words
20 January 2014
The Main Report Farming Alert
TMRAGL
English
(c) 2014 The Main Report Publications Ltd

Technology

New canola meal website, canolamazing.com, launched

The Dairy Site 13/01/2014. The Canola Council of Canada has launched of Canolamazing.com, a new
website showcasing the facts and firsthand accounts of using canola meal for dairy rations.
Canolamazing is designed to educate dairy producers about their options when it comes to protein
sources for dairy rations. Soybean meal has long dominated the protein market as a mainstay in the
dairy market, but recent canola meal research busts this accepted norm. When it comes to rumen
undegradable protein, canola meal is 16% more efficient than soybean meal at getting protein past the
rumen, where it can be absorbed and used to produce milk1. “The goal of Canolamazing is to both
elevate the conversation about protein options for dairy producers, as well as raise awareness of canola
meal as a whole,” says Bruce Jowett, vice president of Market Development for the Canola Council of
Canada. “Canola meal can provide great options to dairy producers, but many producers don’t know that
canola meal is even available to them, or already in their ration.”

Antibiotics

White paper on complexities of antibiotic resistance issues
The Dairy Site 13/01/2013. The National Institute for Animal Agriculture (NIAA) has published a White
Paper on its recent symposium on antimicrobial use and resistance. NIAA highlights two main points in
the White Paper: Point A: The science behind the emergence, amplification, persistence and transfer of
antibiotic resistance is highly complex and open to interpretation - and sometimes misinterpretation - from
a wide variety of perspectives and misuse. If you think you understand antimicrobial resistance, it has not
been explained properly to you. Point B: The extremely complex relationship between animal health,
human health and environmental health is driven by two premises: 1) Antimicrobial resistance is a
naturally occurring phenomenon that is present with or without the use of antimicrobials, and 2) Anytime
an antibiotic enters the ecosystem, it has the potential to contribute to the development of antibiotic
resistance.

Economics

Rising input costs erode price gains for Irish farmers
The Meat Site 13/01/2014. The Outlook/Review 2014 undertaken by IFA Economist Kevin Kilcline shows
National Farm Income in 2013 is estimated to have risen by 2.4% on 2012. Output volumes are estimated
to have risen significantly for the dairy and cereals sector, while there was also some increase in
volumes for cattle, sheep and poultry. The dreadful weather conditions experienced in the first six months
of 2013 resulted in significantly higher input costs with both price and volume increases for feed and
fertiliser. Kevin Kilcline says, “The past number of years has seen a significant increase in product prices;
however, the gains from this have been almost totally eroded by increases in input prices. Since 2005,
farm input costs have increased by 42% while general inflation has risen by approximately 13%.”

World food prices stay high, but steady
The Meat Site 14/01/2014. The FAO Food Price Index averaged 206.7 points in December, nearly
unchanged from the previous month, with a sharp increase in dairy prices and high meat values

Page154of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.balancing out a steep decline in sugar quotations and lower cereal and oil prices. For 2013 as a whole,
the index averaged 209.9 points - down 1.6% from 2012, and well below 2011’s peak of 230.1, but still
the third highest annual value on record. Large supplies pushed down international prices of cereals (with
the exception of rice), oils and sugar. However, dairy values peaked in 2013, and meat also hit a record.
“Last month, the FAO Food Price Index remained elevated as strong demand for certain high-protein
foods continued to drive up prices overall, countering falling prices of major food crops after last year’s
abundant harvests,” says FAO economist Abdolreza Abbassian. FAO’s FPI is a trade-weighted index that
measures prices of five major food commodities on international markets: cereals, dairy products, meat,
sugar, and vegetable oils.

Food Safety

Officials punished for food safety scandals
The Meat Site 13/01/2014. Eight suspects involved in five food safety incidents have been transferred to
judicial organs and another 46 officials have been punished for neglect of duty. In one case, more than
25,000 kilograms of pork from sick pigs was purchased, cooked and sold by vendors in east China’s
Anhui Province, with a sales value of 80,000 yuan, according to a statement released by the ministry. In
another case, nine officials have been punished for inadequate supervision after a highly toxic pesticide
was found to have been used in the planting of ginger by farmers in east China’s Shandong Province, it
says. The ministry urged Govts at all levels to draw lessons from the food safety scandals and harshly
crack down on food-related crimes.

Improved method to detect salmonella on eggs
The Meat Site 13/01/2014. Researchers with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) have tested an
improved method for the detection of Salmonella on eggs, which is quicker, less complicated and gave as
good or better results in most of the tests. The current FDA Bacteriological Analytical Manual (BAM)
method for the detection of Salmonella in eggs requires two weeks to complete, according to Guodong
Zhang of the Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition, Food and Drug Administration in College Park,
Maryland. In a paper in Poultry Science, Zhang and colleagues explain the objective of their project was
to improve the BAM method for the detection and isolation of Salmonella in whole shell eggs. A novel
protocol, using 1,000 g of liquid eggs for direct pre-enrichment with two litres of tryptic soy broth (TSB)
followed by enrichment using Rappaport-Vassiliadis and Tetrathionate broths, was compared with the
standard BAM method, which requires 96 hours room temperature incubation of whole shell egg samples
followed by pre-enrichment in TSB supplemented with ferrous sulphate (FeSO4). Four Salmonella ser.
Enteritidis (four phage types) and one Salmonella ser. Heidelberg isolates were used in the study. Bulk
inoculated pooled liquid eggs, weighing 52 or 56kg - approximately 1,100 eggs - were used in each trial.
Twenty 1,000-g test portions were withdrawn from the pooled eggs for both the alternative and the
reference methods.

Tyson recalls mechanically separated chicken
The Meat Site 14/01/2014. US poultry processing giant Tyson Foods is voluntarily recalling 33,840
pounds of uncooked mechanically separated chicken in 10-pound chubs sold for institutional use only.
The product was produced exclusively for and distributed to a small number of institutional customers. It
is not available to the general public and is not sold in stores or restaurants. A sample of the product
analysed by the Tennessee Department of Health was found to contain Salmonella Heidelberg. Seven
confirmed illnesses which occurred in early December are potentially linked to the product. According to
USDA, some people who consumed entrees prepared with the product at a correctional facility became
ill.

Beef
China surge pushes beef export value

The Land 15/01/2014. An easing Aust dollar helped push Australian beef and veal export values up 26%
year-on-year during November 2013, to reach $560m, with the export volume over the same period up
only 11%, at 99,802 tonnes swt. Meat and Livestock Australia reports shipments to Japan for November
were valued at $132m, steady year-on-year, despite the volume declining 10% from the corresponding
period, to 25,005 tonnes swt. The market values to Korea ($89m) and the US ($87m) were up 22% and
15% year-on-year, respectively, while the surge in tonnage to China saw its export value increase 171%
over the period, to $81m. Similarly, the surge in exports to Indonesia in the penultimate month of 2013
boosted the export value, to $30 million, up 94% year-on-year, while the progressive rise in shipments to
the EU saw the November value increase 45%, to $18m. Strong competition from China saw volumes to
Taiwan in November decline year-on-year, and subsequently the value eased 14%, to $17m, while in

Page155of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.contrast, the continued strong demand from Saudi Arabia underpinned the monthly export value
increasing threefold, to $11m.

Research

Project to reduce global wheat disease set to start

Farming.co.uk 14/01/2014. A project costing £1.4m is to go ahead in Cambridge to combat the problem
of yellow rust in wheat. NIAB in Cambridge and The John Innes Centre in Norwich will provide the base
for a programme developing genetically resistant wheat varieties for a year. In a move as part of an
international effort to improve crop production in developing countries, four PhD students appointed in
Kenya, Ethiopia and India will spend one year abroad in one of the UK partner institutions. Yellow rust, a
problematic fungal disease in wheat, causes major concerns when an epidemic breaks out with crops
potentially seeing a yield loss of up to 40% especially as many modern wheat crops possess poor
resistance to the disease. Combining genetics from over 600 wheat varieties from around the globe,
collected prior to intensive wheat breeding, the project aims to develop old wheat species into modern
high-yielding, rust resistant varieties. Whilst the project will benefit UK growers, for countries such as
Kenya, who cannot afford a sufficient fungicide programme, this will be particularly useful.

World’s first GM wheat getting closer
ABC 14/01/2014. The world’s largest seed companyMonsanto, which also markets the herbicide
Roundup, says it’s getting closer to developing a genetically modified wheat variety resistant to
Roundup’s key ingredient - glyphosate. Monsanto, which already sells GM varieties of corn and
soybeans, could become the first company to market genetically modified wheat. Professor Rick Roush,
of Melbourne University, says while there’s demand for herbicide resistant wheat from US farmers, he
predicts Aust farmers will be less interested because of differences in the way they plant their crops.
“Most of southern Australia that gets planted into wheat would get an application of a herbicide like
paraquat or glyphosate anyhow, before planting and then farmers will go out and direct drill their seed
into the stubble after that, so there’s key herbicides already being used in an efficient way for growing the
crop. There’s less interest in seeing Roundup-ready wheat than there are other kinds of advances in
wheat.” Trials of genetically modified wheat in Aust are focussing on improving crop yields and the
digestibility of protein in wheat, as well as developing crops that will tolerate drought and frost, and are
still years away from commercial development.

Construction

Construction on massive chicken farm delayed

ABC 14/01/2014. Plans to build the largest free-range chicken farm in Australia have been stalled by
court action. Queensland construction company Santrev was due to start construction on a $34m facility
in South Australia’s Riverland late last year. The plans for the site, in Blanchetown, north-east of
Adelaide, include 42 sheds which will house about 40,000 birds each. But in a move that’s surprised the
developers, the Country Fire Service has launched action against the relevant authority, the Mid-Murray
Council, in South Australia’s Environment Court. The CFS brought the action against Santrev because it
says the fire safety standards for the buildings are not high enough. The pre-trial hearing is set for today,
and Santrev director Luke Travanion says the company is hoping for a quick resolution. The chief
executive of the Regional Development Authority for the Riverland and Murraylands, Brenton Lewis, says
the delays in construction are disappointing.

CO
NS

cnlcnn : Canola Council of Canada
msugar : Sugar Markets | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | nsum : News Digests | e11 : Economic
Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m141 : Agricultural
Commodity Markets | magric : Soft Commodity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat
: Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia

RE
PUB The Main Report Limited
AN

Document TMRAGL0020140120ea1k0000d

Page156of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.