Cafes give suburbs a kick-start

APlus

SE
HD Cafes give suburbs a kick-start
BY GREG BROWN, GINA RUSHTON
WC 1,540 words
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG 11
LA
CY © 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.
LP

29 March 2014
theAustralian.com.au
NLAUSW
APlus

English

A trendy barista can add dollars to the value of nearby homes

WHETHER you are a latte drinker or an espresso sipper, or you’re on the growing bandwagon of
discerning cafe dwellers opting for ristrettos, macchiatos and affogatos, it is a safe bet that you are
spending more money at cafes.

TD

While schools and transport links are still crucial factors in property purchases, in certain areas caffeine
provides not just a jolt to the circulatory system but also pushes up property prices.

“Lifestyle puts the prices up,” Century 21 Australasia chairman Charles Tarbey says.

He says the opening of a trendy cafe can jump-start local lifestyle desirability, increasing competition and
pushing up prices.

“The opportunity for better lifestyle, which could include the addition of a good quality coffee shop, would
definitely have an increase in interest of people buying in an area,” Tarbey says.
“And when there’s more interest in property then it increases the value for sellers.” In Melbourne — the
city deemed to be our cafe capital — first-home buyer Chris Gardner is a living embodiment of this trend.
He not only bought near a cafe but actually sat in one while making the biggest purchasing decision of his
life.
Gardner purchased off the plan a two-bedroom apartment at the Walpole Kew development, in Kew in
Melbourne’s east, as a joint mortgage with one of his friends, for $720,000 after estate agents went
through their spiel in the local Lil Boy Blue cafe, giving him a vision of his future life. “Definitely the growing
cafe culture in the area was a factor in me buying,” Gardner says as he sips on a long macchiato at
another of Melbourne’s leading cafes., Top Paddock.

“I’m drawn to cafes, lunches, dinners and all those sorts of things. Lifestyle plays a large part in my
decisions day to day.” Presenting the project in a local cafe was a huge part of the Walpole Kew project’s
success, says CBRE director of residential Nic Cuni. All 19 apartments sold out before midday on the
first day of sales.

“Great conversations are had over Melbourne coffee,” Cuni says. “We sit down and go through the plans
and find out exactly what the buyer wants and it makes them comfortable to know a lot of the locals are in
and around there too.” Many locals want a trendy cafe as close to their front door as possible, says local
real estate expert Catherine Cashmore. And they are prepared to pay. “A cafe that attracts a good
number of people and has a good clientele will increase the price of your property because it will add to
the community feel that’s around it,” she says.

Northcote, in Melbourne’s northeast, home to cafes including the light-filled corner cafe Barry, is evidence
to support this. Here median home prices increased 37 per cent in the past five years to $917,000, she
says. This has outpaced the city as a whole. Melbourne’s prices increased by 30 per cent to $645,000
during the same period, according to the Real Estate Institute of Victoria.

Page142of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.We live in a booming cafe society. Retail turnover at cafes and restaurants increased nearly 12 per cent in
the year to January, Colliers International retail valuer Lee Beasley says. And rising demand has
increased the number of cafes in Australia by nearly 7 per cent since 2009, to more than 9000 outlets,
according to estimates from the Mintel International Group.

JLL retail leasing executive Amy Carlson says Sydney is catching up to Melbourne in its suburban cafe
offerings. “Sydney has well and truly joined the party, with experienced baristas leaving their coffee
headquarters to establish their own businesses,” Carlson says. “The likes of The Grounds in Alexandria,
Reuben Hills in Surry Hills and Youeni Foodstore in Castle Hill are all exceptional offerings in residential
areas.” If this trend has a Sydney epicentre it could well be in the inner south suburb of Alexandria, for
years a light industry suburb of factories and warehouses with no major shopping centre, an intermittent
bus service and an unfashionable local high school.

Trendy cafes have transformed the former industrial precinct, according to LJ Hooker inner city director
Brigitte Blackman, and house prices and professional income earners have followed. “Five years ago in
Alexandria there was nothing and now they’ve got cafes popping up everywhere ,from The Grounds to
Fratelli Fresh, and the (housing) values have gone up significantly,” she says. “There is some industrial
(buildings) left but it will be turned into residential in no time.” The average house price in Alexandria has
swelled to $950,000 while the average apartment will set you back $565,000 with annual house price
growth outpacing the rest of the harbour city, according to Australian Property Monitors. It was all so
different two decades ago, says Alexandria local Edwina Searle. There were just a handful of cafes in the
area when she bought her single-storey two-bedroom terrace 20 years ago. “Now we step outside and
there are 10 within walking distance. It brings so many people from other suburbs into the area and it feels
quite vibrant,” says the writer and mother of two.

Twenty years ago a terrace similar to Searle’s cost about $240,000. Just weeks ago a three-bedroom
house on the same street sold for a whopping $1.15 million.
Edwina’s local roaster and cafe The Grounds opened in 2011 on the site of an old pie factory and now
draws crowds from all corners of Sydney. The giant cafe with two banks of coffee machines boasts a
resident pig, “Kevin Bacon” (made famous by his mystery abduction and unexplained return last year), a
kitchen garden and weekend markets where locals can shop for artisan loaves and other bourgeois baked
goodies. Since The Grounds opened three years ago, apartment prices in Alexandria have jumped 23.75
per cent while houses have surged 15.06 per cent.

In Brisbane, agents say the cafe culture has well and truly made up ground in the past 10 years and is
thriving, especially in South Brisbane and West End.

“There are 275 bars, cafes and restaurants within the South Brisbane and West End postcode,” CBRE
managing director of residential projects Paul Barratt says.

“It drives investors and owner-occupiers and it is a key part of our marketing. First-home buyers,
particularly the younger generation who are buying apartments now, are very driven by lifestyle and the
cultural aspects of the area.” He points to a West End cafe called the Gun Shop Cafe, which used to be a
real gun shop but is now the trendiest coffee shop in Brisbane. “Nearly every single project that has been
marketed in South Brisbane and West End invariably has a photo of the Gun Shop cafe in the brochure,”
he says.
Perth real estate agent Jo-Anne Chin says the emerging cafe culture in Perth’s Highgate where she
marketed Finbar’s sold-out St Marks apartment development, is fuelling the area’s popularity.

“A great example of the types of venues that are really lifting this area is the Mary Street Bakery, which
opened just around the corner from St Marks in the second half of last year,” she says.

The artisan bakery-cafe fast became a local favourite for its fine Ethiopian coffee blends and famously
dense sourdough, and St Marks’ owners who have sold their apartments have made a whopping 10 per
cent to 15 per cent return in just over a year, Chin says.

“It has its own bakery, it uses locally roasted coffee and it’s always jammed on a Saturday and Sunday for
breakfast and lunch. These groovy little hole-in-the wall coffee shops are making the suburb incredibly
popular to buy,” she says.

Back in Sydney, a few suburbs to the west of Alexandria, Marrickville, once known for its cheap
Vietnamese food, discount fabric shops and proximity to the flight path, has become home to a collection
of cool cafes quicker than you can say “gentrification”.
Marrickvillean and real estate agent Danny Hassan of McGrath Estate Agents calls the area “Newtown’s
little brother”. And if you want more evidence about the double-shot effect cafes can have on real estate,

Page143of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.look no further than Cornersmith. Squeezed between Vietnamese pho houses on bustling Illawarra Road,
it draws crowds for the organic tasting plates and pickling workshops.
Hassan recently sold a house on the street adjacent to Cornersmith to North Sydneysiders Allie Burton
and her husband Alex for $1.36m, a price he says would not have been possible a year ago before the
cafe opened.
“It would have sold for $1.1m at most back then. The demographic is changing very quickly,” he
says.Burton, a town planner and mother to 14-month-old Jack, says the area provided “more bang for your
buck”. “It is less than a five-minute walk to good coffee, good food, a park and a pub,” she says. “On the
north shore we would have paid $2m for a home like this.”

NS
RE

ereal : Real Estate Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | melb : Melbourne | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) |
apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales | queensl : Queensland

PUB News Ltd.
AN Document NLAUSW0020140328ea3t0000h

Page144of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.