Aurizon Holdings Ltd Business Update - Final

HD Aurizon Holdings Ltd Business Update - Final
WC 26,952 words
PD 26 October 2014
SN CQ FD Disclosure
SC FNDW
LA English
CY © 2014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.
LP

Presentation

CHRIS VAGG , MANAGER, IR, AURIZON HOLDINGS LIMITED: Good morning, everyone. For those of
you who don't know me, I'm Chris Vagg. I'm with the investor relations team here at Aurizon. I'll just give
you a quick rundown of today and then we'll just have Simi come up to give you the safety briefing.

TD

But today, you'll see we've got presentations from Lance Hockridge first and then Alex Kummant, Clay
McDonald, Lana Stockman, and Pam Bains, all from network. And then we finish up with Mike Franczak
from operations.

And once everything is finished, we will then go to a Q&A, so you will have the opportunity to ask questions
of everyone and you will note there's a lot other Aurizon people here in the audience, so you'll have a
chance to talk to them, too. And obviously, people who are on the line, on the webcast and dialing in will
have the opportunity to ask questions as well.

But before we get Lance up, we'll just get Simi*X* from the Christie Conference here to just give us the
safety briefing. Thank you.
UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Good morning everyone. Welcome to Christie Conference Center. I'm
Simi, the operation supervisor for Christie Conference Center. We've got two-phase alarm system in the
building, beep beep and whoop whoop. Beep beep is investigation. You can stay in your room.

On whoop whoop, you hear an announcement in the room to leave. And the nearest exit for your room
would be just down on your right-hand side, so you just get out on right, turn left, and then turn left again.

There are emergency stairs, which will take you to Adelaide Street, which is just the street down on left.
And then go all the way to Adelaide, turn right to Creek Street. Our meeting points will be corner of
Adelaide and Creek Street in case of emergency.

Please do not use lifts in case of emergency and smoking is allowed four meters away from the building.
Toilet is on this level, located just turn right and go all the way to right. That's where the ladies and gents
are. Thank you very much and have a good day.

LANCE HOCKRIDGE, MANAGING DIRECTOR AND CEO, AURIZON HOLDINGS LIMITED: Thanks,
Chris. Thanks for the introduction. Could I welcome everybody this morning as I necessarily need to
change glasses these days. Other than the -- one of -- at least the world's most livable cities letting us
down this morning in terms of some of the people trying to get out of Melbourne.

We certainly, as you can tell, have a very wide range of participation today. And so I welcome you all,
particularly those that have come a long way, including from overseas.

This is, as Chris said, it's the start of two days. We will spend time together in presentation mode and then
Q&A mode this morning. And then of course, a number of you are going to have the opportunity to go up
and again, experience the central points line network, some of our people, some of the assets, and some
of the operations.

We certainly look forward to being able to demonstrate to you the range of initiatives and the progress that
is being made around that over that period of time. Fundamentally, the message today is about continuing
to drive value and returns for the owners of the business.

Page235of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.So I guess I should -- starting, then, this morning, as I say, with the presentations, which are essentially
around the agenda that you see in front of you. The focus is around network, particularly in the post-draft
announcement, and the opportunity, though, more broadly to talk about some of those key initiatives that
are going on in our network business.

Similarly, though, to then invite Mike to talk about the above rail business and the continued progress
around the reform initiatives, the efficiency initiatives in the above rail business as well.

So while that's our focus, again, I emphasize what Chris said in his interaction -- introductory interaction --
that we very much will ensure that there is time for a broad range of Q&A. So you should feel free to go
anywhere that you like, both in terms of the Q&A session that we will have here and then there will be
opportunity as well over a light lunch to interact with a range of the management.

And again, as Chris observed, you can see that there is a significant range of Aurizon management here --
a number of the EVPs are here, a number of the vice presidents, and indeed, operational and commercial
general managers. So once again, you will have that opportunity.

Stepping into it then, can we start where always restart and that is around the safety performance of the
Company. And I guess there's two halves to the observations that I would like to make to you this morning.
The first around continuing underlying performance and then the background to the incident -- the tragic
incident that we had at Stanwell a couple of weeks ago.

Firstly, you've seen, of course, the FY14 numbers with respect to the continued improvement in the safety
performance in the Company, especially as measured by the lagging indicators in the Company. I can tell
you that across the board, with the exception of the incident that I will come to in a moment, that
improvement has continued.
And remarkably enough, in September, for example, for the first time ever in the history of the Company,
we had a month in which there was neither a lost time injury nor a medically treated injury in the Company.
A representation, indeed, as I say, of the continued focus, at the continued performance in the safety space
in the Company.

By the by, one difference in what we are showing you here -- and it will continue to be the case -- is that for
reasons of greater transparency and ease of comparability between our performance and that of our
customers on the one hand and a number of the overseas operators, rather than showing you MTIFR, we
will consistently show total recordable injury frequency rate.

That being the measure, as I say, that most of our customers and certainly the Class 1s in the railroad
industry generally quote more publicly. So it will afford you the opportunity to be able to more readily, as I
say, look at our progress and comparability of our performance.
If I can then pass in what for us -- for the life of the Company -- is a very sad note, that -- and a
demonstration that the line between extraordinarily good safety performance and tragedy is indeed so thin,
it's a couple of weeks ago that we unfortunately had this incident at Stanwell, which is about 25 kilometers
west of Rockhampton, where a contract car driver driving an Aurizon vehicle was conveying two Aurizon
train drivers to relieve a crew at a train about 5 kilometers west of Stanwell.

We would be in speculation mode still to recount what happened. We simply don't know for sure. The facts
of what we do know is that which I've said so far. For whatever reason, the driver of the car went past the
turn to the -- a designated crew change position, pulled over to the left-hand side of the road, and then
tragically made a U-turn right into the face of oncoming B-double tanker.

Not to be too graphic about it, but the [prada] rolled some eight times. And unfortunately, the three
occupants of the vehicle were killed immediately.

The reaction to the -- to an incident of that kind, as you can imagine, was immediate and widespread
across the organization. The impact most particularly in the initial stages around our train drivers,
especially in the depots that are most associated with these drivers, but indeed right across the Company.
The morale impact right across the Company was profound.

I think whilst you would always hope that you're never put in a position to have to react to an incident of this
kind, that nonetheless, the very breadth and depth and quality of the response to the accident, the way in
which the families were looked after, the way in which the colleagues of these people were looked after,
and I should have observed, but there's a family relationship, even with the car driver, inasmuch as he was
the son of one of our supervisors.

Page236of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.So in that sense, all three occupants of the vehicle were part of the broader Aurizon family. Certainly, the
quality of the response, as I was saying, I believe was very appropriate. And is a mark of the values in the
organization.

That said, the real takeaway is whatever it takes. We have got to continue the safety journey. We have got
to make sure that an incident of that kind -- even of that kind -- cannot happen.
Moving then to some of the overview that I would like to make with respect to the Company and our
progress. The value creation fundamentals, as the heading says, remains strong.

No doubt, as we all know, there are headwinds -- in some areas, significant headwinds -- across the
different parts of our business and the environment in which we operate. But our business remains strong,
as I will come to in a moment.

Certainly, we acknowledge that there are a range of concerns that have weighed both on the market
generally and on our stock and our Company in recent times. I am here to say to you that whilst being
balanced about all of that and hopefully being realistic about all of that, we believe for many of the reasons
that we will kindly share with you this morning and over the next couple of days, that a number of those
issues are either misunderstood or overblown.

From a general market point of view, rather than showing you some of the sorts of charts and demand
profiles that often we do, I would simply draw your attention to a range of the kind of presentations that our
more significant customers have made in recent days, which in my view, again, for all of the commentary
that goes around that, when you look through it, continues to demonstrate that demand remains robust in
the medium and longer term.

Again, we're not pretending that there aren't headwinds; we're not pretending that there aren't significant
issues. But as we look through the cycle, we remain very confident about the future of the resource sector
and the future of our business.

In all of that, though, particularly as we do think about those headwinds, you can be assured that the
overwhelming focus of the management team of Aurizon is to continue to drive the things that we can
manage and influence. And to continue to drive the improvement in every aspect of the business that we
can control.

If I can turn, then, to some of those fundamentals as set out on this chart, firstly thinking about network, this
is, at the end of the day in my view, a terrific business. Especially in the context that I've just been painting,
I would put to you it is an enormously defensive business for us to have.

It is a very high quality business, and as you will hear from Alex and the team, the extent to which we are
able to continue to provide the impetus around improvement in this business is of a high order. In terms of
that influence for Aurizon, I would remind you that in FY14, even in the context of the transition tariff
arrangements, the network business still provided around half the underlying earnings of this Company.
So again, high quality defensive core business.

The business, as you will hear more about during those presentations in a moment, has the advantage of
an extraordinarily high quality of customers. Indeed, around 80% of the network business is leveraged to
the six global resource companies.

Again, you hear more about that in Alex and the team's presentation. But once again, if you want to think
about and focus on this defensive quality and the ability for a company to be able to hitch its future and its
capacity to companies of this kind, then I think the quality speaks for itself.

We will talk, of course, this morning in some detail around the draft decision. And we continue to work with
QCA, but more than QCA, we continue to work with our customers in order to what we would hope and
believe will be -- improve the outcome that was announced a couple of weeks ago. As I say, more about
that in a moment.

Turning then to the above rail part of the business. I am assuming that by now, you would have all had the
opportunity to see our volume announcement this morning for the first quarter.

If you strip out of the comparative period, the loss of the Hail Creek contract and the closure of Wilkie,
which both occurred after the end of the comparable period last year. Volumes are up 5% in Queensland
and by a similar amount in New South Wales.

As we look at the chart here, we do continue to provide guidance consistent with what we've been saying
since the full year, around that 210 million tons to 220 million tons for the full year.

Page237of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.As we stand here today, our volumes remain strong, robust, and as we look forward, all of the feedback
from our customers continues to be that that level of throughput will continue. Now we don't have a crystal
ball and so as we make our way through the wet season and as we make our way into the middle of next
year, obviously at the back end of the year, we need to be cautious about those numbers.

But again, for the moment, we are running flat out and all of the prognosis, as I say, from our customers is
that that will continue to be the case. It is on the back of the kind of long-term demand to which I have
referred. It is with respect to China and India.

But the other significant influencing factor in what we're seeing at the moment, I believe, is the continuing
improvement in their competitiveness of the Australian supply chains. Now we are part of that, of course,
but particularly I refer to the ongoing initiatives, especially of the big guys, around their productivity
efficiency cost effectiveness.

And so you are seeing both in absolute in terms of global demand and are relative in terms of the relative
competitiveness of the Australian coal supply chains and indeed, iron ore supply chains compared to the
other parts of the world. And as I say, we're not here today to opine about -- in a broad way -- about our
views about all of that, but happy to answer questions in that space.

We are then -- if I can emphasize and emphasize again -- about driving returns. This is about the
continuing effectiveness of our transformation productivity cost efficiency initiatives right across the
Company.

Thinking back over the last few years, we have delivered and we have delivered strongly on each of the
promises that we've made, with respect, most obviously, of course, to operating ratio. We are building a
culture of continuous improvement right across our organization that will underpin that continued
improvement.

Indeed, our mindset is that we are, of course, in heavy-duty execution mode with respect to the delivery of
OR 75% this year, but our thoughts, our planning, our initiatives are much more about getting to OR 70%
and beyond, as we think about what the key initiatives are in this business.

As you will hear reflected from both Alex and the team and Mike, we remain very optimistic, we remain very
confident about being able to maintain that kind of trajectory of improvement in the operating ratio in the
business. We continue to do things that are going to underpin that, many of which you'll hear about, as I
say, especially from Mike and Alex.

Some of what you won't hear about today for -- only for lack of time is the kind of continuing cultural change
initiative in this organization. As we think about what that high-performance culture looks like, what that
culture of continuous improvement looks like in our business going forward.

One of those underpinnings of cultural change and capability, of course, are our enterprise agreements.
And so if I can digress for a moment, just to give you a couple of thoughts in this space and once again, of
course, happy to talk about that if you have any questions at the end.

The first observation that I would make is again about the frustration that we experience with the Australian
industrial relations system generally. You've heard us on that, you've heard me on that in the past, but I
can't go past an opportunity like this without again making the point that the level to which the system is
tilted against the ability of a company like ours to be able to make meaningful change is nothing short of
extraordinary. It's an observation that I've made from -- to the Prime Minister and anybody else who will
listen.

Notwithstanding that, the key point here is the same point that I made before. We are in the business of
doing what has to be done within the boundaries of what's available to us.

Again, if you think back to what we've been able to do over recent years, there are many sitting in this room
who would say that we would never have been able to move out 2,500 people out of the headcount of this
business, for example. But we have done it and we have done it without losing one moment's lost time. So
let me be very clear that as we go forward, we will do what is necessary, no matter what the constraints are
that are upon us.

Notwithstanding that, let's not be too acute. The changes that we are seeking in the industrial relations
environment with our enterprise agreements will materially help. They will help in terms of being able to
expedite many of the sorts of changes that, again, you will hear from Alex and Mike and co. about over the
next day or so.

Page238of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It is therefore overwhelmingly important that we continue to prosecute and follow through on achieving the
changes in our EAs. Again as a reminder, we are not looking for blue sky stuff. We are at its heart saying to
our employees and the unions who represent them what we want is a level playing field.

What we want is to benefit from the same conditions, the exact same conditions, that our competitors
already have. The exact same conditions that our competitors already have.

In what planet, therefore, does it make sense for the unions simply to stand on history and refuse to allow
us to go forward in that way when they've made those selfsame agreements, as I say, with our competitors.

We are making progress. Outside of Queensland, we have resolved the outstanding enterprise agreement
negotiations that were on foot. You will be aware that within Queensland, we put the agreements to a vote
of our workforce in recent days. We got the white-collar agreement up, as you would be aware.

Now that is not the end of the story, let me hasten to add. Consistent with the kind of mindset that I was
just describing, it won't surprise you to know that the unions are fighting tooth and nail to ensure that we
cannot have that white-collar agreement registered by the commission.

And so yet again, we have got another process of having to roll through commission proceedings, in this
case at the beginning of December, to argue our case about why those -- that that white-collar agreement
ought to be registered.

We all know that more generally, next week, we are before the full bench of Fair Work Commission around
our application to call a halt, if you will, to this whole nonsense process by deregistering -- canceling the
existing enterprise agreements.

We have gone into that process eyes open. We have gone into that process with the most extraordinary
level of preparation and with the best level of legal industrial relations resource that is available to any
company in the country.

We have done a power of work. If you talk to the likes of Ed McKeever, he wanders around with 6-inch
thick lever arch files of material -- of submissions that we have prepared.

We know this is a novel approach. We know that prima facie, at first instance, it would be a large hope to
win this case in the first instance. That is not the point.

The point here goes back to where I started. There has got to be a circuit breaker. We have made and
delivered on every one of our promises so far. We are taking what is the most extraordinary level of insight
and application into the full bench. We have the momentum that that white-collar agreement represents
and the objective here is to raise the temperature under the unions.

This simply cannot go on at length. And so whether we win, whether we -- in the alternative, cause there to
be a process supervised by the Commission that sees real and genuine negotiations going forward, that's
our objective.

If there is to be an arbitration out of all of this, that holds no fears for us, because of the level of preparation
that we've done, because of the comparison, as I say, with the positions that already obtain for our
competitors in this same market.

More generally, with respect to our focus, again to reemphasize, it is about driving shareholder value. It is
about driving returns for the owners of the business. Very clearly, the first and -- will remain the first priority
for the Company is the transformation, the efficiency drives within the core business of the Company.
That is our overwhelming effort.

And again, you will hear that in spades from Alex and the team and from Mike here very shortly. We will
continue to turn over every rock and look for every possibility to be able to expedite the delivery of that kind
of transformational change in the Company.

I made the point a little while ago that in our mindset as a management team, we are already thinking of
what 70% and better looks like. We do not do this on the basis of -- irregardless of the returns that are
involved. Nothing that we do -- nothing that we do -- is not -- is done without regard for the target level of
returns in the business.

And so up to and including the kind of transformational capital that, again, Mike will spend more time
offering more insight into in a few minutes here, none of that will be done without it materially improving our
ability to be able to expedite change on the one hand and our ability to be able to deliver or better than
deliver on the target returns out of the business.

Page239of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Equally, that has to come and is coming with transformational change in the nature of our relationships with
our customers. Self evidently, given the kinds of market conditions, given the kinds of headwinds that I
have described before, we simply cannot be in a position where we are doing -- that we are simply taking
this kind of change, as it were, out of the hide of our customers.

And as we won't have the time as a matter presentation today, but we can give you all sorts of examples of
the initiatives that are in place and the quality of the improvement in the relationships, both from an above
rail and a below rail point of view, with our customers in our operating space. Value for them, of course, is
most particularly about the ability to deliver and the ability to be able to deliver consistently.

We are, as I observed before, implementing formal and comprehensive arrangements to drive
organizational health, to drive the improvement of a purpose-built organizational culture.

So it's not just about change for change sake, it is not just about what the latest stimuli is, but we have
been through a process of actively designing what we believe the culture of this organization should be,
what we believe the must haves, the important, the nice to haves are in terms of a wide range of the
elements of that culture going forward.

We do believe that there is, notwithstanding the circumstances that we are in at the moment -- there is
considerable risk-appropriate growth opportunity that remains open for the Company. Only, however,
where the fundamentals make good economic sense and, again, where those risk-weighted returns can be
met and exceeded.

One can be forgiven having regard to some of the bigger initiatives and projects that we've got on at the
moment to believe that there is a disproportionate amount of effort going in or resource being devoted to
those initiatives. But to give you a little bit of a flavor or a single anecdote that will put a little bit of that I
think in context, our broader executive team number is 76 people.

Of that 76 people, 5 are associated with business development and major project development. In other
words, the overwhelming majority of the resource, particularly the executive resource in this Company,
remains focused on the transformation and return journey in the Company.

Equally, we continue to be focused about active capital management. We would reiterate that first and
foremost, our intent is to retain an investment grade credit rating. You would have seen that we have
improved the payout ratio in the Company currently to 70%. We always have an eye to the option for a
return of capital to owners in a circumstance where that represents the best value for the owners of the
business.

I spoke about big projects a moment ago. Can I take the opportunity to give you an update and something
of a comment with respect to the West Pilbara project, because I think it's important to understand with
crystal clarity where we are and indeed, for that matter, where we are not with respect to this project.

And therefore what is set out on this sheet I think is fundamentally important in that regard. Let me say
upfront, we do believe as a Company, from the Board, from the management of the Company, that prima
facie, the West Pilbara is a sound and an exciting opportunity for the Company. And we can happily talk
through all of the elements of why we believe that that is the case.
On the back of that, though, we've spent a little over AUD200 million effectively buying an option to be
able to prove up or disapprove that hypothesis. We have not committed to anything at this point, other than
that expenditure as part of the Aquila acquisition.

What we have done is to get heavily into a feasibility study. Our colleagues on the mine side are equally
heavily into a feasibility study with respect to the mine, the mine quality, and the mine economics. The
same kinds of things that you would expect us to be focused on from an infrastructure point of view.

I would want to emphasize in terms of the things that are on this sheet that we are not trying nor will we at
the end of the day attempt to defy gravity. In other words, it will only be in the circumstance that the
fundamentals of this project stack up, stack up from an operational point of view, and end market point of
view, a product demand and cost point of view, and of course, most importantly, from the point of view of
achieving and exceeding the target returns for the Company that we would make a commitment to go
ahead.

We have a number of stages through which we are going. We have in recent days been talking about
pricing principles, which is [to the way], of course, both infrastructure to mine and mine to infrastructure.

As you can see early in the new year, we need to provide an indicative tariff. Let me again, at the risk of
being too slavish, emphasize there is nothing which is in the nature of a commitment with respect to the

Page240of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.provision of that data. It is simply to allow both sides to better work through the project economics and the
feasibility studies.

The point at which we have to make a binding commitment is at its earliest in October of next year. But
more likely, frankly, I would suspect through until the early part of calendar 2016.
Again, assuming the Company makes a final investment decision, it will only be at that time. It will only be
on the basis of the most exhaustive amount of work. It will only be in a circumstance where the
fundamentals of the project make sense from the perspective that I've described, but equally that we have
in place all of the appropriate risk mitigation elements.

That is where we are at the moment. We have a significant team working through those opportunities. We
have what I would describe as an excellent working relationship, most obviously with Baosteel, but equally
with POSCO and with AMCI.

And of course, having regard to the nature and the significance of the project, I would expect that we will
continue to update you. The next opportunity, I would imagine, will be at the time of the announcement of
half year.

Finally then, as I invite Alex to come up, there is this question of our capital and capital spend. I observed a
moment or two ago that Mike in particular will talk through, as will Alex, further insight with respect to what
that capital is, particularly what we're describing here as transformational and productivity capital.

The observation that I would make is again, a reminder that this is in the nature of looking and that every
rock for every opportunity to be able to expedite the delivery of the kind of goals that I have said. It is all
about, however, not doing anything that does not meet and exceed the return targets of the Company.

As I say, the team will talk more about that, but this chart is here so that right up front, you can have that
level of overview and transparency with respect to the numbers that we're talking about.

Alex?

ALEX KUMMANT , EVP, NETWORK, AURIZON HOLDINGS LIMITED: Thank you, Lance. And a third
good morning to you, this time on behalf of Aurizon Network. We've truly looked forward to the moment
here to be able to lay out our business to you in a little bit more detail, a little more granularity than we have
in the past, and perhaps most importantly introduce our team. You will hear in a moment from Clay
McDonald, our Vice President of Operations; Pam Bains, Finance; and Lana Stockman, Regulation.
We've get a great team and tomorrow you will also meet more people in the field particularly in our dispatch
center where a lot of the weight of the operation comes to bear.

So many of you are familiar -- quite familiar with the high level numbers. Aurizon Network manages,
operates the rail infrastructure for the Central Queensland Coal Network or the CQCN as we call it. I'll use
that phrase a lot here -- CQCN. As you well know, we are a regulated business. Regulated by the
Queensland Competition Authority .
The CQCN is Australia's largest export coal rail network with a regulated asset base of about AUD4.5
billion. We serve over 40 mines railing to five export terminals at three ports. And to give you a sense of
the scope and scale of the operation that means about 70 services a day. You have much more of a sense
of that when you look at all the boards of the network and the network operations center in Rocky.
And as most of you know as well be reached a AUD1 billion revenue level last year with an EBIT a bit over
AUD400 million and we railed an annual record of 214.5 million tonnes. Clay will talk a little bit more
about that. We're currently ahead of that pace, at least in the first quarter.

As Lance spent some time on, we at Network truly represent stability and predictability in revenue and
returns. Our customer base is fundamentally comprised of the large global miners, as Lance said. But also
layered on top of that regulated revenue base we do have a segment of business with more commercially
oriented returns, GAPE and WIRP.

Operationally as you'll hear, we are very aligned to the continuous improvement roadmap laid out and
really lived by the North Americans over the last 15 years. Given that model and the access to that
technology, we've demonstrated and continue to believe that we can move through that journey at a
relatively fast pace. Obviously, Mike from the operations point of view is in the middle of that and will
address more of that later.

As we have said in previous sessions our regulated business model and vertical separation is a different
model than the North Americans, but there are many, many parallels in the operational elements of the
business. And Clay will touch on many of these as he walks through the operations story.

Page241of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Again getting back to the overall stability, the financial stability and the business stability of this, 90% of the
Aurizon Network revenue is generated from track access fees. Speaking of predictability -- tell you what.
I'm just going to leave that here and not smash Lance's glass. I think you'll hear about our maintenance
practices -- things like this never happen out on the network.

In a few minutes, Lana will take you through how the regulatory building block process stacks up our
revenue picture. She'll walk through how our annual revenue comes together from the WACC,
depreciation, OpEx, and maintenance. Pam will also talk a bit about how the commercial structures in
WIRP work.

So again, stability driven by the regulatory process is one thing but the quality of our customer base, as
Lance alluded to, is certainly the key point. I think you, again, you all know the customers. They're the
who's who of the natural resources world -- Rio, Anglo, Glencore , BMA. 80%, as Lance said, of our
revenue is generated from that base.

UT4 -- obviously a long process. We had had a lot going on in that space. We are still a bit limited in what
we can say -- because of the pricing paper that was released -- it was after all just a draft, again, about a
month ago on September 30. We are nonetheless happy that the WACC figure began with a seven and not
a five or a six, so that's certainly a positive.

The QCA has been genuinely forward leaning in really wanting a further detailed engagement in the
maintenance space, I think as everyone knows who follows this. But what I can tell you is that the
engagement really has been very positive over the last year both with the QCA and with the industry. I
think everybody recognizes we just have to get particularly this maintenance piece right; that's critical for
all. So we can't promise you an outcome, but I think we can say that we believe we will get a very real
hearing on our issues. And we will be working this hard for the next 10 weeks or so.

Not to spend too much time making the case, but let me leave you with a little bit of a sound bite -- we have
to make a bit of a case. We do want to emphasize that the RAB value will be up between UT4, from UT3
over 30%. And as is forecast as well, the annual tonnage will be north of 30% increase on an average
annual basis, UT4 over UT3. Those are big numbers. And you don't grow an asset, you don't grow volume
that much without needing an uplift in almost every piece of the OpEx and maintenance space that you get.
So without presupposing or preaching because I know our friends at the QCA will look at everything we
have to say here today as well, but all I want to say is, that is an indicator that a reasonable revenue lift for
Aurizon Network from UT3 to UT4 is certainly wanted.

So what's the broader strategic framework? How do we think about this business? First and foremost, you
see here the first tranche -- we need to continue the journey with our customer base to a world-class
operation. That is what we mean by optimizing the current business. You'll hear a lot of this from Clay --
how do we improve maintenance practices? How to be optimize capital use? How do we plan and
schedule better? How do we improve our technology and our people skills? Overall, how do we drive down
variability in this entire system? But in the end from a business point of view nothing succeeds like
success. The CQCN and the smooth operation of this asset is a single best marketing tool that Aurizon can
have.
I'm also often asked, so what motivation do you have as Network as a regulated business to improve?
Surely you can just sit there and enjoy these guaranteed revenue tranches that come in. I've never
believed that. I never believed that when I ran Amtrak, but performance alone is a huge unlocking
mechanism. After all, we want more accretive commercial opportunities like GAPE and WIRP, but we also
want an ongoing constructive relationship with the regulator; and furthermore, our performance will make
all of Queensland Coal more efficient and will unlock market penetration opportunities for everyone.
Regulated or not, that means a stronger more resilient and more profitable business for the entire supply
chain in Queensland Coal.

So, we also believe, though, post UT4 when you look at the current structure and you look at the current
structure that we're wrestling with in the ongoing dialogue that there is value to be unlocked here, the
central tranche from within the CQCN. Some of that is sheer performance, as I said, but a regulatory and
commercial evolution surely must be possible. Everybody agrees we can't go through this two or
three-year process again; no one benefits.

But we can create some risk -- but there are questions out there that I think all of us naturally ask. Can we
create some risk return opportunities on top of the regulatory base? Are there commercial motivators for
the miners, for example, to reduce the variability that they bring to the system? And there are a few --
cancellations, mine load-out performance, high numbers of SKUs. I think -- what is it -- the Goonyella has
40 to 50 SKUs. Coal types -- that's complexity, that's variability. Can we come up with more creative
structures for take or pay? That's on us. We think there's much to talk about here, really, and an interplay
between the regulatory and commercial frameworks.

Page242of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Finally, if you really look at, so where do we go from here? Here I speak in terms of 10-year, 20-year
outlook. As Lance alluded to, our core focus is what you know it is today. But I think we can ultimately grow
in other markets from a network point of view, and that is when the CQCN is truly a world-class operation.
There may be other revenue opportunities for services in other rail spaces, and our skills clearly come to
bear in the current development activities that we are working. But in the end there may be longer-term
follow of the customers strategy as this operation at CQCN evolves.

From a performance point of view this chart as much as any shows how closely we are linked to the
operations side of the business. Mike could probably put up a chart very, very similar to this one. It's really
all about moving more tonnes at lower cost. It's about reducing variability. This is all very closely aligned,
again, with what you will hear Mike say here in a moment. You've heard this in the past and will hear it
again today.

In a nutshell, we want to move heavier and longer trains faster and in an overall environment of lower
variability. Again, that's good for everyone. It's more coal for less cost with better on-time performance and
predictability. And the underpinning of the Network performance, the excellence of this asset and how it's
managed, is after all the platform this all runs on.
Clay will step you through what that means on a day-to-day basis for operations and tomorrow you'll hear
from Sarah Dixon what that means from a planning and scheduling and dispatch point of view. You'll hear a
common thread of better maintenance planning, shorter maintenance windows, better condition monitoring,
and overall reduction of non-value tasks. So not only do you need great infrastructure, you need to
maintain it in the least invasive way, which is no small feat. And then you need to manage your planning
and scheduling to get the most out of your asset. We are working on all of those fronts.
So here we reflect on a lot of different ways we do spend capital. Big iron in the ground capital and smaller
unlocking technology projects. You see on the right hand side is a representation of stepping up the
capacity capability of the network. So where do we get most of our physical capacity? Obviously you see
the hard iron in the ground projects here, but the small unlocking projects are very significant. Clay will
also spend more time on this.

We'll give you an example really of the unlocking projects. And in the middle of Sarah's world, APEX is a
systems project with GE. I mentioned this to a few folks as we were gathering to come into the room.
There's also a strong assist here from Norfolk Southern who have just implemented this system. It's a
system called Movement Planner. This allows day-to-day operations of dispatch with complex
decision-making beyond really pure human capability. NS has seen significant gains here where the
system can actually look at passes and meets and other decisions you need to make that far exceed what
human dispatchers can do today. And this will substantially help us get more out of the network on any
given day.

Another example is the acronym -- the project called PACE, Possession and Capacity Evaluator. Also core
to doing CapEx and maintenance the least invasive way that we can on the network. It's a clever tool that
optimizes shuts, answers questions like how does one plan the scope of a job. For example, one of the
questions is, is it worth replacing some assets that may still have some life but you are already on site, you
are adjacent to the current work -- does it financially makes sense to go after some of those assets? And
economically you can prove that that's the right thing to do. What else can be done in the window of a
shut? There's always opportunity opportunities. There's always things that are recognized from a geometry
car, from other inputs -- hey, we need to go fix this, let's do it now. So it's an ability to react. And how does
this align with mine and port maintenance programs? Also a significant issue as you plan ahead. So we
can manage all of these shuts better and that's and evolving process.

So these are all terrific capacity unlockers and often variability reducers and these technology and smaller
projects generally are delivered for about 25% per sort of capacity unit, if you will, of the big iron projects.
Clay will spend quite a bit of time on this and show you some photos and some data on interesting
programs.

So to close, I'll just go to the last point on this chart and that really is success by network provides, as we
have said, above rail performance benefits for all operators, for the whole supply chain, for all the
customers. That will continue unlocking opportunities for us. We make the point that is best practice is a de
facto competitor, but more than that include transparent regulated world within which we operate, it's our
goal that are cost customers will see and understand our performance and our continuous improvement.

We've partially achieved that, but we have further to go, I think we all know as with the UT4 process, as is
the case with our maintenance consultation with the QCA, and over the next 10 weeks we will work that
hard. We have a good story to tell, and we need to make that obvious to everyone.

Page243of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Just to sort of round out a little bit of what we've accomplished -- so we have railed record volumes. We
have reduced delays but over 30% year over year. We have reduced electrical faults by 50%. We've
achieved full scope of our monthly maintenance programs while railing record tonnes. We've diligently
closed high-risk crossings, reducing level crossing collisions by 43% since 2010. And in the last years we
have delivered AUD2.2 billion worth of major capital projects on time and on budget. I think we've
demonstrated that we are very strong stewards of this asset.

On the bottom left, you'll see how we measure ourselves in terms of process capability -- how we stack up
in 25 different categories. We are on a journey. We'll always have more work to do, but that's life in
operations. And I think that is a great lead in to Clay. Clay?
CLAY MCDONALD, VP, NETWORK OPERATIONS, AURIZON HOLDINGS LIMITED: Thanks, Alex. My
name is Clay McDonald and I'm the Vice President of Network Operations. I've been in the role for three
years now. Previous role to this one was Group General Manager of Coal South looking after the
Blackwater, Moura, and West Moreton systems. So I've been in the business for six years.
I'd like to start with a few on the CQCN, the Central Queensland Coal Network, which Network operations
manages, maintains, and renews. What we have starting in the South if you look at your map on the right
hand side, the Moura system, which is a non-electrified system, contracted for just under [15 million]
tonnes. As we head north we go into the Blackwater system, 81 million tonnes contracted. Goonyella
system, just over 130 million tonnes. And up into the North, the Newlands system currently 38 million
tonnes in that system. All up, 255 million tonnes of contracted capacity.

This is a complex supply chain. This has three above rail operators with diesel and electric trains. We have
electrified network and unelectrified network; five cold terminals, each with their own constraints. We have
40 mines, as Alex mentioned, with different SKUs. You can't put different SKUs on the same train, and you
can't deliver them to the same stockpile -- they've got to be separate.

We've got trains now running from the Goonyella system down into the Blackwater system. We've got
trains running from the Blackwater system into the Goonyella system, of course. The Goonyella system
into the Newlands system. It's a complex supply chain.

To manage that complexity we've got a number of continuous improvement programs and step-change
programs I'll take you through. But fundamentally we focus on three discrete areas -- reducing variability,
improving reliability and customer service, and optimizing capacity. You are going to see each of these
programs, and you are going to hear those sort of terms used quite regularly through this presentation and
as you head up into barmy Central Queensland this afternoon and into tomorrow.

So over the last three years, we've had two axis of improvement based around the following -- structure
focus and capability, which has been our people focus. So might team, for example, has a mix of [X] or
long serving employees from QR that really know the asset and know the operation, and we have quite a
few managers and new superintendents from places like Rio and BHP have joined the team. So, yes, a big
focus on the structure capability and the focus of those teams.

The second area what I call the enabling area, enabling focus -- modernization/mechanization, systems,
and technology. And the output on the right-hand side through those programs and through these streams
is what I have spoken about before -- reducing variability, increasing capacity, and unlocking or improving
our customer service.

So how are we going three years at it? On the top left-hand corner is how we measure ourselves on what
variability we create in the network. So that's below rail delays, unscheduled delays greater than 15
minutes. What that captures is any delay caused by our overhead signaling or track system, any delay we
create on the network caused by an unplanned occupation or and overrun, and any impact caused or
additional dwell caused two trains by our activities. And you can see from 2011 to 2014 we've seen a 44%
reduction in those unplanned delays. So from around -- at the peak of it there you can see 43 minutes
down to around 22 minutes.

As a team, we recognize that 22 minutes still has a lot of opportunity in it. That means that every train that's
traveling around the network -- 500 trains a week -- the impact by 22 minutes. So these programs are very
much focused on reducing that 22 minutes and increasing the velocity of the trains that are running on the
network.

So just to have it looked at some of the figures that contribute to that below rail delay number, on the
right-hand side is our traction faults. You'll see a bit of this tomorrow -- these are the overheads in the
Blackwater and Goonyella system. So our cancellations and impacts caused by traction faults been
reduced from 33% from 2011 to 2014. Partially this goes back to the previous slide on what we are
focusing on, an increased focus on corrective and preventative maintenance by our teams. A restructure of
those teams, so we have tradespeople on 24/7. There is a focus on accountability at a line leader level for

Page244of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.delivering corrective and preventative maintenance -- they report on it every Friday. And some operational
and equipment improvements that have assisted us in those statistics. One I'll show you later, an
over-height laser beam that we have in a couple of our critical crossings that have reduced dewirements
where heavy machinery goes over -- over-height heavy machinery goes over our line and takes out the
overheads. And I'll talk about that a little later. It's been very effective.

Bottom right-hand corner we talk about mainline derailments. It would be of no surprise derailments cause
impact to the network. Derailments caused damage. Derailments cause significant delay, so there's a big
focus on our team on reducing below rail caused derailments. In fact there's quite a successful community
of competence on reducing overall derailments -- you can see that they are coming down, and our focus
there on what we can contribute in the below rail space.

How do we do that? We've increased improved our condition monitoring. We've improved our speed and
efficiency in removing speed restrictions. I'll demonstrate and show some photos tomorrow of what a speed
restriction is and why it's important for us to remove it. But we've got better at identifying them and
removing them, so we've gone from an average 20 days that speed restriction would be on the network
down to six. We also work with the above rail operations on which are the most important speed
restrictions to remove first, to improve velocity and around safety.

As I mentioned, accountability at the local level on removing speed restrictions and network condition and
finally rail husbandry. Rail husbandry, you will learn a little bit about rail husbandry tomorrow when you feel
the heat. In the heat the rail expands and, obviously, overnight it contracts. We've got to make sure that our
rail is within tolerance to ensure it doesn't buckle or it doesn't break, and we've certainly get a far more
rigorous program in managing rail husbandry.

So, we've got some results and we've seen some decreases in below rail cause delays, and this has
enabled us to move more network tonnes by all operators across the system. So if you can see on the right
hand side, 166.7 million tonnes or 74% of the network was utilized in 2012 up to what is today 214.5
million tonnes and 80%. To give you a feel for that, that's an increase in a daily run rate of 130,000 tonnes
per day or the equivalent of 14 trains.
Another -- the figures came out today for tonnes -- our network tonnes are up 4 million on last year so our
daily run rate at the moment, 610,000 tonnes a day. Yesterday we did 723,000 tonnes in a day. Our best
ever -- 770,000 tonnes. So the focus of the management team is definitely about moving the average
towards the record. So, we're at 600,010 tonnes -- shows you the upside of 770,000 tonnes. And a year
and a half ago we had never hit 700,000 tonnes in a day, and we hit it quite frequently today and we look
forward to hitting it more frequently in the future. How are we doing that? Left-hand side -- planned
maintenance, reliability, and of course working with the above rail operators closely.

Talk about innovation in our renewal practices -- so we're reducing our closure times like for like at the end
of September. Our closure times are down 39%. So the amount of hours we take on the track where we
completely close it is down by 39% on the previous period. What's important there is the Engineering and
Project Delivery team has also been able to renew or provide AUD11.5 million of renewal, for an example,
in a 60-hour closure that occurred last week in Blackwater. And that's about twice as what we have done in
previous closures. So not only are we using less time, the time that we are given is more productive and
our delivery rates are up.

A practical example of that, I guess, is during that 60-hour closure, 4.6 kilometers of track to the west of
Rockhampton, the formation of it was renewed. So we actually lift the track up, we lift the sleepers up, we
take the ballast out. We take the top layer of information off, we rebuild it, put it all back together. We did
4.6 kilometers delivered on our behalf -- our Engineering Project Delivery -- 4.6 kilometers in five days. In
2011 we did 900 meters in five days. That's a change in the type of equipment we use, the approach that
we use, and our execution practices.

Reliability, significant increase in completion rates of our preventive and corrective maintenance -- from
high 60s to low 70s, up to 98, 99 -- I'll showed you a graph of that later in the presentation. We've also got
condition monitoring on some of our most critical infrastructure. We've installed 150 points monitors in
critical pieces of infrastructure, called turnouts. And a turnout is where you change direction on a track from
one track to the other -- the turnout swings across and allows you to change direction. If the turnout doesn't
function correctly it causes a delay through the UTC network where it says this turnout is not indicating to
me that it is closed or opened correctly, and it stops trains. So on 150 of the most [criticalized] points we've
got condition monitors that tell us -- This [sustained] a fallout of tolerance, sends a text to our tradespeople.
They go out and they fix it in a planned way prior to causing any delays.

Other areas of focus and improvement there, we've now got dual telemetry through Central Queensland.
That is kind of like having two power points in your system rather than one, so it's a failsafe. And we use

Page245of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.nondestructive rail testing that indicates to us in the future that we need to do work rather than it occurring
in an unplanned way.

What does that mean to the above rail? [Operizing] our customers down the bottom looking at running
faster trains, stopping them less often, increasing velocity, and we look at improving plan, schedule, run
and recover operations.

Alex touched on this slide -- top right-hand corner for us -- step-change projects around the mechanical
plan upgrade so a complete upgrade of our on track equipment is our heavy maintenance pieces of
equipment -- what we call regulators, tampers, and the ballast cleaning machine. So we are getting we
equipment out of Austria, and we've already commissioned four of those pieces of equipment -- I'll show
you some photos of that a little later on. Why do we do that? Improves our productivity by having better
performance rates, but primarily we looked at it and we went for the high productivity machines. You can
see that we are using half the time to do the same amount of work or we can do double the work in the
same time.

PACE, Alex touched on, and I'll talk a little bit about that at the end as we come to that complex
environment again of delivering the renewals program, delivering the maintenance program, and ensuring
volume gets through but managing our costs. PACE is a program that we worked together with the
University of Newcastle on, so their optimization center. We've been going at it for two years, and it goes
into service in the Goonyella system for its first live trial later this year.

On the right-hand side, we talk about better planning and scheduling and that's that plan/schedule, run and
recover. Today we get a customer order from operations and [C&M] on a Tuesday, 2 o'clock. We haven't
completed the plan until late on a Thursday when we hand over so operations can then plan what their
train crew schedule is going to look like and how they are going to run and they can inform the customer.
With the system that we are working with as part of the Project Pluto, those orders will be received and
plans will be generated within seconds. Then it gives us that opportunity between the time when we've
done that to the time when we hand it over to operations to harmonize it with other parts of the supply
chain and to work on improving the plan. There is a fantastic opportunity and great value volume that can
be unlocked through this process.

I talked a little bit about the high production mechanized maintenance fleet and the advantages that are
coming with those and the improved productivity or opportunity we have two reduce track time or increase
work completed. And down on the bottom we talk about improved tools and processes in the field. Talking
there SAP mobile for our maintenance teams so they've got a tablet with all the information they need to
conduct the tasks they need more efficiently. Of course all sorts of information from OEM-type equipment
to ordering an assessment on who serviced it last and what the faults were.

We've also got a system called Track Access System, TAS. We saw this in BNSF when we traveled over
there. An effective system for our maintenance people to get on track, so they can see the live running of
the train and the plan in the field and decide whether it's worth actually requesting to get on track or
whether they can actually sequence their work differently to be more effective and BNSF told us they were
getting about two hours a day increased productivity from utilizing that system. That's not in execution -- we
haven't done it in the field but it's being progressed very effectively.

So Alex touched on this slide on the right which is our asset management benchmarking statistics. So what
this really shows to us is -- you can see the green line being best practice in rail in the world. You can see
the blue line indicating where we were in 2010, and the red line indicating where we are in 2013. For us, it's
just a fantastic opportunity for improvement. It exposes us to best practice, and it challenges our approach
to asset management. You can see that in some particular areas around demand analysis or CapEx
evaluation we are quite strong, although still opportunities for us, where in other areas around weather and
climate change and sustainable development we need to work on and focus to improve.

This really is about us understanding our asset -- knowing our asset so that we can have a laser-locked
focus on where the renewal spend needs to go. And this is where it goes. On the right-hand side you can
see the allocation into the renewal spend by type, from formation all the way through to tele and sig. See
the largest area there is in track -- that's where steel meets steel. So that's track upgrade. We talked about
sleeper and rail upgrade in that area. Structures -- sleepers, we replaced 66,000 sleepers last year, and we
are doing a little over 40,000 this year. And we are replacing a lot of timber with concrete, so with a timber
sleeper you've got a 15-year life. With concrete you have a 50-year life. Also with the timber sleepers you
have to do a maintenance renewal at the halfway mark, replace some of the fastenings. With concrete, you
don't have to do that generally.

I want to tell a little bit of a story on the right-hand side there around structures and around the integrated
business. A lot of people say can you want to say quantify what the integrated business means to network
and operations and other parts of the supply chain? Here we had a situation in one of our branch lines in

Page246of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.the Southern system where we had a bridge that needed to be renewed prior to the wet season. So you
can imagine, we had planned and had a package for execution on this particular bridge for some time, and
we went to the customer and said, this work has to be done prior to the wet season.
The customer had a very aggressive shipping schedule. So with C&M, the key account manager,
ourselves, operations and with logistics we got together and our engineering department got together and
we worked on a plan that would see both the shipping schedule met, operations moved to tonnes, and the
bridge get renewal prior to the wet season. So we broke that work down, we [did try it off walls]. We could
do it in one block which had the most impact. We broke down into blocks so that operations could then
match the shipping schedule. And like I said, the customer met its shipping requirements, the bridge was
done in four pieces instead of one continuous job, and operations got to move the coal. And the bridge
stayed up in the wet season.

On the left-hand side, you can see the growth in sustaining capital for us. This is that targeted spend I
spoke about previously. Really the increase is just reflective of the age of some of the asset and increased
volume and wear rates we're seeing through CQCN. I'm going to touch on that a little bit later on where
that's been.
So 74% of that money that we indicated this year, AUD125 million, 74% of that is spent on end-of-life
replacement. That's a no choices, no regret type spend, that is renewing you can see on the right-hand
side, culverts that need replacement or timbers/sleepers that might need to be or other concrete sleepers
where fastenings might have failed. That's an example. But really it's 74% of end-of-life replacement.

We don't go like-for-like replacement here. We have it looked at -- obviously the technology we've got
today is far more advanced than the technology when those culverts were put in 50, 75 years ago. So what
we do -- we get hydrology studies and we say, yes, that culvert needs to be renewed; or no, it doesn't; or
we need to double the size of it to harden the network for particular rail events.

So there's not a like-for-like replacement exactly, it's an improved replacement. You can see up there
obsolescence -- and this is technology, operational technology generally around our teles area and that 5%
spend you can see that's an old element telemetry system we've got there -- still got the [Prestel] phone on
it. And that's been replaced throughout our Central Queensland network. As I mentioned before, we have
now get to dual telemetry giving us redundancy in that system.

Left-hand side, safety. What we had had in Central Queensland was a whole number of overhead events
where the electrical wire was brought down by over-height trucks, and we tried the education and we tried
the enforcement, and of course, the last opportunity was engineering. So this is a real innovative solutions
here where we used a laser beam as you approach those crossings. The laser beam triggers a screen that
is in front of the driver that tells the driver you are over height, you need to pull over. So it might be an
aerial that is being left on an excavator or for some other reason that particular vehicle is over height, and
that system indicates to them that they need to make an adjustment. With live footage of this system we
can see all these trucks pulling over and actually lowering their load. This is despite the permitting process,
despite the education process. And we saw a significant improvement in performance around those level
crossings.

We have sent a number of events still in Central Queensland, but only one at those crossings. Just to give
you a feel for the impact of that, in 2012 alone we had three instances in six weeks that stopped that
network.

Bottom left-hand corner, reliability, improved asset performance through new technology -- that's a
photograph of our latest track lubricators. So, we've seen a replacement program where we now have
solar-powered lubricating systems that have replaced previous manual lubrication systems -- pump
system. The numbers have gone from 380 to 160. So we've got half as many because I actually do both
sides of the track -- they've got a better spread rate. We can see from the depot using the remote system
which ones need to be serviced, which ones are actually working, and which ones aren't. There's still some
fine-tuning and improvement to be made there, but the upside for us is instead of sending around
maintenance staff to check out the 360 odd lubricators, they go to the ones that need to be serviced. This
is incredibly important for our rail wear and is important for the wheel wear for operators.

Just digging in quickly to some of the ways we do standard work, and I guess the saying in our business
would be -- if it's on track and it's repeatable, we are looking for a machine to do it because it's going to be
faster, it's going to be safer, and it will be more effective. So on the left-hand side there, I referred to the
Network Asset Management System and that's that SAP integrated platform that we'll deploy into the field
where the jobs and the standard work can actually be sent out to the team and they complete that work in
the field.

Page247of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.On the right-hand side is a track recording vehicle. Today we use three separate types of track recording
vehicle technology that occupy parting. You can see it there -- ground penetrating radar, ultrasonic
recording, and our track recording car. And then every 96 hours we have eyes on path, that is one of our
inspection team from the maintenance crews run out on a path doing 40 kilometers an hour and occupying
a bunch of capacity from the network to do an eyes-on inspection.

What we are looking at doing there is replacing all four of those inspection techniques onto one single
vehicle that runs at high speed -- 80 kilometers an hour. So you are using one path instead of numerous
paths. Also enables us to send that information directly from that track recording car to our new [Plasser]
machines on what work needs to be done on the network.

Roughly we think there's about 1000 paths to be unlocked by that process and that's being conservative.
Even if you use half those paths as revenue generating trains, it's unlocking about 4 million tonnes to 4.5
million tonnes.

Otherwise we do standard work. At the moment if you are inspecting the overheads there's two primary
ways of inspecting the overheads -- more traditional ways of inspecting the overheads. We inspect them
from roadside using a set of binoculars and looking up with a piece of paper, and we say, yes, we can see
that component or those particular components appear to be in good order. Or we use on-track equipment
elevator work platforms, and we get up into the overheads during an isolation and we can consume track
capacity.
What we've done is purchased two UAVs or drones, as they are better known, and we've deployed one to
the North and one in the South. Alex and I got to fly them the other day up in Rockhampton. They offer us
high definition imagery, as you can see on the top photo, and infrared analysis on the bottom. So what we
are looking for is hotspots. So that would indicate to us that there is a potential failure in that system. The
high-definition imagery is then taken and we analyze it back in the depot, and then we adjust out or set out
renewal and maintenance program based on those findings. Significant decrease in track occupancy.
Significant increase in quality of inspection.

The bottom of that is our ongoing focus on that dewirement and earthing failures that this would all be part
of in the program that this relates to. And you can see the progress we have made so far. When an
earthwire comes down, the system stops -- again, causing that variability that I spoke about at the start.
You'll get to see some further footage and some more detail on these on these systems up in Central
Queensland.

So what are our maintenance teams doing? Definitely, we've -- as I said in the first slide, the structure has
changed, the focus has tightened up and we have boarding capability both in supervisor and
superintendant level capability that is seeing delivery improvements. So bottom right-hand you can see in
2010 -- that is work not done, so 29.9% of our preventative maintenance was not completed for the
Goonyella system in 2010. There's a whole bunch of reasons for that. There was a huge drain on labor
from the mine system. There was the way that our business was structured. There's a whole bunch of
reasons, but the fact was around 30% of preventative maintenance wasn't being completed. Today you can
see on the right-hand side we've got that down to 1.7%. Quite often, that's just a timing issue rolling from
one month to the other. Very much in the 98% to 100% type execution levels there.

Above that, I'll go back to our beloved speed restrictions and our ability to focus on improving the quality
and condition of the network by removing speed restrictions as efficiently as we can. I'll show you some
photos tomorrow of equipment we now use to improve that process. Previously we would have an
excavator just digging out a certain amount of the track. Now we've got high productivity under covers that
we deploy; they do it in part of the time and the quality of the product is a lot better. That's been a
significant contributor to the increase in velocity in the network that we are seeing with the above-rail
operators.

As far as structure goes, we have six regional centers for maintenance, and they are based on the amount
of infrastructure they have to manage and deployment times. And we're broken down into maintenance and
response teams being predominantly our tradespeople around signaling, our overhead system, and mixed
in there is civil skill sets, and then our traditional civil and track teams.

Again, a step-change in how we do standard work. Previously we would dig out -- you can see on the
bottom right-hand slide -- I'll give you some context on this slide. This is about better ballast management.
Ballast is the rock that sits underneath the track, and ballast is required to ensure drainage and stability of
the track. So that we do is previously we were using an old sampling method where we would have an
excavator dig out every kilometer and tell us what work have to be actually executed on the track. You can
imagine, it took quite a significant track occupancy. It was open a little bit to interpretation and the skill of
the actual operator. There was a whole bunch of reasons why that wasn't the most efficient way to tell us
where the ballast cleaner had to be deployed.

Page248of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The left-hand side is the way we do it now. So, we use a on-track machine with a ground-penetrating radar
operating at 80 kilometers an hour and it indicates to us the amount of contamination within the ballast and
assists in developing our undercutter program. We've done a number of runs although we will get into
result as we layer that data over a period of time and build up the information we have.

We calibrate that ground-penetrating radar using a specific track -- you can see it up on the right-hand side
-- so we know that the results we are given on that track, which we have actually established ourselves and
we know what those results should be, correlate with what we are getting out on the mainline. This has
definitely allowed us to be more specific and pinpoint the work that we need to conduct.

So when we are cleaning, we are also part of the supply chain that's looking at using the amount of ballast
fouling that occurs. And how we are doing that here is you can see our coal fouling prevention. One of the
systems there that we work with -- the miners and our customers -- is veneering and garden bed profile. So
the veneering is like a sticky polymer that gets sprayed on the coal as it goes through the loadout. So it
removes the fouling caused by dust. You can see there our veneering can reduced reduce coal dust by up
to 75% -- the coal dust that's coming off the top of the wagon. How do we know that? The top right-hand
opacity dust monitoring results you can see it in this case -- it's Rolleston. You can see the dotted line that
says install complete. That's when the veneering system was in and you can see the level of opacity
reading going down significantly from the left-hand side to be right-hand side. So not only are you cleaning
it but we are producing it and coming back into the system by some of these methods.

Talk about modernization or mechanization and increased productivity from our on time or our track time.
We've get four of the new units already in and deployed and what we are showing there is through the
commissioning process a lifting performance, but as we get used to these machines we see additional
increasing performance coming through. To give you a feel, on the right-hand side one of the biggest uses
of capacity in our system is the ballast cleaning machine. It's a big unit; it's a big operation. And our current
machine travels at about 250 meters an hour, cleaning that. It lifts the track, takes the ballast out, cleans it,
puts it back in.

The new system -- new RM 802 that we would look at purchasing runs at 550 meters an hour but has the
capacity, if you want to wind it up -- we saw it in the US going at 800 meters an hour, if you need to burn
through your work and you need to burn through unlock additional capacity. It's got some real upside.
For us that a AUD200 million spend in total on these new track machines. The entire fleet upgraded for
the maintenance side of the business. And back -- I'll go back to where we started around complexity and
dealing with complexity. Alex touched on this, and you'll get a good overview from Sarah Dixon who is
responsible for the implementation of this system into her business -- the Central Queensland Network
Control.

What you've got is we've got a situation where that complexity -- if we look at it from a train controller's
perspective, they've got a -- you'll see a screen tomorrow -- they covers about 250 kilometers on average.
There's 12 screens you see. So we are covering the 2600 kilometers of network with 12 screens. That
controller is making the best decision that they can make for their screen. What they can't predict and what
their bandwidth doesn't allow them to do is project eight hours forward or understand other decisions being
made on the other 11 screens throughout the [whole] Central Queensland Coal Network that may impact
the operation.

So through an incredibly innovative solution that NS and GE worked on called Movement Planner that
decision-making is updating the plan and updating what's happening to bring you back onto that scheduled
operation that we talked about reducing the variation all the time giving the controller some decision
support saying, let train A go in front of train B. Slow train C down, give preference to train D. So it all
interlocks across the four systems, and we get the right trains in the right place.

What in essence is then is a 20% increase in velocity -- that's seen significant reduction in double-up crews
-- that is a crew that needs to be deployed onto a train because we haven't got the train in the right place.
And that being from the corridors that it's fully implemented in, they've gone from minus 20 -- so 20 minutes
late to eight minutes early on the corridors where it's fully implemented. We are very excited about our
project -- a significant step-change for that part of the business. Probably the biggest -- the biggest thing
that has happened since the automatic for the UTC which you will see tomorrow -- the unified train control
system.

I think Alex covered PACE. PACE will fit into this at the front end of that system so it already tells us what is
the positions that we need to consider and what order we would consider in, and what other work we can
get done. And then we talked very much about integrated planning -- the opportunity that provides with our
above rail operations partners, with the mines and back into the port.

And with that, I'd like to welcome Lana to the stage.

Page249of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.LANA STOCKMAN, VP, NETWORK REGULATION, AURIZON HOLDINGS LIMITED: Thanks, Clay, thank
you for the presentation on maintenance. I am still waiting for my invitation to fly a drone. Got my tent hint.

I am sure this audience would much rather hear about regulation, because it is such an exciting topic. I am
Lana Stockman. I am the Vice President for Regulation for Aurizon Network.

My primary responsibility is, of course, managing our regulatory affairs. And given the fact we are --
Network is a regulated business and most of our revenue is regulated, it is a fairly critical function, has
quite a lot of oversight from Alex, Kate and Lynn.

Our fundamental document that we operate under is an access undertaking, or an undertaking for short.
And we are currently operating on an undertaking which is known as UT3, which is a third undertaking, and
we are currently negotiating or working with the Queensland Competition Authority on UT4.

An undertaking provides, in our instance, four main areas that are important. Firstly, it fits what our
maximum allowable revenue is and how that revenue is broken up into tariffs for customers. It provides a
framework for users wanting to access our network. And, importantly, for our above rail operators who
were competitive to Aurizon operations, it ensures that we have a ring-fencing framework in place so we
cannot discriminate and favor an above rail operator. Finally, the undertaking provides a framework for
future investment in Central Queensland Coal Network.

The remainder of my presentation today will cover the revenue cap and take or pay. I will talk about the
Regulated Asset Base and investment options, cover the UT4 process to date and how that should play out
in the next few months. We will cover the recent decision from the Queensland Competition Authority
around our maximum allowable revenue. And just to really get you excited, and before we go on to Pam,
we will talk about beyond UT4.

There are as many different forms of regulation as there are regulators. The form of regulation in central
Queensland is a revenue cap. This ensures that Network is allowed to achieve a certain predefined level of
revenue in any one particular year.

This is if we over or under recover in any one year, there is a true-up mechanism to ensure that our
revenues remain stable. You can compare this to a price cap type of regulation which hits a maximum
price. If the volume sold in any one particular year vary, the revenue for that organization will also vary
under a price cap regulation.

The Queensland Competition Authority , or the QCA, determines the amount of revenue that we can make
based on an economically efficient model. It is built up of five building blocks: the WACC, the weighted
average cost of capital; depreciation; operating allowance -- clearly Clay needs a sizable allowance for all
of his activities, so that's the maintenance allowance; and my favorite allowance or Joe Hockey's favorite
allowance, which is tax.

What Aurizon Network does is we provide a submission to the QCA -- in this case it's UT4 -- that fits our
expectations around what we would like to receive for maximum allowable revenue. The QCA undergoes a
process where they consult with stakeholders, get their own independent experts who actually come into
our business to review our submission, and then they'll make a draft decision and then a final decision.

The revenue cap provides revenue for Aurizon Network that covers an aggregate over minus in any
particular system. Take or pay, by contrast, is for one individual access holder. Take or pay is a standard
contractual arrangement across many industries. It is not specific to rail.

However, it provides benefits to both parties to the contract. Firstly it ensures that Network is able to get
some form of revenue certainty over long-term to reflect the long-dated nature of our assets. If we didn't
have this certainty, we would probably be unable to achieve funding to build the assets in the first place, or
if we did receive the funding, it would probably come in a much higher cost. This would result in higher
access charges for all users.

Secondly, the take or pay contract firms up access rights for end-users. It would be really unfortunate if a
mine had made a long-dated investment in mining infrastructure and coupled that with a short-term access
right that expired during a period of economic boom. I can assure you with my dealings with the miners that
their competitors would be very happy to snag those access rights.

Finally, the take or pay contract protects against moral hazard. Consider this example. Assume there is a
30 million tonne rail system and it costs AUD1 billion to build. Assume there are six miners and they
would all have, say, 5 million tonnes of rights to that expansion. But, assume there is a free option and
they could walk away from a take or pay contract, or they can walk away from the access rights.

Page250of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Now, if we're in a period of economic decline and one mine wants to shut up shop for three years, well, the
money that they would have paid would then be socialized against all the remaining miners in their system.
I don't think those miners would be too happy taking on someone else's credit risk or operational decisions.
As far as just if the mining aspect and assume that risk was transferred to Network, we would also be
seeking a greater rate of return or a higher WACC and this would also result in higher access charges.
Even though I understand the miners are undergoing some particular pressure with take or pay at the
moment, there is a fundamental financial structure that underpins the viability, not just of the rail network,
but of the mines and the poor infrastructure in Queensland.

Let's talk about the Regulated Asset Base or RAB. As you can see, the RAB has almost doubled since the
IPO. And this is due -- partly due to the number of major projects coming online, and Pam will talk to you
about those. But you have already noted that Clay has talked about the size of capital investment around
asset renewals that we also have in the CQCN, and this also has driven a large part of the RAB growth.

Each year we make a submission to the Queensland Competition Authority that seeks to have the RAB
increase by the value of the CapEx we have undertaken in that year. The QCA reviews the claim. They will
get expert advice. They will have auditors come in to our business and review our processes, and they will
also send it out for stakeholder comment.

The QCA will assess whether or not our capital expenditure in that particular year was prudent and if the
scope of work was prudent. If it is demonstrated that we have not operated prudently, we run the risk of not
having the full value of the claim included in the RAB. This is a risk to us, and there is an alternative
approach that is currently in use under UT3 and will be in use in UT4, which allows the customers to vote,
which effectively will pre-approve our claim.

How do we fund the RAB? Under UT3 and what is proposed for UT4, Aurizon Network funds asset
renewals at the regulated WACC. In terms of expansion processes -- expansion projects, there are three
main ways this can be funded. Firstly, Network can elect to fund investment at the regulated return.
Assuming that Lance and Alex are able to get Board approval for these sizable projects, we would declare
early on in the process that this would be a regulated return process or project.
Secondly, and this is an example of Grayson work, Network can opt to fund a commercial return in
exchange for taking on more risk such as construction cost and timing, a ramp-up risk, and if we are really
bullish, potentially even longer-term volume risk. But clearly we will be wanting a much higher rate of return
for those types of projects.
However, there is one major issue with Network undertaking commercial turns in the eyes of our miners.
We are the only game in town in terms of expansions. And, so, they believe there is an opportunity for us to
extract too high a return in exchange for too low a risk for commercially funded projects.

The solution to this is to develop what's known as a user funding agreement. We are currently working with
the Queensland Competition Authority and industry to develop a Standard User Funding Agreement. This
is known as SUFA.

The SUFA would act as a template for user funding arrangements in future. SUFA also importantly allows
for third-party financing, so it's not just the mines. It will be access right holders that would be funding it, but
potentially other parties could seek to invest within the network.

User funders do not own the asset that is developed, but instead they obtained the rights to receive the
cash flows from those assets in relation to the WACC and depreciation allowances. Network would
continue to receive the operating and maintenance allowances for that asset.

SUFA also has one important feature. The QCA is looking to implement a preapproval process for SUFA
projects. This process will ensure that funders have the certainty of a CapEx spend for their projects,
ensure that their asset gets placed into the RAB in advance, and also have an idea around the timing of
when their asset will go into the RAB.

This is important, because no cash flow will originate in relation to WACC or depreciation until the asset
has been commissioned and moved into the RAB. Clearly this is a benefit I would like to obtain for
Network-funded projects, and I'm working with the QCA to extend the preapproval process to cover all
projects.

This is what occupies 90% of my waking time, UT4. Okay, UT4 was launched in April 2013 and my
expectation is this will be resolved by the close of June 2015. I'd like to note, though, UT1 took three years
to develop, so clearly there is some improvement in timing. However, I think there is a lot of scope for
improvement moving forward.

Page251of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In the last 12 months we have been focused on working very closely with the QCA, and just in terms of
managing the logistics of developing and improving an undertaking. We have regular timetable meetings
and this ensures that our expectations of when the QCA will make decisions and the QCA's expectations
around what information we provide to them are met and understood well in advance.

You may note that we resubmitted UT4 earlier this year. This was because we have been working
extensively with industry, particularly the Queensland Resources Council or the QRC, in terms of the
concerns around UT4. We were able to agree a large number of changes approved -- requested by the
QRC, and because the QCA needs to approve a decision based on a submission made by Aurizon, we
were -- they would have had to have made a decision on our April 2013 submission.

It made sense that we provided the QCA with the more refreshed up-to-date view of the undertaking as
negotiated with the industry, and we resubmitted this early this year. We did this in conjunction with the
QRC, the QCA and the above rail operators, so there were no surprises when we resubmitted UT4.

Furthermore, in parallel to all the formal processes in relation to the undertaking, we have been negotiating
extensively, particularly with the Queensland Resources Council, on a number of parts of UT4 and have
reached agreement on substantial parts of the undertaking. This negotiation has both been productive and
helpful for both parties, and sitting in a room together for hours at a time has definitely given us both an
insight into each other's incentives and motivations.

The most recent Queensland Resources Council submission to the QCA, they were able to provide a
number of markups and changes that they would like to see to the undertaking. But we had already agreed
these in advance with the QRC and were able to provide a supporting submission showing the extent of
agreement between us and industry.

Our next step: I am going to have a very busy Christmas. I am expecting a SUFA the decision in the next
couple of weeks. The QCA will be publishing a policy paper which will cover all the remaining elements of
the undertaking apart from the maximum allowable revenue and this includes the breakup of the tariff
components for users. This will be delivered before Christmas.

The QCA will be making a final decision in February/March and -- on SUFA in February or March. The
QCA will make a final decision on UT4 in May. And then to have the undertaking actually approved, we
need to turn around a new set of drafting that reflects the requirements of the QCA's final decision. We
expect us to turn that draft around, have it back to the QCA, and out for consultation within a month.
Hopefully, fingers crossed, this will all be done by June 2015.

On the [3rd of] September, the QCA issued a draft decision in relation to the maximum allowable revenue
for Aurizon Network. There were 300 pages excluding the special reports attached, so if anyone wants
more detail, I am happy to send you a web link.
I'm not going to talk through the specific numbers on the slide, but instead will make a few key points.
There is a lower WACC, obviously, as Alex noted. We've increased our RAB by over 30% on average from
UT3 to UT4, and we're railing approximately 30% more tonnes. Our increase on tariff from UT3 to UT4 is
around 13%, so, clearly we are delivering more. We have got a large asset to maintain, and so there is
obviously an increase in the tariff required.

In relation to WACC, here -- this is the lower WACC relative to UT3. This is mainly driven by the decrease
in risk free rate between the two regulatory periods. However, the QCA did increase the market risk
premium from 6 to 6.5, and also decrease the [GAMA] from 0.5 to 0.47, and these are both positive
movements for Aurizon.

The QCA has requested specifically more information on the buildup of our maintenance cost in relation to
ballast undercutting. This was not a surprise to us. As you have seen from Clay's presentation, the amount
of transformational change particularly in this area has been remarkable. And our understanding of what
our efficient costs are has changed from when we originally launched the original submission. So we're
working with the QCA to improve the knowledge and understanding of those maintenance costs.

The MAR decision also asked for a change to our capitalization policy for rail renewals in UT4 and
potentially capitalization of ballast undercutting to UT5. Again, this was not a surprise to us, and we have
been working with the QCA on transitional arrangements to ensure we can move from operating allowance
to capitalization for these.

The operating allowance represented a material increase over the UT3 allowance. It is our belief that the
UT3 allowance was a major under-recovery and we feel that the increase in allowance more truly
represents our actual operating costs.

Page252of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It is also worthwhile noting that our operating allowance includes traction costs. The traction cost is the
direct electricity cost that the electric trains consume. It is much easier for Network to procure electricity for
all the trains and pass through the cost to rail operators, as opposed to the rail operators individually
procuring electricity via the grid.

By contrast, rail operators procure their own diesel. We're working on a response to the MAR decision and
we hope to lodge this with the QCA just before Christmas.

Now, what occupies the remaining 10% of my waking hours is beyond UT4. Whilst by nature these
processes can be time-consuming, there is plenty of scope to move to a modern and possibly cutting edge
regulatory process. In the near-term, my main focus is to continue and strengthen the engagement with our
key stakeholders. This is the Queensland Resources Council, the miners, the above rail operators and the
regulator.

A key requirement for us to be effective in this space is to engage and operate from a more transparent
information process. We have already commenced a process with the Queensland Resources Council to
improve the transparency around how we build out the scope and cost for maintenance. This has been
largely done without a firm direction from the QCA, but on our own initiative, because this is what our
customers are asking us for. In the longer term we can also include this or expand to include the operating
allowance.

In parallel to the strengthened engagement and open information processes I would like to continue, we
would also like to improve rail regulatory reform within Queensland that benefits all parties of CQCN. One
example of this is to implement a mechanism to facilitate short-term transfers.

What this means is that if a miner, for example, will not be utilizing a train path, they can swap that train
path with either another miner in their own portfolio or another mining company. What this will do, it will
mean the train path is effectively countered as a consumed train path for take or pay purposes, thus
reducing take or pay liability. But it will also reduce the underutilization of train paths within the network and
provide greater flexibility for both miners who operate with a portfolio and for miners who are able to swap
paths between different mining companies.

I would also like to review take or pay. I think there is plenty of both incremental reform around take-or-pay
contracts. The differences in a UT1 access holder and a UT3 access holder for take or pay does create
distortions within the market. Also, if there is no socialization, if somebody wants to relinquish a train path
and there is no socialization impact that occurs, then I think they should be able to relinquish the train path.

An example of this is if we run a longer, faster train that carries more tonnes, and we only need to consume
three train paths instead of four, the fourth path should have been able to be given up at no cost, as it can
be demonstrated that the amount of tonnes is fit to the equivalent. This will allow the unused train paths to
be given to somebody else or sold to somebody else, reducing overall access charges.
The tariff structure within Central Queensland Coal Network has remained unchanged since UT1. It has
never been reviewed and I think it is timely to review the tariff structure. Obviously this would be done in full
consultation with industry and the QCA.

Longer-term, as Alex has alluded to, there is plenty of scope for longer-term risk/reward incentive
mechanisms, especially around how we deliver our maintenance activities.

UT4 will hopefully be done and dusted by June 2015, and then I need to get started on UT5. There are a
number of different options that I am considering to progress this forward and none of these require
legislative change, just a change of approach and mindset. In all cases, a greater consultation with industry
and above rail operators is required before we launch the undertaking.

I want to focus on a greater alignment of stakeholder needs, bearing in mind that our stakeholders quite
often have very different needs not just from us, but from each other; but also, to work closely with industry
and the QCA to streamline the process and to reduce what I call the regulatory hump or the regulatory
burden.

We are no longer a government-owned corporation. We are a modern, integrated organization and the
onus is on us to challenge the status quo in the regulatory process. We need to move beyond the
submit/respond model that has been used for many years and by many industries. We need to move
towards a genuinely commercially focused process that provides win-win benefits for Network, but also for
our customers.

That's all I have to say, and I would like to hand you over to Pam Bains. Thank you.

Page253of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PAM BAINS, VP, NETWORK FINANCE, AURIZON HOLDINGS LIMITED: Good morning everyone. Nice to
see so many of you here today. I am Pam Bains. I look after Network Finance.
Today I'm going to cover, briefly, capital expenditure in the network business and also the touch on the
Wiggins Island Rail Project. Okay, so, start with capital expenditure.

The first table on the screen highlights the key growth projects that have been delivered or are in the
process of being delivered by the network business. Just a quick reminder of these key projects: firstly,
GAPE -- Goonyella/Abbot Point Expansion. This was network's largest infrastructure investment and the
Central Queensland Coal Network and involved the construction of 69 kilometers of greenfield track --
essentially the northern missing link between our Goonyella system and our Newlands coal system.
This came at a cost of approximately AUD1.1 billion. This increased the capacity from the Bowen Basin by
33 million tonnes. The project was delivered at a cost of AUD1.1 billion and delivered late 2011 on time
and on budget.
Next we have WIRP, the Wiggins Island Rail Project. This is a project at a cost of AUD860 million. The
project is designed to link the mines in the southern Bowen Basin to the Port WICET, Wiggins Island Coal
Export Terminal at the port of Gladstone.

Work commenced on WIRP in 2012 and are set to deliver in 2015. I will talk a little bit more about WIRP in
a few moments, but suffice to say the project is running on track and running on budget.

Then we have the Hay Point expansion. The expansion for Hay Point essentially increases the capacity of
the Goonyella coal system from 129 million tonnes to 140 million tonnes. The project has increased
capacity to align with the Hay Point Coal Terminal expansion. Although the terminal expansion has been
delayed to September 2015, all Aurizon Network works have been completed and, essentially, purely
awaiting the connection of the feeder station by Powerlink. The project, again, is running on time and are
currently under budget.

Finally, we have Rolleston electrification. For those of you who don't know, Rolleston is the line that feeds
up to the Blackwater system across to Regitana Port. Essentially the scope of work for this project involved
electrification of 107 kilometers of track on the Rolleston mine to support the growth of tonnes from the
Rolleston mine for blank haul.

This project harnesses the operational efficiencies and cost benefits of operating high-capacity electric
trains. Again, the project is expected to be completed by the end of this calendar year and is currently
running to time and under budget.

I guess the key point to note on all of these growth projects, the engineering and project delivery team who
used to sit as part of the network business, and following the move to the functional model -- transit across
to Aurizon operations -- were absolutely instrumental in delivering these projects. They have a great track
record. The team delivered these significant projects in years where we saw major improvements in safety
performance, in years where we saw significant flood events and also in years where we railed record
volumes across the Central Queensland Coal Network, whilst ensuring day-to-day operations continued.

The project team delivered through disciplined project management processes and systems, hence
ensuring impact on operations is minimized, as I mentioned. It is also important to remember that
delivering these projects under budget, essentially means that any cost savings are fed back through to our
customers directly in the form of reduced RAB values and hence reduced tariffs, hence ensuring
competitiveness of the supply chain.

Also, it should be noted that the engineering and project delivery team will be involved in projects in the
future such as the West Pilbara, Lance talked about, and also the Galilee.

The table at the bottom of the slide highlights the split between growth CapEx and sustaining CapEx.
Following delivery of the three key growth projects this year -- essentially Rolleston, Hay Point and the
Wiggins Island Rail Project -- there are currently no committed growth projects in the network business.
What we will have as capital expenditure is sustaining CapEx for Network.

What does sustaining CapEx include? Broadly three key areas; firstly, asset renewals and Clay touched on
in his presentation where assets are like expired on the network. This includes replacing culverts, replacing
turnouts, rail, structures. Then we have another category around replacing our yellow machines, the big
yellow kit again Clay referred to, so when Clay buys regulators, tampers, ballast cleaning machines.

Then, as you will appreciate, we also have ballast undercutting which is capitalized. The sustaining CapEx
does not include rail renewals, which you may have heard of through the regulator's decision.

Page254of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Okay, so, let's talk a bit about WIRP. WIRP, I guess WICET in itself is a major infrastructure investment,
the project involving the construction of a new coal terminal. As I mentioned, WIRP is the vital link between
the mines in the Southern Bowen Basin and the terminal, increasing capacity by 27 million tonnes across
the network.
Overall WIRP will cost approximately AUD860 million and will increase the current RAB value by 20%,
hence increasing returns and EBIT in the coming years, so providing a return on such a significant
investment. The scope of work for WIRP is divided into multiple segments as shown on the map on the
left-hand side of the screen. The orange boxes represent the different segments. Not easy to see on the
map, but I will talk about these on the next slide.

As you can see, the investment results in upgraded infrastructure across both the Blackwater, the top line,
and the Moura systems, the bottom line. You probably heard about delays in the WICET commissioning
dates. Aurizon Network, as a result, has worked with the customers to agree revised delivery dates for
these segments.

The table on the right highlights the key eight foundation customers, their respective mines and the tonnes
they expect to rail. I am sure there will be a few questions on these key customers later on.

Okay, so the table highlights, as I mentioned, the segments which highlight -- which I mentioned highly
integrated into the existing mainline infrastructure. It should be noted that over 70% of WIRP infrastructure
will be used by existing and new Blackwater and Moura customers, hence reducing the asset stranding
risk.

94% of WIRP infrastructure is multiuser with only 6% being single user. WIRP consists of multiple
segments, as you can see, but just to touch on a couple -- construction of the Wiggins Island Balloon
Loop. This was commissioned earlier this year. I understand you will get the opportunity to see the balloon
loop tomorrow, and it is very impressive.

Moura system upgrades, Moura -- this includes formation strengthening. Moura East was completed last
year and Moura West we expect to be finalized next year.

Segment 4 is a critical segment to all users. Not only is it the most expensive segment relative to the other
segments, this essentially includes seven single-line sections of the Blackwater system which -- that are
being duplicated as part of the scope of works for WIRP. The completion of the duplications will provide
operational efficiencies to both new and existing access holders in the supply chain.

In fact, some of the infrastructure is actually currently being used. And Clay can talk about that we are
already seeing improvements and operational performance as result of these duplications.

Finally, we come to WIRP returns. WIRP returns, returns for WIRP comprise two key elements. We have
regulatory returns and above regulatory returns also known as the WIRP fee. Regulatory returns are by far
the largest component of revenue for WIRP. They are recovered under the normal access agreements,
have the normal revenue protection mechanisms such as take or pay and revenue cap, and will be built up
on the normal building blocks, and Lana touched on these elements.

A significant proportion of capital expenditure for WIRP is mainline upgrades for both new and existing
customers. Based on contracted ramp-up volumes, socialization of WIRP infrastructure will reduce tariffs
for all customers. Hence, this is the proposal for pricing we have put forward as part of UT4.

This project will be complete in FY15 and start depreciating. However, earnings will not commence until
FY16. We expect WIRP contracted railings to fully ramp-up in FY17. Subject to QCA approval, WIRP
capital expenditure will be submitted for inclusion in the RAB in FY16.
WIRP fee, because WIRP was a major investment, over AUD300 million in Central Queensland, we
negotiated separate commercial arrangements with our eight foundation customers. Why did we set up
these arrangements? Our customers wanted reassurance. They wanted certainty and they wanted
confidence that we could deliver what we said we would deliver, that we would deliver to the timescales
they wanted us to deliver, and also at a cost we all agreed.

Hence we entered into the WIRP fees. These additional fees compensate us for additional risks associated
with construction and capacity, so additional risk for additional return. This does mean we have an
incentive to deliver on time and under budget. Our failure to achieve the key milestone dates on time and
on budget will reduce the fee payable, as you can see on the graph on the bottom right-hand side. Each
month of delay reduces the fee payable.

However, delivering under budget also gives the business an opportunity to increase the fee payable and
the fee is retested every year. Hence, the fee is not subject to the volumes, and we will be payable 50% in

Page255of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.FY16 and 100% in FY17 onwards and is payable over a period of 19.5 years after the first milestone date.
We also have appropriate security mechanisms in place, given that the WIRP fee is not have the same
revenue protection mechanisms as regulated revenue.

Just a reminder, WIRP regulatory revenue is by far the largest component of revenue for WIRP.
In closing I would like to say WIRP is a fantastic opportunity for the business and Central Queensland. I'm
sure you will appreciate the size and scale of the project when you visit tomorrow, and you see this
terminal and the balloon loop. Thank you for listening. I will hand you over to Mike Franczak, who will talk
about above rail operations.
MIKE FRANCZAK , EVP, OPERATIONS, AURIZON HOLDINGS LIMITED: Thanks, Pam, and good
morning, everyone. Great to see you all here again today. Just a comment about Clay and Lana's
presentations in particular. I guess just a comment about the degree of excitement that creates for us in
operations. The benefits that are going to be created don't just benefit the network business. They have a
huge multiplier benefit when we look at the above rail operation. And coupled with some of the
improvements I'm going to talk about creates a real virtuous cycle where we move beyond just the simple
some of the improvements into more of a multiplier effect that drives even better returns and margins in
future.

And so what I'd like to do this morning just by way of presentation, I'd like to start with this slide and set
some context for you in terms of the transformation journey in operations: where we've been and where
we are going to drive further improvements in both margins and returns.

Now many of you will recall at our Investor Day in Sydney last year that I spoke to many of the items in the
upper left-hand part of this chart that were going to begin to take us to successively lower operating ratios
and higher returns in invested capital. And I spoke to organizational changes, the culture of continuous
improvement which Lance touched on, the integrated operating plan, our business model and the elements
of our cost out story. And, of course, these things are going to continue to drive and deliver value in the
coming years, improving margins and returns to further reach the targets that we've already announced.
They will continue to underpin our journey.

But a culture of continuous improvement also means that we are continuously looking for ways to make the
business better. And so through late last calendar year and into early this year, as we got traction on our
IOP and the other changes that we have underway and got deeper and deeper into our business, we
began to identify and proof up some game-changing opportunities, like the North American railroads that
will take us beyond the near-term targets of the low 70%s for OR and low teens for ROIC. These are the
items that we identified as the drivers for additional capital at our year-end results.

It's important to note that in this space in many respects we are leveraging work that has already begun in
North America and put our own unique spin on it, ensuring we can extract full value. But to be clear, the
incremental capital we are targeting against these opportunities will meet or exceed the requisite hurdle
rates and drive further improvements in margin and returns. The items in orange on this chart -- the freight
management transformation, the fleet upgrades, fuel and operating technologies and terminal upgrades --
are some of the next plays in our transformational or continuous improvement handbook. They do not
replace the other non-capital approaches. These will always be there and will always continue.

But like the Class 1s, the targeted capital in IT and other operational technologies with the requisite margin
and enhancement in returns is part of the improvement journey.

Today I'd like to focus on those opportunities to give you more insight into what they are and how they will
add value to our business. And with me today in the back -- you will have an opportunity to meet them at
the break -- we have Pat O'Donnell, who is my Vice President of Rolling Stock Maintenance; Chris Gregg,
who is the Vice President of Service Delivery for Freight; Ed McKeever, Vice President of Coal Service
Delivery; Scott Riedel, VP Program Delivery who is helping Clay with a lot of the stuff that he spoke to you
about; and of course, Louise Collins, who's the VP of Operations Planning who helps us pull a lot of the
design and execution of this together. So please feel free to engage them at the end of the session, and
Louise will also be with you tomorrow at Rockhampton and, of course, available to interact with you on any
of our specific transformation programs or how the network and operational programs align and interact.

Now, taking a look at the capital spend, over the next three years, as we've noted previously, we are
targeting just over $1 billion in capital spend: roughly $300 million in what I'll call transformational capital,
$500 million for renewal and $300 million for growth. And the transformation capital, which will be the
main topic I will cover today in detail, is expected to generate an annualized run rate of benefits of some
$60 million per year with an average payback within five years.
But before I get into the details of those, let me just context this overall operations capital spend, and I
look at it really in terms of three major components. Starting on the right, growth. This is in my mind pretty

Page256of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.straightforward. But, as we do come across material growth opportunities, it is sometimes necessary to
acquire the requisite kit to take advantage of the opportunity.
These investments, of course, are made on a commercial basis with the requisite returns. Fleet
acquisitions that we are making in the Hunter Valley for Whitehaven tonnes, for example, is a classic
example of what I would call growth capital.
In the middle area, we have what I call renewal capital, and there is an A and B version of this. One is
basic, a like-for-like replacement of end-of-life assets with no material change in the characteristics of that
asset in terms of its basic performance. This is what I would call just keeping the lights on type capital
investment. Necessary. Part of what we need to do in our business but no material improvement in
performance.

The other renewal category is where we choose to upgrade our choices in renewal and acquire an asset
that is capable of delivering materially improved performance over the asset being replaced, thereby
delivering much improved returns. One example of this is the acquisition of AC electric locomotives, which
we have in our plan in the out years. These can replace DC electorates on a three for five basis. They are
also far more reliable and far more maintenance-efficient. And likewise, you'll see that the replacement of
expensive leases that are inherently inefficient and costly with less expensive, more efficient kits will enable
us to further improve returns and margins and offer further opportunities for growth in this space.

And last but not least is what I call transformational capital. This is a capital of a discretionary nature, but
which is deemed changing in terms of the way we work and drives significant improvements in margins and
returns. And this is where I now want to spend the balance of my presentation.

And let me start first with this slide and I apologize. It is a little busy. Spaghetti diagrams on the left I think
give you an indication of a current state which is a very messy and a cleaned up revised state or future
state. But this outlines the key elements of how we are reengineering our core business and standardizing
what I call our contract to cash business by implementing cutting-edge but proven SAP technology. And
this is what we call our freight management transformation or FMT. We are replacing 18 legacy systems
that do not communicate with one another, are not well supported, are not entirely reliable and in some
cases are as old as 25 years.

In leveraging the experience of the North American railroads who have gone before us in this space, we
intend to drive a streamlined order to execution capability across our business. And for this effort, we have,
in fact, employed the very same people who have helped implement this approach in North America,
helping those railroads improve their margins and returns. The key components of this approach involve
real-time reporting of metrics, activities, a simplified approach for our customers to see our service offering,
place their orders, and settle their bills. It will drive material improvements in contract yields and asset and
the labor performance. The multiyear rollout, the work in planning has already begun, but our first
implementation will be in the Northwest in May of next year, completing the entire national footprint in 2016.
This initiative has a rigorous governance process attached to it and the support and attention of the entire
enterprise.
Now, I've spoken to opportunities about energy consumption before, so I won't spend a lot of time here,
other than to say that while we'll continue to improve in this space through better train design, fleet
rationalization, and improved fuel management protocols, that helped us drive a 10% improvement over
the last few years like many of the Class 1s, we will be leveraging technology more fully to drive further
opportunity to get closer to the Class 1 levels. And there are a few key areas that we are pursuing. You see
them here on the gray bars. But if I flip forward, just to give you a little more detail which I won't go through,
four key areas include driver assist systems, which is a form of cruise control for drivers; automatic
equipment stop start or AESS which shuts down idling locomotives automatically but will restart them
should the engine block's temperature fall below a certain level or the battery charge drops; fuel link will
give us live feeds to both locomotive and driver performance; and our locomotive block upgrades reflect
changes for software and hardware that will further enhance fleet fuel performance.

In the rolling stock maintenance world, we've already spoken before about the changes we are making
driven by fleet rationalization and standardization. These, of course, include our facilities rationalization,
harmonizing and improving our maintenance policies and practices, and reducing materials and labor, and,
of course, continuing to improve the reliability and availability of the fleets through things like in train repair
and those improved policies and practices.

But we intend to go a lot farther. As we considered our facilities rationalization in Queensland, we saw a
further opportunity to rationalize our three wheel shops to one. But in doing so, not just replicate the same
old wheel shop technology, but to choose to make an investment to upgrade, like buying a motorcycle, as
opposed to replacing your bicycle. This technology will deliver materially improved costs and productions
rates as noted on the slide.

Page257of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.And additionally we intend to go a lot harder and faster in implementing our Wayside condition monitoring
technology and software. Our trials to date have been very successful, allowing us to change our
inspection intervals in one of our coal systems from 42 days to 21, freeing up capacity, reducing expenses,
and improving productivity. This is technology that allows us to transform our workforce from what I call
changing them from finders to fixers. The maintenance regime changes from a reactive prescription,
prescriptive maintenance regime to one that is truly predictive and condition based. And akin to the
approach that our network colleagues are taking, we can drive this approach to our above rail assets as
well in terms of reducing variability or improving variability, safety, service, capacity, and productivity.
In a closed coal system like ours where the equipment is largely captive, we are going to be able to do
some things that others can't do. Let's take a look, and if the technology holds up, here we go. This cartoon
or graphic is a shot of our Wayside site. I won't go through all the bits and pieces, but this is equipment that
allows us to look at the moving parts and the fixed parts of many of our wagons and locomotives. And, as
you'll see here, as the train comes through at truck speed, these sensors will light up and allow us to take a
look at all of the critical parts of the locomotives and wagons: wheels. Bogies, wagon bodies, axles, and so
forth. And you can see the sensors coming on and starting to take a look at all of the moving pieces, so to
speak.

The readings that these monitors or condition monitors will be able to send us in real time within seconds, it
will be sent ahead to the maintenance people who can act on a plant basis to effect repairs or arrange
planned change outs. This is game-changing stuff. What you saw is a train that gets inspected in a matter
of tens of seconds or a minute or two at most versus 3 to 4 to 5 hours in a railyard. So imagine the lifts in
capacity, imagine the improvements in safety when we can leverage this kind of technology, this speed,
and completely reengineer our work processes.

This next slide really just gives you a little bit more detail in terms of how we work today and what will
change in the future. I'm not going to cover this, other than to say that the technology will allow us to
dramatically reengineer the way we work and drive material improvements in variability, service, safety,
productivity, and capacity and, of course, expense. This is one of those game-changing technologies that
ticks all of the boxes.

And to reinforce this, you can expect to see us continuing the rolling stock journey as outlined by some key
metrics such as maintenance cost per NTK , FTEs, and the availability and reliability of the fleets. I'm
expecting a lot more in this space in the coming few years.

In our IOP work, we've already made material changes in our operating plan, making it less variable,
building longer, faster, heavier trains and reducing crew and asset requirements. We've also now identified
opportunities to rationalize and invest in our terminal footprint to drive further improvements in margins and
returns. And our case in point is in Townsville, where as part of our IOP in rolling stock maintenance
initiatives, we've identified an opportunity to close South Townsville yard. And to enable those -- the
transfer of those activities to Stuart Yard, which is the top one in the map, for a relatively modest
incremental capital spend over what we would have spent as renewal capital to keep the lights on in South
Townsville, we will upgrade Stuart Yard, enabling the disposal of South Townsville and significant
improvements in labor and asset productivity and service. This isn't just about doing more of the same. It's
about building radically different capability to drive better margins and returns.

And as I wrap up with my second to last slide, I wanted to leave you with maybe a more fulsome example
of where all these initiatives work in unison to continue to improve the margins and returns on our
business.

Yesterday, we introduced a radically new integrated operating plan for our intermodal business. It started
yesterday, in fact, with services hopefully and fully subscribed and full, which is great to see. It creates
material improvements in transit times and capacity with fewer assets and no material increase in costs. It
is an exciting opportunity for us, and there is more to come as the service -- as we continue to enhance the
service and reduce the unit costs.

But in addition to these IOP changes, the business will continue to be enhanced by all of the things that I've
just spoken to you about: FMT, the rolling stock maintenance changes, and the fuel and terminal changes
that we are making. It is truly an integrated approach to driving enhanced margins and returns.

And so, as I wrap up, I wanted to come back to one of my favorite topics, the fleets. The key point here is
that as we continue to drive the IOP, fleet standardization, modernization, and all of the other
improvements I noted here today, we will, in fact, continue to lower our fleet renewal needs below the level
of attrition. This is a great example of how we generate improved returns in the business.

Page258of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.And so, in wrapping up, I want to reiterate that operations is on track to deliver its targets to driving to our
margins and returns and that we are going to continue to identify and deliver further improvements in
margins and returns through smart, targeted, capital and noncapital means in the coming years.

And with that, I will wrap. Chris?

Questions and Answers
CHRIS VAGG : Thank you everyone for your attention. We are going to go straight into Q&A now, so I'm
going to get Lance, Keith, Alex and Mike to set up here on the stage. But we do have a mic here, so if
there's questions for our other presenters, then feel free to just wait a second to get everyone all organized.
And obviously if you want to ask a question, please raise your hand. We've got a couple of mics coming
around.

SIMON MITCHELL, ANALYST, UBS : Simon Mitchell from UBS . Just a question on the network, Alex.
Slide 22 you've got the theoretical capacity contracted and actual looks like theoretical is about 270 million
tonnes and contracted is about 255 million tonnes. So that's -- if that delta there is 5%, is that what you are
seeking to try and close, partly close over time with these improvements you've discussed today, or is it
actually you're trying to increase the actual up to the contracted more because that probably relates more
to demand, doesn't it?

ALEX KUMMANT : Yes, look, first, let me say there are a number of figures we've talked about in the past.
One of them gets to about -- and I look to my team that theoretically we can get up to 300 or 308 million.
And you have to recall that there is an overall iron in the ground type kind of look at that and then there's
sort of a day of execution.
The other thing -- sorry, I'm winding up a little bit. I'll get to your question. The other point is that a network
to some degree the way it operates is somewhat of a living animal. So, you cannot at any point in time
necessarily say X is the capacity. That's always evolving depending on where the demand comes from,
what the courts are doing.

So long story short, we continue to build the capability in order to expand day to day capacity and, in fact,
reduce variability. We would argue that we essentially have in the ground a capacity that can handle today
kind of easily the contracted tonnage. You can really go down a rabbit hole and have a long debates what
the actual hard theoretical capacity is because the boundary conditions for that effectively change every
day.

So, I'd invite anyone from my team or, Mike, you guys work this a lot as well how to give a more expansive
answer. Clay, feel free to jump in as well, if we can get you a mic. Yes, Simon is our Vice President of
Commercial.

CLAY MCDONALD: Thanks, Alex, and Simon for the question. So, as Alex says, the capacity in the
network is a changing state of flux. But the way we value that capacity at the moment or analyze that
capacity is we've got a high point expansion, which Pam spoke about earlier on of about 11 million tonnes
coming online. There is a wicked expansion of 27 million tonnes, which is coming online. So, when that all
comes online, we will have based on the way we currently work out our capacity, 308 million tonnes worth
of capacity available.
The difference between the 255 million and the numbers you are seeing on the chart is largely because of
contracts which have been put in place with access holders, but which have not -- which are still to start in
terms of railing tonnes. And there is a chunk of those, for instance, with gate tonnes where we upgraded to
the 50 million tonnes, and currently some of the excess holders don't start railing those tonnes until 2016,
2017 for example.

SIMON MITCHELL: And just a follow-up to that, under the regulated system, how does Aurizon network
benefit from increased utilization apart from being a good network manager?

ALEX KUMMANT : Well, look, you know how the numbers stack up. We are under a fixed revenue sort of
system. At the end of the day, my view is that we ultimately benefit by customers that want to do more and
more business with us. That's going to mean other commercial opportunities. That's going to mean UT5
evolution. You can strictly say that on a year-to-year basis, when you have a fixed revenue available, yes,
you could sit and do nothing, but that really doesn't make a whole lot of sense.

The other point is, is that the smoother the better we operate, you're going to see flow-through effects from
above rail every time. There are just no-brainers that we will continue to do really from our North American
background. I'll even answer the question before you ask it. You'll say, okay, APEX, advanced planning
and scheduling pace. Why bother doing that if you get a 7% return on it?

Page259of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Well, the real issue is, if we get well north of 15%, 20% returns on all of those on a flow-through basis. So, I
think we will always benefit for it. In a very strict sense, if you say let's for the moment play the game
exactly as it's designed, that means you have a four-year window. Moment the starting gun goes off, let's
for a moment say we had an undertaking signed on exactly the right day, and we had all kinds of cost
savings cued up that we very carefully managed and then immediately took a step function in cost savings,
and in theory you could say you compete with the regulator to launch cost savings after they have made
their maximum allowable revenue termination, and then for four years you get benefits, and then after four
years, they sweep that off the table and you start it again.
That's not as crazy as it actually sounds if you have ever run a, say, an industrial products company where
you essentially renew your entire product suite every four or five years and you are competing with an
entire market, you sort of do that as well. But I think that our opportunities to continue driving performance
go well beyond that.

MATT SPENCE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH : Lance. It's Matt from Merrill's. High. Can I just take
you to the EBA? So you're at the Fair Work Commission first two weeks of November. When do you think
you'll get a ruling on that?

LANCE HOCKRIDGE: Steve, why don't you -- given how pretty you look today --?
UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Thanks very much. Maybe you can hear me. In terms of
the expectation of the timeline, it's at least a two-week hearing on evidence and submissions, and typically
the Fair Work Commission will then take and opine for a couple of months before they register a decision
based on all that material. So we wouldn't expect -- with the Christmas break, you wouldn't expect a
decision from Fair Work until late January, February at the earliest.
UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: And, John, if I can follow up on that. So if we take that to
the end of January whenever and the decision is not to sit aside the terms of the EEA, is there a formal
arbitration? Is it mediation? What do you hope for from that?

LANCE HOCKRIDGE: Yes, it's a good question. It's likely that whether the Fair Work make a decision in
our favor, then that would be implemented immediately by us. Alternatively, if it's not in our favor, we'd
obviously canvas the decision very quickly to see what we'd would need to do to change and go back for a
second application. But in the meantime, negotiations continue. In fact, they are continuing as we speak,
and this application no doubt puts pressure on the unions to do what we think they should do. In other
words, capitulate a number of those iconic conditions, like no force redundancy and so on. And there is no
idea if this application is helping us in that cause.

MATT SPENCE: AMLs, just back on the capacity of the system, looking at it slightly differently, you've got
coal loaders who have got natural constraints as well. Why are the miners happy to support you to do this
and spend a fair bit of money on this upgrade if you can't actually get use out of those extra thousand parts
that you're actually talking about?
MIKE FRANCZAK : Well, because they know that at the end of the day, the iron in the ground has to be
there. It's a sine qua non. So you always do a lot of analysis upfront, and you try to consider all these
issues. You go through a period of economics change, construction changes. But I still think that
fundamentally they understand ultimately for a functioning wicket, you're going to need this capacity.

So you do it with the best precision you can. I mean, they vote on this. They agree to this. These are either
regulatory processes where everyone has voted or they are commercial agreements where we have
agreed with them, and a tremendous amount of work goes in upfront on doing the best you can to assess
the iron in the ground capacity.

MATT SPENCE: You made comment in some of the presentations you've actually implemented some of
the expansions and the products in the ground. Are you actually getting any revenue on those expansions
and the widening sort of radial, or are you just sitting there and it's effectively -- existing operators are
getting a bit of free run until the works or the SPXs are actually open up and running?

MIKE FRANCZAK : Well, it will ultimately roll into the RAB. I think there's truth to that, but I wouldn't call it
necessarily a free run because it's good for everybody. When you look at the duplications in the
Blackwater, Mike can tell you he's very happy to have that running, and any place you've got single track
on your network that's a liability. We are all happy it's there, and actually everyone is benefiting from it. So I
don't really think there is a notion of a free ride. Everyone's benefiting from increased fluidity, and with the
market trying to pump every single tonne they can to the ports, I think they are just saying thank goodness
it's there.

Page260of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.MATT SPENCE: Lance, you talked about Westfield borough. How much is the feasibility actually going to
cost Aurizon? How much do you have to sort of capitalize to actually get that project to a final peak day as
possibly as high as 15%?
LANCE HOCKRIDGE: Order of magnitude about $80 million there.

SCOTT RYALL, ANALYST, CLSA LIMITED: Scott Ryall, CLSA. John, this is probably going to be handed
to you, but I think just from Lance's obvious frustration with industrial relations laws, I think mostly, as you
would agree, Lance, that it comes down to the circuit breaker at the end of the day and the lack thereof. In
this case, arbitration is the obvious circuit breaker, unless the Fair Work Commission comes through for
you. How do you force it into arbitration?
UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Again, that's a good question. Frankly, the obvious way
to have this matter arbitrated is for either party -- and in this case the unions are the only party initially that
can take industrial action. So if they take industrial action, we respond. Then, the Fair Work Commission
have the authority both on behalf of the customer, an impacted customer or ourselves, to apply the fair
work and have the matter arbitrated.

Now, that's not again a quick thing. However, to answer your question succinctly, industrial action is a key
mechanism to have this matter arbitrated. Please remember, we have actually asked all parties, the Fair
Work Commission and the unions, for this matter to be arbitrated a number of times, and we are willing to
accept the umpire's decision in this course. But the unions have refused on each occasion.

Now, even with this matter going to the full bench, it may be they make a recommendation that both parties
accept the decision again. So, we'll wait and see if they make any passing comments on that question at
the time of the termination of the application.

SCOTT RYALL: Thanks. And a follow-up for Alex. With all the presentations around improving systems
and improving performance of the network, can you foresee in call it three to five years that you guys are
coordinating something not dissimilar to the Hunter Valley culture in the sense of end to end visibility
around coal flows and everything that involves the mine or the port -- the above rail, below rail?

ALEX KUMMANT : I'll answer it this way. I think we've actually demonstrated with the tonnages we've
moved and, in fact, recent DBCT records -- and Clay, correct me if I'm wrong here -- that a lot of awfully
good things are happening in that space already. We certainly think the challenges, particularly in the
Goonyella, are a bit different than Hunter Valley. We think it's highly possible that through commercial
structures -- and I alluded to this call it Lana's post-UT4 formulation -- are there ways we can drive
variability out of the whole system, which, in fact, is also visibility going to the producers and saying, let's
talk about your mind loadout processes. Going to the ports and saying, let's make constraints more visible
here. It's not clear to me at all that we can't continue moving down the path that we are moving. Some of
that can be commercial. Some of that can be how we all work. We need to remember, too, look, we are
just four years out of float here. So we are still rapidly evolving and inventing this business. Relationships
are still maturing on both sides of this. So I think the best is yet to come. I think there's a lot that can still
happen in terms of overall fluidity.

ANTHONY MOULDER, ANALYST, CITIGROUP : Anthony Moulder, Citigroup . Just if I start with the
network, is there still a process, the CRIMPing process that goes to the customers to get their engagement
on the size of network going forward?

MIKE FRANCZAK : There is certainly a CRIMP process through UT3 that a number of the major projects
went through, and I have to kind of look at Lana and Pam if UT4 is equally cramped or if I don't know if
there is a CRIMP-like structure in UT4. Simon is leaping up to --.
SIMON SMART, VP, COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT, AURIZON HOLDINGS LIMITED: So under the
current program, we use something similar, but it's not called CRIMP. So we have a network development
plan process, which we rolled out last year and are enhancing that this year, and the intent of that process
is to work through with all the stakeholders in the supply chain and identify likely growth and then likely
opportunities to support that growth. One of the issues with the CRIMP process was it was a very
infrastructure-focused, purely infrastructure focused, and as you've heard today, we are very much more
on about these days just understanding what capacity is required and how most cost-effectively to deliver
that, whether that involves investment in above rail or below rail infrastructure.

So, for example, if the best outcome to get further infrastructure -- further growth volumes through is to
operate longer trains and invest in that capital rather than investing in the capital in the ground, the rail in
the ground, then that's what that process tries to bring to bear. I'll hand over to Lana for part two.

Page261of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.LANA STOCKMAN: In UT3 there is a customer vote process. It hasn't been used utilized much. We
worked quite extensively with QRC in recent months for changes for UT4, which will be included in the
undertaking.

Just in terms of net rate development more generally, we've also improved the process around
prefeasibility and feasibility in concept studies. So there's a lot more information available early on in the
process. And the other fundamental change we've made, proposed to the UT4 is, we removed the queuing
process and moving development to the most likely mine that we would support users or infrastructure
development has got a higher chance of success rather than someone who's just been sitting in a queue
for the longest period of time.

ANTHONY MOULDER: A follow-up to that. Does that give confidence in the outlook statements that you've
given once? The commitment by the customers to the increased utilization of the infrastructure?

LANCE HOCKRIDGE: In terms of our outlook for 2015?

ANTHONY MOULDER: Well and beyond effectively.

LANCE HOCKRIDGE: Yes, yes.

ANTHONY MOULDER: If I switch to the quarterlies that you've released today, obviously lower growth in
Queensland than what was going through the export terminals. Could you talk to whether or not that's an
issue with domestic demand or some issues with stockpiling at the port?
UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Come across anything specific?

LANCE HOCKRIDGE: You saw the comments about the Hail Creek and Wilkie Creek.

ANTHONY MOULDER: But if I combine yours and Pacific National's, it still looks like volumes that you both
transported were lower than what went out through the ports.

LANCE HOCKRIDGE: I think there's always going to be that kind of swing from period to period. Simon
where it goes to exactly the point that you make. It just depends on what's being stockpiled and what the
ship schedule arrangements are. Our view would be and the evidence is that it's aligned, and it's purely a
timing issue around those issues. In other words, we're not seeing anything that is of the nature that you
described.
MIKE FRANCZAK : And if I may add again, from a CQCN point of view, we are 4 million tons ahead of last
year's rate. So we certainly, from an overall network point of view in Queensland, see tremendous demand.

ANTHONY MOULDER: And lastly, if I could, could I get an update on the wicket tonnes? Obviously at 27
million, it looks a high watermark if I look at some of the comments coming from some of those listed
customers.
UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: I guess there is both below and above our overall
observation?

MIKE FRANCZAK : How should we answer that? Of the ramp up -- I don't know what we've said publicly
on ramp up. Can you help?

LANCE HOCKRIDGE: It's okay.

MIKE FRANCZAK : It's okay? So I don't think we're at large variance. I think this story on Bandanna is
being worked through. That's still viewed as a quality asset. Glencore has said they want to rail very hard.
So even with the wicket delay, we think there may be some transitional issues we work through here in
2016 and 2017. But we are very comfortable and really quite bullish on the asset in the mid to longer-term.
That's a bit of a vague answer, but we are happy we are there.

LANCE HOCKRIDGE: I don't know what you're taking away means that subject to those timing issues, our
view is that the below-rail is secure from an above rail point of view. Anthony, I think it remains the case
that there's 17 million -- is that the right number? 17 million contracted. So there still remains 10 million
from an above rail point of view to be contracted.
UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: I'll follow-up on the issue of work. It's safe only half those
27 million tonnes materialize, what's the impact to network regulator return? Do we assume that the
balance on unutilized tons gets socialized across the existing backorder of Mara users?

MIKE FRANCZAK : As Pam said, there's two components: the fee and the regulated tariff. The regulated
tariff is fully-socialized. With the fee, we do have some securitization against that. Those are commercially

Page262of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.private structures, but we do have some securitization against those. But fundamentally, the regulated fee,
the regulated tariff is socialized, and the fees have some recourse.

ANTHONY MOULDER: When you say socialized, it's across the whole Blackwater Mara system, isn't it?

MIKE FRANCZAK : Go ahead, Lana. For one thing, it's not fully decided yet. This is still before and part of
UT4 at this point before the QCA. Go ahead, Lana.

LANA STOCKMAN: Yes, absolutely QCA. At the moment, it's been around about 60% of forecast tonnes
that should be socialized. But there's another broader issue, which is going to be picked up in the pricing
principles of UT4 around how investment has been either socialized or it has a specific standalone tariff.
One of the things that QCA is looking at and this isn't firm yet is the timeframe. So if that's just a ramp up
issue, they may choose to socialize earlier, or if it's a longer duration, they may choose to have a specific
reference tariff. So it's not just whether or not it's socialized isn't just from day one. There's a little bit of a
timing aspect there as well. But the number we are looking at is I think it's [50%] is where you start, where
socialization makes sense.

ANTHONY MOULDER: So just to clarify that. So existing users of Blackwater and Mara may actually see
an increase in their tariffs, if not all the work tonnages materialize?

LANA STOCKMAN: It depends on the QCA. They are going through the analysis like at the very moment in
time we've got quite a lot of engagement, and there's a lot of different modeling of different scenarios. And,
also, it depends on what they want to do with pricing principles under UT4. So there is a broader issue at
play as well. So I don't really want to deduce what the QCA may or may not do at this time.

MIKE FRANCZAK : Well, look, let me just say, there's no doubt we'll have to collectively figure out how to
get through 2016 and 2017. It will be an imperfect world. Beyond that, socialization makes sense for
everybody.

ANTHONY MOULDER: Just an aside, Mike for -- in terms of the -- you probably have an example of
consolidating your railway, your wheels and the equivalent. You've got your competitor also going through
a similar situation. Some of these things strike me as a pretty ubiquitous to both of you in that there's not
really competitive advantages. It's a technology issue. Is there much conversation to actually where there
isn't a difference to actually go and be smart and only have one in New South Wales and one in
Queensland?
MIKE FRANCZAK : I guess I would refer to my old stomping grounds. We would call that coal production
back in North America. So where there was -- there were operating efficiencies, but we could preserve the
competitive environment. So we still had regulation there. Then, we would try to go after those
opportunities.

Quite frankly, there are a few of those between ourselves and some of the other operators. Some we've
been successful with. Others we haven't. And but ultimately the choice of a PN or other operators to invest
capital is their decision and their returns. So we'll continue to do what we need to do to make sure we're
driving competitive returns for our shareholders, and if we are able to do something smartly with the other
guy that benefits our shareholders, we'll do that. But if they have no interest, then we'll move on and do our
own thing.

SCOTT KELLY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY : Scott Kelly, Morgan Stanley . Just wanted to talk about
capital management. It's obviously something you've brought up in the past and again today. Where does
that fit in timing wise in your heads at the moment? Do you believe that growth options like the Pilbara offer
a better risk return profile than your own share price at the moment? Does it -- is it because you're going
through a CapEx peak? You mentioned maintaining an investment grade credit rating. Are you prepared to
let that slip around from where it is?

CLAY MCDONALD: I think timing obviously plays a significant component of that decision-making process.
It is something that we have under review all the time. There is a potentially a significant CapEx spend
coming down the track. But as Lance has reiterated today, the investment in major growth projects will only
happen when a final investment decision is made, and that will be taken at the appropriate point in time.
There's no precommitment to any of the major growth projects.

In the absence of that, we maintain the commitment to a BBB plus credit rating in order to ensure that we
have the appropriate access both to the size of funding we'll need but obviously the costs as well.

SCOTT KELLY: In short, does that mean capital management is on hold until that decision is made?

Page263of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CLAY MCDONALD: No. It's actively considered at all times, and we have to try and weigh up those various
components of that decision-making process. As we invest in the major growth project, it's anything up to a
five-year program of work for us. It's not going to happen on a set day as we've seen with both of the
Galilee and with Wiggins Island. So we just have to try and manage the best we can in terms of the timing
of that.

SCOTT KELLY: Thank you.

CHRIS VAGG : No more questions? If anyone -- we've got no questions online, but if anyone on the line
has another question, please do notify. Nathan?
NATHAN LEAD, ANALYST, MORGANS HOLDINGS PTY LIMITED: Just back on that question of capital
management, you made the statement about maintaining investment grade credit rating. Do you consider
dropping that from a BBB plus rating down to a BBB flat or BBB minus to fund some of these projects, or is
it always targeting to maintain that BBB plus?

CHRIS VAGG : The current proposal in the current environment is we'll maintain BBB plus.
NATHAN LEAD: Just a follow-up question if I can. Could you just outline the differences between in terms
of just accounting the differences between your statutory and regulatory accounting for the network
businesses?

CHRIS VAGG : (laughter) How long have you got?
NATHAN LEAD: Is it quite a lot? I'm sort of thinking obviously you've got your ballasts undercutting; you've
got the rerailing. Is there other major business?

MIKE FRANCZAK : Yes, Pam will field this one.

PAM BAINS: Sorry, the only difference to ballast undercutting is capitalized from an accounting
perspective, not from a regulatory perspective. At the moment, rail renewals are consistent. We are just
awaiting a decision from the CTA.
NATHAN LEAD: Sorry to ask one more question, but you know you made your workbench in Galilee, and I
looked through the presentation and I don't think I see the word Galilee. Is that indicative of your view of
where it's going?

LANCE HOCKRIDGE: No. Quite the reverse, in fact. It is more simply indicative of wanting to clarify some
of those issues with respect to the West Pilbara. In relation to Galilee, we've completed our agreement with
GVK Hancock. There are, as we've indicated at the full year, some conditions precedent before such an
agreement can be executed. And those CPUs are being worked through at the moment, and one might --
you've heard of being between a rock and a hard place. In this case, we're between two billionaires. So
the timing with respect to the clarification of some of those CPs is out of our hands.
There are, however, some commercial timings that will crystallize those arrangements likely before the
end of the calendar year. So, we remain optimistic that those CPs will be resolved and that we will move
forward with that agreement.

In terms of the timing, I think we've been pretty clear in our view that with where on the one hand thermal
coal prices are at the moment. It's not likely to be any time in the next five minutes that that project
proceeds. On the other hand, the fundamentals to go back to the observation that I was making in my
presentation this morning is equally as good in that space. When you look at the quality of the coal and
when you look at the ash, the calorific value, all of those things, there continues to be, as you would
expect, a great deal of work around the -- particularly the mine costs and the mine gate costs.

But the reality is that in terms of timeframe, the go-ahead for the Galilee decision about going ahead will be
some years down the track to coin a phrase.

Again, a reminder in that context that in terms of the deal that to which I refer with respect to rail and port,
we don't need first coal through T3 until 2022, 2023 to still make our return profile.

So in summary, the deal is done as between ourselves and GVK. The CPs have to be resolved before that
goes anywhere. The fundamentals of the project in terms of on the one hand demand, on the other hand
the quality of the coal, we continue to be bullish about. But we don't believe that the current price
environment is going to be a trigger.

CHRIS VAGG : There's no more questions. We'll wrap it up there. Thanks, everyone, for your attention.
We've got lunch outside here. So everyone will still be around, all the EVPs and other senior managers, so

Page264of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.feel free to take the opportunity to ask questions. And for those heading to Rocky, we'll be leaving at 2:00
PM. The bus will be coming to get us at 2:00 PM, so thanks, again, for your time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this
web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon
current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those
stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more
specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and
believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the
assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results
contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF
THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE
AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR
INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO
WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE
COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE
BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND
THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER
DECISIONS.]

CO qrntnl : Aurizon Holdings Limited | dorval : Aurizon Mines Ltd | hclamn : Hecla Mining Co
IN

i3640047 : Military Aircraft | iaer : Aerospace/Defense | idef : Defense Equipment/Products | iindstrls :
Industrial Goods | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i71 : Railroads | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | icargo :
Freight/Cargo Transport | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying | irailtr : Road/Rail Transport |
irfrght : Railroad Freight | itsp : Transportation/Shipping

NS ntra : Transcripts | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E

Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter

RE usa : United States | adelai : Adelaide | saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :

Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | namz : North America

PUB CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
AN Document FNDW000020141029eaaq002xl

Search Summary

Text

Date
Source
Author
Company

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or entitys) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
01/09/2014 to 31/12/2014
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies

Page265of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
2,847
28 August 2018 23:17

Page266of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.