Australia: Privatising poles & wires

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Australia: Privatising poles & wires

By Cherie Marriott
1,276 words
1 July 2014
Finance Asia
MEDFIN
44
English
Copyright 2014. Haymarket Media Limited. All rights reserved.

Global infrastructure funds could pay top dollar as Australia's electricity assets go under the hammer.

Under pressure to ease Sydney's snarling traffic jams by building more roads, the state government of
New South Wales has set up an infrastructure fund and plans to sell assets. Last month it flagged the
possible sale of its electricity distribution and transmission assets, with an enterprise value of around
Adollars 40 billion. Added to similar businesses in the state of Queensland, where local politicians have
signalled a preference for private sector participation, there is a total of Adollars 80 billion worth of poles
and wires ready to be privatised in Australia.

In New South Wales the planned asset disposal won't go ahead until government elections in March next
year but given the state's need to raise funds it is likely to be voted through.
Up for grabs are three independent assets - Ausgrid, Transgrid and Endeavour Energy - that generated
Adollars 3.6 billion in combined earnings in the year to June 2013.

The privatisation is likely to attract investors from far and wide, including overseas infrastructure and
pension funds. The assets already operate like quasi-private businesses with clear opportunities to cut
costs and boost efficiencies, and there isn't much to be spent on upgrades thanks to 10 years' of
over-expenditure on network improvements.

'These assets are core to our investment mandate of providing long-term predictable returns and we will
definitely take a look at them if they come up for sale,' said Angela Karl, principal in global infrastructure
at QIC, a Queensland-based institutional investment manager with over dollars 70 billion under
management.

Investors are keen to know if they will have majority control.

'Potential buyers still don't know if they will have enough influence over the operation of the businesses
to maximise their returns,' said David Leitch, a utilities analyst at UBS.

'One scenario might see the government sell 100% of Ausgrid (the largest business by revenue) and a
minor percentage in Transgrid and Endeavour,' said Leitch. 'Another scenario might see 60% of each
company sold. We don't know yet.'

Karl at QIC said, in the absence of majority control, investors are likely to demand a water-tight corporate
governance structure that allows them to 'drive the strategic direction' of the businesses. 'That might
mean having influence and approval over board composition, executive appointments, strategic and
asset management plans, and capital structures,' Karl said. QIC currently owns a 58% stake in New
Zealand gas and electricity network Powerco.

Regime change

Another area of ambiguity is the regulation dictating how much operators can charge for transmission
services and how much capital they need to spend. Such price-setting regimes haven't always been a
concern in developed countries, which have a reputation for stability. However, in January utilities
investors in the UK were shocked when the water regulator Ofwat dramatically altered its view on the

Page190of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.cost of capital and other key financial parameters in a bid to trim returns to shareholders and pass further
savings onto customers. Similar unexpected alterations to price regimes have been made in
Scandinavian countries.

Graeme Browning, managing partner of transactions at Ernst & Young in Sydney, is confident the same
won't happen in Australia. 'The regulatory framework is reviewed periodically in a very transparent
manner,' he said. 'Any investor is going to understand exactly what they are buying into.'

The transmission companies are digesting a new approach to rates of return announced by the
Australian Energy Regulator in December last year. They include new mechanisms for calculating
return-on-equity and alter the way capital expenditure and operational expenditures are benchmarked.

Gordon Hay, principal in global infrastructure at QIC, said market participants know to expect occasional
adjustments to the regulatory regime. 'When well-signalled rule changes are made in an evolutionary
way, step-by-step, the market is comfortable,' said Hay. 'What the market doesn't like is when the
changes are unexpected, substantial or politicised, as we have seen in some jurisdictions.'

Unless the political mood changes significantly between now and next March the New South Wales
assets are likely to be sold under 99-year leases. The government has had a great deal of success with
this long-term lease model, reaping Adollars 1.75 billion from the privatisation of the Newcastle sea port
in April and another Adollars 5.07 billion from the combined sale of Port Botany and Port Kembla a year
earlier. Both auctions were priced at a gobsmacking 25 times prospective earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation, and amortization and each attracted bids from four or more consortiums, underpinned by
heavyweight offshore institutional buyers. Port Newcastle sold to Hastings Funds Management and
China Merchant, while Ports Botany and Kembla went to a consortium of Industry Funds Management,
Australian Super, Q Super and Tawreed Investments, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Abu Dhabi
Investment Authority.

The electricity businesses are expected to attract the same type of institutional investors and similarly
generous multiples. 'The assets will be hotly contested,' predicts Browning at Ernst & Young, pointing to
a huge increase in the popularity of infrastructure as an asset class among sovereign wealth funds and
pension funds. In the past four years, an estimated dollars 123 billion has been funnelled into dedicated
infrastructure funds around the globe, according to investment research firm Preqin.
Funds will also compete with strategic buyers. Hong Kong's Cheung Kong Infrastructure owns
transmission assets in five different countries, including Australia where it has investments in SA Power
Networks, CitiPower, Powercor, Envestra and Transmission Operations Australia.

Cost savings

The states of Victoria and South Australia sold off their entire electricity distribution networks back in the
late 1990s. Since then operators like CKI have cut operating costs and capital expenditure while still
providing cheaper electricity.

According to an Ernst & Young report released last month, the biggest savings are usually made in the
early years after privatisation. 'Between 1996 and 2010 Victoria saw a drop of 23% in operating costs per
megawatt hour, while Queensland and New South Wales both saw costs rise by 96% and 71% per MWh
respectively,' the report said.

The first task for the new owners of New South Wales' assets will be to loosen the grip of powerful labour
unions and jettison complacent management practices. In 2012, the NSW Auditor General found that
Ausgrid paid more than one million hours in overtime to workers, with around 900 employees earning
1.5 times their annual salary in overtime concessions.
Managers, meanwhile, have spent copious amounts of money gold-plating their networks. Ernst &
Young estimates approximately dollars 6 billion has been overspent on networks in New South Wales
and Queensland in the past 10 years.

Leitch at UBS believes whoever buys the distribution and transmission assets must be content with
slower growth. 'Electricity prices have nearly doubled in the past five years in New South Wales mostly
due to network costs and the capacity for customers to absorb further price hikes has reached its limit,'
he said. 'The era of big household price increases has passed. We think prices will fall by 5% in 2015
and, after that, they will grow at around inflation.'
- Dollars 80 billion of electricity poles and wires for sale Down Under

- Electricity prices have nearly doubled over five years in New South Wales Deutsche Bank, Goldman
Sachs, HSBC, UBS (global coordinators); CIMB, Investec Capital Asia, Jefferies (bookrunners)

Page191of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.--------------------

Did you find this article useful? Why not subscribe to the magazine? Please call 08451 55 73 55 for more
information or visit www.haysubs.com

CO
IN
NS
RE

tastr : TransGrid
i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16101 : Electric Power Generation | ieutil : Electric Utilities | iutil : Utilities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | queensl : Queensland | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia
Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

PUB Haymarket Media Limited
AN

Document MEDFIN0020140716ea710000f

Page192of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.