Rules gag visiting Glencore chairman as merger tilt in wings

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Rules gag visiting Glencore chairman as merger tilt in wings

Resources Peter Ker
508 words
15 December 2014
Canberra Times
CANBTZ
B007
English
(c) 2014 The Canberra Times

Rules gag visiting Glencore chairman as merger tilt in wings

Resources Peter Ker

Flying visit: Tony Hayward.

The arrival of Glencore chairman Tony Hayward into Australia this week will do little to calm tensions
between the Swiss miner and Rio Tinto, amid expectations a second proposal to merge the two mining
giants could emerge early next year. Mr Hayward's flying visit to Australia will include a speaking
engagement in Melbourne on Tuesday and meetings with some of Glencore's Australian staff, but British
takeover laws will probably prevent him from publicly spruiking the merits of a merger with Rio this week.
It is believed the British rules, which require a six-month freeze between an unsuccessful first acquisition
or merger attempt and a second bid, will even prevent Mr Hayward from approaching Rio's
Australian-based shareholders in private to discuss a second offer. Glencore reportedly approached
some of Rio's bigger owners, including its biggest shareholder Chinalco, about a merger before Rio
announced it had been the subject of a merger offer on October 7. Several of Rio's large Australian
shareholders indicated they were not scheduled to meet Mr Hayward this week. Mr Hayward, who was
chief executive of BP during the disastrous Deepwater Horizon oil spill in 2010, will speak at an
Australian Institute of Company Directors event in Melbourne on Tuesday, which will take

place under strict "Chatham House Rules" that prevent attendees from reporting his comments. The two
companies have been shadow boxing ever since Glencore's approach to Rio was publicised, but

the Rio merger is just one of several transactions Glencore has pursued in recent months. The Swiss
company was deeply involved in BHP Billiton's sale process for its Nickel West business in Western
Australia earlier this year, but couldn't convince the nation's biggest company to part with the asset,
which BHP says is no longer subject to a formal sale process. Speaking at an investor briefing in London
last week, Glencore's nickel department director Kenny Ives hinted that the battle for Nickel West might
not be over. "We would love to have bought it but literally it didn't work out. It is as simple as that. Who
knows what the future brings?" he said. Glencore chief executive Ivan
Glasenberg told the same briefing Glencore would continue to be opportunistic in the hunt for acquisition
targets, and the depressed prices in iron ore and oil could make distressed producers in those sectors
vulnerable to an approach. While Glencore said it would retain a competitive base dividend and would
continue the current $US1 billion round of share buybacks, the company was less clear on its plan for
shareholder returns than other miners have been. Rio, in particular, has promised to reveal a plan to
deliver increased shareholder returns in February. Rio's Australian shares were at $53.67 at the close on
Friday. The stock has fallen 24 per cent since February.

RF
CO
IN

63083845
almcor : Aluminium Corporation of China Limited | march : Glencore PLC
i22 : Primary Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | i2245 : Aluminum | i8396 : Diversified Holding
Companies | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services

Page120of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cmerg : Mergers | cacqu :
Acquisitions | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty Ltd
AN

Document CANBTZ0020141214eacf0000w

Page121of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.