DATAROON

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
DATAROON

Edited by Bridget Carter
1,071 words
24 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
18
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Hart set on $1bn bonanza in sell-off ONE of Australasia’s largest suppliers of wood products, Carter
Holt Harvey Building Supplies, is being positioned for a sale that could reap New Zealand’s richest
man Graeme Hart at least $1 billion.

It is understood that Mr Hart’s private empire, Rank Group, had drafted in advisers Goldman Sachs
and Credit Suisse First Boston for the potential divestment of the building materials business.

It comprises three divisions — Woodproducts Australia, Woodproducts New Zealand and Carters
Building Supplies.

A sales process could attract some of Australia’s largest building materials players as suitors.
But the sale will hinge on the price.

Australia’s building materials industry is facing growing competition from cheaper imports, causing
major players to shut down local plants, Many assets in the sector are being sounded out by some
private equity suitors, hoping to secure them at discounts.

Boral is understood to have circled the business in the past, but was thought to have been put off by
a price considered too bullish.

Boral and Carters jointly own a sawmill at Oberon in central western NSW. Fletcher Building, a
dual-listed Australasian business, could also be a logical suitor.

Carters building products operation employs 5000 people and has annual sales of about $2.1bn,
selling a wide range of timber ranging from plywood to flooring and are sold under brand names such
as Pinex, All Seasons and Ramsey Roundwood.

Should Mr Hart launch the sales process, it will follow others this year for parts of his global
packaging empire worth a collective $US9bn ($10.4bn) through Credit Suisse, JPMorgan, Evergreen
and Goldman Sachs.

Mr Hart is reportedly worth $NZ6.4bn ($5.8bn).

Ferrovial power bid SPANISH construction giant Ferrovial could be positioning itself to join one of the
potential bidding consortiums for the NSW government’s $30bn worth of poles and wires electricity
assets, in what would be one of the largest privatisation deals in Australian history, according to
sources.
It explains Ferrovial’s latest attempt to buy listed services company Transfield for $1bn, with thought
that the business would position the group to wade deeper into the Australian utilities arena.

Among Transfield’s activities are managing, operating and maintaining services to the power
generation and the associated transmission and distribution industry. Investment banks have

Page80of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.launched preliminary discussions with potential buyers of NSW power assets, which are likely to be
sold through Deutsche and UBS after the state election next year.

The assets are set to attract some of the world’s largest infrastructure investors and sovereign wealth
funds. Australian Super, Borealis and Hastings Funds Management, Singapore Power, Cheung Kong
Infrastructure Holdings, State Grid Corporation of China, Australia’s APA Group and Duet have all
been touted as potential bidders.

Ferrovial is conducting due diligence on Transfield and may lift its offer of $1.95 a share, which the
board had said was too low.
The Spanish group and its UBS advisers targeted the listed company after initially mulling a potential
acquisition of Leighton Holdings contractor John Holland and its services assets, which are
expected to sell for a price in the billions.
Spectators are betting Leighton will announce by the year’s end that China Communications
Construction Company will buy John Holland, while a private equity buyer is mooted for the services
assets, in deals advised by Macquarie Capital.

Adding weight to the theory is that Leighton Holdings is said to have recently included CCCC in talks,
with its John Holland clients still owing about $200 million for work so that the Chinese suitor could
understand what the claims were.
Davis mulls copper bid FORMER Xstrata boss Mick Davis is set to throw his hat in the ring for the
sale of Anglo American’s three Chile copper mines, but some are suggesting the mining tycoon
could face competition from Australian listed suitors OZ Minerals or PanAust.
Flyers for a sale of the assets, which are not all fully owned by Anglo American, have recently been
sent out.
The mines are set to sell for at least $1bn and Mr Davis’s company, X2, is known to be cashed up
and on the hunt for acquisition opportunities after previously being linked to a potential purchase of
BHP Billiton’s operations.

Mr Davis, who sold Xstrata last year to Glencore for $US27bn, has raised $US4.8bn ($5.5bn) from a
handful of investors to set up a diversified mining giant, according to reports.

Sources have said OZ Minerals, which has a $1bn market capitalisation, would probably bid, but the
question could be whether the company is large enough to take on heavyweight rival investors.

PanAust was also thought to be potentially in the mix.

However, major players out of Canada were expected to be strong contenders.
Media assets a hard sell QUADRANT Private Equity’s successful $725m raising for its $1bn aged
care float, Estia Health, shows there is still plenty of appetite from Australian investors when it comes
to securing exposure to the healthcare sector.

But trying to create the same level of demand from local groups for New Zealand newspapers and
radio assets has not proved easy for listed APN News & Media.

After a string of management meetings with potential investors last week, it seems the most likely
scenario to play out is that APN will launch an initial public offering for its New Zealand division,
NZME, next year, with a greater effort on targeting shareholders across the Tasman.

It is understood the float is being pitched as a high-yielding retail play for the Kiwis.

Forsyth Barr and First NZ Capital-Credit Suisse have been fronting investors, testing appetite for a
potential float estimated at between $280m and $490m.

The portfolio includes New Zealand’s largest newspaper, The New Zealand Herald, and No 1 radio
station NewstalkZB.

It is understood APN was hoping to secure about seven times earnings for the business, but others
say a multiple of about four times is more appropriate.
Retail currency broker FxPrimus is the latest company trying to capitalise on buoyant local
sharemarket conditions. The company, which recently held a pre-IPO roadshow with adviser Wilson

Page81of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.HTM, is believed to have aspirations to raise $117m, to launch on market with a value of $225m. This
equates to 15 times net profit for 2015,and some are sceptical the deal will get away.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

cholt : Carter Holt Harvey Ltd | rkgrp : Rank Group Ltd
ibuildpr : Building Materials/Products | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i0 : Agriculture | i02 :
Forestry/Logging
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020150417eabo000ph

Page82of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.