Paladin lines up $US190m mine stake sale

Paladin lines up $US190m mine stake sale

20 January 2014

HD
BY Michael Ramsey
WC 656 words
PD
SN WA Business News
SC WABN
LA
English
CY
© Copyright 2014 Business News Pty Ltd.
LP

TD

Paladin Energy managing director John Borshoff says the company's $US190 million sale of a minority
stake in its Langer Heinrich mine vindicates a decision to walk away from sale negotiations last year.
Paladin announced today it had signed an agreement to sell a 25 per cent equity stake in the mine to
Chinese utility China National Nuclear Corporation, in a deal which will provide the company with
breathing space to pay off debt as it awaits a recovery in the depressed uranium market.

The deal will allow CNNC to purchase a pro-rata share of product from Langer Heinrich at the prevailing
market spot price under an offtake agreement.
Paladin has been looking to offload a minority stake in Langer Heinrich for a number of months in order to
shore up its balance sheet, which has taken a hit from the persistently low uranium price.
The company posted a $US40 million loss in the three months to September, despite achieving record
production at Langer Heinrich.
Paladin had been poised to sell a 15 to 20 per cent stake in Langer Heinrich in August last year to two
nuclear power companies but terminated the deal at the eleventh hour, claiming the potential buyers had
"shifted the goalposts" in the final stages of negotiations with a proposal which did not reflect the value of
the asset.

"Today's announcement represents the conclusion of a two-year process that has involved a hell of a lot
of hard work, perseverance and belief from the Paladin team," Mr Borshoff told reporters in a telephone
briefing.

"I'll not go into the details of how today's agreement compares to what was in front of us last August other
than to say I believe the Paladin board's decisions have been fully vindicated."
CNCC is described by Paladin as one of China's major nuclear investors, acting as a principal designer
and general contractor of domestic nuclear power plants as well as a key player in the development of
nuclear technology.
Mr Borshoff said the deal meant Paladin had established a long-term relationship with a company
destined to become a major participant in the global nuclear power industry.
With Paladin this month securing new debt refinancing agreements, Mr Borshoff said the company had
effectively bolstered its financial position by $US250 million.

The funds are likely to have a significant impact on Paladin's debt repayment schedule, with a $US300
million bond due for repayment in November 2015.
Paladin has consistently said it will not expand its operations until the uranium price reaches at least
$US70 per pound - double the current uranium spot price.
However, the company is confident demand will rebound in the coming years, creating supply-side
pressures which Paladin could be in a strong position to capitalise on.

Paladin is targeting 5.7Mlb of production at Langer Heinrich in the 2014 financial year but the mine is
capable of being expanded to produce up to 8.5Mlb per annum given sufficient price incentive.

Page168of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Borshoff predicted the uranium industry would be forced to undergo "essential and necessary
recalibration" in the years to come as major economies turned to nuclear power, pointing out that 90 per
cent of the world's uranium production was controlled by just nine companies, with BHP Billiton, Rio Tinto,
Cameco and Paladin the only non-government organisations amongst them.
The company noted in its most recent quarterly report that there were 71 nuclear reactors being built
around the world, which was nine more than just before the Fukushima nuclear disaster.
The sale of the Langer Heinrich minority stake is subject to Chinese regulatory approvals, which are
expected to be obtained by mid-2014.
CNCC has agreed to pay a $US20 million non-refundable deposit in the interim.

Paladin shares were trading 2.7 per cent higher at 57.5 cents at 11:30am WST.

CO chinuc : China National Nuclear Corp. | palrs : Paladin Energy Limited
IN

i1610109 : Electric Power Generation - Nuclear | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16101 : Electric Power
Generation | ieutil : Electric Utilities | iutil : Utilities | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | iuran : Uranium Ore Mining
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries
| dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

NS

RE

PUB Business News Pty Ltd
AN

Document WABN000020140120ea1k0002t

Page169of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.