Juliana House sold to Melbourne company

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Juliana House sold to Melbourne company

By Meredith Clisby Domain Editor
410 words
4 December 2014
Canberra Times
CANBTZ
A008
English
(c) 2014 The Canberra Times

PRIME SPOT: The 11-storey Juliana House has been sold for $28.8 million but the Abode Hotel will
continue to operate at the site. Photo: GRAHAM TIDY Juliana House sold to Melbourne company

By Meredith Clisby Domain Editor

A former office block in Woden that was converted into a modern hotel has been sold for $28.8 million in
an off-market transaction. Local developers Geocon have opted to sell Juliana House but will continue to
run their third Abode Hotel at the site. The transformed building at 10 Bowes Street was sold to a
Melbourne-based investment company with overseas interests. Geocon managing director Nick
Georgalis said the company had decided to dispose of the asset to raise capital expenditure and focus
on the delivery of other projects in the territory. He said the company had 400 units under construction
and another 330 planned for when work starts on the Wayfarer tower in Belconnen in February. Mr
Georgalis said a further 1000 units were committed for delivery next year, including a development at
Southquay Greenway and the new Gungahlin mixed-use project. Last month, the company announced it
had scrapped plans for a commercial precinct in the town centre and would instead build a 650-unit
residential development in three tall
towers. Mr Georgalis said the sale was completed off the market and there had been four strong potential
buyers. "I think that shows a lot of strength in the market," he said. Geocon purchased the 11-storey
1970s Juliana House building in 2012 for $7.5 million and completed a seven-month $31.5 million
transformation in 2013. The hotel opened in late August last year. Mr Georgalis said Geocon had signed
a lease to run the hotel in the building for the next 15 years. Jones Lang La Salle agent Greg Lyons, who
marketed the sale with CBRE's Andrew Stewart, said it had been quite an unusual offering to investors.
"You rarely see a hotel with a long-term leaseback," he said. Mr Lyons, who has now sold Juliana House
three times, said there had been interest from Singapore and Hong Kong in the building. The adaptive
reuse project was the first Green Star and NABERS rated hotel in Australia. Mr Georgalis said he would
consider a similar project if it was in the right location and offered the same opportunity for conversion.

RF
NS

RE

62749785
c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | victor : Victoria
(Australia)

PUB Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty Ltd
AN

Document CANBTZ0020141203eac40001g

Page194of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.