PROCEEDINGS OF THE NINETY-FIFTH ANNUAL MEETING

John A Smallwood

HD PROCEEDINGS OF THE NINETY-FIFTH ANNUAL MEETING
BY
WC 8,580 words
PD 1 December 2014
SN The Wilson Journal of Ornithology
SC WLBU
PG 800
VOL Volume 126; Issue 4; ISSN: 15594491
LA
CY © 2014 The Wilson Journal of Ornithology. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All Rights

English

Reserved.

LP

TD

The Ninety-fifth Annual Meeting of The Wilson Ornithological Society was held in joint conference with the
Association of Field Ornithologists from Thursday, 29 May, through Sunday, 1 June 2014, on the campus
of Salve Regina University in Newport, Rhode Island. Jameson F. Chase of the Department of Biology
and Biomedical Sciences, Salve Regina University, and Scott H. Stoleson of the U.S.D.A. Forest Service
chaired the Committee on Local Arrangements. In addition to Salve Regina University, which hosted the
meeting, the Norman Bird Sanctuary, the Audubon Society of Rhode Island, and the U.S. Fish and
Wildlife Service served as local sponsors.

The Council met from 0906 to 1720 on Thursday, 29 May, in the Pell Boardroom of the Young Building,
Salve Regina University. That evening there was an ice-breaker social for the conferees and guests at
Ochre Court.

The scientific program began on Friday morning with the 2014 Margaret Morse Nice Plenary Lecture,
delivered by the 2014 Margaret Morse Nice Medal recipient, Donald Kroodsma, and titled "Birdsong: the
hour before dawn.'' On Saturday morning David Wiens presented the AFO plenary lecture, ' 'Barred Owls
in the Pacific Northwest: ecological impacts on Spotted Owls.'' The scientific program also included 60
papers organized into eight sessions, two symposia consisting of 13 papers on Ospreys in New England
and on avian frugivores and their conservation, and 57 posters.

The Local Committee hosted field trips to local birding spots on Friday and Saturday morning, including
Miantonomi Memorial Park and Sachuest Point National Wildlife Refuge. On Sunday, conferees visited
the Norman Bird Sanctuary to observe birds in a diverse array of habitats and to tour the captive raptor
education facility. The Audubon Society of Rhode Island hosted a birding trip to several coastal
"hotspots." Still other conferees went on a pelagic birding trip.

On Saturday evening the conferees enjoyed a social gathering prior to the annual banquet. The evening
events included dinner and afterwards WOS President Robert L. Curry, on behalf of all assembled, offered
gratitude to the Local Committee for a successful conference. President Curry thanked the three elected
members of Council who had completed their terms of office, William H. Barnard, Margret I. Hatch, and
Mark E. Hauber, and welcomed the three newly elected members of Council, Jeremy J. Kirchman, Diann
Prosser, and Jeffrey A. Stratford. President Curry also asked all WOS Past-Presidents, Council, and
Committee Members to stand and be recognized for their service to the Society. The following WOS
awards, grants, and commendations also were presented at the banquet:

MARGARET MORSE NICE MEDAL

(for the WOS plenary lecture)

Donald Kroodsma, "Birdsong: the hour before dawn.''

EDWARD'S PRIZE

(for the best major article in volume 125 of The Wilson Journal of Ornithology)

Page120of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Donald Kroodsma, Debra Hamilton, Julio E. Sánchez, Bruce E. Byers, Herna Fandiño-Mariño, David W.
Stemple, Jill M. Trainer, and George V. N. Powell, "Behavioral evidence for song learning in the suboscine
bellbirds (Procnias spp.; Cotingidae).''

STORRS L. OLSON PRIZE

(for the best book review in volume 125 of The Wilson Journal of Ornithology.)

Robert H. Day, ' 'Petrels, albatrosses, and storm petrels of North America: a photographic guide,'' by Steve
N. G. Howell.

WILLIAM AND NANCY KLAMM SERVICE AWARD

(for distinguished service to The Wilson Ornithological Society)

Douglas A. James.

LOUIS AGASSIZ FUERTES GRANTS

Alyssa Borowske, University of Connecticut, "Effects of life history strategies on migration timing and
distance in tidal marsh sparrows.''

Molly Staley, Auburn University, "Understanding the mechanisms of pathogen host switches and emerging
infectious diseases in wild birds.''

GEORGE A. HALL/HAROLD F. MAYFIELD GRANT

W. David Jakim, Port Washington, New York, "Port Washington habitat matters.''

PAUL A. STEWART GRANTS

Kathryn McCollum, University of Nebraska, Lincoln, "Arid landscape in Botswana.''

Jack Stenger, University of Cincinnati, ' 'Impact of climate change on the migratory behavior and dispersal
of Eastern Bluebirds during a 150-year span.''

Emily J. Williams, Kansas State University, ' 'Grasshopper Sparrows on the move: what drives
within-season dispersal in Grasshopper Sparrows?'' '

David Zonana, University of Colorado, Boulder, "How do sexual signals mediate social interactions?
Applying social network theory to signal-driven social transactions in the Barn Swallow (Hirundo rustica).''

WOS RESEARCH GRANTS

(New for 2014. Two of the four grants are designated for master's students.)
Stephanie Y. Chin (M.S. student), College of William and Mary, "The effect of dietary methylmercury
exposure on parental care of an avian model species.''
Katherine Freeman (M.S. student), Villanova University, "Impacts of post-fledgling survival on reproductive
success in an endangered and cooperatively breeding passerine.''

Misha Blizzard (Ph.D. candidate), University of Chicago, "Proximate mechanisms of female aggression in
a sex-role reversed species.''

Marissa Lim (Ph.D. candidate), Stony Brook University, "Investigating the genetic basis of high altitude
adaptation in Andean hummingbirds.''

WOS/AFO STUDENT TRAVEL AWARDS

Zachary Aidala, CUNY Hunter College and the Graduate Center, ' 'The role of egg-nest contrast in the
rejection of parasitic eggs.''

Carissa Alza, SUNY College of Environmental Science and Forestry, "How beavers influence habitat and
species diversity of breeding birds in the Central Adirondacks.''

Fidelis Atuo, Oklahoma State University, "Predator abundance and community composition at two quail
recovery sites: associated predation risk for declining population of Northern Bobwhite.''

Page121of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Sarah Baillie, Villanova University, "Boldness in response to predatory threat in Carolina Chickadees
(Poecile carolinensis): how do males and females compare?''

Alyssa Borowske, University of Connecticut, ' 'Molt as an indicator of reproductive investment: a
comparison of species and sexes.''

Richard Botta, Florida Atlantic University, ' 'A habitat suitability model for wading birds within the littoral
zone of a large subtropical lake: correlating hydrology and nesting.''

Leonardo Calle, Florida Atlantic University, "Moon phase and habitat availability drive foraging
abundances of Little Blue Herons (Egretta caerula) and Great White Herons (Ardea herodias).''

Christine Eldredge, Villanova University, ' 'Patterns of parental attentiveness in Carolina Chickadees
(Poecile carolinensis).''

Alyssa Fitzgerald, SUNY at Albany, "Recent niche divergence and speciation in Catharus thrushes.''

Danielle Frevola, Northern Kentucky University, "Carolina Chickadees' parental provisioning rates do not
predict nestling size.''

Sarah Goodwin, University of Massachusetts Amherst, "Defense coalitions and vocal performance in
Chipping Sparrows.''

Laura Hilberg, Antioch University of New England, "Geographic variation in Nelson's Sparrow
(Ammodramus nelsoni) song.''

Jennalee Holzschuh, SUNY College at Brockport, ' 'A longitudinal study to examine the causal relationship
between energetic condition and orientation in White-throated Sparrows ( Zonotrichia albicollis).''

Blake Jones, University of Memphis, ' 'How to make a bird ignore a predator: the influence of stress during
memory consolidation.''

Chenghui Ju, CUNY Queens College, "An integrative analysis to characterize song diversity of the House
Finch (Carpodacus mexicanus) in North America.''

Ki Jung, University of Maryland Baltimore County, "Song patterning, organization, and output in the
Grasshopper Sparrow (Ammodramus savannarum).''

Evan Kelemen, Villanova University, "Playbacks elicit no difference between song types but suggest
personality in Carolina Chickadees ( Poecile carolinensis).''

Cody Kent, Ohio Wesleyan University, ' 'Feather degrading bacteria and avian plumage.''

Zachary Ladin, University of Delaware, ' 'Diet, fecundity, and calcium limitation in breeding songbirds.''

Alix Matthews, Rhodes College, "Avian malaria in east Tennessee.''

Oliver Muellerklein, University of Maryland Baltimore County, "Evaluating time as a critical component of
territory analysis in Grasshopper Sparrows (Ammodramus savannarum).''

Gretchen Newberry, University of South Dakota, "Habitat associations of Common Nighthawks
(Chordeiles minor) in southeastern South Dakota.''

Kristen Oliver, Coker College, "Bacterial growth inhibition of the uropygial gland secretions of passerines in
South Carolina.''

Kelly Rauschmeier, Wilkes University, "Are songbirds exposed to contaminants from natural gas drilling in
Pennsylvania?''

Sean Rune, University of Maine, Orono, "Physiological condition and stopover feeding and roosting
behavior in migratory shorebirds in a critically important estuarine environment.''

Katharine Ruskin, University of Maine, Orono, ' 'Latitudinal trends in Saltmarsh Sparrow ( Ammodramus
caudacutus) nest failure from competing risks.''

Taza Schaming, Cornell University, "The impact of whitebark pine (Pinus albicaulis) mortality on Clark's
Nutcracker (Nucifraga Columbiana) habitat use.''

Emily Sinnott, Oklahoma State University, "The use of riparian versus upland habitats by eastern forest
birds at the western edge of their breeding range.''

Page122of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Christina Slover, West Virginia University, "Whip-poor-wills are associated with the interface between
forest-agriculture habitat in rural West Virginia.''

Lainga Tong, CUNY Hunter College, "Psychophysical properties of egg rejection decisions by hosts of
parasitic birds.''

Nathaniel Warning, University of Northern Colorado, "Paving the way: functional nest architecture of the
Rock Wren (Salpinctes obsoletus).''

Maria Wheeler, Duquesne University, "The genetic impact of translocations and reintroduction: a tale of
two eagles.''

Jared Wolfe, Louisiana State University, "Influence of habitat degradation on the behavior and
demography of a central Amazonian bird community.''

ALEXANDER WILSON PRIZE

(for best student paper)

Dana Moseley, University of Massachusetts Amherst, ' 'Evidence of innate predispositions and learning of
female preferences in Swamp Sparrows.''

LYNDS JONES PRIZE

(for best student poster presentation)

Chenghui Ju, CUNY Queens College, ' 'Change of syntactical structure of songs of the House Finch
(Carpodacus mexicanus) across the geographic range.''

NANCY KLAMM BEST UNDERGRADUATE STUDENT ORAL PAPER AWARD

Cody Kent, Ohio Wesleyan University, "Feather degrading bacteria and avian plumage.''

NANCY KLAMM BEST UNDERGRADUATE STUDENT POSTER AWARD

Gregory Tito, College of William and Mary, "Do social and environmental factors influence vigilance in two
Australian songbirds?'' '

Selection Committee for the Nice Medal: Robert C. Beason (Chair), Robert L. Curry, E. Dale Kennedy, and
Sara R. Morris; for the Edwards Prize: Mary Bomberger Brown (Chair), Morton L. Isler, and Storrs L.
Olson; for the Olson Prize: John R. Faaborg (Chair), Daniel Catlin, and Ellen Paul; for the Klamm Service
Award: Sara R. Morris (Chair), Richard C. Banks, Charles R. Blem, Leann Blem, Clait E. Braun, Jerome A.
Jackson, and Doris J. Watt; for the Fuertes, Hall/ Mayfield, Stewart, and WOS Research grants: Jameson
F. Chace (Chair), Michael Akresh, Eric Atkinson, Sarah Ballie, William H. Barnard, John Bates, Rauri
Bowie, Rachel Eaton, Annette Fayette, Laurie J. Goodrich, Kamal Islam, Landon Jones, Shane Pruett,
Nate Rice, Scott Robinson, Andrew Rush, Steven Schoech, Travis Wilcoxen, and Douglas W. White; for
the WOS/AFO Student Travel Awards: Margret I. Hatch, Dale Gawlik, and Julie Jelicka (Co-Chairs),
William H. Barnard, Mark E. Hauber, Todd E. Katzner, Letitia M. Reichart, Robert Smith, Jeffrey A.
Stratford, Lindsey Walters, and Douglas W. White; and for the Alexander Wilson Prize, the Lynds Jones
Prize, and the Nancy Klamm undergraduate presentation awards: Sara R. Morris, Diane L. Neudorf, and
M. Victoria McDonald (C°Chairs), Sarah Baillie, Alyssa Borowske, Bill Brown, Leonardo Calle, Jennifer
Chastant, Michael Collins, Robert L. Curry, Mark E. Deutschlander, Pablo Elizondo, Hugh Ellis, Chris
Elphick, Sarah Goodwin, Margret I. Hatch, Mark E. Hauber, Blake Jones, Evan Kelemen, E. Dale
Kennedy, Becky Kern, Jessica Klassen, Bernard Lohr, Dana Moseley, Letitia M. Reichart, Kate Ruskin,
Dennis G. Siegfried, Scott H. Stoleson, Jeffrey A. Stratford, Todd J. Underwood, Jennifer Walsh, Lindsey
Walters, Doris J. Watt, Maria Wheeler, Douglas W. White, and Stephanie Wright.

COMMENDATION

WHEREAS The Wilson Ornithological Society and the Association of Field Ornithologists held a joint
meeting in Newport, Rhode Island, at the invitation of Salve Regina University; and

RECOGNIZING that the Committee on the Scientific Program, under the adept direction of Mark
Deutschlander and Martin Raphael, provided an outstanding program of oral and poster presentations,
including two captivating plenary lectures, a symposium on Ospreys in New England and Long Island and
a symposium on the conservation implications of avian frugivory; and

RECOGNIZING that the Committee on Local Arrangements, through the tireless efforts of Jameson Chace
and Scott Stoleson, benefiting from members and numerous resources from Salve Regina University,

Page123of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Norman Bird Sanctuary, the Audubon Society of Rhode Island, and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service,
provided a conference venue with comfortable accommodations, extraordinary seascapes, enjoyable bird
watching trips, and a stunning campus elegantly fashioned from a few modest cottages,

THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that The Wilson Ornithological Society and the Association of Field
Ornithologists commend the Committee on the Scientific Program, the Committee on Local Arrangements,
and the local hosts for a delightful and informative meeting in Newport.

BUSINESS MEETING

President Robert L. Curry called the Annual Business Meeting to order at 1751 Friday, 30 May 2014, in
O'Hare Room 160, Salve Regina University. A quorum of 25 members was required to proceed. Having
met that criterion, President Curry began the meeting by updating those assembled on the preparations
underway for the 2015 Annual Meeting, to be held jointly with the Association of Field Ornithologists and
the Society of Canadian Ornithologists/ Socie des Ornithologistes du Canada at Acadia University in
Wolfville, Nova Scotia, 16 to 18 July. Dave Shutler will serve as the Chair of the Local Arrangements
Committee. Next, First VicePresident Sara R. Morris provided information on the 2016 Annual Meeting, in
which The Wilson Ornithological Society will participate in the Sixth North American Ornithological
Conference, which will take place 16-21 August in Washington D.C.

President Curry then introduced Secretary John A. Smallwood, who summarized for those gathered what
had taken place the previous day at the Council Meeting. At the end of 2013, the Society's membership
stood at 1562 individuals, including 262 students. In addition, 278 libraries and institutions subscribed to
The Wilson Journal of Ornithology. Secretary Smallwood then asked those assembled to stand in
recognition of the following members who were recently deceased: Stewart Holohan (Dublin, Ireland),
Malcolm Coulter (Chocorua, New Hampshire), and Julian Dusi (Auburn, Alabama).

Secretary Smallwood reported that the Society enjoys an excellent financial position, with an endowment
of over $3,100,000, the highest it has ever been, and that the endowment continues to increase in the
current market. On behalf of Council, the Secretary offered its sincerest gratitude to the WOS Finance,
Audit, and Investment Committee, chaired by Allan R. Keith, for its perspicacious management of the
Society's assets.

Secretary Smallwood then introduced the Chair of the WOS Research Grants Committee, Jameson F.
Chace, who described two new grants that the Society offers. Beginning this year, up to four Wilson
Ornithological Society Research Grants are awarded annually, at $1,500 each, for study in any area of
ornithology. At least two of these grants are awarded to master's students. Beginning in 2015, the Society
will offer two Wilson Undergraduate Mentoring Grants of $3,000 each. These grants include $1,000 for
research and up to $1,000 each to the student and mentor to help defray the cost associated with
attending a subsequent WOS Annual Meeting to present the results of the funded project.
Treasurer Melinda M. Clark then presented the Treasurer's report, which is included in these Proceedings,
below. Following the Treasurer's presentation, Mary Bomberger Brown, Editor of The Wilson Journal of
Ornithology, presented her Editor's Report (included below). On the previous day Council had
unanimously and enthusiastically re-elected Editor Brown to her next 1-year term as Editor.

Timothy J. O'Connell, Chair, presented the report of the Nominating Committee, in which the following
slate of candidates was offered: President, Robert L. Curry; First Vice-President, Sara R. Morris; Second
Vice-President, Mark E. Deutschlander; Secretary, John A. Smallwood; Treasurer, Melinda M. Clark; and
members of Council for 2014-2017 (three nominees for three positions), Jeremy J. Kirchman, Diann
Prosser, and Jeffrey A. Stratford. Having asked for additional nominations from the floor and hearing none,
Chairperson O'Connell closed the nominations as a result of a motion by Ellen Paul, seconded by Sara R.
Morris, which was passed unanimously by acclamation. Clait E. Braun immediately moved that the
Secretary cast a single unanimous vote for the slate of nominees. This motion was seconded by Robert A.
Askins, and again by acclamation, it came to pass.

Following an announcement by Margret I. Hatch, Chair of the WOS Student Travel Awards Committee,
regarding the distribution of travel award checks, and having completed the agenda of the Business
Meeting, President Curry inquired if anyone present had further items of business. Because no one did,
Douglas A. James moved and Dennis G. Siegfried seconded that the Business Meeting come to an end.
And upon the third voice acclamation of this assembly, we adjourned at 1815.

EDITOR'S REPORT

This report summarizes The Wilson Journal of Ornithology editorial activities for 2013 (Volume 125). All
four issues (March, June, September, and December) were published on time. Volume 125 consisted of
894 pages, including 66 Major Articles, 50 Short Communications, 13 Book Reviews, 5 Birds of Alexander

Page124of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Wilson vignettes, the Klamm Service Award, the Proceedings of the Annual Meeting, a List of Reviewers,
the Index, and the annual Table of Contents.

During the 2013 calendar year, 226 manuscripts were submitted for publication in the WJO. Of these
manuscripts, 98 have been declined, 95 have been accepted and 33 await disposition (in review or in
revision). These manuscripts were evaluated by 345 reviewers; 24 reviewers contributed two or more
reviews. The efforts of our cadre of reviewers help us maintain the quality of the WJO and we are grateful
for their assistance.

We received manuscripts for review from authors based in Argentina, Australia, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada,
Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, France, Germany, Honduras, Hungary, India, Iran, Israel, Italy,
Japan, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Northern Cyprus, Norway, Pakistan,
Peru, Poland, Singapore, South Africa, Switzerland, Tunisia, Turkey, the United Kingdom, and the United
States. Research for the manuscripts was conducted in the same countries.

Committees were formed to select the Edwards Prize winner for the Best Paper (Mort Isler, Storrs Olson
and Mary Bomberger Brown) and the Olson Prize for the Best Book Review (John Faaborg, Ellen Paul
and Daniel Catlin) published in Volume 125. The award winners will be announced and presented at the
2014 Annual Meeting. John Faaborg will replace Margaret Voss as Book Review Editor for the WJO
beginning with Issue 1 (March), Volume 126. Melissa J. Panella continues as the Associate Editor of the
WJO. Sharon Kindall, the longtime Allen Press account manager who supported The Wilson Bulletin (WB)
and the WJO retired and was replaced by Nora Fairchild. Edward (Jed) Burtt is expanding the Birds of
Alexander Wilson vignette series to include important moments in the life of Alexander Wilson; this series
will debut in Issue 1, Volume 126.

We fulfilled a number of permission requests to post WB and WJO articles on personal websites,
institutional repositories, departmental newsletters, Digital Commons, and ResearchGate. We gave
permission for two WJO articles to be included as chapters in Ph.D. dissertations (125:502-512 and
124:139-145). Permission was granted to reproduce material from WB 96:268-276 and WB 90:640-642 in
Reviews of environmental contamination and toxicology [James Byard, Springer], material from WB
66:196-206 in Introduction to second language acquisition [John Wiley], material from WB 99:601-610 in
Soundscape ecology [Almo Farina, Springer], material from WB 28:74-75 in Father to son [James Watson,
Cold Spring Harbor Press], material from WJO 118:178-186 in San Francisco estuary and watershed
science, and material from the webpage and WB 114:396 in AQA tests [UK academic examinations].

We welcome questions, comments, suggestions, and other inquiries from the WOS Council, WOS
membership, WJO readers, and others to improve the quality and impact of the journal.

Mary Bomberger Brown, Editor

The reports of the standing committees are as follows:

REPORT OF THE MEMBERSHIP COMMITTEE

Our current membership for 2014 (as of 30 April) is 1,442: 779 regular members, 408 life members, 232
student members, 17 family members, 5 sustaining members, and 1 complimentary member. This number
is expected to increase somewhat as additional members join/ renew throughout the year, although the
main membership "season" is likely completed. The current number also does not include free student
memberships awarded for presenting at the 2014 Annual Meeting. In 2013, we ended the year with 188
more members than our current total, consisting of 117 more paying members and 71 free student
members.

The membership numbers for WOS over the past six years have declined slightly, from 1,723 in 2008 to
1,630 in 2013. This pattern is similar to that of the other societies managed by OSNA.

The social media presence of WOS continues to grow. As of 30 April 2014 we had 96 members of our
Facebookgroup, 546 followers on Twitter (@WilsonOrnithSoc), and 29 followers on Pinterest.

The Membership Committee seeks additional suggestions for strategies to recruit new members and keep
current members. One suggested strategy is to increase the benefits that members receive such as by
providing discounted conference registration fees for members, requiring membership for grant applicants,
distributing membership pins to show pride in being an active member, etc. Other suggestions include
being more proactive in managing email address changes through OSNA and reaching out to specific
target groups including early-career professionals, Canadian ornithologists (in conjunction with our
upcoming meeting in Canada in 2015), non-academic birders, etc. The Committee will be investigating
these and other ideas in the upcoming year.

Lindsey Walters, Chair

Page125of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.REPORT OF THE JOSSELYN VAN TYNE MEMORIAL LIBRARY COMMITTEE

As mentioned last year, the University of Michigan Museum of Zoology is caught up in a massive
construction/renovation project-a $261million-dollar project to provide modern laboratory and work spaces.
Planners have now gone through several stages with the proposed library space in the new building,
including adding compactors to the space the herbarium library currently is occupying (which still wouldn't
provide enough space for all the Museum library material), but the most recent information that WOS
Librarian Janet Hinshaw has heard was that the library renovation has been removed from the project. We
don't know what this means (it was going to be too expensive?). We still have several years before the
Van Tyne Library will be moved, but this is concerning because building renovations begin soon.

Due to the impending move of the museum collections, the Van Tyne Library is trying to cut down on
duplicates and has consolidated our reprint collections, and disposed of the duplicates and reprints from
major journals that are available on line. The author reprint collection also has been reduced by 30%, to
574 boxes. These holdings include 75 boxes of regional reprints and checklists, and 100 boxes of
taxonomic and other subject reprints and reports. We greatly appreciate the tremendous amount of work
on these tasks by student worker Kaitlyn Powers over the last two years.

In preparation for the move, the Museum Library is removing items that are duplicated elsewhere on
campus. They have agreed to not remove anything that is WOS material. However, they have proposed
removing some items that are available on line, such as Fish and Wildlife Special Scientific Reports and
other government serials and reports. Janet would like to get some direction from the Council if they feel
that they want to dispose of WOS items that are available on line.

The other major project of the last year was merging the Lucas and Stettenheim anatomical reprint
collection into our main reprint collection, and extracting the translations. These total about 520
translations and in most cases also include the original paper. This list will soon be available on our web
page. Many thanks to student worker Sara Hess for organizing them and typing up the list.

Acquisitions

Exchanges.-We received 119 publications by exchanges with 95 organizations or individuals.

Gifts.-We received 26 publications as gifts from 23 organizations.

Subscriptions.-We received 31 publications from 23 subscriptions. We spent a total of $115 on
subscriptions in 2013.

Donations.-Donations received include one journal issue from Bruce Jarvis, four journal issues from Kathy
Telfer, and six journal issues from Dottie Winter.
Purchases.-The library purchased five journal issues for $105.23 and $20 credit from Buteo Books.

Dispersals
Sales.-Four journal issues were sold to Buteo Books for $20 credit.

Gifts to Other Institutions.-We sent 28 cartons of duplicate reprints to Lloyd Kiff. He has kept some, sent
some to The Peregrine Fund library, and sent the rest to the College of Idaho. We also donated 40
duplicate books on Asian birds to the Michigan State University Museum library.

Use of Resources
During the past year seven transactions were made to four members. This included a book lent, six
scans and photocopies of articles sent, and information on two citations sent. We remind members that we
can lend books or provide paper or electronic copies of articles from items in the library.

Additional Thank Yous
Thanks to Janet and to our student library workers for day-to-day operations and for assistance with
photocopying.

Jerome A. Jackson, Chair

REPORT OF THE SCIENTIFIC PROGRAM COMMITTEE

The Committee on the Scientific Program was chaired by WOS Second Vice-President Mark E.
Deutschlander and AFO Councilor Martin Raphael. Rob O. Bierregaard organized and moderated the
symposium on Ospreys in New England and Long Island. Susan Smith Pagano organized, with the help

Page126of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.of Scott McWilliams, and moderated the symposium on avian frugivory. The general paper sessions were
moderated by Mark E. Deutschlander, Mark E. Hauber, Margret I. Hatch, Jerome A. Jackson, Julia
Jedlicka, Dana Moseley, Timothy J. O'Connell, and Christina Riehl.

PAPER SESSIONS
Symposium: Ospreys in New England and Long Island: from the era of DDT to the age of satellite
telemetry

Richard O. Bierregaard, Drexel University, "A moveable feast: foraging behavior in adult male Ospreys.''

Mark Faherty, Mass Audubon, "The Massachusetts Osprey population with an emphasis on Cape Cod.''

Iain MacLeod, Squam Lakes Natural Science Center, ' 'The inland Ospreys of New Hampshire: life in a
freshwater environment.''

Alan F. Poole, Cornell University, and Rob O. Bierregaard, Drexel University, "Massachusetts Ospreys,
1970-2012: population dynamics of the core nesting colonies.''

Paul R. Spitzer, Trappe, Maryland, ' 'The famous Connecticut River Osprey colony succeeds in the Long
Island Sound alewife/menhaden sanctuary.''
Julie Victoria, Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection (retired), "Past and
current distribution of Ospreys in Connecticut.''
Eric Walsh, Audubon Society of Rhode Island and University of Rhode Island, and Peter Paton and
Gavino Puggioni, University of Rhode Island, "Assessing long-term population trends of nesting Ospreys
in the post-DDT era (1977 to 2012) in Rhode Island.''

Symposium: Pulp truth or fiction: fruit composition, diet choice, the health and performance of avian
frugivores and its important conservation implications
Scott R. McWilliams, University of Rhode Island, ' 'Why birds eat fruits: in search of nutritional
satisfaction.''
Todd Pagano, Susan B. Smith, Morgan Bida, and Stephanie Schroeder, Rochester Institute of
Technology, "Multidimensional fluorescence of fruits: a novel technique for the fingerprinting of nutritional
quality.''
Navindra P. Seeram, University of Rhode Island, "Fruit composition and pharmaceuticals: why birds
should care.''
Megan M. Skrip and Scott R. McWilliams, University of Rhode Island, ' 'Dietary antioxidants and exercise
affect how females allocate nutrients to their eggs.''
Adam D. Smith and Scott R. McWilliams, University of Rhode Island, "Keeping fruit chemistry in context:
fruit removal rate depends on neighborhood fruit density, frugivore abundance, and spatial context.''
Susan B. Smith, Rochester Institute of Technology, "Fruit chemistry of native and invasive plants and the
physiological implications for migratory birds.''

General Sessions

Zachary Aidala and Rebecca Croston, CUNY Hunter College and the Graduate Center, Jessica Schwartz
and Lainga Tong, CUNY Hunter College, and Mark E. Hauber, CUNY Hunter College and the Graduate
Center, "The role of eggnest contrast in the rejection of brood parasitic eggs.''

Aymen Alqazzaz and Bernard Lohr, University of Maryland Baltimore County, "Structure and variation of
the warble song in Grasshopper Sparrows (Ammodramus savannarum).''

Carissa Alza, Stacy McNulty, and John Stella, SUNY College of Environmental Science and Forestry,
"How beavers influence habitat and species diversity of breeding birds in the Central Adirondacks.''

Fidelis Akunke Atuo and Timothy John O'Connell, Oklahoma State University, "Predator abundance and
community composition at two quail recovery sites: associated predation risk for declining populations of
Northern Bobwhite (Colinus virginianus).''

Sarah K. Baillie and Robert L. Curry, Villanova University, "Boldness in response to predatory threat in
Carolina Chickadees (Poecile carolinensis): how do males and females compare?''

Page127of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Alyssa Borowske and Chris Elphick, University of Connecticut, and Carina Gjerdrum, Canadian Wildlife
Service, "Molt as an indicator of reproductive investment: a comparison of species and sexes.''

Richard A. Botta and Dale E. Gawlik, Florida Atlantic University, "A habitat suitability model for wading
birds on a large subtropical lake: correlating hydrology and nesting.''

Jeffrey J. Buler, Kyle G. Horton, and W. Gregory Shriver, University of Delaware, ' 'What can nocturnal
migration traffic measures tell us about diurnal stopover densities of land birds?''

Leonardo Calle and Dale E. Gawlik, Florida Atlantic University, and Lauri Green, Harbor Branch
Oceanographic Institute, "Moon phase and habitat availability drive foraging abundances of Little Blue
Herons (Egretta caerula) and Great White Herons (Ardea herodias occidentalis) at intertidal areas of the
lower Florida Keys.''
Dustin J. Casady and Letitia M. Reichart, University of Nebraska Kearney, and Jeffrey Drahota,
U.S.F.W.S. Rainwater Basin Wetland Management District, "Body condition of spring migratory Northern
Pintails and measures of plasma lipid metabolites to assess habitat quality in the Rainwater Basin.''

Jennifer E. Chastant and Dale E. Gawlik, Florida Atlantic University, "Physiological response to prey
availability of two wading bird species with opposing foraging strategies in a managed lake ecosystem.''

Andrew Dennhardt, Todd Katzner, Adam Duerr, and George Merovich, Jr., West Virginia University, and
David Brandes, Lafayette College, "Modeling migration and citizen-science data to estimate Golden Eagle
(Aquila chrysaetos canadensis) abundance in eastern North America: are present estimates too high or
low?''

Scott DesRosiers, Douglas White, and E. Dale Kennedy, Albion College, ' 'Alarm call responses to
predatory threats in breeding House Wrens.''

Susan P. Elias, Maine Medical Center Research Institute, P. C. Keenan, Biodiversity Research Institute,
C. B. Lubelczyk, Maine Medical Center Research Institute, Sara R. Morris, Canisius College, D. C. Evers,
Biodiversity Research Institute, and R. P. Smith, Maine Medical Center Research Institute, "Serosurvey for
eastern equine encephalitis virus (EEEV) antibody in passerine birds in Maine.''

Chris Field, University of Connecticut, Carina Gjerdrum, Dartmouth, Nova Scotia, Susan Meiman, Institute
for Wildlife Studies, and Chris Elphick, University of Connecticut, "Does accounting for imperfect detection
during point counts have to be expensive?'' '

Alyssa FitzGerald, University of New York at Albany, and Jeremy J. Kirchman, New York State Museum,
"Recent niche divergence and speciation in Catharus thrushes.''

Sarah E. Goodwin and Jeffrey Podos, University of Massachusetts Amherst, "Team of rivals: alliance
formation in territorial songbirds is predicted by vocal signal structure.''

Erin E. Grabarczyk and Gary Ritchison, Eastern Kentucky University, "Characterization of adult Eastern
Bluebird alarm call vocalizations.''

Margret I. Hatch, Penn State Worthington Scranton, Robert J. Smith, University of Scranton, and Kristen
Covino, University of Southern Mississippi, ' 'A comparison of immune measures between migrating and
breeding songbirds.''

Rebecca L. Holberton, University of Maine, Orono, Steven L. Van Wilgenburg and Keith A. Hobson,
Environment Canada, Saskatoon, and Sara R. Morris, Canisius College, "Using stable isotope analysis to
reveal spatial and temporal variation in Blackpoll migration in the Gulf of Maine Flyway.''

Bette J. S. Jackson, Jerome A. Jackson, and Brent Jackson, Florida Gulf Coast University, ' 'Loggerhead
Shrike nest dispersion and nest-site fidelity in southwest Florida.''

Douglas A. James and Ben T. Rogers, University of Arkansas, ' 'Winter eagle roost dynamics in NW
Arkansas.''

Julie A. Jedlicka and Anh-Thu E. Vo, University of California, Berkeley, "Uncovering the diets of Western
Bluebirds in California vineyards.''

Blake C. Jones, Sara Bebus, and Stephan J. Schoech, University of Memphis, ' 'How to make a bird
ignore a predator: the influence of stress during memory consolidation.''

Page128of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Todd Katzner, Adam Duerr, Tricia Miller, and Melissa Braham, West Virginia University, Michael Lanzone,
Cellular Tracking Technologies, and David Brandes, Lafayette College, "Correlates of year-round home
range of Mojave Golden Eagles: interpreting the scale of threat from renewable energy development.''

Evan P. Kelemen and Robert L. Curry, Villanova University, ' 'Playbacks elicit no difference between song
types but suggest personality in Carolina Chickadees (Poecile carolinensis).''
Cody M. Kent, Ohio Wesleyan University, Jack M. Stenger, University of Cincinnati, and Edward H. Burtt,
Jr., Ohio Wesleyan University, "Feather degrading bacteria and avian plumage.''

Rebecca A. Kern and Greg Shriver, University of Delaware, "Cause-specific nest failure in Saltmarsh and
Seaside sparrows.''

Jessica A. Klassen and Dale E. Gawlik, Florida Atlantic University, "Wading bird prey selection and colony
survival as a function of hydrologic patterns.''

Zachary S. Ladin, University of Delaware, Vincent D'Amico, U.S.F.S. Northern Research Station, and Deb
P. Jaisi and Greg Shriver, University of Delaware, "Diet, fecundity, and calcium limitation in breeding
songbirds.''

David C. Lahti, CUNY Queens College, "Egg variation and defenses against brood parasitism in the
Riippell's Weaver.''

Bernard Lohr and Archer F. Larned, University of Maryland Baltimore County, "Song variation in the
Puerto Rican Grasshopper Sparrow ( Ammodramus savannarum borinquensis).''
M. P. Lombardo, Danielle M. Andrews, Amanda Grant, and Patrick A. Thorpe, Grand Valley State
University, "The biology of local recruitment in Tree Swallows.''

Andrew L. Mack, Indo-Pacific Conservation Alliance, "Phenology of understory birds in a high rainfall
tropical rainforest in Papua New Guinea.''

Alix E. Matthews, Rhodes College, Vincenzo A. Ellis and Robert E. Ricklefs, University of Missouri at St.
Louis, and Alison A. Hanson, Jackson R. Roberts, and Michael D. Collins, Rhodes College, "Avian malaria
in East Tennessee.''

Dana L. Moseley, University of Massachusetts Amherst, ' 'Evidence of innate predispositions and learning
of female preferences in Swamp Sparrows.''

Csaba Moskat, Hungarian Natural History Museum, Miklos Ban, University of Debrecen, Hungary, and
Mark E. Hauber, CUNY Hunter College and the Graduate Center, "The finetuning of parasitic egg
discrimination depends on host age.''

Oliver Muellerklein and Bernard Lohr, University of Maryland Baltimore County, "Inhomogeneous point
collection and the importance of time as a variable in estimating territory dynamics.''
Ronald L. Mumme, Allegheny College, Reed Bowman and M. Shane Pruett, Archbold Biological Station,
and John W. Fitzpatrick, Cornell University, ' 'Effects of natal environment on lifetime fitness in the Florida
Scrub-Jay.''

Timothy O'Connell, Oklahoma State University, "Patterns in avian mortality revealed from (near) daily
monitoring of window-collisions at a low-rise building.''

Kristen Oliver and Jennifer S. Borgo, Coker College, and Rebecca Heiss, South Carolina Governor's
School for Science and Mathematics, "Bacterial growth inhibition of the uropygial gland secretions of
passerines in South Carolina.''

Jessica Pontow, Patrick Thorpe, and Michael Lombardo, Grand Valley State University, "An analysis of
extra-pair paternity in Tree Swallows.''

Kathryn L. Purcell, U.S.F.S. Pacific Southwest Research Station, Fresno, and Sylvia R. Mori, U.S.F.S.
Pacific Southwest Research Station, Albany, ' 'Population trends of oak woodland birds in central
California based on long-term data.''

C. John Ralph, Jared Wolfe, Pablo Elizondo, and John Alexander. U.S.F.S. Redwood Sciences
Laboratory, Klamath Bird Observatory, and Costa Rica Bird Observatories, "Value added in bird
monitoring: capture and banding provide new insights on climate fluctuations.''

Page129of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.David Rankin, Noah Perlut, and Steven Travis, University of New England, "Forestry for the birds: the
effects of timber stand improvement practices on forest-breeding birds in Vermont.''

Christina Riehl, Harvard University, ' 'Evolutionary routes to non-kin cooperative breeding in birds.''

Sean Rune and Rebecca Holberton, University of Maine, Orono, and Lindsay Tudor, Maine Department of
Inland Fisheries and Wildlife, "Individual condition and migratory activity in Semipalmated Sandpipers on
stopover in downeast Maine.''

Katharine J. Ruskin, University of Maine, Orono, Matthew A. Etterson, Environmental Protection Agency,
Brian J. Olsen, University of Maine, Orono, Thomas P. Hodgman, Maine Department of Inland Fisheries
and Wildlife, Chris S. Elphick, University of Connecticut, Adrienne I. Kovach, University of New Hampshire,
W. Gregory Shriver, University of Delaware, Alyssa Borowske and Chris R. Field, University of
Connecticut, Rebecca A. Kern, University of Delaware, and Jennifer Walsh, University of New Hampshire,
"Latitudinal trends in Saltmarsh Sparrow (Ammodramus caudacutus) nest failure from competing risks.''

Emma Sass, Jennifer Mortensen, and J. Michael Reed, Tufts University, ' 'Habitat suitability model for the
White-breasted Thrasher in St. Lucia.''

Taza Schaming, Cornell University, "The impact of whitebark pine (Pinus albicaulis) mortality on Clark's
Nutcracker (Nucifraga Columbiana) habitat selection.''

Greg Shriver, University of Delaware, Vincent D'Amico, U.S.F.S. Northern Research Station, and Zach
Ladin and Jeff Buler, University of Delaware, "Patch and landscape level effects on breeding birds in urban
forests fragments.''

Emily Sinnott and Timothy O'Connell, Oklahoma State University, ' 'Riparian forests and the expansion of
eastern songbirds in Oklahoma.''
Cap well E. Taylor, Janice Y. Park, Julia B. Kihm, John P. Swaddle, and Daniel A. Cristol, College of
William and Mary, "Fluctuating asymmetry as a measure of developmental stress in mercury-dosed Zebra
Finches.''

Scott Taylor, Wesley Hochachka, Irby Lovette, and Thomas White, Cornell University, and Valentina
Ferretti and Robert Curry, Villanova University, "Rapid climate-mediated movement of a chickadee hybrid
zone.''
J. Walsh, A. I. Kovach, and R. J. Rowe, University of New Hampshire, B. J. Olsen, University of Maine,
Orono, and W. G. Shriver, University of Delaware, "Investigating patterns of exogenous selection in an
avian hybrid zone.''

Nat Warning and Lauryn Benedict, University of Northern Colorado, "Paving the way: functional nest
architecture of the Rock Wren.''

Maria Wheeler and Brady Porter, Duquesne University, and Todd Katzner, West Virginia University, "The
genetics of conservation translocations: a tale of two eagles.''

Whitney A. Wiest, W. Gregory Shriver, and Kent D. Messer, University of Delaware, ' 'Optimizing the
suboptimal: finding a pragmatic solution to tidal marsh bird conservation in the face of sea level rise.''

Margaret Whitney and Daniel A. Cristol, College of William and Mary, "Elimination of methylmercury from
songbird tissues.''

Jared D. Wolfe, Luke L. Powell, Karl S. Mokross, Erik I. Johnson, and Phil C. Stouffer, Louisiana State
University, "Demography of a central Amazonian bird community.''

POSTERS

Maegen Bassett and L. R. Reitsma, Plymouth State University, ' 'Avian biodiversity and recruitment in New
Hampshire.''

Patrick J. Brown and Todd J. Underwood, Kutztown University, and William P. Brown, Keuka College,
"Does House Wren aggression impact the success of nearby bird nests?''

Mary Buchanan, Robert Askins, and Chad Jones, Connecticut College, "Response of bird populations in
the Connecticut College Arboretum to sixty years of vegetation and landscape change.''
Stephanie Y. Chin and Daniel A. Cristol, College of William and Mary, ' 'A novel approach to examining
incubation behavior of a biparental avian species.''

Page130of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Crissa K. Cooey, West Virginia University, Brian S. Dorr and Katie C. Hanson Dorr, Mississippi State
University, and James T. Anderson and Hillar Klandorf, West Virginia University, "Age and gender
population demographics for managed and unmanaged Doublecrested Cormorants in Lake Michigan.''

Dakota Cowell, Jameson F. Chace, Alexandra Igo, and Susan Meschwitz, Salve Regina University, '
'Evaluating the effect of a conservation easement as a fall migratory bird stopover site.''

Kyle Davis, Big Walnut High School, Sunbury, Ohio, and Edward H. Burtt, Jr., Ohio Wesleyan University, '
'Changes in the feather microbiota in the nest lining of Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor) during the
reproductive cycle.''

Luke DeGroote, Powdermill Nature Reserve, Carnegie Museum of Natural History, ' 'Changes in spring
stopover ecology in western Pennsylvania across 51 years.''

Amber De Jong and Bill Brown, Keuka College, ' 'Red-Shouldered Hawk egg morphology before and after
the introduction of DDT.''

Christie Eldredge and Robert Curry, Villanova University, "Patterns of parental attentiveness in Carolina
Chickadees (Poecile carolinensis).''

Rachel Ellick, Kaylor Wright, Molly Ross, Jessica Spickler, Nelson Wu, Claire Varian-Ramos, Eric Bradley,
and Dan Cristol, College of William and Mary, ' 'The effects of methylmercury exposure on plasma
testosterone in Zebra Finches.''
Elizabeth R. Ellwood, Florida State University, Amanda S. Gallinat and Richard B. Primack, Boston
University, and Trevor L. Lloyd-Evans, Manomet Center for Conservation Sciences, "Autumn phenology of
songbirds migrating through coastal Massachusetts.''

Ryan Ernstes and John Quinn, Furman University, "Shifts in songbird vocalizations suggest possible
threats of acoustic masking for human health.''
Loany Fajardo and Letitia M. Reichart, University of Nebraska Kearney, ' 'Preliminary investigation of
plasma lipid metabolites for a spring migratory bird in central Nebraska.''

Danielle Frevola, Elizabeth Nickell, Amy Wing, and Lindsey Walters, Northern Kentucky University,
"Carolina Chickadees' parental provisioning rates do not predict nestling size.''

Dale E. Gawlik, Florida Atlantic University, "Representing hydrologic variability in colonial waterbird
models: key processes for wetland ecosystem restoration and management.''

Allisyn Gillet, Compton-Drew Investigative Learning Center Middle School, St. Louis, and Chad
Seewagen, Pace University, "Mercury accumulation in Red-winged Blackbirds in the New York
metropolitan area and its effects on nestling growth.''

Sagan Goodpaster and Gary Ritchison, Eastern Kentucky University, "Facultative adjustment of
pre-fledging mass recession by nestling Chimney Swifts.''

Bobby Habig and David C. Lahti, CUNY Queens College and the University of Notre Dame, "To flee or not
to flee: the impact of colony-wide disturbances on male risk-taking in the Village Weaver (Ploceus
cucullatus).''

Laura E. Hilberg, Antioch University New England, "Geographic variation in Nelson's Sparrow song.''

Zachary Holtkamp and Lindsey Walters, Northern Kentucky University, "Are Carolina Chicka- dee
nestlings affected by parasitic bird blow fly larvae?'' '

Jennalee A. Holzschuh, SUNY College at Brockport, and Mark E. Deutschlander, Hobart and William
Smith Colleges, "A longitudinal study to examine the causal relationship between energetic condition and
orientation in Whitethroated Sparrows (Zonotrichia albicoUis)."

Jennalee A. Holzschuh, SUNY College at Brockport, and Mark E. Deutschlander, Hobart and William
Smith Colleges, "Do migratory warblers carry excess fuel reserves during migration for insurance or for
breeding purposes?''

Pamela Hunt, New Hampshire Audubon, and Kyle Parent, Plymouth State University, "Extraterritorial
movements by Eastern Whip-poor-wills.''

Page131of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Daniel Inserillo, Plymouth State University, Keith Larson, Abisko Climate Research Station, Sweden,
Joseph Smith, North Cape May, New Jersey, and Leonard Reitsma, Plymouth State University,
"Overwinter habitat use of Swainson's Thrush in east Andean foothills of Ecuador derived from telemetry.''
Erik N. Iverson, Tulane University, Payton M. Phillips, College of William and Mary, Jordan Karubian,
Tulane University, John Swaddle, College of William and Mary, Mike Webster, Cornell University, and
Sam Lantz, Tulane University, "The influence of environmental heterogeneity on winter ranging in the
Redbacked Fairy-Wren, Malurus melanocephalus.''

Brittany Jones, Cassie Volker, and Lindsey Walters, Northern Kentucky University, "Incubation patterns of
Carolina Chickadees (Poecile carolinensis) measured with remote temperature data analysis.''

Chenghui Ju, Frances C. Geller, and David C. Lahti, CUNY Queens College, ' 'Change of syntactical
structure of songs of the House Finch (Carpodacus mexicanus) across the geographic range.''

Ki Jung and Bernard Lohr, University of Maryland Baltimore County, "Daily and seasonal song patterning
in Grasshopper Sparrows ( Ammodramus savannarum).'' '

Jennifer Kane, Kristin L. McDermott, and Jameson F. Chace, Salve Regina University, "Evaluation of
stopover habitat quality by comparing habitat use by residents and shortdistance migrant sparrows in a
coastal shrubland of Rhode Island.''

E. Dale Kennedy, Douglas White, and Kala Mapes, Albion College, "Nestling House Wrens respond to
playbacks of food calls.''

Khaleda Khan and David C. Lahti, CUNY Queens College, "Mate attraction dominates the behavior of a
colonially breeding bird.''

Bethany Krebs and Jeff Brawn, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, ' 'Impacts of internal parasites
on movements, immunocompetence and survival of nestling American Robins.''
Krissa Lewandowski and Letitia M. Reichart, University of Nebraska, "Preliminary investigation of creatine
kinase levels for spring migratory bird in central Nebraska.''

Nivia Luzuriaga and Frédéric Jigue, Muse National d'Histoire Naturelle, Paris, Jean-Yves Barnagaud and
Sophie Veran, Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique INRA, and PierreYves Henry, Muse
National d'Histoire Naturelle, Brunoy, "Basic transect training and the monitoring of terrestrial birds in a
tropical archipelago, the Galápagos Islands.''

Julie Mallon and Todd Katzner, West Virginia University, and Keith Bildstein, Hawk Mountain Sanctuary,
"Non-migratory flight response explains inter-specific variation in soaring flight behavior of New World
vultures.''

James Marshall, Rockford University, and Sarah Winnicki, Denison University, "Population biology of
Red-winged Blackbirds on the Lake Erie Islands.''

Mysti Martin and Leonard Reitsma, Plymouth State University, ' 'Using remote satellite imagery and
population censuses at three spatial scales to address New Hampshire statewide declines in Canada
Warblers (Cardellina canadensis).''
Richard A. McKinney, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Narragansett, Peter B. Trimble,
Massachusetts Military Reserve, Bourne, Kathleen A. Schweitzer, U.S. Coast Guard Civil Engineering
Unit, Providence, and Elizabeth L. Kirkpatrick, U.S. Coast Guard Air Station Cape Cod, "Bird use of
grassland habitat patches at a military airfield.''

Sara R. Morris, Jeanette Baker, Chase La Due, Macy Madden, Daniel Miller, Austin Nottingham, Joseph
Pittari, Claire Taberski, Matthew LeFauve, Susan Aronica, and Susan Margulis, Canisius College,
"Opportunity knocks: making the most of seminars.''

Jennifer Mortensen and J. Michael Reed, Tufts University, "Population viability of an endangered avian
cooperative breeder following habitat loss.''

Shane P. Murphy, Noah Perlut, and Pamela Morgan, University of New England, "Factors that affect tidal
marsh bird diversity in the Saco River Estuary of Southern Maine.''

Gretchen N. Newberry and David L. Swanson, University of South Dakota ' 'Habitat associations of
Common Nighthawks (Chordeiles minor) in southeastern South Dakota, northeastern Nebraska, and
northwestern Iowa.''

Page132of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Lauren Parker, Hannah Elsinghorst, Kaitlin Garrity, Stephen Johnson, and Sara Morris, Canisius College,
"Differential responses of warblers to flight calls.''
Peter W. C. Paton, University of Rhode Island, "Monitoring restoration efforts for 21 years at Galilee Bird
Sanctuary, Rhode Island: is salt marsh restoration for the birds?''

James R. Philips, Babson College, "The mite community of hawks, eagles and falcons.''
Christine M. Roy, Sarah H. Schneider, James R. Miller, and Brian F. Allan, University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign, "Why's everybody always tick'n on me?''

Richard R. Schaefer, Craig Rudolph, and J. Howard Williamson, U.S.F.S. Southern Research Station,
Rusty Plair, U.S.F.S. Sam Houston National Forest, Clifford E. Shackelford, Texas Parks and Wildlife
Department, Joshua B. Pierce, U.S.F.S. Southern Research Station, and Dan Jones, Texas Parks and
Wildlife Department, "Response of wintering sparrows to prairie restoration in southeastern Texas.''

Marrisa J. Simpson and Jameson F. Chace, Salve Regina University, ' 'Prevalence of Plasmodium in
Nearctic-Neotropical migrants compared with tropical and temperate residents.''

Skye Sloman, Jameson F. Chace, Rebecca Simmons, and Rachel Porter, Salve Regina University,
"Impacts of the urban environment on corticosterone levels in Black-Capped Chickadees and Tufted
Titmice.''

Christina Slover and Todd Katzner, West Virginia University, "Whip-poor-wills are associated with the
interface of forest-agriculture habitat in rural West Virginia.''

J. Stratford, W. Biggers, K. Rauschmeier, C. Bartlow, N. Lamoreaex, and C. Dempsey, Wilkes University,
"Are song birds exposed to contaminants from natural gas drilling in Pennsylvania?''

Jeff Stratford and Mike Steele, Wilkes University, "Model caterpillars to assess urbanization effects on
insectivory: a call for collaborators.''

Jamie Sydoriak, Plymouth State University, Rosalind Renfrew, Vermont Center for Ecostudies, and
Pamela Hunt, New Hampshire Audubon, "Conserving grassland bird habitat on private land in the Upper
Valley.''

John Szot and Robert Curry, Villanova University, "Song recognition in Black-capped and Carolina
chickadee hybrids: an experimental approach.''

Gregory Tito, College of William and Mary, Vera Ivezic, Cornell University, Samantha Lantz, Tulane
University, and John Swaddle, College of William and Mary, "Do social and environmental factors
influence vigilance in two Australian songbirds?''

Lainga Tong, CUNY Hunter College, Rebecca Croston, CUNY Hunter College and the Graduate Center,
Csaba Moskat, Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Budapest, and Mark E. Hauber, CUNY Hunter College
and the Graduate Center, "Psychophysical properties of egg rejection decisions by hosts of parasitic
birds.''

Carol Trosset, Belchertown, Massachusetts, "Changes in the phenology of spring bird migration in
Cincinnati, Ohio.''

Allison Yoshida, and Hugh Ellis, University of San Diego, and Scott McWilliams, University of Rhode
Island, "Plasma metabolites in the Eared Grebe during its non-migratory period.''

ATTENDANCE

Arizona: Tucson, Clait Braun, Nancy Braun.

Arkansas: Conway, Mary Victoria McDonald; Fayetteville, Elizabeth Adam, Douglas James; Little Rock,
Alix Matthews.

California: Arcata, C. John Ralph; Belmont, Erik Iverson; El Cerrito, Julie Jedlicka; Fresno, Kathryn Purcell;
Riverside, David Rankin; San Diego, Hugh Ellis, Alli Yoshida; Sunnyvale, Bethany Krebs.

Colorado: Fort Collins, Nathanial Warning.

Connecticut: Andover, Julie Victoria; Branford, Paul Wolter; Madison, Mary Buchanan; New Britian, Sylvia
Halkin; New Fairfield, Chad Seewagen; New London, Robert Askins; Pomfret Center, Jamie Sydoriak;
Storrs, Alyssa Borowske, Chris Elphick, Manette Sandor; Willimantic, Chris Field, Emma Shelly.

Page133of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Delaware: Newark, Jeffrey Buler, Rebecca Kern, Zachary Ladin, Greg Shriver, Whitney Wiest.

District of Columbia: Washington, George E. Watson.

FLORIDA: Boca Raton, Jennifer Chastant, Dale Gawlik, Jessica, Klassen; Ft. Myers, Bette Jackson;
Naples, Jerome Jackson; Palm Beach Gardens, Richard Botta; Venus, Reed Bowman.
Illinois: Chicago, Melina Pruett-Jones; Orland Park, Jessica Pontow; Rockford, James Marshall; Urbana,
Christine Roy.

Indiana: Bristol, Doris Watt; South Bend, Melinda Clark.

Kentucky: Alexandria, Zachary Holtkamp; Edgewood, Danielle Frevola; Highland Heights, Lindsey
Walters; Richmond, Gary Ritchison; Walton, Brittany Jones.

Louisiana: Baton Rouge, Jared Wolfe.

Maine: Biddeford, Shane Murphy; Gorham, Patrick Keenan; Orono, Rebecca Holberton, Sean Rune,
Katharine Ruskin.

MARYLAND: Annapolis, Joseph Jehl; Baltimore, Ki Jung, Bernard Lohr; Bethesda, Ellen Paul; Frederick,
Oliver Muellerklein; Marion Station, James Wiley; Nottingham, Aymen Alqazzaz; Trappe, Paul Spitzer.
Massachusetts: Amherst, Dana Moseley; Babson Park, James Philips; Belchertown, Carol Trosset;
Brimfield, Marissa Simpson; Brookline, Amanda Gallinat; Cambridge, Christina Riehl; Chilmark, Allan
Keith; Hadley, Sarah Goodwin; Hatfield, Don Kroodsma; Medford, Jennifer Mortensen; Northampton,
Laura Hilberg, Amy Strauss; Plymouth, Brian Harrington; South Dartmouth, Alan Poole; Somendlle, Emma
Sass; South Natick, Bill Giezentanner, Elissa Landre; South Wellfleet, Mark Faherty.

Michigan: Albion, Scott DesRosiers, Dale Kennedy, Douglas White; Allendale, Michael Lombardo; Grand
Haven, Leslie Lombardo; Lexington, David Webb; Troy, Emily Webb.

Missouri: Bolivar, Dennis Siegfried.

Nebraska: Kearney, Loany Fajardo, Krissa Lewandowski, Letitia Reichart; Lincoln, Mary Bomberger
Brown.

New Hampshire: Concord, Pamela Hunt; Durham, Adrienne Kovach, Jennifer Walsh; Holderness, Iain
MacLeod; Newport, Eric Walsh; Plymouth, Maegen Bassett, Mysti Martin, Len Reitsma.

New Jersey: Randolph, John Smallwood, Mary Anne Smallwood; Whitehouse Station, Robert Colburn.

New York: Albany, Alyssa FitzGerald; Astoria, Khaleda Khan; Brockport, Jennalee Holzschuh; Brooklyn,
Zachary Aidala, Lainga Tong; Buffalo, Hannah Elsinghorst, Kaitlin Garrity, Sara Morris; Elmhurst,
Chenghui Ju; Flushing, Robert Habig, David, Lahti; Geneva, Mark Deutschlander; Keuka Park, Bill Brown;
Kew Gardens, Frances Geller; Lockport, Katie Little; Mahopac, Eva Lahti; New York, Mark Hauber;
Rochester, Todd Pagano, Lauren Parker, Susan Smith; Spencer, Taza Schaming; Standfordville, Daniel
Inserillo.

Ohio: Columbus, Matthew Shumar, Stephanie Wright; Delaware, Edward Burtt, Vincent D'Amico; Medina,
Sarah Winnicki; Nevada, Cody Kent; Norwalk, Holly Latteman; Sunbury, Kyle Davis.

Oklahoma: Stillwater, Fidelis Atuo, Timothy O'Connell, Emily Sinnott.

Oregon: Corvallis, David Wiens; Portland, Corey Grinnell.
Pennsylvania: Allentown, Daniel Klem, Jr., Peter G. Saenger; Allison Park, Maria Wheeler; Dunmore,
Margret Hatch; Effort, Carissa Alza; Indue, Scott Stoleson; Kutztown, Todd Underwood; Lancaster, Daniel
Ardia; Melrose Park, Robert Driver; New Florence, Andrew Mack; Reading, Chris Roche; Rector, Lucas
DeGroote; South Abington Township., Michael Carey; Villanova, Robert Curry, Evan Kelemen, John Szot;
Wayne, Sarah Baillie; Wilkes-Barre, Timothy Hoffman, Kelly Rauschmeier, Jeff Stratford; Wynnewood,
Richard Bierregaard.
Rhode Island: Jamestown, Candace Powell, Christopher Powell; Kingston, Scott McWilliams, Peter
Paton, Navindra Seeram, Megan Skrip, Adam Smith; Narragansett, Walter Berry, Richard McKinney;
Newport, Jameson Chace, Charles Clarkson, Dakota Cowell, Jennifer Kane, Kristin McDermott, Skye
Sloman; North Kingstown, Tara Chace.

South Carolina: Laclson, Kristen Oliver.

Page134of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.South Dakota: Vermillion, Gretchen Newberry.

Tennessee: Memphis, Michael Collins, Blake Jones.

Texas: Nacogdoches, Richard Schaefer.

Vermont: Cambridge, Sally Laughlin; Hartland, Dan Lambert; Putney, Daniel Kubick; Winooski, Leonardo
Calle.

Virginia: Alexandria, Richard Banks; Falls Church, Rosemarie Gnam, Reginald Lothian; Fredericksburg,
Johanna Humphrey, Storrs Olson; Lovettsville, Capwell Taylor; Oakton, Nicholas Newberry; Richmond,
Gregory Tito; Williamsburg, Stephanie Chin, Daniel Cristol, Rachel Ellick, Payton Phillips.

Washington: Olympia, Martin Raphael.

West Virginia: Morgantown, Crissa Cooey, Andrew Dennhardt, Todd Katzner, Hillar Klandorf, Julie Mallon,
Christina Slover.

Canada, Ontario: Simcoe, Erica Dunn, David Hussell; Toronto, James Rising, Trudy Rising.

Costa Rica: Heredia, Pablo Elizondo.

In addition to Salve Regina University, which hosted the meeting, the Norman Bird Sanctuary, the
Audubon Society of Rhode Island, and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service served as local sponsors. Emily
J. Williams, Kansas State University, ' 'Grasshopper Sparrows on the move: what drives within-season
dispersal in Grasshopper Sparrows?'' ' David Zonana, University of Colorado, Boulder, "How do sexual
signals mediate social interactions?

Copyright Wilson Ornithological Society Dec 2014

NS

RE

CO fishws : U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service | flatun : Florida Atlantic University | ohwsun : Ohio Wesleyan

University | unnwhm : University of New Hampshire | wlkun : Wilkes University
genv : Environmental News | c315 : Conferences/Exhibitions | gedu : Education | glife : Living/Lifestyle |
gsci : Sciences/Technologies | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | guni :
University/College
nyc : New York City | usa : United States | usfl : Florida | usoh : Ohio | usri : Rhode Island | ustn :
Tennessee | victor : Victoria (Australia) | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | namz : North America | usc : Midwest U.S. | use : Northeast U.S. |
usnew : New England | usny : New York State | uss : Southern U.S.

IPD General Information
PUB Wilson Ornithological Society
AN Document WLBU000020150122eac10000p

Page135of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.