CBD

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business - CBD
CBD

Colin Kruger
687 words
18 July 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
22
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

M&A, Rupert Murdoch style

CBD was pleased to see that the proposed merger between 21st Century Fox and Time Warner will
not loosen Rupert Murdoch's grip on the family firm.

The mostly scrip-funded bid would see the Murdochs' interest diluted to a single digit percentage, but
the scrip issued to his new investors from Time Warner will thankfully be non-voting stock. We wouldn't
want those pesky Time Warner types wielding any influence now would we?

The Murdochs will remain firmly in charge with 40 per cent of the shares that are actually allowed to
vote on company proceedings. And in a belt-and-braces approach, there is always the poison pill
provisions to see off any clever marauder.

The Lachlan saga

Distance can add a little perspective to proceedings, just ask the borgs at Bloomberg. In its report of
the latest corporate ambitions of the Murdoch family, Bloomberg reports: "Lachlan, who resigned from
News Corp in 2005 after disagreeing with his father, rejoined the company in March. He now has a
say on strategy and a chance to prove his mettle after struggling to make his way in Australia, where
he ran a money-losing TV broadcaster and had to bring in a News Corp executive to help turn it
around."

Hard Cross to bear

Shall we call it the curse of the almost-Seven-CEO. First there was James Warburton's disastrous year
at broadcast rival Ten. Now we have Peter Lewis lasting just one month as chief bean counter at
Southern Cross Media Group.

"On behalf of the board and management, I wish Peter well in his future endeavours," says Southern
Cross chief Rhys Holleran who has experienced a bad turnover of talent recently on a number of
fronts, including obnoxious presenters.

Southern Cross could always offer danger money to former Tatt's bean counter - and temporary
Bombers commander - Ray Gunston , to reprise his cameo at Southern Cross as CFO.

No word on the next move for Lewis, but he could always spruik his talents to Tony Abbott to see if he
has any more work. Lewis helped author the hilariousefficiency review of the ABC and SBS.

Bookie's a winner
It may not be the $100 million pay day that Tom Waterhouse was gunning for, but the $40 million
closing figure on the sale of his eponymous betting shop to William Hill was not a bad one for all
concerned, including daddy Robbie Waterhouse who was an investor in his son's bookie operation. He
once referred to his son's strategy as "growing broke".

Page96of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."The business is expanding at such a rate that it requires every dollar that Tom has," he said.

Sino fights on
Sino Australia Oil and Gas Ltd has gone to the highest court in its land to thwart ASIC's court-ordered
freeze on certain Sino accounts - its shareholders.

The corporate pup got a court-ordered freeze on Sino accounts while it investigates concerns the
company might transfer money raised in its recent IPO to overseas accounts "for purposes that were
not disclosed, or not properly disclosed" in the prospectus.

Sino has been fighting the freeze through the courts this year and decided on a new tack following the
court judgment in May from Justice Davies.

Sino quoted her saying that in the absence of any expressed view of the shareholders, she made a
decision to protect shareholders.
Sino decided to canvass its shareholders with two questions. "Do you want the company to have full
access to the money in its Australian bank accounts before ASIC completes its investigation?" And if
the answer was yes. "Do investors want the company to use the money to fund its business
operations in China?"

Sino reports that 67 shareholders representing more than 97 per cent of total issued shares said yes.

According to Sino: "Shareholders have in effect overwhelmingly requested ASIC to allow the
company to have full access to the IPO funds in its Australian bank accounts immediately ..."

Got a tip? ckruger@fairfaxmedia.com.au

CO
IN
RE
PUB
AN

amronl : Time Warner Inc
imed : Media/Entertainment
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140717ea7i0004e

Page97of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.