* Chinese Developer Greenland to Focus On Existing Markets -- Chairman

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

*Chinese Developer Greenland to Focus On Existing Markets -- Chairman

670 words
16 December 2014
17:24
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

16 Dec 2014 01:24 ET *Greenland Group Expects Overseas Presales '13 Revenue of $3.9B --
Chairman
16 Dec 2014 01:24 ET Chinese Builder Greenland to Expand in Existing Markets

By Esther Fung
NEW YORK--After a breakneck pace of expansion in overseas markets, Chinese property developer
Greenland Holding Group wants to deepen its investment in markets where it already has a presence
rather than focusing on new countries.
The comments this week from Chairman Zhang Yuliang suggest the company could place further bets
in markets like New York and Sydney. The Shanghai-based company has been at the forefront of a
wave of Chinese investment in real estate in major foreign cities, investing about $20 billion in
overseas projects since 2013. It has expanded into 13 cities in nine countries, including the U.S.,
Australia and the U.K.

"We will focus on deepening our presence in existing markets," Mr. Zhang said in an interview this week
at New York City's Barclays Center, home of the Brooklyn Nets basketball team and where the
company is developing a project. "It isn't like we have a presence in 10 places now and will have to
expand to 20. We'd increase our investment in cities where there is potential for growth, in the big cities.
We will maintain a stable pace of increasing our real-estate investments abroad."

He didn't give further details.
Many Chinese property developers followed their customers, who are looking for homes overseas as
well as to diversify from a sharp downturn in the domestic property market. Property developers such
as Country Garden Holdings Co., China Vanke Co. and Landsea Group Co. have invested in
residential property projects abroad, while other investors such as insurers and banks are buying up
office buildings and hotels.
Greenland Group has been on an aggressive expansion spree which has propelled the once-unknown
firm onto the global stage. Mr. Zhang said his company is the world's largest property developer by
floor space under construction, at 76 million square meters, and by sales revenue, which he said would
to exceed 240 billion yuan, or $40 billion, this year.

Mr. Zhang was speaking after a groundbreaking ceremony of an 18-story, 298-unit, affordable-housing
building in its multitower Pacific Park Brooklyn project, which was previously known as the Atlantic
Yards. Greenland Group is developing the $4.9 billion project jointly with Forest City Ratner Cos., a unit
of Forest City Enterprises Inc.
"It's not just size. We want to improve the quality, efficiency and business model of the firm," he said,
adding that Greenland Group is looking to increase the international reach of its real-estate projects,
and not just cater to Chinese buyers. "Our projects must be tied to the development and demand of the
city where we are in," he added.

Page79of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr. Zhang said the company needs to do more to fuel its global expansion drive, including familiarizing
itself with local laws and taxes and to adjust its ambitions to the size of its staff. "We also have to beef
up our management of currency fluctuations," he said.
Moves by large developers such as Greenland Group are closely watched by their smaller peers,
which are also beginning to invest more heavily in property projects offshore, said property
consultancy Knight Frank in a report. Some have taken a "shotgun approach, engaging a wide variety
of advisors, (tax, legal, real-estate advisory, design and government) with mixed results," it said.
Greenland Group said it expects its overseas revenue from presales -- or sales of property units
before they are completed -- to reach $3.9 billion this year. It said $400 million would come from sales
from its Metropolis project in Los Angeles. It has also sold housing units in its projects in Sydney and
South Korea.

Write to Esther Fung at esther.fung@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 16, 2014 01:24 ET (06:24 GMT)

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

sgregc : Greenland Holding Group Company Limited
i5010022 : Residential Building Construction | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | i8500031 : Residential
Property Dealing/Owning | ireest : Real Estate | i501 : Building Construction | iconst : Construction | icre
: Real Estate/Construction | irreal : Residential Real Estate | i5010021 : Land Development/Subdivision
c182 : Asset Transactions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | npdn
: DJ Dominant News - All | ntop : Top Wire News | nttwn : Today's Top Wire News | c18 : Ownership
Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis
usa : United States | china : China | greenl : Greenland | austr : Australia | nyc : New York City | usny :
New York State | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries
| chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies |
easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America | use : Northeast U.S.
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document DJDN000020141216eacg000oy

Page80of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.