Asian raider in $56m tower tilt

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PrimeSpace
Asian raider in $56m tower tilt

GREG BROWN, SITES
413 words
18 September 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
27
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

OFFSHORE developers continue to charge into the Australian apartment market, with an Asian group
paying about $56 million for a North Sydney office tower that has the potential to be converted to units.
The building, at 221 Miller Street, is being sold by local development and investment group Legacy
Property, which paid about $40m for the tower earlier in the year, according to sources.

The building was a strata property before Legacy bought all the titles. The 14-storey building has
Sydney Harbour views and is close to North Sydney train station, cafes, banks and the post office.
While the Asian group could not yet be identified, it is believed the buyer plans a luxury apartment
development.

Legacy declined to comment.
If a development goes ahead it will join other apartment projects in the popular North Sydney
apartment market. Greenland Holding Group is launching its $200m Lucent project this Saturday, with
apartments in the 17-storey project to start from $528,000.
There is another office tower in play for a residential conversion further west in Sydney’s Parramatta.
Parramatta-based developer Dyldam is in due diligence to buy the seven-storey building at 460 Church
Street for about $25m.
It is thought that Dyldam is planning an apartment development on the property, marking a rare
residential conversion in Parramatta.
The property is opposite a BP Petrol, KFC and Pizza Hut, and is being sold by Bennelong Funds
Management.
The parties and the agent on the sale, CBRE’s Frank Oliveri, declined to comment.
While local groups are still active, Chinese developers have dominated the race for apartment projects,
often paying a premium to outbid local groups for sites.
The Australian revealed last week that a company run by Australia’s richest Chinese-born citizen,
BRW rich-lister Hui Wing Mau, is in due diligence to buy a Sydney CBD office tower with development
potential at 175 Liverpool Street for close to $400m. Meanwhile, China’s richest man Wang Jianlin has
led the property arm of Dalian Wanda Group into the Gold Coast, with a half stake in the $1 billion
Jewell apartment and hotel complex.Country Garden, controlled by China’s richest woman, Yang
Huiyan, is building an apartment complex in Sydney’s northern suburbs. Leading executive Shaoqun
Tan’s company, Fuxing Huiyu Real Estate, is launching a $550m project in Parramatta in the city’s
west, through its Australian arm Starryland.

CO

sgregc : Greenland Holding Group Company Limited

Page75of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

i5010022 : Residential Building Construction | i501 : Building Construction | iconst : Construction | icre :
Real Estate/Construction | i5010021 : Land Development/Subdivision
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140917ea9i0002a

Page76of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.