Treasury Wine Estate pushes higher Presence in Duty Free Shops

HD
CR
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Treasury Wine Estate pushes higher Presence in Duty Free Shops

Distributed by Contify.com
637 words
22 July 2014
Indian Wine Academy
ATWINE
English
Copyright © 2014 Indian Wine Academy

July 22: If you feel that the exposure to wine is minimal in the duty free shops in Delhi and other
international airports where there are a plethora of luxury goods on display, you are not alone. World's
biggest companies like Treasury Wine Estates also realise it and are seriously planning to aggressively
act to get a fair share of the $US39 billion global travel retail market
In fact Treasury Wine Estates (brands like Penfolds, Rosemount, Lindeman's-imported by Mohan Bros. ,
Beringer by Aspri and Wolf Blass by Pearl In India) has announced an expansion plan into the travel
retail to ensure its wines aren't left out of the rush by other international luxury brands such as Louis
Vuitton, Swarovski, Mont Blanc and Rolex fighting for shelf and display space at the upcoming modern
airports duty-free shops and cruise liners. The focus is especially in Middle East and Asia where there
has been an increasing influence on the sale of high class luxury goods.

Enter the duty free shops at the Delhi or Mumbai Airports both in the departure and arrival lounges and
you would be bombarded with the presence not only of these goods but also the whisky, vodka, gin and
attractive displays of other liquors and liqueurs. Treasury Wine Estates (TWE) believes the wine
category remains underdeveloped at airports, lagging behind the spirits sector which dominates 70 per
cent of all alcohol sales. Penfolds and Wolf Blass wines can find their way into the shopping bags of
high-spending global travellers, especially from China, the company believes.
To increase its share of this market, TWE had formed a partnership last year with the Nuance Group,
one of the world's biggest travel retailers, to open its first standalone Penfolds store at Sydney Airport,
the operations of which will reportedly be controlled from the Dubai office.

Advertisement

While the general retail sector continues to face of tough market conditions and anxious consumers, the
global travel market is on a strong growth trajectory with the international passenger growth rates of
over 4 per cent and as high as 6 % in Asia), the emergence of low-cost carriers and continued strong
investment in new airport terminals with larger retail space.

The improvements in the quality of retail offerings at airports have paved the way for owners of luxury
consumer brands to better show off their goods, helping to turn airports into retail destinations for
captive audience. Due to the strategic location of these stores and the significant time passengers
spend waiting for flights it gives them the opportunity to window shop and make impulsive purchases, at
times duties or the final cost not being the prime consideration.
Perfume and cosmetics have traditionally dominated airport retail sales but wine is hugely
under-developed. Wine sales make up 48 per cent of domestic sales in Australia, but only 21 per cent
of the global travel retail sector, with spirits taking the lion's share. The size of the prize is 6.8 million
cases a year of wine sold through airport stores. Although Europe is responsible for the bulk of
volumes, Asia is forecast to grow at higher rates in future.
Treasury Wine has significantly increased its marketing support and expenditure, launching displays,
pop-up stores and permanent sites for its luxury wines including airport installations for its recent
Penfolds 2014 Bins and premium wines range at Dubai, London, Amsterdam, Singapore and Hong
Kong.

Page131of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Its Sydney Airport store, dubbed -bringing the cellar door to the airport, was Penfolds' first standalone
store with more to follow. Hopefully, it will be able to increase the presence of high quality Aussie wines
in India through wines like Penfolds Grange and Bin 407, Bin 389 etc.

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

trzwn : Treasury Wine Estates Ltd
i764 : Airports | iretail : Retail | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | iairtr : Air Transport | itsp :
Transportation/Shipping | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i426 : Wine | ialco : Alcoholic
Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
india : India | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | indsubz :
Indian Subcontinent | sasiaz : Southern Asia
Indian Wine Academy
Document ATWINE0020140726ea7m00002

Page132of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.