Expert disputes Perth apartment glut claims

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Expert disputes Perth apartment glut claims

Marissa Lague
538 words
22 October 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
First
18
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

Claims that the Perth apartment sector is headed for a glut are wrong according to Colliers
International’s residential director Jo-Anne Chin, who says supply and pricing levels will adjust as
part of the usual market cycle.
An increased number of apartment developments together with a jump in the number of proposals
from developers over the past 12 to 18 months, have fuelled speculation the city is heading for an
oversupply of apartments and that values could fall.

However, Ms Chin said there was unlikely to be a glut of apartments.
“What many people don’t realise is that if you see a crane on a site constructing apartments, the
chances are that around 70 per cent of that development is already sold,” she said.

“Nearly every developer has to achieve a minimum of 60 per cent of pre-sales, whether they’re
getting money from a bank or investors.

“They won’t take the risk of building without pre-sales.”
Looking at the number of development approvals for apartment projects in Perth, Ms Chin said
there was no doubt there were a considerable number of projects that could potentially hit the
market in the next year.

“However, it’s unlikely that all of these will actually proceed to construction, as developers may not
go ahead given the knowledge that they may not be able to achieve the required pre-sales,” she
said.
If most of those projects did make it to market, Ms Chin said the competitive buyer market in
combination with the number of apartments available may see some correction in pricing.

Activity and pricing had stabilised since the beginning of this year, which in itself had slowed the
number of projects being submitted for approval — suggesting the pace of development through
2013 was unlikely to continue this year and next.
Ms Chin said some of the claims that Perth was heading for oversupply were coming from Sydney
and Melbourne markets where overseas investors were already big buyers of off-the-plan
apartments.

“Perth is very different to Sydney and Melbourne and we don’t have as much exposure to one
group of buyers and that helps mitigate the risk,” she said.
“The Perth off-the-plan apartment market has been underpinned by a broad spectrum of buyers,
including downsizers, first-homebuyers, owner-occupiers and investors to name a few, as the 30 per
cent jump in population over the last decade has changed Perth’s demographics.

Page264of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“The next 12 to 24 months in the apartment market in Perth is not without its challenges and
potential adjustments — but the evidence for a glut, and an associated slump, does not add up.”
Ms Chin said she was aware that some Perth developers had started to look at overseas markets,
but only in the past few months.

“One again though, they are pretty cautious and will be only looking to sell a small portion of any
project to overseas buyers.”

She said claims of a looming oversupply made buyers more cautious.

“I’m not sure of the depth of the impact but there has been an impact,” she said. “It’s taking buyers
longer to make a decision.”

RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | perth : Perth | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020141021eaam0001c

Page265of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.