White Gold

HD White Gold
BY
Fiona Breen
WC 3,085 words
PD
12 July 2014
SN
Australian Broadcasting Corporation Transcripts
SC
ABCTRS
LA
English
CY
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation
LP

TD

The Tasmanian dairy industry is at the forefront of plans to boost exports into China.
PIP COURTNEY, PRESENTER: Australian dairy is on the threshold of a new era. The industry may have
had little to celebrate about this week's signing of the Australia-Japan free trade deal, but it's still looking to
expand into Asia.

China is widely viewed as the land of opportunity and Tasmanian dairy is at the forefront of plans to boost
exports, as Fiona Breen reports.
FIONA BREEN, REPORTER: Clean air, lush grass and spectacular views - it's a good life for these dairy
cows and paradise for former Sydney vet turned farmer Mel Korpershoek and her Tasmanian husband,
Scott.
SCOTT KORPERSHOEK, DAIRY FARMER: It is a beautiful part of the world. We're very lucky to be
milking cows on this lush green grass here, so it's good stuff.
MEL KORPERSHOEK, DAIRY FARMER: There's not a day where you come up to the top of the hill and
don't think how lucky you are to look out there and see that beautiful view, to have the resources around
us that we have. It's really fortunate.
FIONA BREEN: The timing of their succession onto the family dairy farm couldn't be better.
Milk - or 'white gold', as some are calling it - is in demand. The island state's farmers can't produce
enough of it.

SCOTT KORPERSHOEK: Yes, there'd certainly be a lot of room here to grow. And the 40 per cent they're
asking for, I think it's achievable. We need a lot of young people to come into the industry. We've got to
retain people in the industry. And I think, just in general, just got to keep building the confidence because
confidence is a big player.
FIONA BREEN: Industry body Dairy Tasmania has set a growth target. It wants farmers to increase milk
production by 40 per cent over the next five years - an ambitious aim maybe, but most in Tasmania
believe it can happen.

SCOTT KORPERSHOEK: Just in our family alone in the last few years, there's actually a couple more
farms come in, with the extended family and my cousins and stuff. So, yes, there is a lot of young people
getting into it. We just need more.

FIONA BREEN: There's a big push for other farmers, including croppers, woolgrowers and beef farmers,
to convert their properties to dairy. There's an industry target for conversions - 50 in five years.
MARK SMITH, DAIRY TASMANIA: We need some of these landowners as well who aren't in dairy now to
see what they can achieve under a dairy operation and be prepared to look at investing into that, into part
or all of their operation.

FIONA BREEN: It's expensive to convert, though, isn't it? Is it realistic for some Tasmanian farmers?

Page162of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.MARK SMITH: Well I think it is because a lot of those farmers have got good equity in their businesses
and what dairy can give them with a bit of capital injection is a really good cash flow, which they haven't
had from other enterprises.

FIONA BREEN: It is happening and it's happening across the State in some unusual places. There's been
some multi-million-dollar conversions in the Northern Midlands, an area known internationally for its fine
wool farming. New irrigation schemes opening up right down the middle of the State has made the
decision easier for some.
Tasmania is now producing 9 per cent of the nation's milk and that number is rising.

MARK SMITH: Production, actually, in the last three or four months has been picking up at the rate of 10
per cent to 15 per cent per month. So it shows you what can happen with a good season and a good milk
price, which is what we have had. So I think next year we'll actually pick up, I think, 10 per cent-plus as
long as our season is OK, milk price stays at a reasonable level, which we think it will. We'll get 10 per
cent to 15 per cent annual growth next year and that sets us on that track to get us that 40 per cent.
FIONA BREEN: But to maintain the momentum, dairy industry analyst Steve Spencer believes
governments and the industry need to court outside investors.
STEVE SPENCER, DAIRY ANALYST: The external capital is critical - there's a lot of external capital
looking at agriculture, looking at dairy, so we've got to get better at converting that into projects.
FIONA BREEN: Dairy Tasmania is putting the feelers out. Advertisements were placed in New Zealand
magazines and newspapers, extolling Tasmania's virtues. A team from Dairy Tasmania even travelled to
New Zealand's field days recently.

MARK SMITH: Being over there gave us the opportunity to talk to people face-to-face and we had some of
our New Zealand Tasmanian dairy farmers over there as part of that, so they can speak to people
one-on-one about what it's all about and give them a real perspective there.

FIONA BREEN: Expatriate Kiwi Grant Rogers hasn't looked back since moving to Tasmania's Derwent
Valley in the State's south 11 years ago. Land prices were half those of New Zealand when he bought.
Low rainfall and plenty of irrigation water were also winning ingredients. He's keen for more New Zealand
farmers to follow.
GRANT ROGERS, DAIRY FARMER: There's one Kiwi consortium that signed on a farm not far from here
to convert it and I've shown a number of investors around the region and, look, they all see what we saw a
number of years ago. So it's got a huge future. There's a lot of people looking at the moment and, you
know, we've got one investor up on a farm not far from where I am here and there'll be more to come.
FIONA BREEN: In a bit of a hiccup, investment in Tasmania's biggest dairy operation, at Woolnorth, in
the State's far north-west, appears to have stalled.
Last year, the Van Diemen Company announced a $180 million expansion plan for 26 new dairies and
30,000 cows. While the expansion has started, its completion hinges on outside investment which hasn't
yet happened. It's understood the company is still in talks with potential investors. Dairy Tasmania is not
worried.

MARK SMITH: There's a few farms that have started up this year, whereas what we're seeing elsewhere
in the country is a continual reduction in the number of dairy farms that are operating.
FIONA BREEN: Competition between the big milk companies is growing in Tasmania, ever since a new
player set up in the north-west of the State 18 months ago.
Tasmanian Dairy Products, of which Devondale Murray Goulburn is a 75 per cent shareholder, has just
opened an $80 million milk powder plant in Smithton.
RICHARD FISHER, TASMANIAN DAIRY PRODUCTS: Yes, we've only been running for 18 months and
it's a fantastic piece of shiny new equipment that we get to play with each and every day of the week and
based on that new equipment, we're producing world-class product from world-class milk that comes from
Tasmania.
FIONA BREEN: So far about 75 local dairy farmers have made the switch to supply the new processor.
They've jumped ship from the other milk factories in Tasmania, owned by Fonterra, National Foods and
Cadbury.
The Tasmanian Dairy Products factory has gone from zero to 150 million litres in 18 months.

Page163of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.TONY CANTANIA, TASMANIAN DAIRY PRODUCTS: We've been here now for about two years and
we've been incredibly competitive on our milk price, which is important for all farmers in Tasmania.
FIONA BREEN: It's producing full-cream and skim milk powder for the Asian and Middle East markets
and has the capacity to process more than 350 million litres of milk each year. At the moment it's
operating at about 50 per cent capacity.
Major shareholder Devondale Murray Goulburn wants more milk.
GARY HELOU, DEVONDALE MURRAY GOULBURN: This is a milk powder plant that is going to most
likely focus on investment in nutritionals and baby powder, infant formula and follow-on formula.

FIONA BREEN: It's great news for the local north-west Tasmanian economy, which has been plagued by
high unemployment levels.
Local milk trucking company Wynyard Transport is one of the winners. Its business has tripled since
Tasmanian Dairy Products opened.

TRISTAN HUTTON, WYNYARD TRANSPORT: We had on, the first day down here, we had eight drivers
start up. Two of them only had, prior to coming on with us, had experience of collecting milk. So like I
said, it was eight drivers. Six drivers had to be virtually trained up from day dot and there was quite a bit of
time with me sitting in the passenger seat, quite a few hairy moments, but they've been fantastic. The
guys that we had come on were just magnificent.
FIONA BREEN: Wynyard Transport has bought three new 33,000-litre trucks to carry their milk. There's
room for more milk and even more trucks.
TRISTAN HUTTON: All good for business, all very good. So it's been good for everyone, I think, on the
north-west coast. Well, as far as Deloraine now, as far as farmers go. The opportunity for them to have a
choice in which company they supply and we're only too happy to come and collect their milk if they want
to switch over.

FIONA BREEN: Tasmania's Premier, Will Hodgman, eager for investment, launched Murray Goulburn's
$14 million upgrade at the company's Edith Creek plant.
The company wants to update these production lines so more and more UHT drink products can be
packaged for the Asian market. Steve Spencer believes Australia's governments, State and Federal, could
do more to help the dairy industry grow.

STEVE SPENCER: I think the growth that others have achieved have been partly aided by the way that
governments can open doors. So when new arrangements or growth opportunities are forged with many
of these overseas markets, particularly in the Asian region, it does depend on some
government-to-government relationships to ensure that trade can be facilitated and certain protocols
achieved.

And so, certainly the direct feedback we've had from people operating in a number of those regions is that
it's very important for government to be at the table to open greater links, because there's always a
government rep associated with a company over there.

FIONA BREEN: Devondale Murray Goulburn's investment in Tasmania is part of a bigger plan that
involves millions of dollars of capital investment across Victoria as well.
The company's chief, Gary Helou, is on a mission to extend the company's reach across Asia.

GARY HELOU: It's growth to expand into Asia. And the world market is rapidly growing, particularly in
Asia - demand is growing at better than 6 per cent per annum, volume-based, compound. Supply is no
better than 2 per cent to 3 per cent. So there's a massive disparity between supply and demand.

Australia, over the last ten years, has not done very well in terms of its share of that world trade. We
actually declined.

FIONA BREEN: His plan is to bypass local Asian distributors and wholesalers and put Murray Goulburn
people on the ground in China, Singapore, Vietnam and Dubai.

GARY HELOU: We think you need to own the value chain and have a point of influence all the way to
consumption. So you'd need your own, in simple terms, your own warehousing systems, you need to have
your own salespeople who are calling on these customers, advocating your brand, and your own
marketing campaign to communicate the brand and its point of difference.

Page164of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.FIONA BREEN: It's already on the way. The Devondale Murray Goulburnbrand is increasing its reach into
Asia, selling more than 30 million litres of long-life milk into China.
GARY HELOU: When they buy Devondale, they're buying a premium product, they're buying a safe
product, they're buying a functional product. So these are three big drivers for us.
The premium is delivered through the price, obviously. To give you an idea, a litre of milk in this country
sells for about $1 a litre. In China, we sell on shelf for about $3 and $5, between $3 and $5. So massive
premium capability to be extracted by positioning your brand well and delivering on the promise.
FIONA BREEN: If an ambitious plan to raise another $500 million for capital investment does go ahead,
that reach could go even further.

GARY HELOU: I think it's important to have the funds to invest in cutting-edge manufacturing capabilities.
It's very important to have these funds coming through external investors, or even internal investors, but in
a way that doesn't jeopardise the balance sheet.

FIONA BREEN: New Zealand-based multinational Fonterra is Murray Goulburn's biggest competitor in the
Asian market and Australia is Fonterra's second-biggest milk supplier.

BRUCE DONNISON, FONTERRA: What we've found in recent times - in particular, those emerging,
growing markets around the world - one of the key things that they're looking for is security in food and are
willing to pay for the ability for that to happen. Australia and Tasmania and Australia from that context is a
great opportunity to see security of a supply chain. They're willing to pay for that.
FIONA BREEN: Tasmanian dairy farmers pull their weight - providing 460 million litres of milk each year
for Fonterra. It's processed at three plants across the State, including this Wynyard operation in the
north-west. It's producing blocks of cheese for the commodities market in South-East Asia.
BRUCE DONNISON: So the cheese coming from our site at Wynyard, for example, in Tasmania,
produces cheese that then goes into Japan or Korea that's used as an ingredient towards a flavour
enhancer in processed cheese, which is then used into the consumer world.

FIONA BREEN: Fonterra is targeting the Asian markets with new products. Consumers in the countries it
exports to around South-East Asia often buy dairy products for their health benefits more than their
texture or taste.
BRUCE DONNISON: When you get down to the crux of dairy, it's about protein and how you can get a
source of protein that is consistently available for all demographics and Japan, in particular, where you
have schoolchildren taking flavoured cheese sticks off to school. It's not necessarily about the novelty of
it, it's about making sure they have access to protein.
FIONA BREEN: Like all the dairy processors in Tasmania at the moment, Fonterra's three factories are
not always working at capacity. The company is right behind a big Tasmanian push to increase the
number of dairy operations in the State.
BRUCE DONNISON: I want more milk and not only more milk to fill the assets, but there's a great
opportunity out there in the marketplace and farmers love the opportunity to see their milk go into
products, whether it be here domestically or offshore.

FIONA BREEN: It's good news for the south of the State and Grant Rogers. Fonterra has agreed to be the
second processor to pick up milk from the Derwent Valley.

GRANT ROGERS: Oh, it's huge. Yes. Yes, it's massive. It's made my day. Look, we moved here and had
a vision of what this place will end up looking like and now there's actually the opportunity for that to
happen. My wife and I saw firsthand in Canterbury what dairying did for the community and for businesses
and, you know, schoolchildren for schools. You know, I was talking to my electrician the other day and I
said, 'You know, if it happens, there'll be room for three or four of you in the valley.' We'll need machinery
technicians down here. You know, there'll be irrigation companies based in Hobart rather than in
Launceston. Just... the potential's huge.
FIONA BREEN: It's not the only dairy processor in Tasmania considering extending its reach for milk
pick-ups.
MARK SMITH: One of the greatest changes here for Tasmanian dairy farmers is that competition now for
milk - that they've got a choice of who they sell their milk to. That hasn't happened up until the last couple
of years, with TDP coming into the marketplace. So it opens up a whole new era, really, for Tasmanian

Page165of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.dairying, where there's competition and there will be companies who will be probably providing additional
incentives for farmers to buy their milks.
FIONA BREEN: Renewed confidence in Tasmania's dairy industry is reflected in the farm gate milk price.
It's increased on average by $1.50 a litre.
This season, the prices are looking good as well. Tasmanian Dairy Products has announced a record
opening price at $6 per kilogram of milk solids, an increase of 7 per cent on last year.

Fonterra is offering just under that. It's no wonder Tasmanian farmers were found in a recent survey to be
the nation's most optimistic. Nevertheless, Steven Spencer is warning everyone to take a deep breath.
There's a lot of work to do yet.

STEVEN SPENCER: There isn't a bonanza. I think the extent to which a bonanza is played is a bit
overplayed. It's still a competitive market, there are still commodities that go into a food supply chain, but it
has got fast growth and when you get a market like that that's so hungry, it tends to mean the prices firm
and improve over time. We've seen that over time. Dairy prices have continued to rise steadily. So that's
what we're trying to back, is getting access to that growth in unit price over time with an expanding
volume.

SCOTT KORPERSHOEK: We've invested a lot of money. We continue to invest money. Look at growing
our herd, growing our output of milk production. So I'm pretty confident in the industry as a whole, yes.

IN

NS

i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i413 : Dairy Products | i0 :
Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
e51 : Trade/External Payments | ntra : Transcripts | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
austr : Australia | tasman : Tasmania | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
IPD dairy
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCTRS0020140713ea7c00001

Page166of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.