ResMed Inc. at JPMorgan Healthcare Conference - Final

HD ResMed Inc. at JPMorgan Healthcare Conference - Final
WC 4,226 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY ©2014 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.
LP

13 January 2014
CQ FD Disclosure
FNDW
English

Presentation

TD

STEVE WHEEN, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: Good morning, everybody. My name is Steve Wheen. [I'm the]
healthcare analyst for JP Morgan in Sydney, Australia. And it's my pleasure to welcome Mick Farrell to the
podium from ResMed, the CEO of ResMed, nicely timed with the announcement this morning of a new
mask release the AirFit P10 which is quite an innovative new mask for ResMed in terms of quietness, size
and weight. So I am sure you'll hear some more on that front.

But without stealing Mick's thunder, I'll hand straight over. Just a quick reminder, the Q&A session is down
the hall on the -- take a left into the Olympic Room. Thanks very much. Mick?

MICK FARRELL, CEO, RESMED INC.: Thanks, Steve. Steve asked me if that mask launch -- product
launch was timed with JP Morgan, it was not. It's on our R&D cycle.

I'll be making forward-looking statements throughout this presentation.

So I'm going to cover briefly who we are, what we do, why that matters to you as investors, how we
perform and execute, where we're going, what our strategy is and why ResMed is a good investment.

So who we are? I'm seeing a lot familiar faces in the audience. So a lot of you know our story already, but
I'll cover it briefly. We are the global leading developer, manufacturer and marketer of products and
services and solutions to treat and manage sleep disorder breathing as our sort of core market and COPD
as a new emerging market for us, and we will talk a little bit about some of the chronic respiratory disease
conditions and their links to heart failure and some other cardiovascular conditions as part of that.
Company snapshot; we operate in around 100 countries, just over that now. We manufacture in all three
major regions, including Australia, France, Singapore and the US. We put about 8% of our revenues into
R&D which is generally ahead of our competition. We think that's a sustainable competitive advantage.
And on that front, we have 3,000 patents issued and/or pending. Annual revenues topped $1.5 billion
through June 30, and we have around 4,300 employees dual listed on the NYSE and ASX.

This is our Holy Grail, our Holy Grail of healthcare. We do three really important things for the healthcare
system. We improve the quality of life of our patients. Many therapies, many pills don't make a change to
patients' lives. We have symptomatic relief. We literally make patients who feel like they have had a
hangover for 20 years feel refreshed for the first time. Secondly, we prevent chronic disease progression.
We lower blood pressure. We improve left ventricular ejection fraction in heart failure patients. So we
produce better outcomes. And thirdly, really importantly, particularly with the changes going on in global
healthcare systems and particularly in the US with Obamacare and the percent of GDP we spend on
healthcare here, we lower costs. We lower overall costs of the healthcare system. After paying for our
therapies there is an ROI for payers and payer providers and governments to diagnose and treat our core
disease states. So I'm going to talk about each of those.

For those of you who are familiar with the story, sorry for this, but for those of you who aren't, sleep
disorder breathing covers two major areas; obstructive sleep apnea which is the sort of choking and
collapse of the upper airway, right, the occlusion and then movement forward, whereas central sleep
apnea is an open airway where your carotid body or CO2 receptor in the bottom of your brain stem is not
responding and you're not breathing with an open airway. We treat both of those disease states in sleep
disorder breathing, our core market.

Page10of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Why does this all matter and how does this fit in with global mega trends? Well, we all know we have
aging populations, baby boomers are coming through. We know there's a rise in obesity which is now
called a diseased state. We know we have escalating healthcare costs, we'll look at those
macroeconomics a little bit in a moment, and we know that there's an increasing burden of chronic
diseases. 75% of the expenditure in US healthcare is on chronic diseases, and we -- right in that sweet
spot, we treat patients with three top chronic diseases; sleep disorder breathing, COPD and heart failure
and they are all related.

How we perform? Last quarter, we announced Q1, we were up 4% constant currency in the top line, 5%
headline. We were up 14% in both net income and earnings per share and had very solid cash flow from
our operations of around $90 million. Importantly, in a tough market we maintained some pretty good
gross margins at 63.7%.

This is how our products split up. You can get this by reading our 10-K. We're about 55% -- 56%
Americas, 45% rest of world, split 34% Europe and 10% in growing Asia-Pacific market.

If you go back over the last five or six fiscal years, we've had a reasonably steady growth pattern. 13%
five-year compound annual growth rate and we think we can continue that given that we are less than 5%,
10% or 15% penetrated into our core market, meaning 85%, 90% or 95% of the opportunities are left in
front of us, the Americas, Europe and Asia-Pac.

Similarly on net income growth, we've had a steady five-year picture. 24% compound annual growth rate,
net income and also with earnings per share, we've been able to maintain solid double-digit five-year
compound annual growth rate at the 26% range.

So what we do, what's our mission? Our mission is changing lives one breath at a time. We use
respiratory medicine linked to the cardiovascular system and the metabolic system to improve the whole
body through the respiratory system. And the last 12 months, we sold over 6 million mask systems and
over 1 million devices on the bedside table. And so together, we impacted 7 million lives. That's going to
be 10 million lives by 2015 and it's going to be 20 million lives by 2020 if we execute on our plans which I'll
go through.

So how are we going to do that, how are we going to get to 20 million by 2020? We have what we call our
three horizons of growth. Our first horizon of growth is our core market. And as I was saying before, we're
not done there. 85% to 95% of the opportunity is in front of us. [We are] simultaneously using the cash
flow and growth and scale that we get from that core business to invest in our second horizon of growth
which is, at a high level we'll call it respiratory care, but it includes COPD, it includes obesity
hypoventilation syndrome, it includes neuromuscular disease, including ALS or Lou Gehrig's Syndrome,
but it also includes geographic market expansion. So we are expanding in China, India throughout
Eastern Europe and Latin America. We'll talk a little bit about that.

Our third horizon of growth is in the area of heart failure. Just heard the last speaker talk about heart
failure as having very high death rates. 50% of the patients die every five years and it's very bad quality of
life and very expensive for their insurance company as well as being bad for them. We treat both of those
things. We lower the cost and improve their quality of life, and we'll talk a little bit about that.

So firstly on horizon one, our core market, prevalence, these are the latest data from what we call our
Framingham Heart Study for the sleep field. It is the sleep heart health study done out of the University of
Wisconsin. Dr. Terry Young and her team, latest data, 2013 has 26%, one in four 30 to 70 year olds have
some type of sleep disorder breathing.

There are questions about the growth rates and there's been some what we call a recent crimp in the
hose, if you like, of our US patient flow through a government program called Competitive Bidding. And
what we are looking at on this slide is that if there's a crimp in that hose then the flow of water through the
garden hose is the number of patients. And what we're seeing in the market, you probably can't see it up
the back, but at the bottom half of the left hand side is about Medicare and the growth rates there and the
top half, the dark blue, is the rest of it, the 75% that is private pay. What we're seeing is a return to growth
of the number of patients coming through the channel so that if you like this pressure building in that
garden hose which is crimped by the US HME channel and the right hand side of the chart talks to we are
working with our HME channel, the home medical equipment providers to un-crimp that and get patient
flow back to where it should be. And we're projecting somewhere in the vicinity of a 7% growth rate in the
device side in terms of unit flow.

You add on to that the masks and trailing revenues from that and we think we've got some good low
double-digit growth rates that we should project over the coming fiscal years. And then with expected sort
of 5% to 7% price decline, a solid pretty steady 6% to 8% revenue growth that we should expect from our
industry.

Page11of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.You certainly can't see this up the back, but what we've got is four parameters on this chart. There is
primary care physician unit growth, US hip and US knee, ortho procedures which we see as a proxy given
their elective procedures and could be linked to DMA and sleep apnea therapy and also US consumer
sentiment. Just in general what we're seeing is after the global financial crisis patients are coming back
into the system and there is an up to the right trend that we're seeing in the macro side, which we're also
seeing in the number of prescriptions coming through the channel.

So I talked a little bit to the impacts of sleep disorder breathing on cardiovascular disease. The numbers in
blue are the number or percentage of patients with that core disease state that also have sleep disorder
breathing to some extent. And as you can see 50% to 70% to 80% of core cardiovascular disease patients
have some level of sleep disorder breathing. As you turn to the neurological side, stroke patients,
depression and into the metabolic syndrome side and type 2 diabetes and morbid obesity 45% to 70% of
the patients have these core disease states. So sleep disorder breathing, if you like, a respiratory problem,
is [in-extrinsically] linked to the cardiovascular system and the metabolic syndrome. And not only linked,
but when you treat the core disease state you can actually improve the outcomes in cardiovascular
disease and neurological disease.

So switching from the clinical side to the healthcare economics side, this is a chart where the Y-axis is the
life expectancy within the country and the X-axis is the cost in US dollars per person in that country for
healthcare. This is data from the OECD from last year. There's a little bit of an outlier on the curve that I
have [subtly] highlighted in red here. In the US our life expectancy is equivalent to that of South Korea and
the UK, yet our expenditure is $7,000 per person per year as opposed to $3,000 per person per year in
the UK or $1,800 per person per year in Korea. So this is an indication that maybe a pure fee-for-service
system that doesn't look at the holistic management of patients could do with some analysis. And with the
Obamacare, the Affordable Care Act coming in, we don't think it's great legislation, but we think there were
two good parts of it.

Firstly, the ACI has -- ACOs, accountable care organizations, which now combine hospitalists and primary
care physicians to care about a per member, per month management and for an area where we take
patients out of hospital and cost-effectively treat them in the home lower costs and improve outcomes, we
think that plays well to shift the US to the top left of that chart and get back on the line.

So what are the data behind this? Cardiovascular disease and stroke cost the US healthcare system $400
billion a year, asthma costs $20 billion a year, diabetes costs $132 billion a year and obesity, [a separate
disease as a disease state] costs $148 billion a year. Where does obstructive sleep apnea fit on that? The
data from a Harvard McKinnsey study recently released show it's around $165 billion a year. It does not
currently get that level of attention from primary care physicians and cardiologists community. It's our job
at ResMed to make that happen to provide data in peer-reviewed publications to start showing that.

We've done it with employers and these are data from Population Health Management, healthcare to
economics journal, showing that in the first year of treatment, our therapy can lower total costs by 30%.
Self-funded employers, particularly those with large truck fleets are looking at this space, J.B. Hunt,
Schneider Trucking and also Waste Management. These are data from Waste Management that they
published showing 37% reduction in the total healthcare costs for the patients that were diagnosed and
treated with sleep therapy versus those that were -- had the disease state and were not traded.

Other trends that we're seeing is the growth of cost-effective ways to diagnose the patients. Previous to
2008, most of the diagnoses in this country were done in a sleep lab which is a relatively costly way to
diagnose the patients. We're now seeing, what we call, home sleep testing, and basically you take a
device like our ApneaLink there, which is the size of your iPhone, now home and can come back to the
doctor the next day. The nurse can download it and you can find out pretty quickly whether you have, with
a high level of sensitivity and specificity, sleep disorder breathing.

We approximate that it's around 30% to 35% of the tests now done in the US in the last 12 months and we
think there's a lot of runway ahead. We think that would be 40% in the next nine months and will keep
increasing from there. As a sort of checkpoint on that, France, in Europe, 80% of the studies are done in
home sleep testing. So we think there's a lot of runway ahead for us in that front.
So let me walk through our products pretty quickly. Our devices, we own the most expensive real estate in
the world and it's not Kearny Mesa in San Diego where our headquarters is, our general dynamics land,
it's your bedside table. And we are on millions of them and these devices are now 24/7 connected to
power and many of them are connected to healthcare informatics systems, and I'll talk a little bit about that
in a moment.

We are the number one patients preferred mask. These are the parts of the product that touch the face of
the patient. It's the most critical point. Patients need to feel comfortable all night, every night to stick to this
therapy. We have higher adherence rates than many pharmaceutical applications because of the

Page12of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.symptomatic relief, but our challenge is to make it as comfortable as possible for patients to want to
actively use our therapy every night.

On that front, I'll walk through three masks really quickly. Truth in advertising, we do not cause levitation.
However, the Quattro Air is the lightest, at 3.3 ounces is the lightest full face mask on the planet. And for
someone who breathes through their mouth, they need a full faced mask. We need to make it as light and
as comfortable as possible.

We launched the Swift FX Nano which is the smallest nasal mask on the global market. It's small in size,
big on comfort. That's for the nasal category. And just this morning, as Steve stole my thunder, the AirFit
P10, where the P is for pillows, mask just launched. The advertising is large earmuffs because this thing is
50% quieter and 50% lighter than our product which was the category-leading Swift FX and really
importantly it's easy to fit. The RTs and the doctors, they don't have time, they don't have money, they
want this thing to be instantly working on the patient, and so we are able to help them with that. I've
personally been wearing this mask for the last 30 days and I got to tell you it's the best pillows mask we
have ever brought to market.

Similarly, we've done some segmentation around gender. We have the For Her line. 40% of the patients
showing up for a home sleep test or PSG are now females. And prior to ResMed launching out For Her
line, there were no products designed for females. They have different dimensions [of] the face, different
breathing patterns and different needs for headgear. And we've accustomed the market for that and have
had incredible growth in the For Her segmentation part of our line.

Similarly, we are not just a box and blower business. We have sleep therapy that goes well beyond that.
We bought a company in France called Narval. This is now our Narval product which is a mandibular
repositioning device which can -- is a dental device that can position the mandible, tongue and the lower --
touching the lower uvula and pull the tongue away to cause a mechanical effect similarly to the pneumatic
stent that CPAP provides. It's a relatively small niche application, maybe 5% of patients would want this
therapy, but it's something that we thought if someone's going to treat sleep apnea it better be ResMed.
I talked about owning the most expensive real estate in the world and having access to healthcare
informatics data. We are now taking literally millions of data points and providing that information to
doctors, to payers and to patients so that patients can get involved in their therapy, so that physicians can,
on an exception basis, manage their patients on therapy and so that payers can track the return on
investment they get by having diagnoses and prescription for our devices on the bedside table. We think
this is really important in showing evidence-based outcomes through hard objective data.

We also believe in the not-invented here and the anti growth only the paranoid survive philosophy. And
there was a company in Nova Scotia, Halifax who was doing some great third-party compliance data on
not just ResMed devices but also some of our competitors. So we bought the company and we now have
the ability through our U-Sleep product to text, e-mail, through SMS or voice mail directly to patients on
their -- you ask the patient how do you want to be contacted and the doctor sets up the contact point. The
voice mail can come in the voice of the RT, respiratory therapist who set you up to keep you encouraged
and on therapy. It sounds pokey, but if it drives compliance from 70% to 80% that's a real hard outcome
for a payer.

So really quickly our horizon two is around COPD and emerging markets areas. COPD, 80 million patients
worldwide. We think north of 5 million of them can be treated with our therapies. Our latest product is the
first and only FDA-cleared product to treat COPD in the US market. The product is called the VPAP
COPD. We expect a steady S curve of growth over the coming four to eight quarters of that product.

And as we announced on our earnings call a couple months ago, we will in the next six months launch a
new respiratory care product platform to replace and enhance our current respiratory care product portfolio
in this space. And so, we are already number one or number two in pretty much every country in Western
Europe for homecare ventilation. We are going to leapfrog ourselves with the new platform in the coming 6
to 12 months launching first in Europe and then into the Americas.

The value proposition here is the same as in sleep. We improve the quality of life for these patients literally
giving them mobility and we lower the total healthcare costs. We get them out of the ICU, CCUs and
step-down ward and in their home.

So covering briefly our third horizon of growth in heart failure, as I talked to earlier, our devices can lower
blood pressure. Data have shown 4 to 10 millimeters of mercury reduction in blood pressure by patients
who have obstructive sleep apnea and who are compliant with therapy.

That's got us on to sort of early stage guidelines [I would call] Class 2A guidelines on the ACC/AHA
guidelines. Our goal is to be Class 1A guidelines and we are running three studies in the space of heart
failure. The most important of these is called SERVE-HF. It's mostly a European study; 1,300 patients.

Page13of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Three outcomes; mortality, morbidity and cardiovascular improvement. If we're able to show one of those,
this is a game changer for us. These data are going to come out mid-2015, be published late 2015, early
2016. But we think the ability for us to move cardiologists to diagnose and treat this disease state requires
these types of evidence-based medicine and we're going to be producing that.

CAT-HF is a study in the US to get Class 1A guidelines for ACC/AHA and Savior is an acute study where
in Japan cardiologists are prophylactically taking heart failure patients and putting them on our proprietary
therapy adaptive servo-ventilator and they are seeing a reduction length of stay, an improvement injection
fraction and an improvement in the long-term outcomes of those patients. So we're going to be publishing
all these data over the coming 12, 24, 36 months.
So in summary, we are a sustainable top and bottom line growth company. We are the market leader. We
are investing in the future of this space, both in clinical trials and in technical data. We have operational
excellence at our core.

Quick look at our balance sheet, we have $976 million in cash with our debt position at net $616 million.
So we have powder dry, we will give it back to our shareholders through dividends, through buybacks and
we have a solid return on investment -- return on equity at 20%. Here are some data on what we've
repurchased the last quarter.

But in closing, I'll say what we started with that ResMed, we are changing lives one breath at a time and
we think there's a whole lot more in front us than behind us. Thanks a lot for your time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on
this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or
other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based
upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from
those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are
more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may
indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any
of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the
results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF
THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO
PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR
INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO
WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE
COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE
BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF
AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER
DECISIONS.]

CO rsmdin : ResMed Inc
IN
NS

i372 : Medical Equipment/Supplies | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences
c315 : Conferences/Exhibitions | ntra : Transcripts | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive
News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
usa : United States | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia |
namz : North America | nswals : New South Wales

RE

PUB CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
AN Document FNDW000020140115ea1d00335

Page14of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.