Alcoa bears $430m brunt of regulators' bribery crackdown

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Alcoa bears $430m brunt of regulators' bribery crackdown

Michael Smith
1,210 words
11 January 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
41
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Michael Smith

The hefty legal settlement aluminium producer Alcoa has been forced to dish out over a long-running
bribery case have raised alarm bells for other companies facing potential corruption charges in offshore
jurisdictions.

Alcoa, and its joint venture with Australia's Alumina, this week agreed to pay $US384 million
($432 million) to settle charges of bribing officials in the Gulf state of Bahrain. The case is one of the
biggest US anti-corruption settlements ever made.

Executives at Alcoa, which posted a large quarterly loss this week, are relieved it's over, despite paying
a heavy price for a settlement that has taken the last two years to resolve.
The Alcoa World Alumina and Chemicals joint venture will pay $US223 million in five instalments in the
US Department of Justice resolution after admitting bribery.
It will also pay a $US161 million settlement to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in a
separate civil action.

 The case, which reportedly went as high as senior members of Bahrain's royal family, has been one of
the most high-profile examples of a worldwide trend by global regulators to play hard ball on corporate
corruption.

Growing pressure to take stronger action against companies found guilty of bribing officials overseas,
something authorities turned a blind eye to just decades ago, is reflected in the size of the settlement
deal.Watched closely

Bruce Hall, an Australian citizen who was the chief executive of Aluminium Bahrain from September
2001 to June 2005, was extradited from Sydney to London in 2012 to face corruption charges. The
Financial Times reported this week that Hall is due to be sentenced later this year.

The case has been watched closely by a number of high-profile Australian companies, including BHP
Billiton, Leighton Holdings and Oz Minerals, which have also been in the uncomfortable position of
falling under the gaze of global regulators.

BHP said in August last year it had given to the US Department of Justice evidence that it uncovered
regarding possible violations of anti-corruption laws with foreign government officials. This related to
work and hospitality provided as part of its sponsorship of the 2008 Beijing Olympics. It has also faced
allegations that staff bribed officials in Cambodia.

Mongolian authorities are investigating corruption allegations against South Gobi, which is 58 per cent
owned by Rio Tinto-controlled Turquoise Hill. Other Australian companies have also been the target of

Page95of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.investigations, although in many cases the investigations are dropped as was the case with an
Australian Federal Police probe into Cochlear's Portuguese operations last year.

Australian authorities are also under pressure to step up prosecutions, although an under-resourced
Australian Federal Police makes this difficult.

The practice of kickbacks is rife in Asia, the Middle East, east Africa and other parts of the world where
Australian companies do business. It is something most companies know goes on but will never admit
publicly. Until recently, it has also been a grey area. In many cases, executives at the parent company
are not aware it is going on.Doesn't cut it This no longer cuts it in the eyes of regulators.

"As the beneficiary of a long-running bribery scheme perpetrated by a closely controlled subsidiary,
Alcoa is liable and must be held responsible," George Canellos, co-director of the SEC's enforcement
division, says.

Reuters says Wal-Mart is under investigation in the US about whether it paid bribes to obtain permits to
open new stores. It also faces investigations into possible misconduct in Brazil, China and India.

Australian companies with exposure to offshore jurisdictions have been tightening internal procedures
and conducting internal reviews to try to head-off any potential corruption cases. Companies like BHP
have a code of business conduct that tries to ensure staff in foreign countries are aware of local laws
that prohibit making payments or gifts to government officials.
Alumina's share of the payments is relatively modest after securing a deal with the parent in 2012 that
allowed it to ring-fence to Alcoa the majority of the settlement. Alumina expects to record a pre-tax
credit in the second half of 2013 of $US13 million and a full-year pre-tax charge of $17 million.
Fortunately for Alumina it avoided a capital raising in 2012 to fund the charges by negotiating a deal
that meant it was only responsible for 15 per cent of the charges. Alumina owns 40 per cent of the
AWAC joint venture. The settlement with Alcoa may have been larger if the company was not in such
dismal financial shape. Alcoa this week reported a $US1.7 billion impairment charge on past smelter
acquisitions and recorded big second quarter loss. A question mark also hangs over the future of
Alcoa's Port Henry smelter in Geelong, which received a $40 million government rescue package in
2012 to keep it open for two more years. Alcoa will not be seeking further government assistance,
something that probably would not have happened anyway given the Coalition's stance against
corporate handouts. This leaves a question mark over the smelter's future.

The Twitterverse was abuzz this week with news that Norway's sovereign wealth fund, the world's
largest, is now so big that every Norwegian is now a millionaire. In theory at least.
Soaring oil and gas prices mean the value of the fund, set up in 1990, hit 5.1 trillion krones
($US829 billion) this week. That is just over a million times the country's official population estimate.
While everyone becomes a millionaire in the local currency, this is only worth $182,000 in Australian
dollars. Still, the message is clear. As most of its European neighbours flounder under mountains of
debt, Norway has squirrelled away the proceeds of its natural resources boom, which has left the
country in great shape. The obvious question is what does Australia have to show from its mining
boom? Certainly not a sovereign wealth fund that is worth $1 million per citizen.

Shareholders in Forge Group were rolling their eyes again on Friday after the engineering contractor
went into a trading halt as it prepares to update the market on its financial situation.
The latest development follows another roller coaster for the company's share price since Christmas.
Forge shares jumped almost 50 per cent in one session after Christmas after confirming it had secured
a key contract at Gina Rinehart's Roy Hill mine. There was more excitement around the stock after it
emerged BlackRock had increased its stake in Forge to 5.3 per cent. But Forge shares dropped 12 per
cent after BlackRock backed out, selling a 3.8 per cent stake.

Forge received two share price queries from the Australian Securities Exchange within two days late last
month but both times had nothing much to say. The company's haphazard approach to disclosure and
transparency will not give shareholders much comfort now it is in a trading halt, although jitters it could
go into receivership were put to bed last year thanks to a debt rescue package from ANZ.

michael.smith@afr.com.au Twitter @MikeSmithAFR Matthew Stevens is on leave.

CO

IN

almam : ALCOA Inc | aufpol : Australian Federal Police | bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton
PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | i2245 : Aluminum | ibasicm :
Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying

Page96of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE
PUB
AN

gcorrp : Corruption | gbrib : Bribery | c184 : Joint Ventures | c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal Action | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | gcat :
Political/General News | gcrim : Crime/Courts | gfinc : Financial Crime | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140110ea1b0001y

Page97of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.