Lesser lights ready to shine

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Market Wrap
Lesser lights ready to shine

Jake Mitchell
659 words
4 February 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
31
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

IFM Investors says there are strong opportunities for equity investors among smaller companies, as
the risk emanating from highly volatile resources companies wanes.

The Small Ordinaries Index underperformed the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 last year by 20 per cent in
total shareholder returns, largely due to the woeful returns from small resources companies.

The Small Resources Index plunged by 42 per cent in 2013, while the Small Industrials Index
returned 18.5 per cent over the same period. After several years of poor performance, resources
companies make up less than 20 per cent of the Small Ordinaries, compared with 40 per cent in
2011.

"Going from 40 per cent to less than 20 per cent obviously means the ability of resources to be a drag
on the broader index has waned," IFM small caps executive director Neil Carter told The Australian
Financial Review.

"The other factor is we don't see a huge amount of downside risk in the outlook for commodity prices,
while we suspect it will be mixed ."
IFM has about $50 billion in assets under management across infrastructure, debt, equities and
private capital, on behalf of several superannuation funds. Last year IFM led a group of investors in
buying Port Botany and Port Kembla from the New South Wales government for
$5.1 billion.Commodities tipped to be buoyant

IFM expects strong demand for commodities this year driven by growth in emerging markets and
developed economies.

But resources companies are ramping up their production to meet this demand. Australia's big three
iron ore miners, Rio Tinto, BHP Billiton and Fortescue Metals Group, expanded their capacity
significantly last year. While the price of iron was stronger than expected in 2013, it has fallen by
nearly 10 per cent this year to $122.60 a tonne, making it harder for small miners to generate profits.
"Similarly, oil and gas look to be attractive on valuation grounds, but we are concerned about the
potential for downside to the oil price driven by US supply growth," Mr Carter said.

A key theme Australian companies this year will be the transition to housing and retail driven
economic growth after the mining investment boom of the last several years.
"Most market participants are really positioning for a world where China is coming off the boil and
moving from resources-intensive growth to consumer-led growth," Mr Carter said.
"That means Australian growth is going to have to shift from the mining sector to areas like housing,
retail and media." Building materials opportunity

Page253of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Housing stock has failed to keep up with Australian population growth, which has seen housing starts
and prices rise. UBS has forecast 180,000 housing starts this year. Mr Carter said investing in
building materials providers, such as GWA Group, would take advantage of this.

Armytage Private chairman Lee IaFraté said a recovery in housing construction is likely to see strong
performances from stocks such as Boral and Adelaide Brighton.

"And the government is going to be supporting construction to pick up the slack from the tapering off
of the mining boom," he said.

Retail was still a challenging sector for stock pickers because consumers were cautious about the
unemployment rate picking up and the household savings rate was stuck around 10 per cent, Mr
Carter said.

"We're not so keen on apparel, given the structural issues from the rise of online retail," he said.

"We prefer companies that have specific growth drivers, store roll out stories and margin growth."

Electronics retailer JB Hi-Fi and Super Retail Group are two of IFM's preferred stocks in the retail
sector.

Mr Carter was also bullish on listed fund managers including Magellan Financial Group and
Henderson Group, which have benefited from rising equity markets.

"We've had great success with a number of financials that are benefiting from net inflows as investors
come back to equities," he said.

RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140203ea2400028

Page254of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.