Unlikely allies gang up on Clive

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Unlikely allies gang up on Clive

699 words
5 November 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
Second
2
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

Clive Palmer’s Mineralogy has lost a battle to peg a Pilbara tenement after an unlikely alliance of
companies associated with Andrew Forrest , Mark Creasy and Chinese steel giant Baosteel teamed
up to successfully object to the grant of the tenement.
Mining Warden Stephen Wilson last week rejected Mineralogy’s 2010 application for the
miscellaneous licence on the grounds Palmer’s company did not have permission to be on the land
marking out the tenement.

His ruling came after an objection to its grant by the Kumera Marthudunera Native Title claimant
group was backed by some of the State’s mining powerhouses, including Fortescue Metals Group ,
Baosteel subsidiary Aquila Steel and Zanthus Resources , a subsidiary of ASX-listed Coziron , which
is majority owned by Creasy.

The Kumera Marthudunera group successfully claimed the Mineralogy tenement application should
not be granted as the ground the Palmer company pegged was subject to its native title claim, and
should therefore be treated as private property, meaning Mineralogy should have sought a permit to
enter.

Mineralogy argued the land was part of a road reserve not covered by the Kumera Marthudunera
claim.

Fortescue, Baosteel and Zanthus, which have all applied for exploration tenements on the ground
pegged by Mineralogy, supported the native title claimant’s arguments.

Wilson said the law clearly required Mineralogy to seek a permit to enter the land it pegged, and its
application for the tenement should be summarily refused.

NO KNIVES, KEVIN

Die-hard West Coast fans still shake in their Birkenstocks at memories of what it was like to be in the
(now-called) Etihad Stadium in Melbourne in 2000 when then-Essendon coach Kevin Sheedy incited
the big Bombers crowd with his throat-slit gesture towards Eagle Mitchell White .

Time heals most wounds which is why property group JLL’s WA boss John Williams was comfortable
enough to invite Sheedy into his boardroom the other day despite the presence of one of JLL’s local
directors, White.

Williams says it was the first time Sheedy had caught up with White “since THE incident”.

“Mitch is a very valuable member of our staff so we gave Kevin a plastic knife to get through his
chop,” Williams regaled.

“We couldn’t take the risk. It appears the guys have made up though their version of events are still
very different.”

Page154of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.SHIPSHAPE

As Austal’s share price continues to sail in smooth waters, co-founder Chris Norman has sold about
$10 million in the shipbuilder’s stock.
The selldown from late August until Monday has seen Norman’s stake in the Henderson outfit he
started with John Rothwell and Garry Heys 26 years ago slip from 7.7 per cent to 5.4 per cent. The
on-market sales came at prices ranging from $1.26 to $1.39.

It’s a far cry from the 50¢ price for shares issued under an emergency capital raising two years ago
when Austal’s US debt nearly got out of control.

At yesterday’s closing price of $1.35, the former director’s retained shareholding was worth about
$25 million.
IRON EXIT
Into every merger a little slimming must come, and the BC Iron and Iron Ore Holdings tie-up is no
exception — and we’re not talking about BC’s slimmed-down share price.

While IOH boss Alwyn Vorster ran a tight ship, not all of his staff were deemed necessary at the
merged entity. About six of IOH’s staff headed for the exit on Friday.
Given the challenging conditions in the mining world, the Bull would expect some of the IOH alumni
to knock on Vorster’s new door, as head of Baosteel subsidiary Aquila’s iron ore operations.

TASKER’S TIPS

The exploits of reality TV bachelor Blake Garvey have been hard to escape.

Providing Garvey some tips on how to deal with his new-found infamy was PPR’s investor relations
director David Tasker , who says a mutual friend put them in touch. Tasker says he gave Garvey
some “informal advice . . . but it was limited to a few phone calls and one meeting.”

With Nick Sas, Nick Evans

and Heather McNeill

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

ambol : Fortescue Metals Group Ltd | baois : Shanghai Baosteel Group Corp
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | isteel : Steel Production
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020141104eab50000d

Page155of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.