Vertex: Australia Negotiations Pose Risk to Sales View -- Market Talk

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Vertex: Australia Negotiations Pose Risk to Sales View -- Market Talk

1,431 words
30 July 2014
08:15
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

18:15 EDT - Vertex (VRTX) continues to tussle with Australia's government over gaining reimbursement
for VRTX's cystic fibrosis drug Kalydeco, which sells for $311k wholesale in the US. Failing to win
reimbursement in Australia is "the key risk" to VRTX achieving its full-year Kalydeco revenue guidance,
VRTX CFO Ian Smith warns on conference call. Australia is unique among nations in not covering the
drug, despite being offered a price that is equivalent to the cheapest VRTX offers anywhere, Chief
Commercial Officer Stuart Arbuckle says on the call. VRTX slips 1.6% after-hours.
(joseph.walker@wsj.com)

18:12 EDT - Eaton (ETN) had a hard landing, closing down 8% at $70.51 after revealing the US tax
ramifications of its corporate registration in Ireland prohibit ETN from doing tax-free business spinoffs for
five years. ETN shareholders and some analysts had been holding out hope the diversified industrial
company would divest a business or two in a new standalone company that would pay ETN a fat
dividend as a departing gift that could be used to buy back ETN shares or pay down debt. That appears
off the table now since the dividend would be subjected to a punishingly high US tax rate, says a person
familiar with ETN's assumption of Cooper Industries' taxpayer friendly Irish corporate registry when ETN
bought Cooper for $11.8B in 2012. (robert.tita@wsj.com)

18:03 EDT - Bank of America (BAC) continues to cut its exposure to Russia amid increasing political
tension in the region. The bank says in a regulatory filing late Tuesday that its net exposure to Russian
stands at $3.94B, down more than 40% from $6.72B at the end of December and down from $5.21B at
the end of March. The US and the European Union adopted broad economic sanctions against Russia
on Tuesday, including against its banks and oil industry. Investors will be scouring JPMorgan Chase
(JPM) and Citigroup (C) regulatory filings when they're released for similar information.
(christina.rexrode@wsj.com)

18:01 EDT - Reactions to a cybersecurity event in Canada demonstrate the measures enterprises may
need to take to avoid becoming a victim a second time. Canada's research and technology agency is
rebuilding its entire IT infrastructure after experiencing a cyberattack by what the government calls "a
highly sophisticated Chinese state-sponsored actor," the WSJ reports. Canada's reaction is far from the
most extreme. Earlier this month, The Guardian reported that German politicians are considering a return
to manual typewriters to counteract cybersurveillance. For CIOs, it's a reminder that attacks are likely to
become more sophisticated and potentially devastating. Given that complete threat prevention is
practically impossible, firms should have an action plan in place to cope with attacks when they hit.
(steven.norton@wsj.com)

17:59 EDT - IAC's Tutor.com business is taking on a new test: The Princeton Review. The on-demand
tutoring site reached out a few months ago to PE firmCharlesbank Capital Partners, which had bought
Princeton Review's test-prep and college admission operation for $33M in 2012. Princeton Review
test-prep is still largely based in physical tutoring centers, but Tutor.com CEO Mandy Ginsberg sees
opportunity to expand GRE, SAT and other exam assistance online. Deal terms weren't disclosed, but
Ginsberg says she's hoping much of the current management team will stay on. (melissa.korn@wsj.com;
@melissakorn)

17:49 EDT - It's been more than a year since the city of Detroit filed its historic municipal bankruptcy
case, the largest for a city in US history. But the presiding judge said today a trial on the city's
debt-cutting plan should wait a bit. It was originally scheduled to start Aug. 14, but federal bankruptcy

Page79of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Judge Steven Rhodes says today "the record does establish extraordinary cause" for moving the start of
the trial back a week to Aug. 21. Holdout creditors are expected at trial to challenge the viability of the
city's plan and its fairness to city debtholders. (matthew.dolan@wsj.com; @matthewsdolan)

17:45 EDT - AT&T (T) reached an interconnect agreement with Netflix (NFLX) in May and is just now
turning up the connections. A T spokesman said the process "should be complete in the coming days,"
meaning that subscribers should begin to see improved viewing. NFLX uses a lot of bandwidth when
people watch streaming video and the company has tussled with big service providers like Verizon (VZ)
and Comcast (CMCSA), even though it has interconnect agreements with both. (thomas.gryta@wsj.com;
@tgryta)

17:42 EDT - The American Petroleum Institute issued new guidelines Monday for subsea caps,
equipment meant to shut off an out-of-control underwater well. The industry has been working on a new
capping stack since the Deepwater Horizon catastrophe in 2010, when equipment proved incapable of
shutting off a well under 5k feet of water. The new guidelines, published by the API, the oil industry's
standards setting and lobbying arm, are issued after years of deliberation and testing. Government
investigations and a presidential commission recommended improved stacks and containment
technology. (russell.gold@wsj.com)

17:38 EDT - Twitter (TWTR) plans to launch the beta version of a new video ad offering, new CFO
Anthony Noto said on a call with analysts. The new offering will allow "high quality content producers and
brands" to easily upload, share and then measure the distribution and effectiveness of the content on
TWTR, he said. New ad unit comes after TWTR launched a mobile app install ad unit in 2Q, expected to
be a significant revenue driver as it has been for rival Facebook (FB). Noto added TWTR officially closed
its acquisition of TapCommerce, an advertising technology firm that specializes in retargeting
consumers after they've downloaded an app. TWTR up 28% after hours. (yoree.koh@wsj.com)

17:36 EDT - Vertex (VRTX) says a study of its combination therapy in cystic fibrosis failed to show a
significant benefit in a mid-stage study, which could cost the company $200M in peak sales, according
to Wells Fargo. Study examined a combination of VRTX's experimental lumacaftor and already-approved
Kalydeco in patients with one copy the F508del genetic mutation. VRTX says on conference call the
study failure was expected and VRTX thinks adding a third drug to the regimen could show success.
Wells calls the study failure "disappointing," but says the impact is "relatively modest." Removing these
patients from its sales model would result in Wells lowering its 2020 sales estimates to $3.8B, down from
$4B. VRTX slips 0.2% after-hours. (joseph.walker@wsj.com; @joe_c_walker)
17:35 EDT - Fertilizer maker Mosaic (MOS) continues streamlining efforts Tuesday, completing sale of a
Michigan salt operation to agricultural conglomerate Cargill. Mosaic's worked to slim itself after being
buffeted by diminished prices for commodity fertilizers, last week halting potash production at a New
Mexico plant and earlier planning to lay off about 500 employees as part of a plan to cut $500M in annual
operating costs over the next 5 years. Mosaic had been looking to sell the salt business since last fall
and wrote down related assets to about $48M. Terms of deal with Cargill--which spun off Mosaic in
2011--not disclosed. (jacob.bunge@wsj.com; @jacobbunge)

17:16 EDT - Twitter (TWTR) CEO Dick Costolo says that the size of TWTR's audience off the service is
two to three times the size of its 271 million monthly active users. The comments come as Twitter tries
to convince investors that its size is much larger than its active user base, roughly one-fifth the size of
Facebook. Costolo says the company will continue to run experiments to better understand and make
the most of its logged out unique visitors. Twitter had earlier said that it added 16 million new users in
2Q, the largest quarterly jump since it went public in November. TWTR gains 30% to $50.32 after hours.
(yoree.koh@wsj.com; @yoreekoh)

To contact the Market Talk Editors,
Kevin Kingsbury, 212 416-2354, kevin.kingsbury@wsj.com
Cynthia Lin, 212 416-4403, Cynthia.lin@wsj.com
John Shipman, 212 416-2181, john.shipman@wsj.com
Patrick Sullivan, 212 416-2326, Patrick.sullivan@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

July 29, 2014 18:15 ET (22:15 GMT)

IN
NS

i2569 : Biotechnology | i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences
c152 : Earnings Projections | cslmc : Senior Level Management | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market
News | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | c15

Page80of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.: Performance | c41 : Management | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | usa : United States | use : Northeast U.S. | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | namz : North America

RE

PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020140729ea7t004cu

Page81of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.