Chinese investor eyes CBD tower for residential play

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PrimeSpace
Chinese investor eyes CBD tower for residential play

GREG BROWN, SITES
351 words
16 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
29
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

EXCLUSIVE SYDNEY office towers with potential for residential conversion continue to catch the
eye of Chinese investors, with a syndicate led by Chinese-born local Howard Cao running the ruler
over 338 Pitt Street in the CBD.
The tower, which is being sold by AMP’s wholesale office fund, will likely fetch about $105 million.

Mr Cao is a director of Option Investment Australia, which created the syndicate that bought part of
the Magenta Shores Golf and Country Club estate in NSW in 2011. Under the umbrella name of
China Investment Options, the group also has offices in Shanghai and Beijing. CIO was set up to
provide a platform of managed funds to help Chinese-based investors to comply with Australia’s
significant investor visa system.
It also has a stake in the Stirling Bridge Property Fund, which looks for development opportunities in
major Australian cities.

The parties and the agents on the deal, CBRE and Savills, declined to comment yesterday.
In July, AWOF fund manager Nick McGrath said the building was well suited for residential
conversion. “(It) is a good quality, A-grade building that is located in a part of Sydney proving very
attractive to property developers looking for residential conversion opportunities,” he said.

AWOF announced yesterday that it had concluded a $1.2 billion refinancing, bringing its cost of debt
to about 5 per cent. About $300m was raised though seven-year medium term notes on fixed interest
of 4.75 per cent.

“This is a great outcome for investors and the improved cost of capital will significantly enhance the
fund’s performance in the future,” Mr McGrath said yesterday.
Meanwhile, on the same block as 338 Pitt Street, three development groups are circling GDI Property
Group’s office tower at 233 Castlereagh Street. The 24-level building, valued at $129m, has been
earmarked for sale by the landlord for more than a year.It is thought Chinese group Visionary
Investment Group has shown interest, while local and Singaporean parties are also looking at the
tower.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141015eaag0003x

Page89of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Page90of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.