Mansell quits controversial Hanlong

The Australian

HD Mansell quits controversial Hanlong
CR
WC 541 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

24 January 2014
00:00
theAustralian.com.au
NLAUSW
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

TD

PETER Mansell has quit his chairmanship of controversial Chinese investment group Hanlong Mining.

Mr Mansell, a former chairman of West Australian Newspaper Holdings and Zinifex, was recruited to chair
the Australian arm of private Chinese outfit Hanlong Group in early 2011 in what was widely seen as a
move to boost the company's credibility in the eyes of Australian stakeholders.

But Mr Mansell told The Australian he had resigned from Hanlong late last year. He was not prepared to
elaborate on his reasons for leaving the group.

His departure comes at a sensitive time for Hanlong, which continues to find itself beset by controversy.
Hanlong owns a majority stake in Perth-based iron ore miner Moly Mines, which has experienced a
procession of board and senior management changes over the past year, including three chairmen in less
than three months and four different company secretaries in the past seven months.

The group was also behind failed takeover bids for Australian-listed duo Sundance Resources and
Bannerman Resources.

The Australian revealed yesterday that there were growing concerns that the founder and owner of
Hanlong, businessman and so-called "warlord" Liu Han, had been executed by Chinese authorities over
allegations of corruption. Mr Liu had been arrested in March last year for allegedly harbouring his brother,
who was wanted for murder, but several sources told The Australian they believed Mr Liu may have fallen
foul of China's recent crackdown on corruption.

Mr Mansell told The Australian he had never met Mr Liu and had no knowledge of his whereabouts or his
fate.

Hanlong's remaining directors in Australia include Nelson Chen and Simon Yang, both of whom were
linked to Australia's biggest ever insider trading investigation.

Hanlong's former investment director Calvin Zhu is serving a 27-month prison sentence for his role in an
insider trading syndicate that allegedly included Mr Chen and Mr Yang, although investigations into those
two men were suspended last year.

Former Hanlong managing director Steven Xiao was recently arrested trying to cross the border from
China into Hong Kong, having previously fled Australia while under investigation for his alleged role in
the insider trading. Any testimony from Mr Xiao could eventually see regulators reopen their investigations
into Mr Chen and Mr Yang.

Last week Mr Mansell stepped down from his directorship of Moly Mines, less than three months after he
was installed by Hanlong. Mr Mansell said his appointment had only ever been intended as a short-term
one while the company searched for other new directors. Mr Mansell -- a former managing partner with
law firmFreehills -- was elected to the board of Moly Mines last October alongside fellow former Freehills
partner Bruno Camarri, who was installed as chairman. But Mr Camarri quit the board suddenly just
before Christmas, and was replaced by Mr Chen.
Moly Mines has said for more than two years that it is looking to use its cash position to find new mining
project opportunities, but so far has nothing to show for those endeavours.

Page23of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The $85.8 million in cash it reported at the end of September compares with a market capitalisation of
$44.3m at its current share price of 11.5c.

CO wanhl : Seven West Media Limited
IN
NS

i475 : Printing/Publishing | i4751 : Newspaper Publishing | imed : Media/Entertainment | ipubl : Publishing
cinsdl : Insider Dealing | c411 : Management Moves | cboard : Board of Directors | cslmc : Senior Level
Management | c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal Action | c41 : Management Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial
News | gcat : Political/General News | gcrim : Crime/Courts | gfinc : Financial Crime | gfraud : Fraud | gsfra
: Securities Fraud | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC
Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

RE

PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document NLAUSW0020140123ea1n000dy

Page24of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.