IHG Dining Rewards Launches in Australasia

HD
WC 850 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

IHG Dining Rewards Launches in Australasia

14 August 2014
ENP Newswire
ENPNEW
English
(c) 2014, Electronic News Publishing. All Rights Reserved.

TD

Release date - 13082014
InterContinental Hotels Group (IHG), one of the world's leading hotel companies, today announces the
launch of IHG Dining Rewards, awarding members with generous dining and accommodation benefits
and an instant status upgrade in the group's loyalty programme, IHG Rewards Club.

The Australasia launch is the second phase in the rollout of the new programme, following its launch in
Greater China in May.

For an annual fee of AU$319 (Australia) or AU$295 (New Zealand), joining members will receive a dual
membership card for both their IHG Rewards Club and IHG Dining Rewards programme memberships.
IHG Dining Rewards sets itself apart from the competition by offering a one-tier membership status
upgrade in IHG Rewards Club, the world's first and largest hotel loyalty programme.

Core IHG Dining Rewards programme benefits:

Dining and Beverages*
25% off all dining and beverages at participating IHG hotel restaurants and bars (ongoing)
One $AU50 or $NZ55 e-voucher for redemption against dining and beverages in participating hotel
restaurants & bars across Australasia

IHG Rewards Club
One-tier status upgrade in IHG Rewards Club (e.g. Club to Gold Elite or Gold Elite to Platinum Elite)

Room**

One free night at any of IHG's more than 4,700 hotels globally

One 25% off Best Flexible room rate certificate across participating hotels in Australasia and Greater
China

10% off Best Flexible and Advance Purchase rates across participating hotels in Australasia and Greater
China (ongoing)
Karin Sheppard, Chief Commercial Officer, Asia Middle East and Africa, IHG said, 'This programme goes
beyond just great dining discounts by providing flexibility and benefits to all members, no matter how far
or how often they travel, from room rate discounts to IHG Rewards Club membership status upgrades.'

'We're thrilled to be launching the programme in Australasia; home to great hotels offering superb dining.
With IHG Dining Rewards already available in Greater China and with its continued roll out across the
Asia, Middle East and Africa (AMEA) region soon, there will be even more places for members to redeem
their dining and room benefits at our great hotels.'

Members are able to redeem their benefits at all 33 of IHG's InterContinental, Crowne Plaza and Holiday
Inn hotels in Australia, New Zealand, Fiji and Vanuatu, as well as a growing number of hotels across
Greater China. The programme is set to launch in the UAE, Singapore, Malaysia and Thailand by the end

Page140of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.of 2014, meaning even greater opportunities to redeem room and dining benefits, and will be available at
hotels across South East Asia, Japan and the Middle East by the end of 2015.

A prospective member can sign up by calling toll free: 1800 226 462 (Australia) or 0800 26 44 42 (New
Zealand). For more information on the programme & participating hotels please visit
www.ihgdiningrewards.com.
IHG Rewards Club, the industry's first and largest hotel rewards program with 79 million members is
free, and guests can join at IHGRewardsClub.com, by downloading the IHG app or by inquiring at the
front desk of any of IHG's more than 4,700 hotels worldwide. The programme offers industry-leading
benefits, including free internet for members across IHG's family of nine trusted hotel brands.

End-

Benefits only available at hotels participating in IHG Dining Rewards, except for the free night, which can
be used globally. **All room benefits are subject to hotel availability

Download more images of our properties from our IHG Digital Library.

Related News:

Loyalty Programmes Make Holiday Dreams Come True

IHG Announces InterContinental Hotels & Resorts to Offer Full Folio IHG Rewards Club Points Globally

Media Contacts:

Aisha Jefferson

Ogilvy Public Relations

Tel: +61 2 8437 5370

Email: aisha@pulsecom.com.au

Anisa Ghuloom

Brand Communications Manager
InterContinental Hotels Group (IHG)

Tel: +65 6395 6299

Email: anisa.ghuloom@ihg.com

Notes to Editors:
IHG (InterContinental Hotels Group) [LON:IHG, NYSE:IHG (ADRs)] is a global organisation with a broad
portfolio of nine hotel brands, including InterContinental Hotels & Resorts, Hotel Indigo, Crowne Plaza
Hotels & Resorts, Holiday Inn Hotels & Resorts, Holiday Inn Express, Staybridge Suites, Candlewood
Suites, EVEN Hotels and HUALUXE Hotels and Resorts.
IHG manages IHG Rewards Club, the world's first and largest hotel loyalty programme with over 80
million members worldwide. The programme was relaunched in July 2013, offering enhanced benefits for
members including free internet across all hotels, globally.

IHG franchises, leases, manages or owns over 4,700 hotels and 693,000 guest rooms in nearly 100
countries, with almost 1,200 hotels in its development pipeline.
InterContinental Hotels Group PLC is the Group's holding company and is incorporated in Great Britain
and registered in England and Wales.
Visit www.ihg.com for hotel information and reservations and www.ihgrewardsclub.com for more on IHG
Rewards Club. For our latest news, visit: www.ihg.com/media,
www.twitter.com/ihg,www.facebook.com/ihg or www.youtube.com/ihgplc.

[Editorial queries for this story should be sent to newswire@enpublishing.co.uk]

CO

inhogr : InterContinental Hotels Group PLC

Page141of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS

i6651 : Hotels (except Casino)/Motels | i66 : Hotels/Restaurants | i665 : Lodgings | ilea :
Leisure/Arts/Hospitality | itourm : Tourism
gtour : Travel | npress : Press Releases | c22 : New Products/Services | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin
: FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Electronic News Publishing Ltd.
AN

Document ENPNEW0020140814ea8e000h0

Page142of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.