BC Iron sees no cause for job cuts

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
BC Iron sees no cause for job cuts

PAUL GARVEY, Resources
641 words
18 June 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
22
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

BC IRON managing director Morgan Ball will today look to reassure workers at the company’s
Nullagine iron ore mine about their futures, amid a continued downturn in iron ore prices.

Mr Ball yesterday told reporters at Nullagine that job losses at the mine were unlikely, given the
company’s long-held focus on efficiency.

“I would be very confident that we have one of the leanest overhead structures in the business
because we built an operation that’s fit for purpose,” he said.

“So long as we keep being as effective operationally and productive as we can, this operation will
withstand this.” The visit by reporters and investors to Nullagine came as iron ore prices continued to
fall. The benchmark price yesterday dropped to $US89, its lowest level since September 2012.

The last time prices fell to these levels, there were widespread job losses and deep cuts in capital
expenditure across the industry, although the price slump ultimately proved short-lived.
Mr Ball described the mood in the iron ore industry as “apprehensive but pragmatic”.

“We are in a cyclical industry so we are used to downturns,” he said. “It’s a matter of making sure
you’ve got a business that is able to ride out downturns, ready for the next time it moves up again.” He
said that in the event of continued and sustained price falls, BC could make cuts to its exploration and
business development spending. But it was not making any cuts at present.
“Back in 2012 (iron ore) hit $US86 but only for a day or two before it was back up to $US100. So I’d
need to see a consistent longer term trend before we think about those kind of decisions.” The industry
is watching closely to see whether the weakness in iron ore prices will translate into the closure of
high cost domestic Chinese iron ore production. Much of that Chinese output appears unprofitable at
current prices, and the shutdown of that capacity could help ease the iron ore oversupply that has
driven prices down.
“This is traditionally in China when the domestic producers coming out of winter start to crank up
production again — it will be interesting to see how much of that happens again given the price,” Mr
Ball said. “Certainly a lot of them will be underwater.” With BC having spent much of the past two years
looking unsuccessfully for acquisition opportunities, Mr Ball said the current climate could prove
fruitful for companies willing to back a rebound in iron ore prices.

“We always had an appropriately jaundiced view when looking at opportunities, so the bar hasn’t gone
up. But what we might see is the bar from vendors come down a little bit,” he said.
BC produces about six million tonnes of iron ore a year at Nullagine, in which it holds a 75 per cent
interest. The rest is owned by Fortescue Metals Group, which carries ore from the mine through its
Pilbara rail and port infrastructure. The small but relatively low- cost operations have generated
healthy profits for BC in recent years, allowing it to pay dividends.

Page114of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Ball said the group would still aim to declare dividends even if the falling iron ore price meant they
would be smaller.

The proposed takeover of Aquila Resources by Mineral Resources would likely be a positive for the
smaller end of the iron ore sector, Mr Ball said, given the Aquila resources in the Pilbara could
potentially support a new rail network through the region.

“Any development in Australia that gives juniors the opportunity to realise their dreams is a great
result.”Shares in BC, which traded as high as $5.44 earlier this year, closed down 7.5c to $3.00
yesterday.

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i211 : Metal Ore Mining |
ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c21 : Output/Production | c151 : Earnings | credun : Lay-offs/Redundancies | c15 : Performance | c42 :
Labor/Personnel Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140617ea6i0006j

Page115of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.