Push to restore old attraction gathers steam

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Push to restore old attraction gathers steam

Terry Collins
385 words
21 November 2014
Central Coast
CENTCE
CentralCoast
13
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Three years ago social activist Jake Cassar determined to launch a campaign to see Old Sydney Town
at Somersby restored.
At the time, many said it was a futile plan, but the Bring Back Old Sydney Town Facebookgroup
started by Mr Cassar has now attracted more than 9500 signatures to its petition.

Once it has collected 10,000 signatures, the group will approach Gosford state Liberal MP Chris
Holstein to table it in parliament.
“Our hope there is that the Government will take a serious look at buying or leasing the property from
its owner and looking at restoration possibilities,” Mr Cassar said. “We are collecting feasibility studies
and business plans.

“If I didn’t think it could really happen, I would not be working so hard for it. We have already had
countless offers from local tradesmen – electricians and builders – volunteering not only their time but
also materials to restore some of the buildings.” Mr Cassar said the group had some ideas for the
exterior of the park as a starting point towards sustainability.
These include a grey nomad caravan park, perhaps a camping ground and a drive-in movie theatre to
show old Australian films.
Mr Cassar said a partnership with the owners of the Chinese theme park mooted for Warnervale could
work well.

THE HISTORY 1969: Architect Frank Fox buys the land January 1975: Old Sydney Town is officially
opened on Australia Day by Gough Whitlam December 1975: Funding pledged by the Labor federal
government is withdrawn by new Liberal government 1979: Fox family sells the land to the state
government 1983: Government sells lease to Warwick Amusements 2003: Old Sydney Town is closed
due to non-viability
THE BACKGROUND The OST site is owned by overseas businessman Richard Chiu, who has given
Michael and Peter Fox the job of looking into the viability of reopening it.

The Fox brothers are the sons of Frank Fox, who founded the well known Somersby tourist attraction.
It is unknown if Mr Chiu would be receptive to an offer to buy or lease the site. The Express Advocate
was unable to contact the Fox brothers for comment.

Do you have happy memories of Old Sydney Town? Share them with us at expressadvocate.com.au

RE

austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania

Page66of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

News Ltd.
Document CENTCE0020141120eabl0000o

Page67of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.