Strong real estate market helps REA Group defy expectations

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Strong real estate market helps REA Group defy expectations

Madeleine Heffernan
385 words
5 February 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
26
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Property

Shares in REA Group have reached a record high after the real estate classified company exceeded
analyst expectations in the six months to December, driven by growth in more expensive advertising
for residential property.

Morgans analyst Ivor Ries told BusinessDay the result was "clearly above what the market was
expecting" and despite challenges in its overseas business, notably Hong Kong, "the market is just so
excited about what they're doing with revenue in Australia".

REA, owner of market-leading portals realestate.com.au and realcommercial.com.au, is switching from
a reliance on subscription fees from real estate agents to selling premium advertising slots to them.

Revenue from these "depth" products grew by 67 per cent, a result Mr Ries said was "well in advance
of what the market was looking for".
The company did not provide guidance on who would replace its well regarded chief executive officer
Greg Ellis.

Analyst Roger Colman said he held little hope for shareholders seeking generous dividends or big
acquisitions in the short term.

"REA has got an illogical balance sheet with current [low] interest rates," said Mr Colman of CCZ
Statton Equities.
REA has made a couple of small purchases in the past few months - the $15 million purchase of
online rental application service 1Form.com, and Italian property site Attico - but its enormous growth
over the years has been largely organic.

Shares in REA jumped 5 per cent on Tuesday to $43.78, taking its year-to-date rise to just under 16
per cent and defying the worst day on the sharemarket in six months.

REA reported a 37 per cent rise in net profit to $70.7 million for the six months to December 31.
Annual revenue grew by 30 per cent to $209.4 million, and earnings before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortisation rose by 38 per cent to $106.8 million - about in line with Commonwealth Bank
forecasts.

Analyst Mark McDonnell of BBY said REA's results were impressive, and underpinned by the strong
domestic real estate market and exposure through News Corp's publications.

REA's realestate.com.au brand is a competitor to domain.com.au, owned by BusinessDay's owner,
Fairfax Media.

Page186of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO
IN
RE
PUB
AN

rlesta : REA Group Limited | newsli : News Limited | nnewz : News Corp
ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i834 : Real Estate Agents/Brokers
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140204ea250004c

Page187of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.