FOYSON RESOURCES LTD. - SEPTEMBER 2014 QUARTERLY REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

FOYSON RESOURCES LTD. - SEPTEMBER 2014 QUARTERLY REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS

1,670 words
3 November 2014
ENP Newswire
ENPNEW
English
(c) 2014, Electronic News Publishing. All Rights Reserved.

Release date - 31102014

Foyson Resources Limited is pleased to provide Shareholders with the September 2014 Quarterly
Report.

The Report provides a summary of the activities of the Company for the Quarter and the strategic
direction for the forthcoming period.

Activities undertaken include:
Negotiations with Integrated Green Energy Pty Ltd (IGE) progressed, with the parties signing a
non-binding term sheet to enter into a strategic relationship.

Confidential settlement with Archer Exploration Limited (ASX: AXE) in September to settle all disputes
between them concerning the Leigh Creek magnesite tenements.
Renewal of EL1396, the key Amazon Bay iron sands tenement, by the PNG Mineral Resources
Authority.
Small scale exploration activities at Amazon Bay tenement areas including the successful Mining
Wardens’ hearing at ELA1637 to increase the Amazon Bay project area.

CASH FLOW IGE PROJECT

The Board were pleased to announce on the 30 September the execution of a non binding term sheet
with IGE.
IGE is an Australian company located near Berkeley Vale, New South Wales, with a focus on the
development of its waste conversion technology to produce sustainable energy resources. The
technology is applicable to both processing non-recyclable and waste plastics-to-fuels and for power
generation in remote locations by processing a hybrid biomass.

The Term Sheet allows Foyson to acquire:
exclusive licences in Australia, New Zealand, China, North America, South East Asia, India, Papua New
Guinea and Fiji to commercialise IGE’s plastics to fuel technology and biomass to both fuel and energy
conversion technologies;

one of three non-exclusive technology licences in all other jurisdictions;

IGE’s existing pilot scale plastics to fuel conversion plant at Berkeley Vale on New South Wales’ central
coast;

The Term Sheet states the remuneration for IGE is all performance based. To obtain the maximum
remuneration in terms of Foyson shares and options, the operating facilities utilizing the IGE technology
must earn annual EBITDA in excess of $20million. This arrangement will provide a substantial reward for
current shareholders, if these performance targets are achieved.

Page20of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Term Sheet is subject to conditions precedent including completion of due diligence, the agreement
and execution of long form documentation, and all shareholder and regulatory approvals.
This strategy is consistent with previous announcements by the Company, in that it is seeking a cash
flow project to assist in funding the Amazon Bay Project development activities. This requirement has
become more pressing since the notification from TVI Pacific Inc (‘TVI’) on 26 July 2014 that it will not be
funding Stage 2 of the Amazon Bay Joint Venture and the collapse of the iron ore price to below US$80
per tonne, which is likely to preclude any short term third party investment in the Project.

IGE Term Sheet

The Term Sheet sets out the terms of the proposed arrangements, as described below. These include
two placements of shares, Foyson’s acquisition of licences to use IGE’s technology, acquisition of
IGE’s existing plant, and the construction and development of new plants based on the existing Plant
(‘IGE Transaction’) over the next four years.

Placements preceding completion of the IGE Transaction

Parties associated with IGE will subscribe for shares representing 14.73% of Foyson’s existing share
capital via a first Placement of 135,000,000 ordinary Shares at a subscription price of $0.0025 (0.25
cents) to raise $337,500. Funds from the first placement are to be used predominantly to complete the
due diligence and legal documentation for the IGE transaction and for the working capital requirements of
the Company.

The first placement was successfully completed on 23 October 2014 using Foyson’s existing 15%
capacity under ASX Listing Rule 7.1, and is not subject to shareholder approval. These parties will also
be issued with 135,000,000 options exercisable at $0.0025 (0.25 cents) no later than 31 December 2019.
Grant of the options is subject to shareholder approval.

Foyson will seek shareholder ratification of the first placement at an Extraordinary General Meeting to be
held in mid-December 2014, to refresh its ability to issue further capital as required and to approve the
grant of options in connection with the first placement.

Foyson intends to make a second placement for investors to subscribe for a total of 100,000,000 ordinary
Shares at a subscription price of $0.0025 (0.25 cents) to raise $250,000. These parties will be issued with
100,000,000 options exercisable at $0.0025 (0.25cents) no later than 31 December 2019.

This second placement will be put to shareholders for consideration at the Extraordinary General Meeting
to be held in mid-December 2014. Funds from the second placement will be used for working capital
requirements for the Company during completion of due diligence and final documentation to complete
the IGE Transaction.

Concurrent with the second placement, TVI will be offered the opportunity (subject to all approvals
necessary) to convert its existing loan of $400,000 to equity or subscribe for additional shares, on the
same terms as the two Placements.
Acquisition of exclusive licences, Plant acquisition and construction of New Plants Foyson will acquire
exclusive licences to use IGE’s waste conversion technology in Australia, New Zealand, China, North
America, India, South East Asia, Papua New Guinea and Fiji. Foyson will also acquire non-exclusive
licences to use IGE’s technology in other jurisdictions globally, with IGE to grant no more than three
licences to any party in any jurisdiction.

Over the next four years, Foyson will fund the construction of up to four Plants in eastern Australia,
according to the timetable and budget to be finalised in the long form documentation between the parties.

At completion of the proposed IGE Transaction, Foyson will offer positions to those IGE employees
required to manage the Plant and construct the New Plants on terms and conditions acceptable to both
parties. IGE will construct and develop the Plants on behalf of Foyson.

Share consolidation, fundraising initiatives and issue of Performance Shares to IGE

Foyson intends to undertake a consolidation of its share capital and will issue 1 new share for every 80
existing ordinary shares. This will result in the exercise price of all Foyson options increasing to or above
20 cents.

In addition, Foyson proposes to conduct a Rights Issue in the first quarter of 2015 to raise gross proceeds
of approximately $3,000,000 to fund the development of the Berkeley Vale Plant. Concurrent with the

Page21of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.rights issue, TVI will be offered the opportunity (subject to all approvals necessary) to convert any
remaining balance of its existing loan of $400,000 to equity, on the same terms as the two Placements.

Subject to ASX approval of their terms, after the share consolidation and on completion of the IGE
Transaction, Foyson will issue 70,000,000 Convertible Performance Shares and 70,000,000 Convertible
Performance Options to IGE (together, ‘Performance Securities’).

The Performance Securities will be issued to IGE in tranches. The vesting conditions for each tranche will
be linked to the IGE Plants generating increments of $5 million EBITDA per annum. The first tranche,
linked to the existing Plant, has a performance period of two years from completion of the IGE
Transaction. Each multiple of $5 million EBITDA generated will result in the vesting of another tranche of
Performance Securities.

The Convertible Performance Shares will convert to Foyson ordinary fully paid shares on achieving the
Earnings target increments within the relevant performance period. The target for each plant is EBITDA of
$5 million per annum, pro-rated over any rolling 6 month period within that performance period.

Subject to the targets being met within the relevant performance periods, IGE may exercise the
Convertible Performance Options on or before 31 December 2019 at an exercise price of $0.20 (post
consolidation). On exercise, Foyson will issue one ordinary fully paid share for each Convertible
Performance Option exercised.

Effect on issued capital and IGE interest in Foyson

The share capital and IGE-related share capital interests are presented on the basis of the following
assumptions:
TVI converts debt to equity;

The Rights issue occurs at 20 cents with 1 for 1 option, with full take up and

no exercise of options by any party.

The column headed ‘Fully diluted’ assumes that all options issued as part of this transaction are exercised
and is otherwise made on the assumptions outlined above.

TVI STATUS

Ongoing discussions with representatives of TVI have confirmed its conceptual support for the IGE
transaction, subject to appropriate Due Diligence and TVI Board approval, in order to develop a
sustainable business model which will allow for the ongoing funding of exploration and technical
assessment of the Amazon Bay project, as well as the corporate costs of the Company.

MT HUTTON MAGNESITE TENEMENTS
On 12 September 2014, the Company announced it had entered into a confidential settlement with
Archer Exploration Limited (ASX: AXE) to settle all disputes between them concerning the Leigh Creek
magnesite tenements. Foyson had commenced proceedings against Archer in the Supreme Court and
these proceedings have now been discontinued.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION
In July 2014, the Company received A$273,873 following a successful application submitted during the
June quarter for the R&D Tax Incentive for the year ended 30 June 2013.

The R&D Tax Incentive for the year ended 30 June 2014 has been lodged and it is expected to generate
a refund in excess of $315,000 in the next quarter.

SUMMARY OF PNG TENEMENTS
The Company’s focus in PNG continues to be on the Amazon Bay project, with the exception of the Atui
copper porphyry target on New Britain and the applications on and adjacent to the Legusulum
gold/copper project on New Ireland.

CONTACT:

Foyson Resources Limited

Doug Halley Chairman Tel: +61(0)407 203 050

Page22of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mike Palmer Managing Director Tel: +61(0)418 950 694

[Editorial queries for this story should be sent to newswire@enpublishing.co.uk]

acrhpe : Archer Exploration Ltd | wndbul : Foyson Resources Ltd.
ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
npress : Press Releases | ncat : Content Types
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB Electronic News Publishing Ltd.
AN

Document ENPNEW0020141103eab3000dh

Page23of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.