Concierge

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Lifestyle
Concierge

Lydia Vasko
551 words
9 November 2014
Straits Times
STIMES
English
(c) 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

RESORT IN HIMALAYAN FOOTHILLS

JW Marriott Luxury Hotels opened its first resort and spa in India in the foothills of the Garhwal
Himalayan mountain range last week.

Built amid lush mountains and historic walnut plantations, the 115-room JW Marriott Mussoorie Walnut
Grove Resort & Spa is a convenient starting point from which to explore nearby temples, gardens, hiking
trails and natural waterfalls, and is a short distance from the famous Bhatta Falls and the Rajaji National
Park.

Rooms start from 14,000 rupees (S$300) a night, but the resort is offering an opening promotional rate
from 11,000 rupees (S$235), which is valid till Dec 18.

For more information, go to
www.marriott.com/hotels/travel/dedjw-jw-marriott-mussoorie-walnut-grove-resort-and-spa

NEW ON THE PEARL, DOHA

Kempinski Hotels will open the Marsa Malaz Kempinski The Pearl Doha on Dec 1. It will be the first
ultra-luxury hotel to open on The Pearl, a newly developed man-made island outside Doha that is
named for the area's history as a pearl diving site.
The hotel, which features European architecture blended with traditional Arabian style, has amenities
such as an exclusive beach located in a private bay, outdoor swimming pools, gardens, tennis courts,
water sports facilities, a spa by Clarins and yacht jetties.

It has 281 rooms, including 69 suites, two Presidential suites and two Royal suites. Rooms rates start at
US$435 (S$544) for a deluxe room.

For more information go to www.kempinski.com/en/doha/marsa-malaz-kempinski-the-pearl-doha

NEW SILKAIR ROUTES TO BALI, CAIRNS

The regional wing of Singapore Airlines, SilkAir, will start two new routes in the coming months.

From Dec 12, the airline will begin a daily service to Denpasar, Bali, adding to Singapore Airline's four
daily flights to the popular holiday destination.

The daily flights will depart Singapore at 6.50am and Denpasar at 10.30am.

From May 30, SilkAir will commence flights between Singapore and Cairns in Queensland, Australia,
thrice a week, on Monday, Thursday and Saturday.

Saturday flights will depart Singapore for Cairns direct and return to Singapore via Darwin. Monday and
Thursday flights will go to Cairns via Darwin and return to Singapore non-stop.

For more information go to www.silkair.com

Page33of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.WINTER SALE ON HOTELS
Preferred Hotel Group, which represents 650 hotels, resorts and serviced residences around the world,
has launched a winter sale with up to 57 per cent savings on accommodation.
The sale covers 116 hotels, including 30 per cent off rooms at the boutique Hotel Club Frances Buenos
Aires in Buenos Aires, Argentina; 25 per cent off at Regal Kowloon Hotel in Hong Kong; and 20 per
cent off Dromoland Castle Hotel in County Clare, Ireland.
The sale also includes free nights and extended stays in select destinations in the United States, such
as Washington DC and California's wine country.

All stays must be completed by Feb 15 next year, except at hotels in the Americas, where offers end on
March 31.

ART

To book at these reduced rates, go to www.preferredhotelgroup.com/winter
The JW Marriott Mussoorie Walnut Grove Resort & Spa is the hotel chain's first resort and spa in India.
-- PHOTO: JW MARRIOTT HOTELS & RESORTS
gtour : Travel | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

NS
RE
PUB Singapore Press Holdings Limited
AN

Document STIMES0020141108eab90001y

Page34of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.