Miners' cash flow a target for yield-hungry investors

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Market Wrap
Miners' cash flow a target for yield-hungry investors

Baker Philip Baker
576 words
14 February 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
22
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Philip Baker

The hunt for yields by investors has become so intense it has reached the resources sector. Not really
known for their dividends, the miners are now under pressure to deliver something back to
shareholders.

The initial boom phase of China is over and the easy money has been made. Now there's a frugal
phase hitting the miners. It's not just about blue sky and hitting pay dirt. It's cutting costs and running
a tight ship.

Over the past couple of years the stand-out feature of Rio Tinto's full-year results has been the
massive asset write-downs, with last year's round of $US14.4 billion ($16.1 billion) leading to the
sacking of former chief executive Tom Albanese.

Now investors are hoping to get some money back.
In 2012, the company paid a dividend of US167¢ a share and that was an increase on 2011's
payment of US145¢ a share. According to most analysts, that was going to be US181¢ in 2013 and
on Thursday the company announced it was US192¢.

The resources sector is now delivering income yields well in excess of inflation and that has caught
the attention of all investors. Resources sector not known for paying dividends

Banks and industrials have always been known for their dividends, but not the resources sector. It
heralds a new era for management of these companies and analysts say it's no coincidence that
Andrew Mackenzie got the top job at BHP Billiton.
Ill-conceived projects such as the Hot Briquetted Iron plant at Port Hedland, the Hartley Platinum
mine in Zimbabwe and the Magma Copper purchase in the US cost the company nearly $14 billion.
Paul Anderson then got the company back on track.

These days it's tougher for miners to develop new mines and find fresh resources and with the recent
drop in commodity prices it's not as easy as it once was to make money.

But emerging markets mean that demand will continue to underpin growth over the next decade or so.
As UBS head of resources research Glyn Lawcock points out, mining investors have suffered
through two years of sustained sector underperformance. "Most of the cash windfall of the China-led
mining boom was applied to capex, ill-timed M&A, or captured by employees, governments and
contractors.
Now, new management teams of the major mining houses have a simple mandate to boost returns to
shareholders," he said.Incentive to keep investors happy with buybacks, dividends

Page252of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.According to UBS, the mining sector is poised to generate around $US10 billion in free cash flow in
2013 and potentially as much as close to $US40 billion in 2014. In 2012, free cash flow fell about
$US10 billion.
There is an incentive for management of mining companies to keep fund managers and investors
happy with dividends and buybacks.

There's a fair chance the underlying demand for yield will never change.

Indeed, some say with the growth in small self-managed super funds and the increase in
contributions, along with the ageing population, it will increase. For miners, it's not just about opening
new mines. In the present market, earnings and cash flow can be increased more quickly and easily
by slowing the development of new mines, keeping supply tight and keeping prices as high as
possible.READ NEXT:

RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140213ea2e0000o

Page253of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.