Nyrstar launches a €251.6 million 1 for 1 Rights Offering of 170,022,544 new Shares at a subscription price of €1.48 per new Share

HD

Nyrstar launches a €251.6 million 1 for 1 Rights Offering of 170,022,544 new Shares at a
subscription price of €1.48 per new Share

WC 2,479 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

11 September 2014
16:02
Thomson Reuters ONE
HUGNEN
English
© 2014 All Rights Reserved. Thomson Reuters.

Regulated information

THIS ANNOUNCEMENT IS NOT FOR DISTRIBUTION, DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY, IN THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA, AUSTRALIA, CANADA, JAPAN, SOUTH AFRICA OR ANY OTHER
JURISDICTION WHERE TO DO SO WOULD BE PROHIBITED BY APPLICABLE LAW

TD

11 September 2014
Nyrstar NV ("Nyrstar" or the "Company") announced today the launch of a rights offering in the amount of
€251,633,365.12 (the "Rights Offering" and, together with the Scrips Offering referred to below, the
"Offering"), corresponding to 170,022,544 new shares (the "Shares") at a subscription price of €1.48 per
new Share (the "Subscription Price"), with non-statutory preferential subscription rights for existing
shareholders (the "Rights") at a ratio of one new Share for one Right.

The Offering is a part of the comprehensive strategic financing that Nyrstar announced on 1 September
2014.  In addition to the Offering, the comprehensive strategic financing consists of an international
offering of €350 million of 8 1/2 % rated senior unsecured notes, due 2019, to institutional investors in the
high yield bond market (the "Notes Offering"), which are expected to be issued at an issue price of
98.018% on 12 September 2014, and a tender offer for Nyrstar's outstanding retail bonds (the "Tender
Offer").

The aggregate proceeds of the Offering and the Notes Offering will be used for a Tender Offer for
Nyrstar's outstanding retail bonds with a view to repurchasing any-and-all of its outstanding 2015 retail
bonds and a portion of its outstanding 2016 retail bonds, to fund capital expenditures required for
Nyrstar's continued transformation through capital projects comprising the Smelting Strategic Review
(SSR) investment programme and the Port Pirie Redevelopment, to reduce net debt (towards a targeted
Net Debt / EBITDA ratio of 2.5x), for transaction costs and for general corporate purposes.

The main terms of the Offering can be summarised as follows:

Rights

Each existing Share will entitle its holder
to one non-statutory Right. The Rights, represented by coupon No. 7 of the
existing Shares, will be separated from the underlying Shares on 11 September
2014 after the closing of the regulated market of
Euronext Brussels and will be tradable on such regulated market from 12
September 2014 to 23 September 2014 under the symbol NYR7.
Ratio
1 new Share for 1 Right.
Subscription Price
€1.48 per new Share.
Rights Subscription Period
From 12 September 2014 until 16.00 CEST on 23
September 2014 inclusive (the "Rights Subscription Period"). The last date
and/or time before which notification of exercise instructions may be validly

Page303of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.given may be earlier than 23 September 2014, 16.00 CEST, depending on the
financial institution through which the Rights are held and depending on the
communications that will be sent by Nyrstar to its registered shareholders.
Rights that have not been exercised by the end of the Rights Subscription
Period will no longer be exercisable.

Scrips Subscription Period

The Rights that are not exercised at the end
of the Rights Subscription Period, will be converted into an equal number of
scrips (the "Scrips"). The Scrips will be offered and sold through an
accelerated bookbuilding process (i) by way of an exempt private placement in
Belgium and elsewhere outside the United States in offshore transactions in
reliance on Regulation S under the U.S. Securities Act, and (ii) within the
United States solely to qualified institutional buyers (as defined in Rule
144A under the U.S. Securities Act) in transactions exempt from registration
under the U.S. Securities Act (the "Scrips Offering"). The Scrips Offering is
expected to take place on or around 25 September 2014.The net proceeds, if
any, of the sale of the Scrips will be divided proportionally between all
holders of Rights that have not been exercised during the Rights Subscription
Period, unless the net proceeds of the sale of Scrips divided by the number of
unexercised Rights is less than €0.01.Purchasers of Scrips will have the
obligation to subscribe for new Shares corresponding to the number of Scrips
acquired by them in accordance with the Ratio.

Announcement of the results

The results of the subscription with Rights
are expected to be announced via a press release on or around 25 September
2014 (before market opening). The results of the subscription with Scrips are
expected to be announced via a press release on or around 25 September 2014.
The results of the Offering and the amount (if any) due to holders of
unexercised Rights will be published on or around 26 September 2014 in the
financial press.

Ranking and dividends

The new Shares to be issued will have the

same rights and benefits as, and shall rank pari passu in all respects,
including as to entitlement to dividends, with, the existing and outstanding
Shares at the moment of their issue and will be entitled to distributions in
respect of which the relevant record date or due date falls on or after their
issue date.

Goldman Sachs International is acting as Sole

Syndicate and Underwriting
Global Coordinator for the Offering. Goldman Sachs International and KBC
Securities NV (the "Joint Bookrunners") and ABN AMRO Bank N.V., BNP
ParibasFortis NV/SA and RBC Europe Limited (together with the Joint
Bookrunners, the "Underwriters") have agreed to subscribe for any new Shares
not taken up in the Offering, subject to the terms and conditions of an
underwriting agreement.Funds and accounts under management being direct or
indirect subsidiaries of BlackRock, Inc. ("BlackRock") have advised the
Company that they intend to participate in the Offering. In addition,
BlackRock has entered into an agreement to sub-underwrite the Rights Offering
for an amount of €35 million, further demonstrating its support for the
proposed Rights Offering.

Admission to trading

Application has been made to admit the new

Shares to trading on the regulated market of Euronext Brussels under the
symbol of NYR.

Settlement

The payment of the subscriptions with Rights
is expected to take place on or around 30 September 2014 and will be done by
debit of the subscriber's account with the same value date.The payment of the
subscriptions in the Scrips Offering is expected to take place on or around 30
September 2014. The payment of the subscriptions in the Scrips Offering will
be made by delivery against payment.Delivery of the new Shares will take place
on or around 30 September 2014.The payment of the net proceeds of the sale of
Scrips, as the case may be, is expected to occur as of 30 September 2014.
Prospectus
Financial Services and Markets Authority on 10 September 2014 (the

A prospectus has been approved by the Belgian

Page304of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."Prospectus") and will be available in English, Dutch and French.Subject to
certain restrictions, copies of the Prospectus will be available without
charge, as from 11 September 2014, upon request in Belgium from KBC Bank on
+32 3 283 29 70, from CBC Banque on +32 800 92 020, and from BNP ParibasFortis
on +32 2 433 40 32 (French), +32 2 433 40 31 (Dutch) and +32 2 433 40 34
(English).Subject to certain restrictions, the Prospectus may be accessed on
the websites of KBC Bank ( www.kbc.be/nyrstar ), KBC Securities (
www.kbcsecurities.be and www.bolero.be ) and CBC Banque ( www.cbc.be/nyrstar )
and the website of BNP ParibasFortis (
www.bnpparibasfortis.be/sparenenbeleggen (Dutch or English) or
www.bnpparibasfortis.be/epargneretplacer (French or English)), as well as on
the website of Nyrstar ( www.nyrstar.com ) as from 11 September 2014.Moreover
and subject to the same restrictions, copies of the Prospectus will be
available, without charge, at Zinkstraat 1, B-2490 Balen, Belgium, telephone
number: +32 14 44 95 00, as from 11 September 2014.

- end -

About Nyrstar
Nyrstar is an integrated mining and metals business, with market leading positions in zinc and lead, and
growing positions in other base and precious metals; essential resources that are fuelling the rapid
urbanisation and industrialisation of our changing world. Nyrstar has mining, smelting, and commercial
operations located in Europe, the Americas, China and Australia and employs approximately 6,500
people. Nyrstar is incorporated in Belgium and has its corporate office in Switzerland. Nyrstar is listed on
NYSE Euronext Brussels under the symbol NYR. For further information please visit the Nyrstar website,
www.nyrstar.com .

For further information

Investors:
Amy Rajendran   Group Manager Investor Relations   T: +41 44 745 8103  M: +41 79 722 3089   E:
amy.rajendran@nyrstar.com

Media:

Dirk Delmartino  Brunswick Group (Brussels)   T: +32 2 235 6510

Pip Green  Brunswick Group (London)    T: +44 20 7404 5959

nyrstar@brunswickgroup.com

IMPORTANT INFORMATION
This announcement is for general information only and does not constitute an offer to sell or to purchase
or the solicitation of an offer to buy or to sell, nor shall there be any sale or purchase of, the securities
referred to herein, in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation, sale or purchase would be unlawful
prior to registration, exemption from registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such
jurisdiction.  This announcement is not for distribution, directly or indirectly, in the United States of
America, Australia, Canada, Japan, South Africa or any other jurisdiction where to do so would be
prohibited by applicable law.  Any persons reading this announcement should inform themselves of and
observe any such restrictions.

The securities referred to herein have not been and will not be registered under the U.S. Securities Act of
1933, as amended from time to time (the "U.S. Securities Act"), and the securities may not be offered or
sold in the United States (as defined in Regulation S under the U.S. Securities Act) unless these
securities are registered under the U.S. Securities Act, or an exemption from the registration requirements
of the U.S. Securities Act is available. Nyrstar and its affiliates have not registered, and do not intend to
register, any portion of the offering of the securities concerned in the United States, and do not intend to
conduct a public offering of securities in the United States.

In any Member State of the European Economic Area that has implemented the Prospectus Directive,
other than Belgium (in respect of the Offering and the Tender Offer only), this communication is only
addressed to and is only directed at qualified investors in that Member State within the meaning of Article
2(1)(e) the Prospectus Directive.  The expression "Prospectus Directive" means Directive 2003/71/EC
(and amendments thereto, including Directive 2010/73/EU, to the extent implemented in any relevant
Member State) and includes any relevant implementing measures in any Member State.

Page305of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.This communication is being distributed only to, and is directed only at (a) persons outside the United
Kingdom, (b) investment professionals falling within Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets
Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005, as amended (the "Order"), and (c) high net worth companies,
and other persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully be communicated, falling within Article 49(2) (a) to
(d) of the Order (all such persons together being referred to as "relevant persons").  The offerings are only
available to, and any invitation, offer or agreement to subscribe, purchase, or otherwise acquire or sell
such securities will be engaged in only with relevant persons.  Any person who is not a relevant person
should not act or rely on this communication or any of its contents.

The Tender Offer is not being made, and will not be made, directly or indirectly in or into, or by use of the
mail of, or by any means or instrumentality of interstate or foreign commerce of or of any facilities of a
national securities exchange of, the United States, and no offer may be made by any such use, means,
instrumentality or facility from or within the United States or to persons located in the United States. This
includes, but is not limited to, facsimile transmission, electronic mail, telex, telephone and the internet.

This communication is not a prospectus for the purposes of the Prospectus Directive in relation to the
Offering, an offering memorandum in relation to the Notes Offering, or a tender offer memorandum for the
purposes of the Belgian Act of 1 April 2007 on public takeover bids, as amended (the "Takeover Act") in
relation to the Tender Offer.  A prospectus, offering memorandum and tender offer memorandum
prepared and made available in accordance with the Prospectus Directive and Takeover Act, as the case
may be, is or will be published, which, when published, can be obtained, amongst others, from the
Company. The prospectus in relation to the Offering can be obtained as aforementioned.  Investors
should not subscribe for any securities referred to in this document except on the basis of information
contained in the prospectus in relation to the Offering or offering memorandum in relation to the Notes
Offering, and holders of the 2015 Bonds and 2016 Bonds (the "Existing Bonds") should not sell any
Existing Bonds referred to in this document except on the basis of information contained in the tender
offer memorandum in relation to the Tender Offer. Investors and holders of Existing Bonds may not
accept an offer of securities referred to herein, nor acquire or sell such securities, unless on the basis of
information contained in the relevant prospectus, offering document or tender offer memorandum that will
be published or disseminated by the Company. This communication cannot be used as basis for any
investment agreement or decision.
No announcement or information regarding the offering, listing, tender offer or securities of the Company
referred to above may be disseminated to the public in jurisdictions outside of Belgium where a prior
registration or approval is required for such purpose.  No steps have been taken, or will be taken, for the
offering, listing, tender offer, or securities of the Company in any jurisdiction outside of Belgium where
such steps would be required.  The issue, exercise, or sale of, the subscription for or purchase of, and
the tender offer in relation to, securities of the Company are subject to special legal or statutory
restrictions in certain jurisdictions.  The Company is not liable if the aforementioned restrictions are not
complied with by any person.

The full press release can be downloaded from the following link:

Press Release (English)

Press Release (Dutch)

Press Release (French)

This announcement is distributed by NASDAQ OMX Corporate Solutions on behalf of NASDAQ OMX
Corporate Solutions clients.

The issuer of this announcement warrants that they are solely responsible for the content, accuracy and
originality of the information contained therein.

Source: Nyrstar via Globenewswire

HUG#1855201

CT
CO nyrstr : Nyrstar SA/NV
IN

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2113 : Lead Ore/Zinc Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
c171 : Share Capital | cprpla : Private Placements | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | npress : Press
Releases | c314 : Pricing | c17 : Funding/Capital | c31 : Marketing | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :

NS

Page306of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
belg : Belgium | usa : United States | austr : Australia | brus : Brussels | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | benluxz : Benelux Countries | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz
: North America | weurz : Western Europe

IPD Basic Materials
IPC A0M58B
PUB Thomson Reuters (Markets) Norway AS
AN

Document HUGNEN0020140911ea9b0008h

Page307of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.