Hong Kong tycoon's casino takeover now in ACT hands

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Hong Kong tycoon's casino takeover now in ACT hands

By Primrose Riordan
442 words
20 September 2014
Canberra Times
CANBTZ
A008
English
(c) 2014 The Canberra Times

Hong Kong tycoon's casino takeover now in ACT hands

By Primrose Riordan

CHANGES: Canberra Casino.
It is now up to the ACT government to decide whether the takeover of Canberra Casino by a Hong
Kong-based billionaire will go ahead after the Foreign Investment Review Board approved Aquis'
proposed takeover of the Reef Casino Trust on Friday. The board approval for the takeover of the trust -
which includes Canberra Casino - follows approval from the Australian Competition and Consumer
Commission in August. The board posed the final federal barrier to finance tycoon Tony Fung's Aquis
Reef Holdings acquiring the trust from majority owners Casinos Austria International and Accor Casino
Investments. If the deal passes ACT regulators, it would likely see the Civic site redeveloped, as the
chairman

of Australian operations for Aquis, Mr Fung's son, Justin Fung, has hinted that changes would be on the
way for the ailing casino. Aquis has been less opaque about its plans for the trust's main prize - a
lucrative Cairns casino licence the Fungs have slated for a $8.15billion redevelopment. It has dubbed the
proposed Yorkeys Knob mega-resort near Cairns a "man-made" wonder, featuring an artificial lake, a golf
course, 7500 hotel rooms, gambling facilities and a convention centre. The Canberra Casino takeover is
believed to be worth about $278million and Casinos Austria International is more than keen to see the
sale go through. Australian manager Allan Tan has previously said ACT regulations, which banned the
casino operating slot machines, did not allow the site to be a "true casino".

A spokesman for Aquis said the regulations would not get in the way of its offer. "Aquis made the offer for
Reef (including Canberra) with an understanding of the ACT regulatory environment and will proceed on
that basis," he said. ACT Gambling and Racing Commission chief executive GregJones cooled
enthusiasm for
easy passage for the group in passing the final barrier before approval. He said the probity check the
commission was conducting in concert with Queensland authorities was "carefully considering" sources
of funds in terms of ownership, as well as "the source of player funds". He said any suggestions of
"money laundering and links to organised crime" were "certainly something" in which they were
interested. "We need to be sure there is no links to criminality," Mr Jones said, not suggesting any had
been found. A result from the probity review is expected by the end of October and the Aquis spokesman
said the company was "confident" it would receive the ACT and Queensland government approvals.

RF
CO
IN
RE

60466781
casaus : Casinos Austria AG | rctaus : Reef Casino Trust
i97912 : Gambling Industries | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

Page193of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty Ltd
AN

Document CANBTZ0020140919ea9k0001x

Page194of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.