NBN Co guru’s $1.5m transition into graphite

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
NBN Co guru’s $1.5m transition into graphite

EXCLUSIVE: MITCHELL BINGEMANN
628 words
10 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
21
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

NBN Co board director and internet entrepreneur Simon Hackett is shifting his focus from the tech
sector and into the resources game after spending $1.5 million to take a quarter stake in the nascent
graphite mining operation Oakdale Resources.

Mr Hackett, who is independently wealthy, having sold internet provider Internode to rival iiNet for
$105m in 2011, has high hopes for the graphite industry in Australia and the mineral’s potential to
bolster the production of the high-end batteries used in electric cars as well as the “super material”
graphene in the future.

Graphite, with its ability to easily conduct heat and electrical current, is an important element in the
production of lithium-ion batteries while its derivative grapheme — a material 200 times stronger than
steel — is expected to transform everything from concrete-making to military equipment.
Mr Hackett’s investment in Oakdale has netted him 7.5 million shares at 20c each to take a 25 per
cent stake in Oakdale’s IPO, which hit the market yesterday.
The company floated a total of 30 million shares at an issue price of 20c in the hopes of raising $6m.
The IPO closes on October 23.

According to its prospectus, Oakdale will explore eight tenements covering 2008sq km in the Eyre
Peninsula, South Australia, which in preliminary explorations has shown high-quality flake graphite,
which is needed in high-performance batteries.
The company will be headed by prospector John Lynch, who has significant exploration and
development experience, including the discovery of Mount Leyshon, Camel Creek and Big Rush gold
mines in North Queensland and the Weda Bay nickel cobalt deposit in Indonesia.
The company plans on using about $3m of its raised capital to further explore the tenements with the
remaining funds to be spent on building facilities, infrastructure, royalties and other expenses.

Mr Lynch said that when its processing facility is in operation in 2016 it would be capable of producing
100,000 tonnes of graphite a year. At present, graphite sells for about $1400 a tonne.

Mr Hackett is a big backer of innovative start-ups and technology companies but his investment in
Oakdale represents the first time the serial investor has put his money into a mining operation.
While his investment might seem counter-cyclic — as mining companies typically invest in tech
companies and not the other way round — Mr Hackett’s decision to back Oakdale is the latest of his
that tie closely with his interests.
Earlier this year the self-made millionaire invested millions of dollars in a new motoring start-up called
eV Race Systems, designer of a world-leading, high-performance electric-powered race car for
international exhibition and racing events.

Page244of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“It’s no secret that I look up to (Tesla founder) Elon Musk. Now while he’s not into this sort of
investment we think there’s a great opportunity to move further up the supply chain to produce the
resources that make batteries possible for electric cars,” Mr Hackett told The Australian.

“And with Tesla building its $US5bn ($5.64bn) giga-battery factory in the US there is going to be some
serious need for sourcing graphite.” Mr Hackett, who owns three of the iconic electric-powered Tesla
Roadsters (and has another two on order), believes adoption of electric vehicles, especially in Asia,
would also create strong demand for graphite in the future.“It’s not just the West that will be demanding
this graphite for batteries. China has a massive air-pollution problem in its big cities and so I can easily
imagine a future where only zero-emission vehicles will be allowed in those centres. That represents a
massive opportunity for us.”

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

nbnaus : NBN Co Limited
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i35104 : Electric/Gas/Biofuel Vehicles | i351 : Motor Vehicles | iaut :
Automotive | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i3302 :
Computers/Consumer Electronics | i3303 : Networking | i7902 : Telecommunications | ibrdbi :
Broadband Infrastructure | icomp : Computing | itech : Technology
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141009eaaa00019

Page245of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.