Power giant up for grabs Sale of key asset no surprise to region

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Power giant up for grabs Sale of key asset no surprise to region

JIM CAMPBELL
451 words
5 June 2014
Chinchilla News
APNCHN
Main
1
English
Copyright 2014 APN Newspapers Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

Government looking for buyers with a cool $1.3 b
THE State Government has slapped a “for sale” sign on one of the Chinchilla region’s biggest
assets — CS Energy’s Kogan Creek Power Station.

The plan was made public on Tuesday as part of the government’s tough budget, but insiders say
the move had been coming for some time.
One senior employee at the Kogan Creek site, who spoke to Chinchilla News on the condition of
anonymity, said the news “didn’t come as a surprise”.

“We’ve been talking about it and expecting it for a couple of years,” the worker said.
“The company has been trying to position itself to be as competitive as possible.”
Between the coal mine and power station, the asset was worth an estimated $1.3 billion.
Built in 2007, it is the newest coal fired generator in Australia and employs about 150 people – the
majority of whom reside in Chinchilla.

“There will obviously be some trepidation in the workforce,” the worker said.

“Until you see a concrete plan in front of you there is always concern.

“But as far as job fears go, it’s a very low risk in my opinion.

“It doesn’t matter who owns us – people still need electricity.”
Chinchilla Community Commerce and Industry (CCCI) president Rob Hart said the sale of State
Government assets was “inevitable”.
But he doubted a buyer would purchase the facility to shut it down.

“If it’s going to be sold I think it would be bought by someone who will run it and try make money
out of it,” he said.
CS Energy chief executive officer Martin Moore said his management team was focused on
running the business safely and efficiently to create value for its shareholders.

“And this will not change,” he said.
“Questions relating to the future ownership of CS Energy are matters for our owners, the
Queensland Government to address.”

Page238of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Member for Warrego Howard Hobbs moved to reassure workers, saying the sale could even work
in their favour.

“I would think it would be sold as a working operation,” he said. “Governments don’t always run
things to best practice so if it’s sold, private enterprise might even find new opportunities.”
Mr Hobbs said $197 million for the Warrego Hwy was a major win for the region and also that he
would approach the Department of Main Roads to investigate upgrades to the Wambo St rail
crossing in Chinchilla.

What do you think?

Email editorial@
chinchillanews.com.au

NS

RE
PUB
AN

greg : Regional Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol :
Domestic Politics
queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
APN Newspapers Pty Ltd
Document APNCHN0020140604ea65000e5

Page239of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.