CHAT ROOM 0416 905 148

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
CHAT ROOM 0416 905 148

817 words
5 March 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
21
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

RON CLARKE RON Clarke, go away and do your job re the Games. If things are behind schedule, now
you know why. You were once a mayor and made decisions that slowed down progress! Don’t let Games
become a victim due to ridiculous bureaucracy you were once part of. – Oz4Oz RON Clarke, are you
serious about the CW Games not being ready on time? Let’s not forget you opened Couran Cove while it
was a construction site and then, in your capacity as CEO, ran it like one! – Woodleigh

QANTAS JESSICA and Ellen, I watched all of parliament live yesterday. Joe Hockey did not say the CEO
of Qantas said the best thing you can do is get rid of the carbon tax. It was the CEO of Virgin! By the way
you didn’t mention anything about the 135mil carbon hit on Qantas – that might help them out if the
money was in their pockets. – true blue Stu QANTAS wouldn't be in such a mess if it hadn’t been
committed to wiping out all its competition. It has an ingrained mantra to destroy every other airline and
this time has destroyed itself. A new board, a new CEO and a complete new direction before any bailout
and don’t expect any help from Labor with ridding the carbon tax. This is another point-scoring job.

QANTAS: The govt cannot throw good money after bad. CEO Joyce failed in his job to effectively curtail
the unions’ stranglehold on their workforce. Some other govts fund operations in their national carrier but
wages n operating costs r much lower in Asia.

AND THE REST TRISH, I agree about supporting our farmers but the problem is we don’t know what’s
local any more because so many have sold out!

AT least the monorail lasted 25 years – the light rail will be lucky to last as long as it took to build. – Wise
Doug FORGET Cate Blanchett for the Oscar: Mercedes Corby should win it hands down for her interview
the other night.
HOW frustrating to circle Southport hopelessly looking for a car park. Mon am among all the blocked and
closed roads and then to see in the backstreets the infamous parking police slapping tickets on cars
whose owners are probably least likely to afford the fines.

WHAT is it with the safety issues with the trams? If youth are going to walk across a road, or if you are
going to drive through an intersection or coming out of a driveway or even if you are going to make a
U-turn, make sure you LOOK FIRST. If you see a BIG YELLOW THING coming, it’s most likely going to
be a tram. Then the same applies if a car or truck is coming. WAIT until it’s safe. Surely it’s not rocket
science. – Steve BOB East For Mayor! And a brand new forward-thinking council of his choice! WHY is
there so much negative focus on gen Y? I’m gen X. I never recalled media or the public slagging us off.
Then again, we are a pretty awesome bunch. lol. :) ANYONE out there having trouble contacting Go Via
re tolls that have been paid – eg, original $4.13, next one in mail in $20-plus bracket; also infringement
notice in excess of $140. With that amount of unjustified money pouring in, no wonder they don’t want
any contact. – Boomer RE proposed gates to Southport Chinatown. If the Chinese community wish to
have special gates, l suggest they all club together to pay for them. I, as a pensioner, do not wish to
contribute! – Joan, Ashmore TO the person who decided to erect a bus stop shelter on McLaren Rd,
Nerang – for more than 10 years, people were standing in sun and rain waiting for a bus. NOW, thanks to

Page185of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.those silly bus service changes, this bus stop is a set-down only, so don’t waste ratepayers’ million dollars
(I’m sure that’s how much it will cost) on this.

WHAT nonsense, women and men equal prizemoney – for eg, when Channel 7 demands the women’s
final on Sunday and play the men’s on Saturday due to public demand perhaps. Then you can call for
equal money. – Roy the 80$$$ COMMENT on Current Affair: “Old folk are doing it tough and it’s not the
time to be old.” What are we supposed to do: turn the clock back? Got the message, Tony? I doubt
it.ROY and all the others complaining about farmers. It’s simple: No Famers equals no Food! You all
sound so jealous, as if they’re living in mansions. Get a grip. If you don’t support our farmers everything
will be imported, then you will be supporting other countries. Is that what you want?

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

NS
RE
PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document GCBULL0020140304ea350001p

Page186of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.