Milk float: the story behind Bellamy's Organic's expected IPO

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
LA
CY
LP

TD

Milk float: the story behind Bellamy's Organic's expected IPO

Caitlin Fitzsimmons
837 words
13 June 2014
BRW
BRW
First
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Bellamy's Organic is set to issue a prospectus for an initial public offering within weeks, as the
Tasmanian baby food company looks to raise $30 million to fund expansion of its export business.
Bellamy's Organic chief executive Laura McBain says the company's revenue is set to hit $50 million
this financial year after the third consecutive year of 80 per cent growth. The target forecast for
2014/2015 is $83 million.

The product range is all organic and includes infant and toddler formula, baby foods such as rice cereal
and snacks such as dried fruit. The brand has good distribution through Woolworths, Coles, Chemist
Warehouse and CostCo and also sells direct through its own website.
McBain played down the prospect of an IPO or private equity investment in an interview with BRW last
year. She cannot legally discuss the IPO now but says the company is exploring funding options to
ensure the right capitalisation and management for future growth. "We expect further years to look like
this too so we need to prepare or plan for this," McBain says. "We're not looking to buy any factories or
anything, it's just about funding the growth we're expecting."

The IPO

Hugh Robertson from Wilson HTM confirms that there is a proposal for an IPO with the Australian
Securities Exchange. If approved, would happen over the next month, with shares offered at $1 each.
That would give the company a market capitalisation of $95 million and $30 million of that would be
new capital.

Robertson says there has been good interest and he expects Bellamy's to list with five major Australian
institutions on the share registry. There is also an employee share scheme proposed and a number of
existing shareholders, mostly Tasmanians who backed the business in the early days, will remain
invested.
Kathmandu founder and former BRW Rich Lister Jan Cameron, who owns 55 per cent of the business,
is selling her stake to institutions. The Street Talk column in The Australian Financial Review suggests
Cameron might reinvest but Robertson says he cannot speculate.
The business
McBain says even at its current size, the company can not source all its milk from Australia because
there are not enough organic dairy cows in the country.

"We would look to see that change and are in talks with various parties to investigate how we can do
that," McBain says. "It's something the team here is really passionate about, getting Tasmania on the
map as Australia's leading provider of organic dairy." She believes one solution for dairy producers
struggling with the supermarket milk wars is to move higher up the value chain, and the success of A2
milk is proof of the opportunity at the premium end of the market.
The company exports to Asia, with an office in China and a new two-person office in Singapore that is
preparing for a big push into Malyasia and Vietnam. Expansion to the US and UK is slated for 2016.

Page38of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.China was rocked by scandals around contamination of local brands of infant formula a few years ago.
McBain says Tasmania is not well-known yet in China, but Australia had an excellent reputation there for
"clean, green food" and it was well understood that organic produce was another level again.

However, Bellamy's still makes 65-70 per cent of its sales in Australia and the domestic market has been
keeping pace with the company's rapid growth. "We have 10 per cent of the formula market in Australia
and 12 per cent of the baby food and snacks market," McBain says. "It's exciting to get that kind of
number up when we're competing against big multinationals like Nestle and Danone and we've done that
from Launceston, which is [not] the capital of the business world as you know."

Marketing
As a mid-market business, McBain says Bellamy's does not have a lot of money to spend on marketing
so it favours digital channels. She regards it as core business so most of the capability is in house. That
includes advertising, search engine optimisation, social media and video. Some of the best engagement
comes through competitions on Facebook, where it has 24,000. The company also uses content
marketing, using YouTube to post videos with advice and information for parents such as tips on
preparing food.
But McBain says Bellamy's marketing is more about promoting the brand rather than infant formula. The
company is not a signatory to the MAIF code, because in McBain's view it has had some issues and she
understands it is set to be reviewed. However, she is adamant that Bellamy's not only meets the MAIF
code but exceeds it. "We do a good job of communicating that breast is best," McBain says. "We don't
offer samples, we don't go through hospitals, we're all very above board."

IN
NS

iinv : Investing/Securities | ifinal : Financial Services
c14 : Stock Listings | c1711 : Initial Public Offerings | reqris : Suggested Reading Investing/Securities |
c02 : Corporate Changes | c17 : Funding/Capital | c171 : Share Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat
: Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | tasman : Tasmania | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
AN

Document BRW0000020140613ea6d00004

Page39of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.