City high-rises riddled with inferior design

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
City high-rises riddled with inferior design

Aisha Dow
609 words
14 June 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
2
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Melbourne's newest high-rise towers are overrun by bad-quality apartments, but the investors who
buy them do not care - as long as they get the rent.
A Melbourne City Council study has estimated 55 per cent of the city's tallest apartment buildings
over 15 storeys are of "poor" quality, with common design flaws such as cramped layouts and a lack
of natural light.

Windowless bedrooms exist in almost a quarter of new residential developments studied.

Some Melbourne architects are so unhappy with the result of buildings they have designed that they
have refused to have their name associated with them, the Australian Institute of Architects has said.
The group's president, Melbourne architect Jon Clements, is backing calls for minimum apartment
design standards to be legislated.

"The general feeling among architects is that it's ridiculous to be forcing architects to produce
buildings that don't deliver appropriate quality and amenity standards," he said.

Melbourne City Council's Future Living report, which analysed the design of 25 of the city's new
residential developments, found poorer quality apartments were more likely to be located in taller
apartments.
All 11 of the high-rise apartment designs studied were considered either poor or average quality.
Common failings included kitchens in hallways, poor storage, lack of ventilation and excessive energy
use.
But the report's authors said as long as there was someone willing to rent the property, the investors
who buy 85 per cent of apartments in the municipality were not bothered.

"An owner occupier ... will be more discerning when it comes to layout, access to sunlight, daylight,
ventilation and adequate storage," the report said.
"An investor will be less concerned with these elements as long as the apartment can be rented."

There are no laws in Victoria on how apartments must be designed, beyond the National Construction
Code.
A set of apartment design standards is being developed by the the Office of the Victorian
Government Architect. Planning Minister Matthew Guy is committed to enforcing them.

"They're being developed to be enforced, not as a deceleration," he told The Saturday Age.

Page235of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Labor will also support minimum design standards. Opposition planning spokesman Brian Tee said
they wanted reforms that would "enchance liveability but not compromise affordability".

Victoria's high cost of construction and the hefty sums paid for blocks of land are among the factors
blamed for developers skimping on quality.

Mr Clements said some developers would simply employ another designer if an architect made a
stand on quality.

"If there is legislation in place around minimum standards, the developers have to achieve the
standards. If you don't [have rules], the architects will be subject to pressure."

But Mr Clements argued it was possible to build quite liveable small apartments, if designed right. And
many of the residents of Melbourne's tiniest high-rise units agree, including Peter Truong, who said he
is happy paying $250 a week for his Flinders Street flat.

Earlier this week it was revealed Melbourne is home to developments so dense that they would not
pass laws in Hong Kong New York and London.

The good, bad and the ugly of Melbourne apartments

POOR design

✘ Small and cramped

✘ South facing (limited sunlight)

✘ Bedrooms without windows

✘ Kitchens located in hallways
✘ Narrow hotel-style designs that limit light

✘ Many apartments along a single corridor

GOOD design

✔ Plenty of storage

✔ Affordable

✔ Range of sizes and layouts

✔ Environmentally friendly

✔ Communal space, including for children

✔ Wheelchair access Source: Future Living report, City of Melbourne 2013

Source: Future Living report, City of Melbourne 2013

CO
NS
RE

PUB
AN

melurn : Melbourne City Council
garchi : Architecture | gart : Art | gcat : Political/General News | gent : Arts/Entertainment
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140613ea6e00033

Page236of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.