Sky-high investment

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Sky-high investment

JANE HARPER
299 words
15 March 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
75
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

FOREIGN buyers snapping up Australian property are helping boost the local retail sector as rising
house prices prompt spending.
Overseas investors pumped $17.2 billion into the residential property market in the year to June,
latest research shows, with the increased demand having a positive flow-on at the tills.

The new retail white paper from property group Colliers International shows higher house prices
made consumers feel more confident about opening their wallets.
“Increasing residential property values impact on how wealthy consumers feel and in turn their
propensity to spend,” Colliers head of retail Michael Bate said.

“There has also been a direct impact on retail spending, as many of these foreign buyers – particularly
the Asian buyers – are making the most of the lower Australian dollar to purchase luxury retail goods
here in Australia.” The report found Chinese buyers were spending nearly $6 billion a year on
Australian residential and commercial property.

“The strong purchasing power of Asian consumers and their preference for luxury goods will further
support growth in retail spending through the current cycle,” researchers said.

Retail spending rose 1.2 per cent in January to $22.9 billion, seasonally adjusted, according to latest
figures from the Australian Bureau of Statistics. It followed a rise of 0.7 per cent in December and 0.7
per cent in November.

The report said the weaker Australian dollar, which has fallen about 10 per cent against the greenback
since August, was also a key factor.

Director of research at Colliers, Nora Farren, said a lower dollar discouraged Australians from
spending on overseas websites.“The good news for domestic retailers is that they are winning a
greater proportion of total online sales revenue, with around 74 per cent of online retail sales,” she
said.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

ereal : Real Estate Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020140316ea3f0003f

Page88of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.