GROUPS opposed to the Rosehill Golf Course sale and closure have raised concerns about the possible impact of noise pollution on residents if a housing development is rolled out on the South Guild... site .

HD

WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

GROUPS opposed to the Rosehill Golf Course sale and closure have raised concerns about the
possible impact of noise pollution on residents if a housing development is rolled out on the
South Guildford site.
348 words
15 April 2014
Midland Kalamunda Reporter
NLPMKR
1
5
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved

At one stage the potential developers launched a website with the title Rosehill Waters as the potential
name for the new estate.

Hasluck MHR Ken Wyatt and Midland MLA Michelle Roberts have both listened to residents concerns.

Residents of the new Waterhall Estate, who say they recently bought in the area for the golf lifestyle,
were concerned that more residential land development in the area would strain existing facilities,
such as schools and kindergartens.

Rob Johnson, a resident opposed to the development, said he had health concerns for the community if
the golf course closed.

Mr Johnson also asked if land for a school been provided for in the plans because schools in the area
were already at saturation point.
Save Our Golf Courses Action Group spokeswoman Dianne Arvino said the proposed development
would be right at the end of the flight path for runway 21, one of the busiest runways at Perth Airport.
She said with another 600-800 homes in the enclave, there would be 2000 people in the area.

If a plane crashed, that is very dangerous, Ms Arvino said.
The group said it had more than 1200 signatures on the petition opposing the development.
Mrs Roberts said she believed the group had a strong case for legal action if noise pollution from the
airport breached the WA Aviation Strategy and NASF Agreement.

This could be enough to stop the WAPC (Western Australian Planning Commission) from supporting
the rezoning, she said.

Ms Roberts is investigating.

The rezoning application was registered at the EPA on March 11.

If a full environmental report is not recommended, public submissions will begin in about six weeks from
February 25, when the rezoning was supported by the WAPC.

If a full environmental report is recommended, it could take up to five years.
Developer Handle Property Group is still advertising Rosehill Waters Estate on its Chinese website.

IN

NS

i5020002 : Airport Construction | i502 : Heavy Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real
Estate/Construction
gqual : Air/Water/Land Quality | gcat : Political/General News | genv : Environmental News

Page158of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE
PUB
AN

waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
News Ltd.
Document NLPMKR0020140415ea4f0000h

Page159of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.