Push to stop violence ignores the causes

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Push to stop violence ignores the causes

874 words
29 November 2014
The Morning Bulletin
APNMOB
Main
30
English
Copyright 2014 APN Newspapers Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

Push to stop violence ignores the causes

IT IS commendable that yourself, Mayor Strelow and others are worried about and wishing to stamp out
night-time violence in Rockhampton and elsewhere.

However, I regret to say that all will be in vain because none of you address the real causes, which
seem to elude you completely.

What is required is a complete change in the culture of today’s society.

Young people grow up in a world where enjoyment has been removed from their lives, they are bored,
so will turn to alcohol or drugs. Thus begins the horror.

It is not the parents who are to blame but most parents are at a loss to help, with some not caring.

I am sorry to say that all forms of media, including the wonderful Morning Bulletin, and owners of
entertainment venues, constantly push the wrong messages, and further exacerbate the situation.

I do not intend to elaborate further through this column.

Some months ago I spoke by phone to my local Federal member who promised to call on me soon. This
has not happened.

A social problem causing immense grief, horror, and financial burden to the lives of not only the young
but all of us, requires urgent attention.

T.W. Hinchliffe

Dululu

Enough lies about the use of taxpayer funds

AUSTRALIAN voters/taxpayers are mostly tiring of the lies and the cloak and dagger tactics used by
politicians of all political persuasions, these same people that are supposed to represent their
constituents in an open, transparent manner in a democratic society.

The LNP pollies of Can Do Campbell’s Queensland government are a good example. They appear to
have short memories and consider Queensland voters to be uneducated fools.

Previous to and during the expensive waste of a taxpayer-funded advertising campaign about the urgent
need to sell taxpayer-owned state assets, the LNP politicians were stating the assets needed to be
flogged off to eliminate Queensland state debt.
Jeff Seeney stated this week on national TV that funds from the sale of assets would be used to
part-fund the Adani coal line project.

Page286of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Oh, how the worm turns when it suits the politicians e.g. an article on the front page of the Bulletin on
November 18.

“Deputy Premier Jeff Seeney announced that the Queensland Government would co-own a common rail
line with Adani and also has offered to build airports to facilitate the use of fly-in fly-out workers in the
Galilee Basin.”

This is a government that is hell-bent on selling government assets, a government that also worships
the system of free enterprise, and now this same government chooses to part own a railway system and
invest in owning airports.

The real story, the truth about this Adani deal, should be open to public scrutiny. Maybe Bruce Young,
who by his LNP representation is party to these deals, can enlighten our local community and also
Queenslanders in general regarding what the total cost of investing in these projects will be.
I will cop it on the chin if I am wrong, but I am sure that recently during a TV interview Jeff Seeney
quoted that the Queensland Government contribution to the Adani rail line to be about $334 million.
The public needs to know what is the estimated return from the now called lease (sale) of public assets
and how much of the sale funds will remain in government coffers following funding offers to the likes of
Adani and any other billion-dollar company projects that the Queensland Government sees fit to fund.

The LNP’s original plan was to get rid of debt. There was no mention in that plan to give away
Queenslanders’ money to multi-billion-dollar companies that most likely have a larger operating budget
than the Australian Government.

VC Druery

Pk. Avenue

We’re being left behindin the fossil fuel shift
THE world’s major economies, such as the European Union, United States, China, Japan, Germany
and France are shifting away from fossil fuels to less emission-intensive resources. Australia’s
government policy continues to be isolated and seems to mock the need to stabilise global greenhouse
emissions at a target of 2 degrees warming by 2100, as set by the Kyoto Protocol.

It will take strong action to achieve this global goal, and to take advantage of opportunities to transition
to clean and renewable energy or be left economically and financially unprepared for the future.

David McRae

Rockhampton

The Valued Worker

IS THE everyday worked valued anymore?

When times get tough, they are shown the door

A worker who shows up every day

Who sweats and slaves and earns their pay?

Redundancy, restructuring or being simply laid off

There’s the door, thanks a lot

Times are hard for us all

It’s hard to be knocked down then stand tall

We battle our way through yet another interview

And get tired waiting for people promising to get back to you

Nobody’s jobs are safe anymore

It could be you next to be shown the door

Page287of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Jo Theyers

Yeppoon

NS
RE
IPD
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Community - People
APN Newspapers Pty Ltd
Document APNMOB0020141128eabt0005p

Page288of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.