Digest

HD Digest
WC 1,940 words
PD 6 March 2014
SN New Zealand Transport Intelligence Business Alert
SC TMRTNL
LA English
CY
LP

(c) 2014 The Main Report Publications Ltd

Aviation

Etihad Airways posts its biggest annual profit

TD

Cargo News Asia 4/03/2014. Gulf-based carrier Etihad Airways posted its largest annual profit yet, with
US$62m in net earnings last year, up 48% from $42m in 2012. The national carrier of the United Arab
Emirates said revenue rose 27% to $6.1bn. Etihad’s revenues shot up 30% in cargo to almost $930m last
year. Chief executive officer of Etihad Airways James Hogan told The Associated Press in an interview this
year showed “the best results so far”. Etihad, which was set up in 2003 and is based in the United Arab
Emirates’ capital Abu Dhabi, is among the world’s fastest growing airlines. It and its Gulf rivals, the
Dubai-based Emirates and Qatar Airways, are increasingly challenging older airlines in the battle for
long-haul international passengers as they compete for routes and critical stopover traffic between Asia
and Europe and the Americas. The Gulf airliners’ spending power and success have spooked other
airlines around the world. More ...
http://www.cargonewsasia.com/secured/article.aspx?id=15&article=32959
PM opens door to Qantas split, sale

Cargo News Asia 4/03/2014. Prime Minister Tony Abbott has opened the door to a radical Qantas split into
international and domestic arms, after federal cabinet last night backed the wholesale repeal of the
airline’s ownership limits. The Prime Minister outlined plans to scrap constraints on the airline’s domestic
operations while keeping Australian control of the international division, a crucial step towards dividing the
company. The reform plan goes far beyond the changes rumoured late yesterday, with not only a repeal
of the 49% cap on foreign investment in Qantas as a whole but also removal of the barrier to any foreign
airline buying more than 35% of the company. In the face of Labour warnings that jobs were at risk,
federal cabinet also decided to repeal provisions that required Qantas to keep its principal maintenance,
catering, head office and other operations in Australia. The amendments could be ready for parliament to
consider later this week but face a roadblock in the Senate as Bill Shorten warns of the loss of an
Australian icon while minor parties threaten to veto the changes. More ...
http://www.cargonewsasia.com/secured/article.aspx?id=15&article=32958

Etihad CEO gives 50-50 chance for Alitalia deal
Cargo News Asia 4/03/2014. Etihad Airways chief executive James Hogan says talks to pick an equity
stake in struggling Italian carrier Alitalia could swing either way, as the Gulf airline entered into the final
phase of due diligence for the investment. Etihad, which is leading a global acquisition drive, is looking to
deepen its network in Europe after taking a stake in Air Berlin in 2011 and entering into a strategic
code-share deal with Air France-KLM. But the Gulf airline is not hurrying into a deal with Alitalia, which is
struggling with its more than US$1.1bn debt and growing competition. Asked in an interview how confident
he was at this stage of the deal going through, Hogan said: “It’s 50-50. We had also entered into due
diligence with other airlines in the past and walked away.” Hogan says the deal could only go ahead if
Alitalia met Etihad’s criteria on costs, profitability, restructuring, the airline’s network and strong
management. He did not provide further details. More ...
http://www.cargonewsasia.com/secured/article.aspx?id=15&article=32956

Biofuels

Low-cost methanol from carbon dioxide

Page119of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Clean Technica 04/03/2014. A relatively low-cost means of converting carbon dioxide into methanol has
been developed by researchers from Stanford University, SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory, and the
Technical University of Denmark. Methanol is used for a number of different purposes, primarily though, as
a fuel, in the production of many important adhesives and solvents, and in the production of plastics. It’s
been suggested by researchers in some fields that methanol could be used as a replacement for gasoline
(at least partially) — despite its corrosivity — with only minimal adjustments to vehicle design. The new
low-cost conversion method is all down to the discovery of a new nickel-gallium catalyst — one which
converts hydrogen and carbon dioxide into methanol with fewer side-products than the conventional
catalysts. “Methanol is processed in huge factories at very high pressures using hydrogen, carbon dioxide
and carbon monoxide from natural gas,” stated study lead author Felix Studt, a staff scientist at SLAC.
“We are looking for materials than can make methanol from clean sources under low-pressure conditions,
while generating low amounts of carbon monoxide.” More ...
http://cleantechnica.com/2014/03/04/low-cost-methanol-carbon-dioxide-relatively-cheap-conversion-
method-developed/

Technology

Development of temperature controlled delivery services

EFT 4/03/2014. Russian Railways Logistics, successfully organized trial low temperature delivery of
electronic goods from Chongqing, China, to (Duisburg, Germany) in cooperation with YuXinOu Logistics
Co. The cargo was shipped in insulated and refrigerated containers with integrated diesel generators to
maintain optimum temperature. According to Pavel Lagov, RZD Logistics Sales Director, the company
analyzed diversity of transit cargo transported from China to Europe and developed the proposal aimed at
minimizing seasonal traffic fluctuations when delivering high-tech goods in winter due to low temperature.
Delivery time on transit route linking six countries, namely China, Kazakhstan, Russia, Belarus, Poland
and Germany, amounted to 16 days. Specialized container equipment allowed to maintain and to control
cargo temperature throughout the journey and to deliver high-tech electronics fully operational. More ...
http://eft.com/3pllogistics/russian-railways-logistics-develop-temperature-controlled-delivery-services

Shipping

Panama Canal expansion back on track

Cargo News Asia 3/04/2014. Panama and a consortium of European builders agreed to end a
two-month-long dispute over US$1.6bn in cost overruns for a project to widen the Panama Canal, raising
hopes the work can be completed in about two years. The preliminary deal calls for independent
arbitrators to rule on who should carry the extra costs. Both parties also agreed to provide for more than
$1bn in funds needed to complete the expansion project, which the shipping industry views as a boon to
global trade. The work on the 100-year-old waterway, which connects the Atlantic and Pacific oceans,
began in 2007 with the overall cost pegged at $5.2bn. The purpose is to widen and deepen the canal,
given many of today’s vessels, including oil tankers and many container ships, are too big to fit through
the canal’s narrowest, 110-ft-wide stretches. Jorge Quijano, head of the Panama Canal Authority, a
government agency which operates the 50-mile waterway, says the project won’t be finished until early
2016. The previous target was late 2015. More ...
http://www.cargonewsasia.com/secured/article.aspx?id=3&article=32950
China firm to bid for Indonesia’s Kalibaru terminals

Cargo News Asia 3/04/2014. The development of the Kalibaru Port in Tanjung Priok, North Jakarta, has
received great deal of interest from foreign investors, with a major Chinese shipping firm already
confirming its intention to join the tender for the expansion project at Indonesia’s biggest seaport. Hong
Kong-based China Merchants Holdings, an investment company specialising in port management and
transportation, with a market capitalisation of US$8.5bn, says it will tender again for the Kalibaru Port
project, despite being unsuccessful in its first bid. China Merchants lost the tender for the concession
rights for Terminal 1 to Mitsui & Co, but signaled it would make a comeback with a more lucrative
proposal. This time, it plans to table offers for two terminals at once; namely terminals 2 and 3 at the port.
“We think that it’s worth taking to bid for two terminals, not just one,” Jared H. Zerbe, the chief
development officer with China Merchants, says. More ...
http://www.cargonewsasia.com/secured/article.aspx?id=3&article=32951

Port giant wakes up to threat of rivals

Cargo News Asia 3/04/2014. DP World Australia’s new chief executive, Paul Scurrah, has pledged to get
the container ports operator “back in the game” by reshaping its senior management team and improving
customer service amid increasing competition from rivals Patrick and Hutchison Port Holdings. “We do not
take for granted our market share position and while market share shouldn’t be your only driver, it is an

Page120of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.important factor,” says Scurrah, a former Aurizon executive who took over as CEO in December. “Patrick
is a formidable competitor, they’re very protective of their market share and they are increasingly getting
better. Hutchison will absolutely get their act together .?.?. so rather than hope that’s not going to happen
we need to prepare for it,” says Scurrah. DP World Australia, majority-owned by Citigroup’s Citi
Infrastructure Investors (Dubai ports operator DP World owns 25 percent), has traditionally formed a
duopoly in the Australian market with Asciano’s Patrick ports. It currently has a market share of between
51 and 52%. More ... http://www.cargonewsasia.com/secured/article.aspx?id=3&article=32952

Business
Tesla to open $5 billion ‘Gigafactory’ for batteries

RTCC 28/03/2014. Tesla has proposed building a new “Gigafactory” for batteries – a mammoth $5bn
undertaking which will be vital to the future of the luxury electric car company. The factory is a grand
solution to a problem the company’s chief executive Elon Musk acknowledged last year at an event last
July in California: a shortage of batteries. “Our issues right now are actually not so much demand
generation as they are production related,” he says at Teslive, an exhibition for Tesla owners. “In order for
production to grow, we have to have the whole supply chain move in cadence. One of the bigger
challenges for us is going to be lithium-ion cell production. We need a lot of batteries.” The Gigafactory will
allow Tesla to achieve economies of scale, said the company, driving down costs by 30%, helping them to
achieve the goal of producing 500,000 vehicles a year by 2020 – almost 15 times its current output. The
company has previously outlined plans to start rolling out mass market vehicles retailing at around
$35,000 from 2017. More ...
http://www.rtcc.org/2014/02/27/tesla-to-open-5-billion-gigafactory-for-batteries/

Clean Transport

California helping bring clean transport to more households

Clean Technica 04/03/2014. States and countries everywhere are experimenting with different ways to
transform transportation systems and reduce reliance on oil. California especially is generally ahead of the
curve compared to other states when it comes to accomplishing this task, so it’s important to watch how
the country’s most populous state deals with different pieces of the transportation puzzle. And right now,
California is facing a challenge that all states in the US must deal with when working to transform their
transportation systems. To reduce transportation’s oil use, California has largely focused on two high-level
strategies: 1) deploy lots of electric vehicles, and 2) increasingly focus on transit-oriented development by
encouraging smart growth and expanding public transportation options. But the state’s focus on those two
strategies risks unintentionally leaving behind an important segment of California’s population: the
sizeable, largely low-income subset of Californians who cannot afford electric cars—even with generous
state and federal subsidies—and who live outside the urban areas which tend to benefit from public transit.
More ... http://cleantechnica.com/2014/03/04/group-works-help-california-achieve-clean-cheap-transit/

CO etihda : Etihad Airways | qatair : Qatar Airways
IN
NS

i75 : Airlines | i7501 : Scheduled Passenger Airlines | iairtr : Air Transport | itsp : Transportation/Shipping
ncdig : Corporate Digests | c151 : Earnings | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
uae : United Arab Emirates | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Region | meastz : Middle East | wasiaz : Western Asia

RE

PUB The Main Report Limited
AN Document TMRTNL0020140305ea360000h

Page121of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.