Tinkler’s studs go to auction, with creditors — and the ATO — lining up

HD
BY
WC 737 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Tinkler’s studs go to auction, with creditors — and the ATO — lining up

Jonathan Chancellor and Paddy Manning

21 October 2014
Crikey
CRIKAU
English
(c) Copyright 2014 Private Media Partners Pty. Ltd. All Right Reserved.

TD

Former billionaireNathan Tinkler will try to unload four horse properties — but with numerous outstanding
debts, it’s unlikely Tinkler will get to keep much of the cash. Property Observer’s Jonathan Chancellor and
Crikey’s Paddy Manning report.

http://media.crikey.com.au/wp-content/uploads/2014/10/patfarm.jpg

Everyone knows Harvey Norman co-founder Gerry Harvey will want to mop up the last of his debt, but the
Australian Taxation Office will also be watching closely when the first of former mining magnate Nathan
Tinkler’s four stud farm auctions gets underway this Thursday.

The Tax Office has taken the unusual step of registering two mortgages over the stud farms following
their recent deed of settlement with the coal baron.
Title searches show one deed relates to a $20.1 million debt, signed last month between the Tax
Commissioner and Tinkler himself (and witnessed by his sister Donna), five Patinack entities, and the
companies that own the Newcastle Jets A-League team and formerly owned the Newcastle Knights rugby
league team.
A separate deed over a $19.5 million debt, signed in May, is between the Tax Commissioner, the Tinkler
group of companies and four Patinack Farm entities.
Tinkler reportedly owed Harvey about $40 million and was forced to break up his beloved Patinack Farm
operation after a touted $130 million sale to a Middle Eastern consortium, led by mysterious
Dubai-based Cibola Capital, fell through earlier this year.
A four-day total stud dispersal sale at Harvey’s Magic Millions auctions on the Gold Coast netted $34
million, and reports suggested Harvey has either been paid in full or was close to being extinguished. It is
unclear whether the Tax Office ranks ahead of Harvey, or vice versa.
Listing agents expect somewhere between $43 million and $60 million is likely to be recouped in the
four stud farm sales over the next fortnight.
The Australian Financial Review reckoned the sales would leave Tinkler with a fortune of $50 million to
“play with” but the tally does not include outstanding tax debts, or the other unpaid creditors lining up
against him.
Auditors Ernst and Young filed a wind-up application against a number of the Patinack Farm entities in
July, and Crikey is aware of numerous other claimants who say they are owed money by Tinkler.
Once a billionaire, Tinkler had hoped to use the proceeds of the Patinack Farm sale to fund a comeback
in the coal industry, but a deal to buy the mothballed Wilkie Creek mine from American giant Peabody
Energy collapsed in August.
A former mine electrician from the Hunter Valley, Tinkler struck it rich in 2008 when he sold his stake in
the Middlemount coal project to Macarthur Coal, reaping a $442 million cash windfall. In an all-time
spree he snapped up mansions, jets, supercars and football teams and blew an unprecedented $300
million to establish his own racing dynasty, Patinack Farm, fulfilling a childhood dream. Over the past two

Page26of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.years, Tinkler has lost control of most of his assets. The NRL took ownership of the Knights in June, and
the Jets are for sale.

Patinack Farm, Canungra, Queensland, is the initial offering, with 447 hectares comprising four properties
known as Wadham Park, Elysian Fields, Benobble and Sarahvale listed through LJ Hooker Surfers
Paradise.
The price estimates for the four Canungra properties range from $18 million to $23 million in total.

LJ Hooker agent Cameron McPhie has advised at least five international buyers have inspected the
property, with three from Hong Kong, and one from Europe and one from the US.

Next week, Patinack Farm’s Hunter Valley complex, Richmond Grove Stud, a 1337-hectare property goes
under the hammer, likely to fetch between $17 million and $25 million.

Patinack Farm’s 1397-hectare Tremayne property in Broke will also go up for October 30 auction with
sale estimates around $6-$9 million.

The final Patinack property Banoon, in Monegeetta, Victoria, has been scheduled for an October 31
auction with Keating Real Estate suggesting a sale between $2 million and $3 million, which would
represent a loss.

*Paddy Manning is the author of Boganaire: The Rise and Fall of Nathan Tinkler, published by Black Inc
and available in bookstores now (RRP $29.99).

http://www.crikey.com.au/?p=463569
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RF
RE
PUB Private Media Partners Pty Ltd.
AN

Document CRIKAU0020141021eaal00004

Page27of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.