Carbon tax repealed: experts respond

HD Carbon tax repealed: experts respond
WC 1,987 words
PD 17 July 2014
SN The Conversation
SC CONVAU
LA
CY Copyright 2014. The Conservation Media Group.
LP

English

TD

The government has succeeded in getting legislation passed to repeal the carbon tax, despite some
last-minute doubts cast by the Palmer United Party’s temporary withdrawal of support last week. Today,
however, Clive Palmer’s three senators voted in favour of axing the tax, allowing Prime Minister Tony
Abbott finally to deliver on his election pledge.

https://62e528761d0685343e1c-
f3d1b99a743ffa4142d9d7f1978d9686.ssl.cf2.rackcdn.com/files/54059/width237/swvnz4vj-1405561106.jpg
An email from the Liberal Party, soon after the carbon tax repeal.

What does it mean for electricity bills, household and federal budgets, and Australia’s role in the global
climate effort? As our FAQ article shows, some of those answers are far from straightforward.

Meanwhile, the carbon tax’s designer, Ross Garnaut, has bemoaned the fact that Australia is now out of
step with much of the rest of the world, while a new analysis of electricity data shows that carbon pricing
was doing an effective job of cutting emissions.

Here, experts react to the news.

Michael Raupach, Director, Climate Change Institute, Australian National University

The repeal of Australia’s carbon price is a tragedy, not a triumph. It flies in the face of three giant realities:
human-induced climate change, the proper role of government as a defender of the common good, and
the emerging quiet energy-carbon revolution.

There is overwhelming evidence that human-induced climate change is already real and will increase.
Climate science shows what is needed to limit warming to about 2C, and restrict impacts on rainfall,
extreme events, ecosystems and more: global greenhouse gas emissions have to be cut by around 60%
by 2050 (80% for Australia) with continued decreases after that.

This is a challenge in protecting the global atmospheric commons, an endowment shared by everybody
and owned by nobody. A central purpose of government is to safeguard the common good. The fact that
our government is stepping backward rather than forward in this challenge will stand as a long-lasting
indictment.
Yet all is not lost: there are signs of a quiet revolution, despite our national leadership. Rooftop solar
power in Australia can already send the spot price of electricity negative. Much, much more is possible
with good design and the right policies – including a price on carbon, incentives, and regulations. This
transformation is underway already in both developed and developing countries. Our present steps
backward are temporary, but they will have the consequence of making the future harder, not easier.

Brian Andrew, Professor, Accounting, Economics & Finance, University of Wollongong
Australian backsliding on global warming is contrary to the current moves across the world. China has
commenced seven regional carbon markets and is taking the threat of global warming seriously because
of its current level of air pollution. It is expected to have a national emissions trading scheme within the
next two years. Barack Obama has stepped up to the plate and is using the Environmental Protection
Agency to impose a limit on pollution from all energy companies, which will greatly reduce the level of
greenhouse gas emissions from the United States.

The European Union has an Emissions Trading Scheme which has been in existence since 2005 and is
criticised extensively for its failures. In the first phase overallocation of permits saw the permit price

Page153of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.fluctuate wildly from above 30 euros (A$43) to zero by 2007. The emissions price has remained low since
the global financial crisis, and is not at a level which will greatly influence behaviour.

This was a result of the poor management of the system and the lack of control over more than 30
sovereign countries. The third phase which began in 2013 has an improved structure and wider coverage
over greenhouse gases but it will not be a success without action to remove the excess permits in the
market.
The National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting system in Australia provides us with the capacity to
avoid the European problems, as we will start our system with a lot of information on company emissions,
which the Europeans did not have. This is an important database to preserve. If we keep it, along with the
Renewable Energy Target, the Australian Renewable Energy Agency, and the Clean Energy Finance
Corporation (which actually makes a profit), then we will not have lost everything. But our flagship policy
which prices emissions will have been lost.

It is probably better to preserve the infrastructure of an emissions trading system at a low or trivial price
(even of 40 cents) as an indicator of potential than to lose everything because we all face a global
emergency and we are all in it together, which our current group of politicians can ignore only at the
expense of future generations.

Hugh Saddler, Research Associate, Centre for Climate Economics & Policy, Australian National University

Not everyone will be better off with the repeal of the carbon price. Among the biggest losers will be the
people of Tasmania. For the past two years, Hydro Tasmania has been exporting large quantities of its
near-zero-emission electricity to Victoria, where the wholesale price includes a substantial carbon cost
component.

I have estimated that the additional revenue earned from these exports, because of the carbon price, may
have been as much as A$80 million in 2013-14. Much of this would have flowed straight through to the
Hydro’s bottom line, to the benefit of its owner, the government of Tasmania. This is revenue which the
government will have to make up from other taxation sources, or else cut expenditures.

Loss of the income from selling electricity into mainland markets was cited by Hydro Tasmania as one of
the major reasons that, in the words of a statement it released on 27 June, “In the 2014-15 financial year,
it’s expected that profits will fall below A$20 million, less than one-tenth of current levels.” The statement
went on to foreshadow staff reductions of 9%, including possible forced redundancies. In a post-carbon
price economy, the people of Tasmania will not be rewarded for being clean and green.

Jemma Green, Senior Research Fellow, Curtin University

With what we know so far about the Direct Action plan, we can see there are major loopholes which could
mean the policy costs more while doing less than Australia’s current climate laws. I highlighted these
issues back in April, when the government produced its White Paper. The Direct Action exposure draft
issued in May offers little additional information.
If the Renewable Energy Target is retained and the Clean Energy Finance Corporation can enter into
long-term power purchase agreements, then the lack of an emissions trading scheme can be mostly
compensated, to meet our 2020 commitments.

To address the longer term, Australia will need to arrive at a 2030 cap to go into the United Nations Paris
climate talks in December 2015. As part of this analysis, Australia will need to determine how many
international credits it will need to buy to offset fugitive emissions from things such as LNG (liquefied
natural gas) growth, as well as making greater overall cuts, if it determines that the rest of the world is
doing similar.

Without a domestic emissions trading scheme, Australia will probably use international offsetting to meet
its commitments. The Renewable Energy Target and the Clean Energy Finance Corporation will play
some role in retooling for the low-carbon economy, but other new policies may be required to fully address
this need.
Roger Dargaville, Senior Energy Analyst, Melbourne Energy Institute and School of Earth Sciences,
University of Melbourne
When the clean energy bill was introduced in 2012, there was a significant and immediate reduction in the
emissions intensity of Australia’s electricity production. The improvement was due to a shift away from
brown coal and an increase in gas and hydro power. In 2012, emissions from the National Electricity
Market were 95 megatonnes of carbon dioxide per year. Now they are 85 megatonnes per year, a
reduction of 12%.

Page154of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.This change has been driven by the price on carbon, as well as declining demand (driven by the
increasing retail price in electricity, the decline in the manufacturing sector and increasing uptake in
rooftop solar panels) and increasing wind power (due to the Renewable Energy Target). The cost of this
shift is carried primarily by the largest emitters who have seen their revenue slashed, which is exactly what
the price on carbon was supposed to do.

The Government’s replacement strategy, Direct Action, will fail to reduce emissions as it fails to penalise
the largest emitters. Also, Direct Action risks not gaining approval in the Senate as it is unlikely to get the
support of Palmer United Party senators. The repeal of the price on carbon is a backwards step and a sad
day for the global climate.

Roger Jones, Professorial Research Fellow, Victoria Institute of Strategic Economic Studies, Victoria
University

The perfect storm of stupidity. It’s hard to imagine a more effective combination of poor reasoning and bad
policy-making, a complete disregard of the science of climate change and its impacts, bad economics and
mistrust of market forces.

It is poor risk management to take what is effective and working, what can be readily adapted to more
stringent targets, and replace it with a more expensive and unwieldy scheme that lacks the resources to
meet its totally inadequate target of 5% reductions by 2020. A total failure of governance by government.

Hugh Outhred, Senior Visiting Fellow, School of Electrical Engineering and Telecommunications,
University of New South Wales

With climate change already under way, repeal of the carbon tax represents a dereliction of duty with
respect to the rights of young people and future generations, noting that an arguable flaw in the repealed
legislation was to set an initial carbon price that was too high.

The centrepiece of a coherent policy framework to mitigate dangerous climate change should be a steadily
increasing carbon tax with reinvestment of the proceeds in assisting our society to become more
sustainable.

The Coalition’s plan to replace a “polluter pays” policy with a “pay the polluter” policy will exacerbate the
budget imbalance while being simply inadequate for the task, while emissions trading schemes are too
complex and too subject to gaming to earn public trust.

Peter Rayner, School of Earth Sciences, University of Melbourne

As a carbon cycle scientist my job is to monitor, understand and predict the levels of carbon dioxide in the
atmosphere. As an Australian, I’m proud of how much we have contributed to that understanding, but
today I’m embarrassed by how poor we are at putting that understanding into practice.

We know we have to put Australia on a long road to a low-carbon future. Today we stepped off the road
for a nap but that won’t make the road any shorter; we will just have to hurry more to catch up later. I’m
also mystified that a government which has thought and acted seriously for the long-term health of the
federal budget can’t think beyond the previous election for the carbon budget.
Tony Wood, Program Director, Energy, the Grattan Institute

Imagine if my daughter was ill, and I took her to the doctor who diagnosed a disease that would be fatal
without daily injections. Not surprisingly, I followed the doctor’s advice. A few weeks later, my daughter
was complaining bitterly that the injections were painful. After another week of complaints I gave in and
stopped the injections. My daughter was very happy that the pain of the daily jab was taken away. There’s
just one small problem…

So once we have stopped dancing around the bonfire of the carbon tax, either in glee or misery, where do
we look for the phoenix that might arise from the ashes?

Comments compiled with the help of the Australian Science Media Centre.

NS

RE

gclimt : Climate Change | gcat : Political/General News | genv : Environmental News | gglobe :
Global/World Issues | gwea : Weather
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | tasman : Tasmania | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania

PUB The Conversation Media Group Limited
AN Document CONVAU0020140717ea7h00009

Page155of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Page156of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.