Owners want out in care project

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Owners want out in care project

By Maria Galinovic
404 words
4 March 2014
St George & Sutherland Shire Leader
FSGEOR
First
4
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

NEW COMPLEX
A 77-BED residential care development at 149-157 Rocky Point Road, Beverley Park, has been
deferred so that two nearby residents can sell their blocks to the facility developer and owner — if they
want to buy them.

The applicant is the Boffa Robertson Group and the owner is the Sisters of Our Lady of China Health
Care, which has acquired the 5018.32 square metre rectangular site just south of Weeney Street over a
period of time.
It comprises five residential allotments of about 1003 square metres each.
The existing dwellings are to be demolished and replaced by a one- and two-storey residential care
facility.

But the owners of No. 147 Rocky Point Road, on the corner of Weeney Street, and No. 2 Weeney
Street, say their properties should have been included in the buy-up.

They fear that they will now lose all their privacy and that their homes will be dwarfed and isolated by
the new nursing home, particularly if the proposed Darrell Lea redevelopment across the road goes
ahead as well.

At its February 24 meeting, Kogarah Council resolved to defer the development application so a
meeting could be arranged between the applicant and the owner of 147 Rocky Point Road and 2
Weeney Street regarding possible acquisition of their properties.

The original motion referred only to 147 Rocky Point Road, but 2 Weeney Street was included after the
resident objected to being left out.

If successful, the new acquisitions could be used to create an alternative car access point off Weeney
Street, considered a better planning outcome by the council than an entry and exit on Rocky Point
Road.

A further report on the outcome will be submitted to a future council meeting.

The proposed development will comprise:

■ Basement level services including plant, storage, kitchen, staff room and other utility areas.

■ Ground floor parking for 18 cars, ambulance bay, loading dock, porte cochere (entrance large enough
for vehicles to pass through), waste storage and landscaping, 30 high-care bed spaces (28 in double
rooms) and 18 standard care bed spaces in single rooms. Other ground floor facilities include
administration rooms, salon, reception, waiting, chapel and dining rooms.

Page214of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.■ 29 standard care beds in single rooms on the first floor, plus a dining room, sitting areas and lounge
rooms.

RE
PUB
AN

nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FSGEOR0020140303ea3400016

Page215of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.