Dairy sold as industry churns

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Finance
Dairy sold as industry churns

BRIDGET CARTER, AGRIBUSINESS
364 words
4 February 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
18
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

UNITED Dairy Power has become the latest Australian dairy business to be swallowed in the wake of
the high-profile battle for Warrnambool Cheese and Butter, with Hong Kong-based investor William
Hui paying about $70 million for the company.

Mr Hui is the chairman of Singapore-listed Swing Media Technology. UDP, based in south Melbourne,
is one of the country's largest privately owned milk suppliers and has processing facilities in Poowong,
Victoria, and Murray Bridge and Jervois in South Australia.

It holds about 3 per cent of the market, a similar share to the privately owned Regal Cream, which
produces Bulla products, and has been purchased at a time when strong demand for dairy products
from Asia is driving up the value of local businesses.

Under Mr Hui's control, UDP, founded by Tony Esposito in 1999, will retain its name and continue to be
run by the existing management team, led by Mark Smith, who will be the chief executive.

The strategy would be unchanged, Mr Hui said.
Mr Esposito would step back from managing the business in the coming months, but would remain
involved with the business, the company said.

``We are pleased to have found a strategic partner who values the heritage and ongoing contribution of
UDP to the local dairy industry. I want to assure our staff, suppliers and customers that it is business
as usual and they should expect the same high service level they have come to expect from UDP,'' Mr
Smith said. ``There are no plans to change any supplier arrangements, and we, of course, intend to
maintain our industry-leading ratio of field representatives to farmers. We also will continue to pay
competitive milk prices.''
Mr Esposito said Mr Hui was the ideal owner to guide the company to the next stage of its growth.
The company said that as an off-market, private transaction, the sale was unconditional and not
subject to regulatory approvals. Cashel House acted as corporate advisers to UDP for the transaction.
Canadian giant Saputo recently beat local rivals Murray Goulburn and Bega Cheese for the listed
Warrnambool Cheese and Butter.

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i413 : Dairy Products | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140203ea240002a

Page250of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Page251of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.