Peabody pulls plug on Tinkler's coal comeback; MINING

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY

LP

TD

COMPANIES
Peabody pulls plug on Tinkler's coal comeback; MINING

By Jeremy Grant in Singapore
489 words
29 August 2014
Financial Times
FTFT
USA Ed1
14
English
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles
and redistribute by email or post to the web.

Nathan Tinkler's hopes for a comeback in the coal industry have been dealt a serious blow by the
collapse of his deal with Peabody to buy the US coal producer's Wilkie Creek coal mine in Australia.

The Australian entrepreneur's Singapore-based Bentley Resources made a non-refundable payment for
the mine when it agreed to the deal in May. However, it had failed to follow up with further instalments,
Peabody said.

Bentley was "unable to meet its subsequent obligations for closing", Peabody said in a statement
yesterday. As a result, it had terminated the sale agreement and was "evaluating its alternatives" for the
Queensland mine.

Two people familiar with Mr Tinkler's business dealings confirmed that he had failed to make a
"milestone" payment agreed in a contract with Peabody.

The development comes only three months after Peabody and 38 year-old Mr Tinkler inked the $150m
Wilkie Creek deal.
Benchmark Australian thermal coal prices have since sunk 5 per cent and are down 18 per cent this
year.
The Australian coal sector is enduring its biggest shakeout in years amid a two-year slump in the coal
price, a plethora of relatively high-cost mines and a strong Australian dollar.

Australian miners have shed thousands of jobs as they mothball high-cost mines, sell non-core assets
and drive efficiencies across their operations. Peabody closed Wilkie Creek last December after failing
to find a buyer.
Mr Tinkler had hoped to use Wilkie Creek to spearhead his re-entry into the coal business . The former
billionaire crashed out of the industry in 2012 after a sharp drop in coal prices left him heavily exposed
to creditors.

Mr Tinkler, who now lives primarily in Singapore, said in May that he was investing in Wilkie Creek
because he believed that there would be demand for higher quality, low-emission coal as a result of
government pressure - especially in China - for greater use of more environmentally friendly grades of
the fuel.
"While the market is oversupplied, we are still in a market where I believe high-quality thermal coal is
hard to secure, so now is the time to buy it," he said.

Mr Tinkler was for several years listed as the richest man in Australia under 40 after he amassed a
huge paper fortune based on a series of deals in the coal business, starting with a A$30m (US28m)
investment in a Queensland coal licence.

Page79of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.That culminated in the sale of assets to Whitehaven Coal for A$2.7bn three years ago. Mr Tinkler then
made a A$5.3bn bid for Whitehaven in 2012, which foundered after coal prices fell. The collapse
triggered lawsuits in Australia against Mr Tinkler to recover unpaid debts, which were put at a reported
A$500m last year.

Additional reporting by Jamie Smyth and Xan Rice

CO
IN

RE

IPD
IPC
PUB
AN

brgol : FYI Resources Ltd | pbdy : Peabody Energy Corp
imet : Mining/Quarrying | i111 : Coal Mining | i1 : Energy | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i951 :
Health Care/Life Sciences
austr : Australia | namz : North America | singp : Singapore | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Company News
CN
The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)
Document FTFT000020140829ea8t0002e

Page80of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.