Australia : Australia Week in China builds momentum for trade and investment

Australia : Australia Week in China builds momentum for trade and investment

HD
WC 416 words
PD
16 April 2014
SN Mena Report
SC MENREP
LA
CY
LP

English
© 2014 Al Bawaba (Albawaba.com). Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com Company

Australia s Trade and Investment Minister, Andrew Robb, led the biggest ever trade mission to China this
month as part of a push to strengthen economic ties with our largest trading partner. Two-way trade
between the two economies reached A$130 billion last year. China is also one of the fastest growing
investors in Australia total Chinese FDI stock in Australia was valued at A$17 billion in 2012. More than
700 representatives from 564 organisations participated in the four day program, which included 90 events
in five key Chinese cities Shanghai, Beijing, Guangzhou, Chengdu and Qufu. The mission was part of
Australia Week in China (AWIC), a Government initiative to enhance Australia s trade, investment,
education and tourism engagement with China.

TD

It was also timed with Prime Minister Tony Abbott s successful visit to Japan and Korea, marked by the
announcement of the Japan Australia Economic Partnership Agreement, and the signing of a free trade
agreement between Australia and the Republic of Korea. The trade mission to China also involved
Minister for Small Business, Bruce Billson, five state premiers and the Chief Minister of the Australian
Capital Territory (ACT). Investment roundtables with Chinese business and government leaders were an
important part of the mission, along with other investment promotion activities. A roundtable in Shanghai,
of CEOs from both countries, focused on the agriculture, resources and energy sectors, the main drivers
of current Chinese investment in Australia. During this event, Mr Robb launched a new online resource
cataloguing Chinese investment into Australia. The interactive website, Demystifying Chinese Investment
was developed by KPMG, the University of Sydney Business School and the China Studies Centre. The
Chief Minister of the ACT along with representatives from five states, participated in a tourism
infrastructure roundtable showcasing investment opportunities around Australia. Other key events
included the Australia-Sichuan investment roundtable, an investment forum in Beijing and a tourism
investment panel discussion on waterfront developments during the Australian Waterfront Developments
Exhibition and Symposium in Shanghai. During the mission, Australia s RayGen Resources signed an
A$60 million investment and distribution deal to supply its concentrated solar photovoltaic technology
into China. Business Spectator magazine reported that the deal with ZhuoZhou Intense Solar includes a
A$2 million investment in the Melbourne-based technology firm, and will see the Chinese company
purchase Raygen's semiconductor and computerised control components for further assembly in China
with locally made parts, and exclusive distribution there.

IN
RE

ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
china : China | austr : Australia | chgdu : Chengdu | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries |
dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | sichu : Sichuan

IPD Banking
PUB Al Bawaba.com, Inc.
AN

Document MENREP0020140416ea4g003hu

Page69of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.