Australia tops wishlist for Chinese tourists

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Australia tops wishlist for Chinese tourists

Jamie Freed
509 words
15 July 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
11
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

High-spending Chinese tourists rank Australia as their No. 1 destination for international travel and as
the most welcoming to Chinese travellers. But Australia only places 11th when it comes to actual
online hotel bookings.
The latest Hotels.com Chinese International Travel Monitor comes as Tourism Australia unveiled
plans to build an elite network of travel agents in China that are specially trained to sell tour packages
to the high-yielding independent tourist market.

The tourism marketing group wants Australia to be less reliant on Chinese tourists visiting on cheap
packaged tours. "For us it as much about quality as it is quantity," Tourism Australia managing director
John O'Sullivan said in response to the Hotels.com survey.

"We are targeting high-yielding travellers who are more likely to stay longer, travel deeper into our
country and spend more by doing so."
The number of Chinese tourists to Australia fell last year after the Chinese government banned
cut-priced "shopping tours" that require participants to visit certain shops which give large
commissions to the operators.

However, Accor's director of international sales for the eastern hemisphere, Kate Marshall, said
shopping tours had resumed from March, when operators were allowed to offer them if they disclosed
the nature of the tour and also provided a non-shopping alternative which is typically a far more
expensive option for customers.
Ms Marshall said about 85 per cent to 90 per cent of Chinese guests at Accor's Australian hotels were
still travelling on cheap package tours, which often stayed in locations such as Homebush in Sydney's
west so that few non-commission shopping options were nearby. She said products favoured as
purchases on shopping tours included items like alpaca skins, Ugg boots and Chinese health
products.
"They are less of a mature market than many other markets we receive," Ms Marshall said of Chinese
tourists.Room service, restaurants key
The Hotels.com survey found room service and on-site restaurants were the most important amenities
for Chinese travellers staying at hotels. Ms Marshall said having Chinese food options such as
congee for breakfast available at Accor hotels frequented by Chinese visitors was a key focus for the
hotel chain. Accor has put in place China-friendly measures, including cultural training for staff,
Mandarin speakers, Chinese menu options and Chinese television channels at close to 25 per cent of
its Australian properties.

Katherine Cole, Hotels.com's regional director for Australia, New Zealand and Singapore, said
Australia was in prime position to harness the momentum and growth in the Chinese market. More
than two in five Australian hoteliers reported an increase of between 1 per cent and 10 per cent in

Page50of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Chinese tourists over the last 12 months, although 34 per cent experienced no increase in Chinese
travellers.
"The next 12 months need to be about continuing to convert the Chinese traveller's wishlist into reality
as we compete with holiday heavyweights [such as] Asia, the United States and Europe," Ms Cole
said.

CO
NS
RE

PUB
AN

toursm : Tourism Australia
gtour : Travel | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140714ea7f0001c

Page51of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.