Gas deals and growing volatility

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Gas deals and growing volatility

940 words
15 November 2014
Investing.com
INVEN
English
© 2014, Investing.com, All rights Reserved - Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.

In the midst of a succession of high level meetings of world leaders Russia and China have signed a
further gas trading deal, and it's sure to impact export strategies of Aussie producers.

Santos says Santos GLNG is making excellent and strong progress towards delivering first liquefied
natural gas (LNG) next year, while Liquefied Natural Gas has filed an application with Canada's National
Energy Board for an export licence for up to 12 million tonnes of LNG per year. In a further
development AGL Energy will advance its Broken Hill Solar Plant after receiving the green light to start
construction of the 53 megawatt solar plant.

MEO Australia has announced a merger with Neon Energy which will see shareholders of both
companies each holding 50% of the merged group and Santos has paid New Standard Energy $7.5
million for an operating stake in the PEL 570 project in South Australia's Cooper Basin.

Economic News
It was 6 months ago that Russia signed a $US400 billion deal to sell gas to China; the move certainly
made Aussie gas exporters take notice. This week the stakes were raised further as Russia and China
signed a memorandum of understanding on the sale of gas from Western Siberia. With Russia as the
world's largest exporter of energy and China as the world's largest consumer, this deal is huge. Major
gas exporters such as Australia and Canada will be forced to rethink major export projects that are in
the pipeline.

Commentary

This week Finance News Network spoke with AMP Capital Investor's Head of Investment Strategy, and
Chief Economist, Dr Shane Oliver about how recent boosts in energy output are reshaping the energy
mix in Australia;

"At the end of the day Australia has become a much bigger gas exporter. We've also got a situation
globally with the US coming into that market as well. But for the time being I think Australia will remain a
pretty strong gas exporter and that's only going to intensify in the years ahead."

"The problem for Australian's is that as we move towards global pricing for gas that means an increase
in domestic gas prices. Australia is overall pretty well placed, but yes there are some uncertainties
around that, and Australian manufacturers and households may have to get used to slightly higher
prices for gas they consume."

Export progress

Santos Limited says Santos GLNG is making excellent and strong progress towards delivering first
liquefied natural gas (LNG) next year. The oil and gas producer has now completed the first of its three
major gas processing hubs in its Queensland gas fields. Santos advises the hub is located in the
Fairview field north of Roma and is now fully operational.
Liquefied Natural Gas Limited has filed an application with Canada's National Energy Board for an
export licence for up to 12 million tonnes of LNG per year. The company's wholly owned subsidiary
Bear Head LNG filed the application and is also seeking a licence to import up to 503 billion cubic feet
of natural gas annually from the US.

Page98of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Growing sunshine
AGL Energy Limited will advance its Broken Hill Solar Plant after receiving the green light to start
construction. The energy company says the plant's plans have been approved by the New South
Wales Department of Planning and Environment. AGL has described the approval as an important
milestone in progressing the construction of the 53 megawatt solar plant.
M&A action
MEO Australia Limited has announced a merger with Neon Energy which will see shareholders of both
companies each holding 50% of the merged group. The company says MEO shareholders will receive
0.7369 Neon shares for each MEO share held with the merger having the unanimous support of the
Neon and MEO boards. The oil and gas explorer says the focus of the move is on cost synergies with a
substantial reduction in annual corporate overheads.
Santos Limited has paid New Standard Energy Limited $7.5 million for an operating stake in the PEL
570 project in South Australia's Cooper Basin. The deal gives Santos a 35 per cent stake in the project
and Santos will meet 75 per cent of the remaining spend in New Standards earn in obligations totaling
just over $42 million.
Toro Energy Limited has secured a cash injection and new key shareholder through a binding financing
and asset acquisition deal. Global resources investor The Sentient Group will invest up to $20 million
in Toro, giving it a 19 per cent stake in the company.

Community unrest
Santos Limited says its work in the Pilliga was interrupted after protestors gathered at the company's
work site. The oil and gas producer is understood to have been preparing for coal seam gas exploration
drilling by clearing the land.

Production updates
Origin Energy Limited 's quarterly production report has shown its exploration and production business
produced 7 per cent less on the previous year. The oil and gas explorer says first quarter production
was 34.9 petajoules equivalent with Otway and Kupe seeing lower volumes. The company says the
slippage was offset by higher production at the Cooper Basin and Australia Pacific LNG .

AJ Lucas Group Limited has been awarded a contract for APA Group 's
Eastern Goldfields Gas Pipeline in Western Australia. The infrastructure, construction and mining
services group will execute the contract in joint venture with Spiecapag Australia. The contract is part of
APA Group 's $140 million Goldfields Gas Pipeline expansion and includes the construction of the 293
kilometre gas transmission pipeline and infrastructure.

CO

IN

RE

IPD
PUB
AN

agkega : AGL Energy Limited | lonhro : New Standard Energy Ltd | ntlegb : National Energy Board |
timsea : MEO Australia Ltd. | sants : Santos Ltd
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300002 : Oil Exploration | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum
Extraction | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | iexplo : Natural Gas/Oil Exploration | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil
Extraction | iutil : Utilities
austr : Australia | russ : Russia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | eeurz : Central/Eastern Europe | eurz :
Europe | ussrz : CIS Countries
Oil & Gas
Fusion Media Limited
Document INVEN00020141115eabf000rv

Page99of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.