Jupiters sale would give Echo a better focus on Brisbane

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Jupiters sale would give Echo a better focus on Brisbane

Sarah Thompson and Jessica Gardner
581 words
23 January 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
15
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Casino operator, Echo Entertainment Group , is expected to announce the sale of its smallest
property, Jupiters Townsville, within a week in a move that may free up cash to focus on its main
properties.
The transaction is likely to be completed for about $70 million but the sale will let Echo focus on
protecting its monopoly hold on the Brisbane casino market. The company must also prepare for the
2019 entry of a rival to its Sydney casino, The Star, when James Packer 's Crown Resorts opens its
$1.3 billion hotel and casino across the harbour at Barangaroo.

Echo, which had net debt of $707 million at June 30, spent $870 million upgrading The Star. The
company wants to spend more than $1 billion building a casino, hospitality and entertainment
complex on a Brisbane river-front development site adjacent to its Treasury Casino. But it has to
outbid Crown and other Asian casino operators said to be interested in competing in a tender being
run by the state government. It is believed Echo may look to secure a partner for its Brisbane bid.
Echo has previously said Townsville's future was "under consideration". The company declined to
comment on Wednesday.

Offloading the Townsville casino is a move investors and analysts are likely to welcome because the
smaller venue is not a natural fit with Echo's Jupiters on the Gold Coast, or the Treasury Casino in
Brisbane.

There is also set to be greater competition in Queensland. The state government is flagging the
possibility of three new regional casino licences. Echo chief executive John Redmond says Brisbane
cannot sustain two casinos.
Industry sources told The Australian Financial Review that Singaporean group Lasseters, the operator
of the Alice Springs casino, was a potential buyer for Townsville. However, the frontrunner is believed
to be a domestic company. Hong Kong property developer Tony Fung last year bid for the Cairns
and Canberra casinos.

The Townsville casino has 352 poker machines, just 9 per cent of the 3204 machines Echo runs in the
state. Pokies are generally regarded as the most profitable offering in a casino. The property also has
33 table games, compared to 93 each in Brisbane and the Gold Coast. Echo has about 550
employees in Townsville, compared with about 1500 each in Brisbane and Gold Coast.
Analysts said it is difficult to estimate a market value for the property, because Echo does not break
out its earnings. The company reports individual results for The Star, but lumps its three Queensland
venues together.
The poor performance of the company's three Queensland casinos has led to pressure from both
investors, and the state government.

Page21of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The company reported a 1.7 per cent fall in normalised revenue at the three Queensland casinos to
$658 million in 2012-13. Gross revenue from Echo's Queensland pokies fell 2.5 per cent to
$276.2 million in the year, while revenue from table games, premium gaming and non-gaming all rose
slightly.

Although much of Echo's lacklustre performance in the sunshine state is due to poor consumer
sentiment, it is no secret the company needs to invest in its ageing venues. Queensland Premier
Campbell Newman rammed this point home in August when he slammed the company's three
casinos in the state as not of "world standard".

Echo shares closed at $2.45 on Wednesday.

CO
IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

crncas : Crown Resorts Limited | ekoee : Star Entertainment Group Ltd.
i97912 : Gambling Industries | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality
ceffic : Corporate Restructuring | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c11 : Plans/Strategy
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | queensl : Queensland | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140122ea1n0000t

Page22of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.