Sino Construction morphing from building to resource player

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies & Markets
Sino Construction morphing from building to resource player

Chan Yi Wen , Sino Construction morphing from building to resource player
321 words
22 November 2014
Business Times Singapore
STBT
English
(c) 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

Singapore
MAINBOARD-listed Sino Construction announced on Friday that operations at its Mongolian mine
Baruun Noyon Uul (BNU) will recommence, following what it described as the "successful completion"
of its first trial batches of coal.

BNU is part of Sino's recent off-market takeover bid of Australian companyGuildford Coal for A$60
million.
In the last two months, BNU has also been the only mine in the company's portfolio that has
produced coal; its other assets, including Guildford's Australian mines, are still in the exploration
phase.
The company said results from the testing of the second trial batch of coal are expected to be
received by end November.
Sino Construction has been aggressively acquiring coal assets in a bid to transform itself from a
construction company into a resource player. Within months this year, it acquired three coal assets,
and has indicated interest in acquiring more.
This month, company chairman Andy Chee told The Business Times that coal from its Mongolian
mine is sold to northern China via the Ceki Crossing, and that China and India were two of the
company's target supply markets.
Of late, China has imposed higher import taxes and quality restrictions on coal to limit air pollution;
market players have attributed the recent plunge of coal prices to this move.
Such policy changes by China may also have shaped Sino Construction's coal acquisition
guidelines. Mr Chee disclosed that Sino would focus on coking coal (for steel-making) and on
high-grade thermal coal (for power generation; the latter type of coal has more than 5,500 calorific
value, low ash and low sulphur content.

On Friday, after a marginal dip of 1.61 per cent from the previous closing day, Sino Construction's
counter closed at S$0.305.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

ccbtkl : Sino Construction Limited | gudclm : Guildford Coal Limited
icre : Real Estate/Construction | i1 : Energy | i111 : Coal Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
| iconst : Construction | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Singapore Press Holdings Limited
Document STBT000020141121eabm00003

Page225of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.