Parliamentary inquiry considers special taxes on foreign real estate buyers

Parliamentary inquiry considers special taxes on foreign real estate buyers

HD
BY Michael Janda
WC 1,024 words
PD
27 June 2014
SN
Australian Broadcasting Corporation Transcripts
SC
ABCTRS
LA
English
CY
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation
LP

TD

A federal parliamentary committee investigating foreign purchases of Australian real estate has floated
the idea of increased taxes, fees or stamp duties for overseas buyers. The committee asked RBA officials
and real estate experts what effect such a move might have on the level of foreign investment. However,
property development veteran Harry Triguboff says Australia should welcome more foreign real estate
investment as it adds to the supply of properties that Australians can rent.
MARK COLVIN: There's speculation that foreigners wanting to buy land or housing in Australia may have
to pay more to the Government.

A parliamentary committee looking at the issue appears to be considering special taxes, fees or increased
stamp duties for overseas buyers.

The committee chair, Liberal MP Kelly O'Dwyer, asked several witnesses about what effect increased
government charges might have on foreign demand.

Committee members also flagged the idea of tougher penalties for breaches of the foreign investment
laws.

Business reporter Michael Janda followed today's committee proceedings.
MICHAEL JANDA: Ask people in central Sydney whether foreign purchases of Australian real estate are
a good thing, and this is the common response.

SYDNEY RESIDENT: No. No, no, no, no because it makes it hard for the average Australian to get a
house because of booming high prices.
MICHAEL JANDA: But the founder of Meriton, one of Australia's biggest apartment developers,
dismisses the concerns about affordability.
HARRY TRIGUBOFF: The people are the young ones that can't buy in the area they want, there's not
many people by the way, they talk a lot. Why they talk a lot because they would like to buy cheap and sell
dear but they haven't got the guts and haven't got the money.

MICHAEL JANDA: Harry Triguboff's been building apartments for about 50 years and he says Australians
should be thankful for the investments foreigners make.

HARRY TRIGUBOFF: People are given places where they can rent because even though the foreigner
might own the apartment the person renting is a local person, so that's a very big advantage that we get
out of them buying or even building now which is very good.

MICHAEL JANDA: And there are some members of the public that agree with him.

AUSTRALIAN RESIDENT: I think we need all the money we can get in Australia so that apart from
exporting rocks we make houses and all those sort of beaut things.

MICHAEL JANDA: But the Federal Government clearly thinks this view is in the minority, which is why the
Treasurer Joe Hockey asked the House of Representatives Economics Committee to look into the issue.

Page42of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.One key thing it's trying to find out is just how much Australian property is currently in foreign hands.
Meriton executive James Sialepis gave this estimate about his company's sales split.

JAMES SIALEPIS: To the financial year 2012/13, 13 per cent of our sales were taken up by overseas
buyers. Funny enough it's actually down from 22 per cent the financial year before.
MICHAEL JANDA: It's a similar figure to that provided by Justin Brown from global real estate agency,
CBRE.

JUSTIN BROWN: In Melbourne we're at 15 per cent that we'd sell to foreign investors requiring FIRB
(Foreign Investment Review Board). In Sydney we're 12.5 per cent and in Brisbane we're around 5 per
cent.

MICHAEL JANDA: And RP Data's research director Tim Lawless says the Foreign Investment Review
Board data concurs.

TIM LAWLESS: The most recent nine month period with this data available goes up to a little more than
13 per cent with the value of all transactions across Australia will be to foreign buyers.

MICHAEL JANDA: But while questioning the Reserve Bank's head of economic research, Christopher
Kent, Liberal National MP Scott Buchholz wasn't impressed with the fact that no reliable comprehensive
figures exist.
SCOTT BUCHHOLZ: How much of Australia is owned by foreign investment in the residential market?

CHRISTOPHER KENT: That's a good question and I couldn't hazard a guess.

SCOTT BUCHHOLZ: ... have to get the data.

CHRISTOPHER KENT: I couldn't hazard a guess.
SCOTT BUCHHOLZ: I would suggest that say maybe the Communist Republic of China know to the
square inch how much of their country is owned and managed by foreign investment.

MICHAEL JANDA: It was the highlight of the day for other committee members.

CRAIG MACKENZIE: I also think is what good that for the first time a Liberal quoted in a communist
approvingly.

(Sound of laughter)

MICHAEL JANDA: RP Data's Craig Mackenzie has what he says would be a cheap solution to find out
how many properties are being bought by foreigners.
CRAIG MACKENZIE: We suggested a simple mechanism where more data about the purchaser,
including their nationality, their residency status, could be captured at the time the property is transferred.

MICHAEL JANDA: Liberal and Labor members on the committee were also keen to sound out the idea of
higher taxes, stamp duties or charges for foreign buyers.

Committee chair, Liberal Kelly O'Dwyer, quizzed the RBA's Christopher Kent.

KELLY O'DWYER: If we were to consider tax as part of the recommendations that this particular
committee, does the Reserve Bank have a view on whether or not this would have an impact on foreign
investment?

CHRISTOPHER KENT: Well I can't speak for the bank as a whole. Would it have an impact? One would
imagine at the margins, it would.
MICHAEL JANDA: If the aim is to reduce foreign demand for Australian property, then the real estate
agents say it will work.

CBRE's Justin Brown.

JUSTIN BROWN: We have seen increased demand for Australian product when Singapore tightened its
reins and where Vancouver tightened its reins.

Page43of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.MICHAEL JANDA: With Australian real estate websites like Domain and Real Estate dot-com, as well as
agents like Century 21 and property developers all now targeting the Chinese market for Australian real
estate, there may be some strong opposition to curbing demand.

MARK COLVIN: Michael Janda.

IN
NS

RE

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
c314 : Pricing | gpol : Domestic Politics | ntra : Transcripts | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial
News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E
Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South
Wales
IPD House
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCTRS0020140627ea6r0005q

Page44of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.