China buying spree continues

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
China buying spree continues

Property observed Matthew Cranston
656 words
11 December 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
30
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Next year when the Foreign Investment Review Board reveals which country has invested the most
in our property markets, expect China to again blow every other nation out of the water.
China became, for the first time, the largest source of foreign demand for Australian real estate in
the fiscal 2013 with $5.9 billion, and so far this year the indications are for that figure to be well and
truly exceeded.

If it isn't you can bet that suspicions around transparency will again be front and centre. Look at some
indicators of the commercial market only. Real estate firm JLL is estimating that Chinese
investment into Australia across office, industrial and retail property has been $1.4 billion over the
first 11 months of 2014.

That is roughly double (95 per cent increase) on last year's figure of $717.5 million.

Much of that estimate is yet to include some massive deals that are likely to be finalised soon.
In the Chinese year of the horse, Hong Kong developer Golden Horse Holdings looks set to make
the final big Chinese purchase of the year taking a seven-hectare parcel of industrial land in
Sydney's Erskineville from Goodman Group for $380 million.
That is not far behind Shimao Property, controlled by billionaire Hui Wing Mau, who bought an office
tower in Sydney for $390 million.

JLL's Paul Noonan, who was part of the team that negotiated that deal, has no doubt how much more
Chinese money is likely to be on the way.

"This is just the tip of iceberg – and this is not like the Japanese in the 1990s because this is all cash
– the Japanese used debt," Noonan says.

Late this year I found myself in an austere meeting room in the Liaoning provincial government
headquarters in northern China.
Liaoning is a small province in terms of wealth compared with other Chinese provinces but I was
astonished to see a one page document the government gave me detailing the amount of investment
that small province had made in Australia.

The figure, checked twice with interpreters, was $US193 million and ranged from hotels and
property to a super yacht business. Chinese Property giant Wanda Group had started its business
in that province before moving headquarters to Beijing. If it had included its committed investment in
Australia you could have added another $1.7 billion to the total.
Beyond commercial property the Chinese investment in residential property this year has also
been substantial.

Page168of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.FIRB approved $17 billion worth of applications to buy residential property in fiscal 2013 in a
market with a turnover of over $300 billion.
While the Real Estate Institute of Australia has repeated said that the influence of foreign buyers in
the established home market was "negligible" there are plenty of people such as Liberal politician
Kelly O'Dwyer who realise there is a lot more foreign investment going on in that market that escapes
detection.

One place to find some unseen foreign investment in homes is through the significant investment
visa. Around 90 per cent of the $2.4 billion that has been invested through significant investment
visas is Chinese and whilst that is tied up in numerous investments such as bonds and cash there is
also plenty in special vehicles that buy both established as well as new homes.
While I have no doubt China will outpace other nations in the mantle for top real estate investor, it
will carry a handicap in the form of outward bound capital restrictions and the recent crackdown on
corrupt Chinese officials. And while the capital flows from China are big and growing rapidly there
still needs to be some context around its impact on our markets.
There is $90 billion invested by self-managed super funds in Australian real estate, making all the
noise about China look a little far-fetched.

IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
ereal : Real Estate Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141210eacb0001c

Page169of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.