A lifetime of travel lands Simon Westcott in prime position with LUXE City Guides

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

A lifetime of travel lands Simon Westcott in prime position with LUXE City Guides

by SmartCompany
785 words
29 April 2014
Smart Company
SMACOM
English
© Copyright 2014 Private Media Partners Pty. Ltd. All Right Reserved.

At 49, Simon Westcott is a veteran of the travel publishing industry. Westcott, who divides his time
between Melbourne and Hong Kong, is the co-founder and chairman of boutique travel company Mr
& Mrs Smith and spent seven years as global publisher of the Lonely Planet publishing empire. He’s
recently acquired LUXE City Guides, which he says turns over “between $1 million and $10 million"
each year.

I’ve been in this sweet spot of media and publishing and travel for the past 13 years, and I’ve been a
long-term fan of LUXE.

As a very experienced traveller, it amazes me the things that LUXE can still teach me . What I love
about the brand from a user perspective is the quality of the recommendations that LUXE gives. The
curation and the flavour are pretty unique. Laser sharp recommendations, delivered in this snappy,
funny, intelligent way. Almost laugh-out-loud at times.
I purchased LUXE with my own funds , together with [chairman] Julian Knights. We are the majority
shareholders, although we also have a close-knit family of smaller private investors who are known to
us.
I’ve been around the sale table three times now , including as part of the core management team that
sold Lonely Planet to the BBC. I think it is amazing how much it still comes back to the personal
rapport between buyer and seller. And most buyers like to buy from someone they know. I think there
is also that “get on the plane moment" when you have to make people know you want [the business].

I absolutely use a business plan .

I think there has to be a simple, agile approach to business plans. In the LUXE context, we want to
jump into the business and see how it goes. The plan is evolving organically.

We want to focus on three key areas , the first of which is to really fill out the premium digital content
offering. The curation of LUXE guides is second-to-none in print, which is updated around every 18
months. We want to pull this to a monthly cycle in digital, and pull the print cycle to around one year
and later perhaps to ‘just-in-time’. This constantly updated database will allow us to explore other
models like subscriptions and business-to-business for say, travel agents.

We really want to bring the guides alive . Like a concierge service, we’re hand-picking
recommendations. But a good concierge also makes the booking for you. We want to work with
partners like hotel suppliers and preferred travel agents, developing a close-knit family of like-minded
suppliers.
The third aspect is China . We want to take those models to China in the next six-to-12 months. The
travel market is really maturing there. There is such a sophisticated, emerging upper-class there – a
well-travelled cohort in their 30s who have been travelling now for 10 years. The market is still niche
but that suits us in many ways. In many ways we are a hand-sold, viral product.

I think it is less about making the business more profitable and more about the scalability of the
business. And it’s about services. People are spending $12.99 on a travel guide and then thousands

Page121of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.of dollars on their trips. If we can look at the services around those trips, then the average transaction
for those customers can increase.

I sleep very well at night and I find I can shut out anxiety. There is nothing you can do at 2am in the
morning, 99 times out of 100. It might also help that I meditate every morning. Every business owner
worries about cash and the burden of cash.

I love the win:win of a good strategic partnership. At Mr & Mrs Smith, we partnered with VISA to give
Silver Smith membership cards to new VISA signature card holders. It was a genuinely premium
benefit for their new customers and it was a great, commercial marketing opportunity for us.

I am interested in opportunities for LUXE to take a position in some kind of foundation or corporate
social responsibility activity. We’re exploring what that would look like at the moment. The ideas of
cultural exchange and environmental sustainability – those issues are important for our travellers. I
believe LUXE can find its place in those kinds of dialogues and actively help in developing
destinations.

No boutique business can afford to ignore social media. At LUXE, the opportunities to share content
via social media will grow when we launch our digital platform.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gtour : Travel | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Private Media Partners Pty Ltd.
Document SMACOM0020140430ea4t0000d

Page122of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.