NSW sells Glebe site for $33m

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
NSW sells Glebe site for $33m

Samantha Hutchinson, Mercedes Ruehl and Nick Lenaghan
434 words
6 December 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
39
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

A Chinese group has made its maiden Australian site purchase, buying a former juvenile
detention centre in Sydney's inner west that could yield a $130 million apartment project.
The NSW state government offloaded the 357 Glebe Point Road site for $33 million. The
5556 hectare parcel of land could yield up to 100 apartments if it receives development approval.

The housing market's strong run has continued into summer. Offshore and onshore developers
are continuing to pay well for commercial sites that can be converted into apartment blocks.

NSW Minister for Finance and Services Dominic Perrottet said the new owners had a number of
options for the Glebe property.

"Featuring three street frontages and views over Blackwattle Bay, Sydney Harbour Bridge and the
city skyline, the potential for new residential development on the site is huge," he said.
"Early analysis indicates the property could house up to 100 units if developed."
Mr Perrottet said the state government had raised more than $700 million selling property assets
and renegotiating government leases since 2012.

Savills' Stuart Cox and Simon Fenn brokered the deal on behalf of the state government.
Staff from Family and Community Services and the Department of Justice will remain on site
under a lease-back arrangement until they find new accommodation.
Funds from the sale of 357 Glebe Point Road will go towards finding new accommodation for the
Family and Community Services and Department of Justice.Historic house to stay
The historic Bidura House, located on site, is also leased but will be retained in its current state.

Meanwhile in Melbourne, the appetite for inner-city development sites from offshore developers is
showing no sign of exhaustion.
A Chinese investor, Yi Yang Pty Ltd, outbid at least six other local developers before a crowd of
150 at Windsor, in Melbourne's inner south-east.
Set on 1137square metres and family-owned for more than 50 years, the property at
168-176 High Street and 1-5 Victoria Street, just off Chapel Street, sold for $8.4 million, more
than $3 million above reserve.
CBRE's Mark Wizel, who handled the property with colleagues Josh Rutman and Rorey James,
said the transaction showed offshore developers were now moving confidently beyond the
Melbourne CBD.

Page89of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."It shows the progression of mainland Chinese investors away from core CBD and CBD fringe
locations, including Southbank and Docklands.

"It also shows offshore developers accept sites that don't have existing planning permits and they
have confidence in the transparent nature of our planning system."

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
greg : Regional Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol
: Domestic Politics
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | victor :
Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141205eac60001j

IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page90of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.