Investors angry over Yancoal play

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Investors angry over Yancoal play

Amanda Saunders and Matthew Stevens
739 words
12 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
15
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Furious minority shareholders in Chinese-controlled coal producer Yancoal claim they were approached
by management over a buyout just weeks before the Australian-listed coalminer announced a dilutive
$US2.3 billion debt-for-equity swap on Monday.

After unveiling the refinancing deal, Yancoal boss Reinhold Schmidt denied it was a new attempt at
privatisation by controlling shareholder Yanzhou Coal, and said privatisation was not on the table.

But a senior investor in Yancoal has told The Australian Financial Review that Yancoal's management
had made half a dozen informal offers to buy out its holding at about 30 cents in the past six months –
most recently in mid-October.

Yancoal shares opened at $1.53 on their ASX debut in mid-2012, and are currently languishing at about
16¢.
The shareholder claims the debt-for-equity swap, using a subordinated capital notes offer, is a
privatisation grab by Chinese coal giant Yanzhou Coal, after informal takeover offers were rejected.

Yancoal's head of investor relations James Rickards said the miner had been in talks about "a potential
liquidity event for minority shareholders", as part of an independent board committee review.

"Preliminary informal conceptual soundings were held with a number of shareholders to test the
feasibility of this option, however, no offer was ever tabled as this option was not feasible," he said.

Yancoal is one of the ASX's most illiquid stocks, with Yanzhou's monstrous holding accounting for
78 per cent, and Asian commodities trader Noble Group with 13.2 per cent. The remaining 8.8 per cent
is split between four minority shareholders.
In a recapitalisation revealed on Monday, Yanzhou will take up $US1.8 billion of a $US2.3 billion
subordinated capital notes offer in Yancoal to repay a $US1.8 billion loan to itself. The notes will be
treated as equity, convertible at 10¢ a share.
Yancoal will attempt to tap the rest of its register for the $US500 million balance. Yanzhou will also
extend a fresh $US1.4 billion loan to the troubled miner.

Mr Rickards said the deal was "an offer in the interests of strengthening the balance sheet, not
privatising Yancoal – to assert otherwise is incorrect and misinformed".
The minority shareholder says the debt-for-equity swap is a "massive expropriation" that will see
Yancoal refinance itself unnecessarily at a higher rate, adding about $50 million a year to interest
repayments – which will go in the main to Yanzhou Coal.

There is no justification for the timing of the refinancing, when no significant debt is due for two and a
half years, he claims.

Page53of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.But Yancoal's Mr Rickards said "the status quo is not sustainable in light of our gearing levels and
covenant position".

"We are under growing pressure from lenders to proactively take steps to reduce our debt, address our
covenant position and establish a more sustainable capital structure," he said.
"Delaying recapitalisation of the company until the debt is due and payable or a default has occurred
would clearly not be in the interests of the company."

The aggrieved shareholder is taking legal advice on its options, and will make a complaint to the
company, while also considering an application to the Takeovers Panel. It will also attempt to
interrogate each of the independent directors who backed the debt-for equity-swap, saying it is at a loss
as to how they could have recommended the deal as being in the best interest of all shareholders.

But Mr Rickards said the independent board committee, which assessed the deal, had "acted with
complete propriety throughout the process and it is inappropriate and wrong to suggest otherwise". "The
IBC has conducted a rigorous and independent process, which has involved it using separate and
independent legal and financial advisers from those used by the company." It is understood the minority
shareholders outside Noble had been approached about a buyout in the lead-up to the debt-for-equity
swap being announced. The Australian Financial Review understands the buyout offers involved Noble
remaining a minority holder in the private company, alongside Yanzhou. The offers came after Yanzhou
called off a privatisation bid for Yancoal in March this year, after being stymied by shareholder Noble
Group over price.However, Noble was blindsided by the debt-for-equity swap and is understood to be
furious about not being sounded out over it.

CO

IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

yaptyl : Yancoal Australia Limited | yankua : Yankuang (Group) Corp | ynzmn : Yanzhou Coal Mining Co
Ltd
i112 : Coal Mining Support Activities | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c183 : Privatizations/Nationalization | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c18 : Ownership Changes |
cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141111eabc00019

Page54of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.