Yancoal launches $US2.3b notes offer to slash debt

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

popular
Yancoal launches $US2.3b notes offer to slash debt

AMANDA SAUNDERS - AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL REVIEW
457 words
9 November 2014
Singleton Argus
FSINGA
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

Chinese-owned coal miner Yancoal, which has a listing in Australia, is trying to raise about $US500
million through a subordinated capital notes offer to repay a mounting debt pile, to add to the $US1.8
billion stumped up by its major shareholder.
Locally Yancoal operates Ashton mine near Camberwell. The company is currently negotiating final
conditions of consent for its Ashton South East Coal Project.

Majority shareholder Yanzhou Coal will subscribe for $US1.8 billion " its full entitlement " of Yancoal's
$US2.3 billion subordinated capital notes offer but has said it will not cover any shortfall. Yancoal will
look to the rest of its illiquid register for the balance - about $US500 million, and failing that has said it
will consider issuing notes to new investors.
Yanzhou will also feed up to $1.4 billion into Yancoal, which has seven mines in Australia, to prop it
up during a dismal time for the coal industry.

Yanzhou gave an undertaking on Monday that it will "ensure Yancoal remains solvent", for as long as it
remains majority shareholder.
Yanzhou Coal, China's fourth-biggest coal company, holds a 78 per cent stake in Yancoal, which
made its debut on the Australian Securities Exchange in mid-2012.
The struggling Australian coal sector is immersed in a sea of red ink despite cutting costs for the past
two years, and is poorly placed to wear any more cost pressure.

Yancoal chief Reinhold Schmidt said the decision was taken to reduce gearing and "deliver significant
cost savings to weather the challenges of an increasingly competitive marketplace".

"In a depressed commodities marketplace facing continued uncertainty for the near-term, Yancoal's
existing level of debt is a significant constraint on our future expansion and operational improvement
strategies," Mr Schmidt said.

Under the renounceable rights offer, Yancoal will issue 2.32112 subordinated capital notes for every
100 Yancoal Australia shares held - up to a value of $US2.3 billion. The notes will be treated as
equity.
About $US1.8 billion of proceeds will be used to repay existing senior debt from Yanzhou. The
balance will be used at Yancoal's suite of existing coal mines and future growth.
The coal miner also said on Monday that Yanzhou will provide up to $1.4 billion in extra finance, and
it will support fund distributions on the subordinated capital notes over a five year period, after they are
issued.
If the offer proceeds, Bank of China and China Construction Bank will grant an extension on the
repayment of their $US2.6 billion syndicated facility for three years.

The Australian Financial Review

Page6of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO

IN

RE
PUB
AN

yaptyl : Yancoal Australia Limited | yankua : Yankuang (Group) Corp | ynzmn : Yanzhou Coal Mining
Co Ltd
i111 : Coal Mining | i1 : Energy | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i112 :
Coal Mining Support Activities
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FSINGA0020141110eab900001

Page7of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.