Real estate loopholes exploited by foreign investor claims expert

Real estate loopholes exploited by foreign investor claims expert

27 November 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation Transcripts
ABCTRS
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

Tracy Bowden

HD
BY
WC 835 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Foreign investors in Australian real estate are exploiting loopholes according to one expert while a
parliamentary inquiry has called processes at Treasury and the Foreign Investment Review Board a
'systems failure'.
LEIGH SALES, PRESENTER: Many Australians trying to buy property are convinced that cashed-up
foreign investors, particularly from China, have been pricing them out of the market.

TD

Now a parliamentary inquiry has proposed tighter controls and tougher penalties to crack down on foreign
buyers who break the rules.

The report brands the current system a failure.

Shortly we'll speak to the chair of the parliamentary committee behind the report, Liberal MP Kelly
O'Dwyer, but first, this report from Tracy Bowden.
TRACY BOWDEN, REPORTER: This is real estate Beijing-style, a four-day frenzy with tens of thousands
of prospective buyers on the lookout for property. Australian agents are here keen to drum up business.
JASON HELLYER, PROPERTY AGENT: We do projects in Australia, so residential projects.

MAN: Which cities?

JASON HELLYER: Melbourne, Sydney. Are you interested in any of those marketplaces? ...

... This is just one channel that we're explore for our Australian vendors to expose some properties,
special properties, to a market that clearly at the moment is looking for opportunities outside of the
domestic Chinese market.
MONIKA TU, PROPERTY CONCIERGE: Business extremely well and Australia become more and more
popular for Chinese.
TRACY BOWDEN: Back in Australia, Monika Tu is flat out trying to find properties for eager Chinese
buyers.

MONIKA TU: Probably 90 per cent that live here permanently or probably 10 per cent of them, the wife
and kids are living here and the husband's still travelling frequently from here back to China because they
still have some kind of business back home.

TRACY BOWDEN: A year ago, Monika Tu invited 7.30 along as she showed a client a multimillion-dollar
property on Sydney's lower North Shore. Back then, she had a sales target in mind.

MONIKA TU: This year I want to do $100 million and I'm very close.

TRACY BOWDEN: So, did her high-end clients get her across the line?

MONIKA TU: I My target was, like, $100 million, I remember, and I have reached now about $120 million.
So, yes, very pleased.

Page64of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.TRACY BOWDEN: So you've sold $120 million worth of property?

MONIKA TU: Yes.
ROBERT SIMEON, REAL ESTATE AGENT: All of a sudden we're seeing this tsunami of overseas money
coming in and it's sort of, like, wiping out markets, wiping out market demographics, it's denying people of
the opportunity to buy.
TRACY BOWDEN: In 2012-2013, Chinese investors spent more than $5.5 billion on Australian real
estate. Many agents across the country are getting in on the act, but were those sales all above board?

ROBERT SIMEON: The fact is that there are rules and regulations that apply to everybody. And those
rules and regulations have to be abided by and it's very clear that they haven't been.
TRACY BOWDEN: Australia allows foreigners to buy new properties so off-the-plan sales like this have
seen a near stampede of buyers. But foreigners are banned from buying established homes, unless their
they're temporary residents. Another avenue is gaping permanent residency through a significant investor
visa.

What do you tell your clients about the rules in Australia about foreigners buying established properties?

MONIKA TU: They have to have a permanent visa, permanent resident, or some of them have long-term
working visa, like a 457 or - but the majority of client are significant investment visa. So we call that 188.
ROBERT SIMEON: Well in a word, the Foreign Investment Review Board, they're hopeless.
TRACY BOWDEN: Robert Simeon has been in real estate for 30 years and says it's become easier for
buyers to exploit loopholes in the system.
ROBERT SIMEON: Overseas students, when they're coming in here and they're allowed to buy a
property whilst they study and they have to sell it once they've graduated, well there's no evidence at all
that any property's ever been sold.

TRACY BOWDEN: Incredibly, there hasn't been a single prosecution of a foreign investor for illegally
buying a home in Australia since 2006.

ROBERT SIMEON: I think that the Government's turned a blind eye and they've been caught out. I mean,
the fact is that now it's nearly a decade since they've prosecuted someone and the Foreign Investment
Review Board is the first to say that they're understaffed and undermanned.

TRACY BOWDEN: Monika Tu is adamant that any changes to foreign investment rules won't affect her
clients, and on that basis, she set herself a new sales target.

MONIKA TU: The market has increased and the business has expanded and, yeah, I think the figure
should be doubled.

TRACY BOWDEN: So 200 million?

MONIKA TU: Something like that. (Laughs)

CO fgivrb : Foreign Investment Review Board
IN

NS

RE

irreal : Residential Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest :
Real Estate
efdi : Foreign Direct Investment | c182 : Physical Asset Transactions | ntra : Transcripts | c18 : Ownership
Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e51 : Trade/External Payments |
e511 : Capital Movements/Invisible Trade | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

IPD House
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCTRS0020141127eabr0008f

Page65of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.