China Trees

China Trees

Tim Lee

HD
BY
WC 2,568 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

18 October 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation Transcripts
ABCTRS
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

TD

After years of negotiation a Victorian commercial tree farm is about to send their first batch of ornamental
trees to China.
PIP COURTNEY, PRESENTER: We hear a lot in Australian agriculture about the great potential of China.
But doing business with the world's most populous country can be a hard road.

That had been the experience of the Blerick Tree Farm in eastern Victoria, but in coming months the firm
expects to send its first batch of ornamental trees to China and it's hoping it will be the start of a major
export industry.

TIM LEE, REPORTER: When the nearby mountains are crested with snow and most of the plant world is
in winter dormancy, the workers at Blerick Tree Farm are at their busiest.

RON GERITZ, BLERICK TREE FARM: So what we've done is we've grown these trees for three years
from small, grafted seedling in the ground and then, when they're ready, we're harvesting these now and
then we sell them straight out of the field like this, or we can take these bags off and pot them up into a
larger pot size and grow them for another one or two years to get an even bigger tree.

TIM LEE: Winter, when the branches are bare, is the optimal time to dig and transplant deciduous trees.

RON GERITZ: You're always up against time, because these trees are now starting to flower. So it means
you have to get them out of the ground, but you have to wait until they go dormant, which this year was
late. So you sometimes only have a month for a window. What you do is you plant the tree in the bag and
then it can grow for two years in the bag, but what the advantage is you can produce a tree like this size,
but with a 50 or 55-litre root ball. What happens is, 90 per cent of the roots stay in this bag, but it allows 10
per cent of the feeder roots to go out and it thickens up inside and that's where it stores 90 per cent of the
carbohydrate.

So when you dig this tree up, take the felt bag off, 90 per cent of its root system is still with this tree, but
it's in a size that you can actually handle it and they take off very well.

TIM LEE: If not for the bag, the tree would weigh a quarter of a tonne. But at around 70 kilos, it's easily
moved.

RON GERITZ: This tree here will go probably into Melbourne. Either into a private garden or into a
development.

TIM LEE: A few short weeks earlier, the picture is very different. Autumn brings a dazzling beauty in a
wide range of deciduous trees, cultivated largely for their shape and colour.

The rolling hills and rich red volcanic soil of Neerim South, east of Melbourne, is a perfect location for the
commercial tree farm of Ron Geritz and Michelle Jones, though its beginnings were a little accidental.

MICHELLE GERITZ, BLERICK TREE FARM: In another life Ron and I were both schoolteachers and we
had bought this property basically as a lifestyle property and it was a subdivision off a piece of farmland
and it had nothing on it and our accountant said to us you need to do something to make it
income-producing, so that you can claim the interest.

Page175of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RON GERITZ: We settled on trees because we had to buy a tree for my sister and I couldn't believe how
expensive these trees were to buy. And I said to Michelle, well you know - 'maybe we should grow these
because there's obviously a market for it.'

MICHELLE GERITZ: We really only started off with a crop of silver birches and as we went around, they'd
say, 'What else do you grow?' And it's like, 'Nothing.' 'Why not?' So we expanded from there and learnt
how to graft and bud. We were both zoologists, that's our training, but we rapidly took a different turn and
ended up studying about how to do plants and everything about plants.

TIM LEE: That was 25 years ago. Originally Blerick Tree Farm - named after the town in Holland where
Ron's family originates - mostly supplied retail nurseries in Melbourne.

RON GERITZ: Then Bunnings came in, and Hardware House, and the big megastores and every year we
saw a few of our little customers drop off. Until, you know, basically they all disappeared.

TIM LEE: Fashions in gardening have also changed markedly in recent times.

RON GERITZ: When we first started, you couldn't sell an advanced tree, there was no market for it.
People were buying smaller trees, they would buy a bare-rooted tree and grow it, but at the same time
that your gardening shows and your lifestyle shows came into, became more fashionable, people's
mindset I think changed from waiting to wanting instant gratification.

So all of a sudden, we found that we could sell bigger trees.

MICHELLE GERITZ: We live in a generation now where people are building really nice houses and the
garden was never really considered very important. It was something that you would start off small and
wait for it to grow up. But now people actually spend just as much time planning their garden and
strategically approaching how they will install it for the overall effect. That in itself drives demand for
maybe different cultivars, like narrower varieties for smaller spaces.

RON GERITZ: It's the final culmination of five years of growing and these will go mainly to Melbourne for
the privacy market, when people build a two-storey house and they need some privacy, then these trees
can give you an instant screen in your backyard.

(Michelle showing customers' trees)

MICHELLE GERITZ: This one's about... 1.7 metres.

TIM LEE: These days the farm supplies trees up to 5 metres in height. To reach that stage may take six to
seven years and a good degree of careful attention along the way.

RON GERITZ: People are happy to pay you to come out and give them advice, because it does represent
a significant investment and I think - so there's more and more of these designers designing spaces,
whether it be urban spaces or gardens, and then they're looking for quality plants.

TIM LEE: This renewed love of landscapes has become a global trend.
For the tree farm, it has meant a bold new frontier - China. Why China?

RON GERITZ: By accident, really, I guess, because we've got a pretty good web presence and it just
happened that a group of Chinese were looking to set up large-scale tree farms in China, but they
needed somebody who could show them how to do it because they didn't have an agricultural or
horticultural background. So they were looking for somebody that actually could help them from the
ground up, right from the start, where there was nothing there right through to the finished product, if you
like.

MICHELLE GERITZ: We gave it a little bit of thought and we thought 'Why not?' Let's go and see what it's
all about. So they paid for us to go across to China and explained their story to us and it's grown from
there.

TIM LEE: More than two years on, after countless trips, negotiations and trade delegations, Michelle
Jones and Ron Geritz are on the verge of exporting trees to China.

But it's taken a maze of paperwork and a tonne of perseverance.
MICHELLE GERITZ: Once you have sort of thrashed out the commercial intent, then it needs to be
turned into a legal document to make sure you're legally protected, both in China and in Australia, I
guess. So get a very good law firm, you know, and negotiate your legal fees in the first contract, which we
didn't do.

Page176of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Because it's very expensive.
TIM LEE: The aim is to establish tree farms throughout China to grow and supply high-quality ornamental
trees to the Chinese landscape industry. This includes varieties not currently available commercially
there.

It's proving to be a steep learning curve for both parties.

RON GERITZ: We sent them through all the material lists and specifications for potting mix and wires and
everything like that. And when I got there, it was like - nothing. Nothing was what I ordered, there was no
potting mix, there was just a bag of pine chips and a bag of sand and a bag of peat.

And so we had to design everything from first principles and really roll with the punches and just be very
adaptive.

TIM LEE: Some ornamentals are plainly unsuited. White flowers, for example, are used only to honour the
dead. But colours such as red and gold are associated with good fortune.

So Ron these are a type of maple, this spectacular red autumn colour?

RON GERITZ: Yeah, these are an Acer rubrum, a Canadian maple, and they have a beautiful red colour.
This is actually trademark variety called October Glory. It's really popular in China because of its
super-red colour.
The idea is that it brings good luck, so the Chinese will market this tree as a good luck tree and they'll be
producing millions of them.

MICHELLE GERITZ: Red and gold are particularly colours associated with the emperor and royalty and
that sort of thing. So Chinese culture, they really like those colours.

RON GERITZ: We are looking for other trees that fit that same sort of category, but anything that has this
sort of feature, where it's got the beautiful red colour in autumn, that's what they're after because they
don't really have any 'superstars', as they call them, that will do this.

And that's a whole new sort of market for them, because they've traditionally used only a few varieties of
native trees, like plane trees and, you know, things that have been around forever. So this is a whole new
ball game.

TIM LEE: Red is all the rage?

RON GERITZ: Red is the rage, that's right. So it's going to be very good.

TIM LEE: This ornamental pear, the American variety known as Cleveland Select, is one tree that shapes
as highly promising for the Chinese market.
RON GERITZ: This is one of the trees that we're growing in China because it doesn't mind hot, humid
weather. One of our farms is near Shanghai and it's quite hot and humid. So this will still colour up
beautiful and, of course, the trick is that to find the right tree for that environment, because a tree that will
colour up, say, in the north of China may not colour up in the south. So that's a trial and error.

But this is a great tree, it's fast-growing, holds its form nicely and the colour's really uniform. So great for
street plants.

TIM LEE: Fabulous, very pretty.

RON GERITZ: Yes, it's a good tree.
MICHELL GERITZ: In China, the trees will be destined for the landscape industry. There's no retail
industry over in China as such, because everybody lives in apartments - there's no room. So it will go into
public spaces, parks, commercial developments where they're putting up whole cities of apartment
buildings, office buildings. They're basically constructing whole cities over there and they all need to be
landscaped.
RON GERITZ: But the trouble is in the landscaping in China over the past hasn't produced very good
trees, they've just been mainly concerned about size and they just transplant them and cut them to bits
and they look terrible and they don't survive very well.

TIM LEE: Blerick Tree Farm aims to greatly raise those standards. Part of their plan is to export young
trees, carefully grow them on-farm into large mature trees and sell them to the landscape industry.

Page177of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.They may look a little nondescript, but these young pear trees represent the first green shoots of what
may become a large export trade.
Ron, all these trees are destined for China?

RON GERITZ: Yes, these are some root stocks that we're growing and they'll be budded next February
and then they'll be sent to China, bare rooted, next winter hopefully, if we get all the permits through and
everything works out OK.

MICHELLE GERITZ: Because it's only very small quantity they'll go across by air freight.

TIM LEE: The trees will need to comply with stringent quarantine requirements. For example, all soil will
need to be washed from their roots. There's plenty of export to other countries, but sending plant matter
from Australia to China is, yeah, quite difficult.
RON GERITZ: The permit situation's getting worse. The Chinese government's really clamping down,
because - some of the reasons are various, but, you know, there's some illegal importation of trees that's
going on and the government is really trying to stamp all of that sort of illegal activity out, so they're
making it more difficult on the whole industry.

TIM LEE: So caution is advisable.

RON GERITZ: I don't want to have 500,000 trees on the ground here and then find that I can't get them
out.

This will be the critical part. If we can get this consignment off, then we can ramp up production to 10,000
and 50,000 the following year.

TIM LEE: The timing will also be critical.

MICHELLE GERTIZ: Again, that's another challenge too, because we have to time it right that we've done
an amount of dormancy over here in the winter months and then, because of the different seasons, and
then they go across into the Northern Hemisphere where they'll be at the opposite season. So it's quite
stressful on the trees too, because they'll go dormancy very quickly, then back into like a spring.
TIM LEE: The potential of the China market is breathtaking.

RON GERITZ: You're talking about a scale that is just enormous. I think the government now has set a
parameter that they want the greening of the Chinese city, they want a minimum of 30 per cent of the city
to be green space to try and clean the air and they're very serious about the pollution problem.

TIM LEE: The tree farm has other plans to branch out - quite literally.
RON GERITZ: I've got an agreement with the Chinese that we'll set up a joint venture to create an
Australian range of trees in China and I want to bring out not only trees from here, but then we can take
trees from other growers, Australian native plants, you know, that we can then take to China and sell.

But I think there's a big market there and lots of opportunities for Australians to do business there.

TIM LEE: There's a lot of unknowns?

MICHELLE GERITZ: There's many unknowns - it's a journey with an unknown destination. We're just on
the journey. We'll see.

NS

RE

glife : Living/Lifestyle | ntra : Transcripts | gcat : Political/General News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz
: Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

IPD China
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCTRS0020141019eaai00002

Page178of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.