Chinese appetite for local dairy ‘growing’

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Chinese appetite for local dairy ‘growing’

BLAIR SPEEDY, Dairy
538 words
28 August 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
18
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Chinese retailers and dairy groups are circling Australia’s largest milk processor, Murray Goulburn,
as Asian dairy demand continues to outstrip supply, says managing director Gary Helou.
Speaking after the release of the company’s annual profits, which included a 30 per cent surge in
export sales to $1.5 billion, Mr Helou said he was constantly fielding queries from Chinese
companies wanting to invest in Australian dairy.

“China and indeed all of Asia is deficient in being able to supply its own dairy requirements, and milk
from Australia and New Zealand has a prime quality and safety proposition as well as being very
close geographically,” he said.
“The mindset of the Chinese is that it would be best to partner with a local supplier with an integrated
supply chain ... the big dairy players in China are looking at forging partnerships with integrated
processors like Murray Goulburn. We are in dialogue with many people,” he said.
The comments came as New Zealand dairy co-operative Fonterra announced a deal with Chinese
baby food group Beingmate to distribute Australian-made baby formula in China, while selling a
half-stake in Fonterra’s Victorian formula manufacturing plant to the Chinese.
Murray Goulburn reported an annual profit of $29.3 million, down from $34.9m as farmgate milk
prices rose by 37 per cent, while sales were up 22 per cent to $2.92bn. The farmer-owned
co-operative cemented its position as Australia’s biggest milk processor during the year, taking in 3.4
billion litres of milk, equivalent to 37 per cent of national production and up from 33 per cent in the
previous financial year.
The bottom line did not include a $36m windfall profit on the sale of the company’s 17.7 per cent
stake in fellow Victorian dairy processor Warrnambool Cheese & Butter to Canadian dairy major
Saputo, whose $500m-plus takeover bid for WCB stalled at 87.9 per cent after rival dairy player Lion
refused to sell its 10 per cent stake.

“We’re retaining that to support the balance sheet — we bought the shares as an investment, so we’re
retaining the proceeds as equity because we have a very ambitious growth strategy,” said Mr Helou.

Murray Goulburn has already spent or committed $310m of a planned $500m investment in new
manufacturing capabilities, including $160m on two plants to supply Coles with housebrand milk
under a 10-year contract that Mr Helou said will add $200m to annual revenue from this year forward.
The company is also planning to raise up to $500m via a trust structure that will pay dividends to
investors but not allow them to vote on matters controlled by farmer-shareholders, with the funds to
fuel Murray Goulburn’s Asian expansion strategy. The capital raising is subject to shareholder
approval at a meeting to be held in January or February next year.

Page30of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Having missed out on WCB, Mr Helou said he could also look domestically for acquisitions.“I am a
firm believer that the market will consolidate further — I’m not going to be agitating for that, but I will
certainly be looking for further opportunities,” he said.

mryglb : Murray Goulburn Co-operative Company Limited
i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i413 : Dairy Products | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c15 : Performance | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140827ea8s00023

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page31of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.