Treasury bows to sober reality

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Treasury bows to sober reality

Matthew Stevens
1,404 words
5 August 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
34
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Matthew Stevens
Brilliant wine is all about the indulgence of the senses to the joyful detriment, sometimes, of a firm grip
on logic. So perhaps that is why it seems just that little bit sad that the board of our home of wine
icons, Treasury Wines Estates, has bowed to sober rationality in delivering American private equity
the keys to due diligence on the basis of the cold hard numbers.

But, of course, that is the way it is, and should always be, in the life and possibly forced retirement of a
public company. Sating emotion does nothing to generate value for the shareholders. And, outside of
offering consistently beautiful products, TWE and its antecedents have too often fallen frustratingly
short of their owners' financial expectations.

While we haven't always seen eye-to-keyboard with TWE chairman Paul Raynor, he has got it exactly
right this time. After rejecting private equity's first pitch of $4.70 a share, the chairman and his board
have decided to "engage" after Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and its appropriately named partner in
acquisition, Rhone Capital, came back with a $5.20-a-share pitch.

Engagement, in this case, means non-exclusive due diligence. And that, in itself, is just a little win for
TWE shareholders. These sorts of private equity bear hugs sometimes end with a period of bidder
exclusivity while value propositions are tested.

But in this case the dataroom door remains open to others before (and presumably after) KKR and
Rhone go deep and meaningful on the TWE books. This matters because there is just a hint in the way
TWE is being priced that says the market may be anticipating that this might yet become a contest.

The price now entertained by KKR and Rhone has very quickly generated a fair weight of opinion that
says TWE's brief life as an independent business is about to come to a sudden end. In the end, the
only real bones of contention left in the discussion are whether private equity will actually put its price
to the TWE board and whether that offer might then prompt some interested bystanders of repute to
challenge private equity's death grip.

In the wake of Monday's announcement the market almost immediately bumped TWE shares to $5.17
a share, a mere 3¢ a pop shy of the KKR-Rhone pitch. By the close that had drifted to $5.15 a share.
That says that investors are betting private equity will justify their price, make a firm offer and that it
will be recommended by the TWE board.

But drawing conclusions on the discount to the foreshadowed price and what that might say about the
potential for a second bidder is a rather less certain pastime.

No, the price did not surge beyond the foreshadowed offer which says that no one is getting too
excited yet. But, at the same time, Monday's range reflected a aggressively small discount to private

Page194of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.equity's pricing given how long this process could run and the risk of delivery that process necessarily
implies.

Then again, it has to be acknowledged that, right from the moment of its independence in May 2011,
there has been fairly constant speculation of competitor intent to take out TWE. But, so far at least,
none but this pair of value investors have come a-knocking.

The other point to appreciate in thinking through the potential for a contest is that the numbers say
private equity has arrived with a keenly pitched offer. Before the KKR's opening gambit of $4.70 back
in April, TWE was trading at $3.69 a share and even that represented a challengingly optimistic
multiple of 17.5 times historic earnings. The offer that finally opened the dataroom doors is pitched at a
pretty keen 24 times multiple over historic numbers and an even more epic 32 times estimates of 2014
earnings.

Then again, some work done by Morgan Stanley back in May would suggest the multiples here are no
more than average, based on the last 24 transactions in the sector. That work implied a TWE price of
$5.18. Which is near as damn it to where KKR and Rhone have landed.
What we can say for sure here is that private equity seems to be seeing a whole lot of value in TWE
that others do not.

On the face of it, the price under contemplation looks pretty toppy and there is every reason to suspect
that private equity's optimism is fuelled by discrete certainty about the value of the parts here rather
than of the sum.

The potential that TWE is worth more unbundled than together has been obvious, externally at least,
for nearly all of the 15 years this wine business has been trying, and failing, to make its pan-Pacific
alliance work.
The tale of the tape here is pretty simple. The $US2.9 billion acquisition of Beringer at the turn of the
century marked the end of Foster's Brewing Group's $8 billion splurge on growth in wine. KKR and
Rhone are offering $3.4 billion ($3.64 billion) for that business. The rest of that value has been
burned. Joining this Australian wine business with international aspirations to a US business with an
understandably domestic focus has proven a task too far for all who have accepted its challenge.

The most recent victim was the cheerful and well-liked David Dearie, who was summarily dismissed
midway through 2013 after the confirmation of an embarrassing $160 million write-down on the US
business. This has long been the way at this company. Chief executives come and go at short notice
and strategies; structures and staff are routinely redrafted with these changes.

The break-up that saw Carton & United Breweries end up under South African stewardship was
supposed to represent a new dawn for the re-branded wine business.
But since being listed as Treasury Wine Estates the new narrative has run pretty true to the old one.

Financial and strategic targets have been set and missed, the people responsible for that have been
moved on and shareholders have been presented with new teams and their new plans to finally
generate returns from the wine icons that sustain TWE's value.
There is surely more irony than coincidence in the fact that private equity has arrived hard on the
heels of new boss Mike Clarke. His first three months at the helm have shown cause for considerable
optimism. He has moved to clarify the structure and management of the business, recover lost
marketing grunt and even started to listen to the core talent of the business, its winemakers. But,
given all goes as expected, Clarke might not even make it to his first annual general meeting.

Mind you, he will do pretty well for himself if that is the outcome. Sensibly Clarke ensured his
remuneration package included change of control protections. One of them means that if the business
falls before that package is approved at the AGM, his FY15 long-term incentive package will be paid
out in full. The LTI maxs out at 200 per cent of his $1.7 million salary.
Meanwhile the early end of another beautiful relationship leaves Roc Oil headed into Chinese
ownership and spurned partner Horizon Oil facing the sort of existential crisis that comes from a
divorce no matter how civil and predictable.

Having presented the proposed merger of equals with Horizon as a match made in strategic heaven,
Roc's board has now decided to throw its support behind a $474 million, all cash, condition-lite offer
from Hong Kong-listed Fosun International.

Page195of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.This leaves Horizon looking at a suddenly withered share price and the risk that one of a group of
potential suitors might end up with discount access to the junior's mooted gas future in Papua New
Guinea.

The short form of the logic for the now-abandoned deal was that Roc had strong free cash flows but
few growth options and Horizon was long growth but short secure funding.

In this case bluff honesty might prove costly. Roc's decision to please its owners such as Allan Gray's
Simon Marais by taking China's cash rather than Horizon's uncertainties has unfortunately exposed
the PNG explorer's frailty.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

kkr : KKR & Co. L.P. | trzwn : Treasury Wine Estates Ltd
i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150203 : Private Equity | ialtinv : Alternative Investments |
ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i426 : Wine |
ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140804ea8500008

Page196of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.