Japanese visitors see source of dairy delights

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Lifestyle
Japanese visitors see source of dairy delights

KAROLIN MACGREGOR
351 words
17 October 2014
Tasmanian Country
TASCOU
TasCountry
5
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Japan has long been a vital market for Australian dairy products and last week a Japanese delegation
had a close look at Tasmania’s dairy sector.

The annual governmental Japan-Australia DairyTalks were held in Devonport over two days and
included visits to dairy farms and processing facilities. The talks are an opportunity for representatives
from both countries to discuss dairy trade and industry outlooks.

Dairy Australia international trade development manager Peter Myers said while much of the focus for
future growth had recently been on China, Japan has long been a very important market for the dairy
industry.
Last year Australia exported about 125,000 tonnes of dairy products to Japan worth about $511
million. This represents about 16 per cent of all Australian dairy exports.
“Japan has been one of the largest export markets for Australian dairy for decades and is one of our
best customers, particularly for cheese,” Mr Myers said.
About 82 per cent of the Australian dairy exports to Japan are cheese products. Because of import
restrictions, most of the cheese exported to Japan is sold in 20kg blocks. Once it is in Japan the
cheese is processed into sizes and shapes and elaborate packaging similar to chocolate. Some is also
processed ready for the food-service industry.
Cheddar is the most common type of cheese sent to Japan, along with mozzarella, and Mr Myers said
a significant amount of cream cheese was also exported there.
Maintaining good trade connections with Japan is a key focus of the annual dairy talks and for Dairy
Australia.
Mr Myers said marketing activities included the Japan Cheese Scholarship program, that offered
Japanese dairy companies and distributors an insight into Australian dairy.

Since the program started in 1997 there have been about 300 graduates and many have careers and
key positions in the Japanese industry.“It’s a network that is very much alive and extremely important in
spreading the news about the latest business opportunities and up-to-date knowledge about
Australian dairy,” Mr Myers said.

CO
IN

NS

dryust : Dairy Australia
i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming |
ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
c312 : External Markets | c31 : Marketing/Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter

Page299of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | jap : Japan | tasman : Tasmania | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document TASCOU0020141017eaah0000k

Page300of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.