Buyers biting at the bit for southern grazing properties

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

property
Buyers biting at the bit for southern grazing properties

1,122 words
11 June 2014
The Land
FTLAND
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

STUNNING autumn conditions in the State's south have contributed to a bullish property market
with agents citing boosted inquiries and inspections " and buyers are hungry for more.
Property agents across the Southern Tablelands have reported increased confidence from buyers
and a good run of sales.

In many cases they are unable to provide enough properties to meet demand.

Large grazing properties are in demand after with interest coming from local landholders, Sydney
property hunters, and overseas buyers, most notably the Chinese.
Recently a 7519-hectare property south of Bungendore, "Foxlow", was sold for $15 million through
Ray White Rural Sydney to an Australian buyer " a notable sale and supported by a good run of
other positive sales.
Landmark Harcourts real estate agent Col Medway, Yass, recently sold local 300ha property
"Bahloo Park" at auction for $1.75m.
Mr Medway said property values were high on larger, commercial properties, which came down to
a few factors.

"We've had a good run of seasons (in the area) since Christmas 2009, and the lamb and wool
markets have been fair to good," Mr Medway said.
"As far as the larger-scale commercial grazing operations go, by far the biggest inquiry has to be
from the established graziers looking to expand their landholdings."

He said there was a lot of positivity from those in the sheep industry.
There had also been a lot of international demand, and from China specifically; this was partly the
result of promoting Australian property to Chinese buyers and building relationships.

Mr Medway believed the market was bullish at the moment, with strong interest expected to
continue into spring, but the biggest restraint at the moment was the lack of larger properties, more
than 5000 dry sheep equivalent (DSE), to meet demand.
He said many prospective vendors would wait until spring to list their property, but given the
current season "there was no reason to wait"; and an advantage of listing a property in the winter
was avoid ing competition from other vendors seen in the spring months.

In other words, the buyers are there now.
"I think the property market is very positive " there is plenty of inquiry; what we need is more
properties to sell."
At Goulburn, Elders property agent David Medina said confidence was "certainly up", with strong
interest from Sydney buyers.

Page195of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."Buyer inquiry for the larger properties has been very good; there's been a lot of solid demand," Mr
Medina said.

"We've had a couple of terrific neighbour-to-neighbour sales in the past year or so where premium
prices have been paid.

"I think there's more confidence on the back of a good autumn and low interest rates."
Mr Medina said during the past six months there had been massive growth in the rural property
side of the business.

"Based on the back of some excellent sales, people are realising the value of their land is heading
in a northerly direction," he said.

"We've seen an upward trend in dollars per acre, and we would expect that to continue.

He said, however, larger parcels of land " upward of about 600ha " were not coming on to the
market as frequently as needed.

Recent positive sales have included $1.1 million for "Reedy Creek" at Golspie, and $1.9m for "Old
Bolong" at Laggan.

"We are pretty set rolling into winter; it should be a very solid start to the new financial year."

Simon Southwell, Ray White Rural Corporate, said the best autumn break he had seen had fired up
a lot of confidence in the market, although the origins of this positivity began, he felt, about 18
months ago.

"When irrigation properties start to move again, that's indicative of a positive trend across the
board," he said.

"Two years ago we were seeing a lot of properties passed in, with only one or maybe two registered
bidders."

That has changed now, he said, with more sales under the hammer and a greater number of
registered bidders.
As an example of some of the good interest seen recently, he said Gundagai-district property
"Snow-ball" heading to auction on June 20, had received more than 30 inquiries and about 23
inspections.

"With interest rates as low as they are, there's a lot of confidence in the market; there's also a lot of
local interest too, and a lot of inquiry out of Sydney.

"Overall, I"d like to think there is a lot of confidence in the agriculture sector."
In the State's north, agent John Collier, Collier Property Sales, Tamworth, said while confidence
had been limited given very little summer rain, and a lot of winter crops not going in, he had noticed
increased interest in property in the past four to five weeks.

He had noticed, however, more vendors were actively seeking to sell and "meeting the market".
Some solid sales so far this year have included $4.2m for Goulburn property "Kippilaw", while
"Buddah Lake" at Narromine sold for an undisclosed price, thought to be in the vicinity of $6.5m.
More recently "Heaton Lodge" at Mudgee sold for an undisclosed amount, thought to be about
$2m, while nearby "Warrangunyah" at Ilford sold for an undisclosed figure thought to be about
$3m.
GLYN and Anne Williams looked to buy the right grazing property for 10 years and they finally
found it in "Bahloo Park" at Yass.
The purchase, Mr Williams said, was definitely worth the wait.
The couple, together with their son Ashur, purchased the 300-hectare property at auction last
month for $1.75 million.
Mr Williams (pictured) said it was rare to find a property of this quality for sale, so they had to
pounce.

Page196of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."After we saw it we knew it was just what we wanted," he said.
They have run their Limousin stud, Newton-Wood, for the past 20 years on their property at
Murrumbateman but have been looking for another property to expand for the past decade.
They will use "Bahloo Park" to grow both their stud and their commercial Angus herd.

Mr Williams said the size, excellent infrastructure, the soil types and overall productivity of the
property appealed to him.

"It's funny how things turn out; we are more than pleased that we were unsuccessful in the past 10
years because there were generally compromises that had to be made with the other properties,
such as location or productivity, but we are pretty chuffed with this property."
He said a lot of work had gone into the property by the vendor, Bob Nader, to bring it to such a
high standard.

IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
ereal : Real Estate Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FTLAND0020151217ea6b0013y

Page197of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.