A SOBERING THOUGHT

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

OpEd
A SOBERING THOUGHT

Nigel Austin
1,166 words
21 February 2014
The Advertiser
ADVTSR
Advertiser
25
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Treasury Wine Estates, the world’s largest listed wine company, is fighting for its corporate life. Rural
Editor Nigel Austin reports.
TREASURY Wine Estates, owner of many of the nation’s greatest wine brands including Penfolds, the
jewel in the crown of the Australian wine industry, is once more fighting for its future.

As rumours circulate about the potential for another takeover of the company, the wine giant is under
siege from a plummeting share price, a series of profit downgrades and criticism of its management.

Its share price has nearly halved since it peaked in May of last year, crashing under the weight of a
series of issues including its decision to destroy aged wine in the United States, the dumping of former
chief executive David Dearie on September 23 and profit downgrades.
Treasury’s raw figures have been disappointing since its first year as a stand-alone wine company
after being demerged from the Fosters Group in 2011, when it sold 33.2 million cases of wine for
$1.758 billion and achieved earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) of $195.2 million.
The company’s problems went from bad to worse yesterday, when its half-year results showed the
outlook is considerably worse for this year with the first half result down 38.9 per cent to $45.8 million
as the company flounders, struggling to identify its future in a sea of wine.
It blamed austerity measures in China for impacting on consumer demand for premium wine and a
series of on-going problems in the Australian and US markets.
It has trebled its production since 2001, when Southcorp and Rosemount Estate merged to form
Australia’s largest wine company, producing 11 million cases of wine a year.

Through organic growth and a series of mergers and takeovers, Treasury has ended up owning more
than 80 brands, including some of the great names of Australian wine.
The pantheon of famous names includes Penfolds, Lindemans, Rosemount Estate, Wolf Blass, Wynns
Coonawarra Estate, Mildara, Seppelt, Great Western, Saltram, Jamiesons Run, Rothbury Estate,
Yellowglen, Devil’s Lair, Seaview and Leo Buring.

Treasury and a series of forerunners have struggled for success in the past three decades as it has
trodden a difficult corporate path, through six different owners and a myriad of chief executives.
As in the days of legendary winemaker Max Schubert, when company executives famously tried to
prevent him from making Penfolds Grange, the questions again surround whether the company is
failing despite its winemaking excellence.

For despite its technical expertise in grape growing and winemaking, something is not quite right at the
winemaking giant.

Page72of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.At a time the company claims an overwhelmingly optimistic outlook for the world wine industry, its
sales are static and it faces trouble in a series of markets.
Acting chief executive Warwick Every-Burns went further yesterday, describing the company’s previous
structure and operation as inefficient.
“This company does not have good enough processes and systems in some instances,’’ Mr
Every-Burns said. “Our processes and systems will be reviewed.’’ Mr Every-Burns said it was very
disappointing to have to report a 30 per cent decline in earnings before interest and taxes for the
first-half year, and he blamed the performance on decisions made in early 2013.

In an analysts’ briefing yesterday, he was met by a critical and sceptical investment community and a
lack of faith in TWE’s ability to turn the situation around.
Criticisms included the lack of wine experience among its three key decision makers, while analysts
slammed its disappointing Christmas sales and decisions to raise wine prices and reduce promotion
during the critical sales period.
Company executives later admitted that Treasury was not likely to regain that lost market share this
half.
Analysts were also sceptical about the outlook for this half-year, describing the company’s forecasts as
being over-optimistic.

But Mr Every-Burns remained steadfast: “We are extremely confident that our brands and the strength
of our products will see the company through this period.’’ Treasury’s troubles last year came to a head
when Mr Dearie ordered the destruction of wine in the US. In destroying it, Treasury made a $160
million provision (before tax) to destroy old and aged commercial stock, ensuring only the freshest
and best quality wines are available for brand-conscious US buyers.
Mr Dearie left the company two months later, little more than two years after his appointment just
before TWE’s demerger from the Foster’s Group in May 2011, leaving board member Warwick
Every-Burns in temporary charge.
Legal proceedings were launched against TWE on November 4, on behalf of a group of shareholders
claiming the company had breached its continuous disclosure obligations in connection with the
performance of its US operations, between August 17, 2012 and July 14, 2013.
Treasury denied the claim, but the ensuing storm that erupted following its decision to destroy the wine
(announced on July 15), signalled a sharp decline in its share price.
The investing community has been left sceptical about the company and its ability to achieve the
potential that goes with being the world’s largest listed wine company.

Yet, despite the problems, it continues to win a string of awards and accolades, including 100 points by
both Robert Parker’s Wine Advocate and Wine Spectator magazine for the 2008 Penfolds Grange.
Wolf Blass also won the red winemaker of the year award last year.
Nowhere is the famous company more significant or important than in South Australia where it owns
five wineries, Wolf Blass, Penfolds (Nuriootpa and Magill), Rosemount in McLaren Vale and Wynns
Coonawarra Estate. It also owns 7350ha of vineyards, employs 1000 people and operates seven cellar
doors and two restaurants here.
Treasury, also the proud owner of 11,000 hectares of vineyards, is critical to the Australian wine
industry. It is not only the flag-bearer for Australian wine, it provides considerable strength to the entire
national industry, buying grapes from growers and employing more than 3500 winemakers, viticulturists
and other staff here and in 15 other countries.
This six months will prove critical for Treasury, especially the release of the company’s all important
Penfolds red wines and the need for a great sales result.
But the best prospects for a revival emerged yesterday, with the company appointing a new chief
executive, Michael Clarke, who will take up his position on March 31.
Chairman Paul Raynersold his incoming chief executive as one of the best credentialed executives
ever to come to Australia.

His background includes transforming Premier Foods in Europe from a basket case, after achieving
excellent results at both Kraft Europe and Coca Cola in north west Europe.If Mr Clarke succeeds at

Page73of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Treasury Wine Estates, it should help turn it from being the world’s largest listed wine producer to the
world’s best wine company, with commensurate benefits for the whole of the Australian wine industry.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

trzwn : Treasury Wine Estates Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i426 : Wine | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge :
Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document ADVTSR0020140220ea2l00036

Page74of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.