Opportunities from China FTA could ‘set us up for decades’

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Inquirer
Opportunities from China FTA could ‘set us up for decades’

Paul Kelly Editor-at-large
1,262 words
15 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
17
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

China FTA could ‘set us up for decades’ Andrew Robb sees the middle-classing of Asia as a huge
opening for Australian goods and services IN a tangible recasting of Australia-China ties the free trade
agreement to be announced on Monday both eliminates market discrimination against Australia and
gives many Australian service industries an unmatched position in China’s economy.
The FTA offers not just a wider trade and investment platform with China but has a vital ingredient the
Abbott government needs — a vision for a new phase of Australia’s growth strategy in Asia that can
fire the imagination.

Trade and Investment Minister Andrew Robb tells The Weekend Australian about the FTA: “It didn’t
arrive until five minutes to midnight but we have secured a New Zealand equivalent on agriculture, in
particular dairy. In relation to services, this is a landmark, a breakthrough agreement.” The FTA, to be
announced by Tony Abbott and China’s President Xi Jinping, reflects a trust between the two nations
fused in self-interest, with the opportunity for Australia to deepen its role in the coming Asian century.

For the Abbott government, it is a significant economic and political moment amid the G20 summit. The
FTA deepens relations with China, enhances the Abbott government’s credentials with Asia and offers
a stark contrast with Labor’s effort in office over six years where very little progress was made on this
FTA.

It reveals the approach adopted by Robb. He seeks the prosecution of these Asian FTAs with dispatch,
has made eight visits to China as minister, as a negotiator is pragmatic and realistic but, above all, has
a long-run vision.
The China deal rests on four pillars — agriculture, services, investment and energy/resources.

The critical point in the negotiations came when both sides, facing concessions that were too hard
politically, agreed to postpone for three years the “deadlock” issues.

This makes it a two-stage deal. The main items deferred for the next stage are Australia’s decision on
investment liberalisation for China’s state-owned enterprises and China’s decision on better entry for
our rice, sugar, cotton and canola.

Robb felt these issues should not further delay areas where both sides wanted a deal.
Referring to the rapidly expanding middle-classing of Asia and China, Robb says: “This is creating an
opportunity for Australia that won’t come again. If we can just capture the premium end of some of
these Chinese markets we will set up Australia for the next 50 to 100 years.

“What is going on now is a once-in-a-millennium phenomenon and we can be in the middle of it.
“My own view, however, after extensive talks in China, is that we don’t sufficiently appreciate the
strength of the Australian brand.” The trade deal shows the Abbott government’s decision to stay aloof
from China’s proposed regional infrastructure bank did not become an obstacle in the talks. Yet at the

Page102of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.heart of the government’s China bank decision there is a misjudgment. The veto given security factors
needs to be addressed and reversed by the Abbott cabinet down the track. That means giving priority
to the view of Joe Hockey and Robb.
In relation to services, the FTA has about 40 areas where China has improved Australian access so it
becomes equivalent or superior to that enjoyed by other nations. An illustration of the potential is the
access the Australian aged-care industry will now have to China’s market.

Robb is fixated on the structural problem in our trade. Services constitute 80 per cent of our gross
domestic product but only 15 per cent of exports. He sees the middle-classing of Asia as the
opportunity for a range of expanded services such as finance, insurance, tourism, health and medicine,
education, construction and water management. “When I move around China I am constantly asked
about the provision of services from Australia,” he says.
On agriculture, every sign points to the dairy industry winning the access that New Zealand has
enjoyed, an essential goal for the Abbott government in the negotiation. The explosion in its dairy
exports to China has been an important factor in New Zealand’s rising national income.

Under the FTA, a wide range of Australian agricultural exports (beef, most grains, seafood) will see
tariffs reduced to zero between now and 2021.
On investment, Australia has accorded Chinese private investment the same threshold as US and
Japanese investment. This means investment proposals below the $1.08 billion threshold will not
require Foreign Investment Review Board approval.
But the pivotal issue of China’s state-owned enterprise investment remains deferred in order to get the
deal done.
Any SOE investment proposal, regardless of size, will still need FIRB approval. China has agreed to
reverse the higher duties it recently imposed on our coal exports. The coking coal duty will be reduced
to zero. The thermal coal duty will be cut from 6 per cent to 4 per cent at once and then phased out
across two years.
Careful provision has been made for China to bring skilled labour to Australia. Temporary access can
be negotiated for major projects worth more than $150 million, if the skills are not available in
Australia. This would be negotiated on an enterprise-by-enterprise basis.
In addition, there will be 5000 working holiday visas provided for China on an annual basis.
The deal means Abbott has delivered on his pledge to finalise the FTA with China by the end of the
year. It was a substantial challenge given that when Robb became minister he found progress was at a
rudimentary stage. Robb says history shows that investment follows trade.
“I think we are on the cusp of a new wave of foreign investment from Asia,” he says, given that China
has $4 trillion in reserves, about the size of its equity market.

He predicts that such investment will underwrite innovation in Australia and offers “the chance to set
ourselves up for decades”.

Robb draws the link between the tough budget decisions required by the government and the huge
hopes opening for Australia from the historic transformations in Asia.

His message is the unique opportunity for Australia if it gets its house in order, pursues infrastructure
opportunities and plays into the great Asian transition.
“According to the OECD there are now 600 million middle-class people, from India through to China
and everything in between,” Robb says.
“Within 30 years this will grow to three billion people.
“The message I keep giving to people is that this is happening now.” Assessing the FTA from China’s
viewpoint, Robb says: “I think China wanted to send a signal to the world with this agreement. They
wanted to conclude a quality agreement with a major developed country.
“It is in China’s self-interest to build trust and respect.” On China’s regional infrastructure bank the
message Robb has given in Beijing is that Australia is enthusiastic about joining. Once the governance
requirements have been sorted out he believes Australia can move ahead. Maybe.

Page103of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Yet the longer the debate about the China bank runs the more apparent are the different views within
the government and among senior ministers. Pivotal to any future decision will be the progress of the
Australia-China FTA, its reception in this country, the extent of underlying public support and optimism
about a successful conclusion to stage two.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gdip : International Relations | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141114eabf0004x

Page104of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.