Sundance appoints Mota-Engil

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Sundance appoints Mota-Engil

Fraser Beattie
330 words
6 June 2014
Business News
WABN
English
© Copyright 2014 Business News Pty Ltd.

Sundance Resources has appointed Portuguese construction companyMota-Engil Africa to build
the $US3.5 billion port and rail infrastructure for the Mbalam-Nabeba iron ore project.

Mota-Engil Africa will design and construct a 510km railway in Cameroon, a 70km rail spur line from
the Nabeba mine to the Cameroon railway, and a 35mtpa deep water mineral terminal facility,
capable of loading China-max vessels.

Standard Bank, Africa's largest bank by assets and earnings, has been appointed as financial
adviser and mandated lead debt arranger for the project.

Sundance CEO and managing director Giulio Casello said the appointment of these groups marked
a pivotal point in the project's development.
"The Mbalam-Nabela iron ore project will be one of the lowest cash-cost producing assets in the
world," he said.

"Now that we have confirmed capital costs for the project, I believe it is positioned as the most
attractive large-scale, high grade iron ore project in the world that is ready for development."

Mota-Engil Africa and Sundance yesterday signed the binding and bankable EPC contract for the
construction of the Cameroon portion of the port and rail infrastructure component of the project.

A separate EPC contract for the spur line rail component of the Nabeba project will be signed in the
coming days.

In order to secure agreed terms for the EPC contract and indicative terms for debt funding,
Sundance, along with the assistance of Standard Bank, will proceed with delivering the project
equity funding strategy.

Construction expected to take 3.5 years following financial close, which Sundance aims to achieve
by mid-2015.

Sundance has also received three proposals for construction of the mine plants and associated
infrastructure, which includes accommodation villages, workshops, a diesel power plant and an
aerodrome.
Sundance has not awarded a formal mining contract at this time.

Sundance's share price fell by 9 per cent to 9.1 cents at 10:15am WST.

CO
IN

engsg : Mota-Engil SGPS SA
i5020017 : Harbor Construction | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i22 :
Primary Metals | i502 : Heavy Construction | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | iconst :
Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction | imet : Mining/Quarrying

Page150of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE
PUB
AN

c411 : Management Moves | c41 : Management Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E
Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Business News Pty Ltd
Document WABN000020140606ea660005l

Page151of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.