House Hunting in ... Byron Bay, Australia

CLM
SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
LA
CY
LP

TD

INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE
Real Estate Desk; SECT
House Hunting in ... Byron Bay, Australia

By ALISON GREGOR
1,082 words
3 April 2014
The New York Times
NYTF
The New York Times on the Web
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.

AN ECO-FRIENDLY MODERN HOME ON AUSTRALIA'S EAST COAST

$5.6 MILLION (6,000,000 AUSTRALIAN DOLLARS)

Designed by the Australian architect Peter Stutchbury, this four-bedroom home, completed in 2013 in
Byron Bay, Australia, is called the Wing House for a sweeping 90-foot overhanging roof. The
4,600-square-foot home, a contemporary design of steel, timber, concrete and glass on four levels that
nestles into a verdant hill overlooking the ocean, has a 72-foot lap pool and about 1,600 square feet of
outdoor space, including decks and terraces.

The entire structure, designed to be eco-friendly with solar panels and minimally intrusive on the
approximately 8,700-square-foot lot, has elements considered groundbreaking in residential
architecture, said Robert Wild, who owns the house with his wife, Deborah Wild. These elements
include the dramatic, winglike roof, made of Danpalon, a synthetic material that filters light and protects
a fern garden and an outdoor bath. Several rooms have walls of blackbutt timber paneling, which can
be completely opened to the elements, on the eastern side of the home, he said.

A series of exterior steps ascend past the ground-level two-car garage and terraced gardens to the
home's second level, which has an open dining and living area and a bedroom with bathroom. There is
also a laundry room, gym and outdoor bath and shower, along with a spacious deck and terrace. The
third level has an open kitchen, dining and living area, as well as the master bedroom with a bathroom
and a third bedroom or study with a built-in daybed. There are also several decks and a lap pool at this
level. Ascending from the kitchen area is a set of steps to a loft bedroom with a built-in daybed.

The core of the home is a thick wall of concrete, but most walls are either floor-to-ceiling sliding glass
doors or blackbutt paneling that can be propped open. ''We wanted to use materials that could stand
the test of time and have an organic feel to them,'' Mr. Wild said. ''And basically when you're inside the
living space, it feels like you're actually outside, because there is so much glass.''

The home, which requires no air-conditioning, is kept warm with a hydronic heating system in the
concrete slab. Most flooring is concrete or blackbutt timber, while tallowwood is used for decks. A
Finnish plywood called Wisa provides durable aubergine countertops in the kitchen and complements
the blackbutt throughout the house, Mr. Wild said. Appliances are by the German appliance maker
Miele, while bathrooms and the lap pool are tiled in a natural gray stone quarried in Bedonia, Italy. The
furniture, which is Danish, is not included in the asking price, but is negotiable, he added.

With about 5,600 residents, Byron Bay, about two hours south of Brisbane and about a 10-hour drive
north from Sydney, is a popular tourist destination in eastern Australia and a haven for surfers. The
town, the most easterly on Australia's coast, draws tourists and celebrities with its subtropical climate,
natural attractions, festivals and restaurants. Wing House abuts parkland in a wealthy community on
Wategos Beach near the Cape Byron Lighthouse. Arakwal National Park and Cape Byron Marine Park
are steps away. Byron Bay is about 45 minutes to Gold Coast International Airport.

Page108of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.MARKET OVERVIEW

Throughout Australia, home prices are up from a year ago, particularly in cities such as Sydney and
Melbourne, according to a March report compiled by Propell National Valuers. Home prices were up 15
percent in Sydney and 10.3 percent in Melbourne, while most of the rest of the country saw more
modest gains, averaging closer to 4 or 4.5 percent, according to the report.
The Byron Bay area's luxury home market, which suffered from the global real estate crisis with price
drops of as much as 30 percent around 2009, is currently enjoying the highest sales volume it has seen
in the past five years, said Nicolette van Wijngaarden, a managing director with Unique Estates, based
in Byron Bay, which has this listing.

''Everything that is within 20 to 30 minutes of Byron Bay, in the Byron Bay hinterland, on the beach, is
in demand,'' she said. ''Prices are starting to come back.''

Almost 500 miles north of Sydney in northern New South Wales, Byron Bay is geographically closer to
Brisbane in Queensland, which saw much more modest home price gains over the last year at 3.2
percent. Home prices in Byron Bay can vary widely based on location and quality, but a good guide is
3,000 to 10,000 Australian dollars per square meter, or about $260 to $860 per square foot, Ms.
Wijngaarden said.

WHO BUYS IN BYRON BAY

Byron Bay sees foreign home buyers from around the globe, including the United States, England and
Germany, Ms. Wijngaarden said. Hong Kong-based expatriates from countries such as the United
States, Canada, the United Kingdom and other European countries have been in the market in large
numbers of late, she said.

BUYING BASICS
To discourage residential real estate speculation, foreign buyers in Australia require permission from
the Foreign Investment Review Board for all property purchases, agents said. Foreigners without a
residency permit are prohibited from buying resale homes, though they can buy new-development
properties, properties off-plan or vacant land with board approval.

A lawyer is generally hired for home sales, which typically costs 2,000 to 3,000 Australian dollars per
transaction, though that can be more expensive for more complex transactions, Ms. Wijngaarden
said. Stamp duty varies by state and is based on a sliding scale depending on the purchase price. The
stamp duty on the Wing House, which is seeking sales offers of more than 6 million Australian dollars,
will be about 5 percent, she said.

WEB SITES
Foreign Investment Review Board: firb.gov.au

Official Australian tourism website: australia.com
Byron Bay Visitor Center site: visitbyronbay.com

Byron Shire Council: byron.nsw.gov.au

LANGUAGES AND CURRENCY

English; Australian dollar (1 Australian dollar = $0.93)

TAXES AND FEES

Council taxes, paid to the local government, are 7,544 Australian dollars a year. Water and sewer rates
are about 362 Australian dollars a year.

CONTACT

Nicolette van Wijngaarden, Unique Estates, 011-61-2-6684-8266, Uniqueestates.com.au

IN
NS
RE

i85 : Real Estate Transactions | ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncolu : Columns | ncat : Content Types
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
nswals : New South Wales | queensl : Queensland

Page109of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IPD
PUB
AN

Real Estate Desk
The New York Times Company
Document NYTF000020140403ea430008d

Page110of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.