WorleyParsons' Second-Half 'Skew' Disappointing: UBS -- Market Talk

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

WorleyParsons' Second-Half 'Skew' Disappointing: UBS -- Market Talk

1,423 words
29 October 2014
09:39
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

2239 GMT [Dow Jones] WorleyParsons (WOR.AU) provided no financial guidance at its annual
shareholders' meeting, which wasn't surprising, yet its comments of an expected skew in FY15 earnings
to the second half of the year was disappointing, UBS says. That's because the first half should be up
against a year-ago period that contained a number of one-off items, including restructuring costs. "We
expect earnings risk and relatively low earnings visibility to remain a key issue for WOR over the medium
term, in which we believe predicting the timing of major project startups and completions will remain
challenging for management." UBS has a sell recommendation and A$13/share target. WOR last traded
at A$13.25. (robb.stewart@wsj.com; Twitter: @RobbMStewart)

18:12 EDT - The Government Development Bank for Puerto Rico's available cash will fall as much as
22% below previous forecasts at the end of the quarter unless it sells at least $1B in bonds to refinance
debt owed by the Highway and Transportation Authority, Moody's Investors Service said in a report. The
ratings firm believes the cash-strapped commonwealth's small group of available lenders will likely allow
completion of such a deal, with "punitive interest costs and strict provisions on legal jurisdiction."
(aaron.kuriloff@wsj.com)

18:11 EDT - Southern Co. (SO) said will take a $418M pre-tax hit to 3Q earnings due to ongoing
problems and delays at its clean coal power project in Mississippi. The price tag for the project in
Kemper County now exceeds $6B -- many multiples of what a conventional generating plant would've
cost. SO, which reports earnings tomorrow, said the latest charge pushes shareholder losses on the
project to nearly $2B pre-tax. Utility customers are on the hook for about $4B. SO said the plant
completion is expected to be delayed to mid-2016 vs the end of 2015. Kemper used novel technology to
converts coal into a flammable gas for power production. It also captures carbon dioxide for use in oil
production. (rebecca.smith@wsj.com)

17:53 EDT - Edison International (EIX) reports 3Q profit of $480M or EPS of $1.47, on $4.4B revenue,
beating analysts' forecast of $1.34 EOS and $3.9B revenue. EIX raises full-year core EPS guidance to
$4.25-$4.35, up from $3.60-$3.80 last April. That doesn't include $96M or 29c/share of expenses related
to the shuttered San Onofre nuclear plant or costs of $146M or 45c/share from discontinued operations.
EIX shares up a fraction at $61.88 after hours. (cassandra.sweet@wsj.com)

17:47 EDT - The general trend at Oxxo convenient stores in Mexico this year has been for consumers to
make purchases less frequently or to buy smaller sized packages amid a weak economy, says Javier
Astaburuaga, CFO of Oxxo's parent company, Femsa. Mexicans have also been adapting to new taxes
on sugary beverages and high-calorie snacks, products that account for about half of Oxxo's sales mix.
Oxxo is Mexico's third-biggest retailer in terms of revenue. (amy.guthrie@wsj.com)
17:36 EDT - How much does it cost to split up a company? That may be the next flashpoint between
DuPont (DD) and activists at Trian. In DD's presentation today to respond to Trian's push to break up the
company, DD says it believes Trian "Significantly underestimates upfront separation costs and ongoing
dis-synergies" from separating the businesses. Trian has already said it's expecting $3B in one-time
costs from the split, detailing $1.1B for breaking current debt, as well as pension costs and other items.
How expensive such a split will be, and how it impacts multiples of separated companies, will be key for
shareholders deciding whether to support it or not. (david.benoit@wsj.com; @DaveCBenoit)

Page122of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.17:22 EDT - M/I Homes' (MHO) decision to scrap plans to sell $350M of notes and to tender for some of
its older debt signals that the high-yield debt market has tired of the slow pace of the home-construction
recovery. Builders collectively raised billions of dollars of capital through selling high-yield notes in
recent years, often simultaneously retiring older debt with higher coupon rates. MHO pulled the plug this
week because it couldn't get satisfactory terms on the new notes. "The high-yield market has become
increasingly concerned about the home-building sector, with bonds in steady and significant decline over
the past two months," said analyst Vicki Bryan at Gimme Credit. "That has left the sector with weakening
credit quality in a faltering business backdrop ahead of one or two seasonally weak quarters." MHO
closed off a fraction at $21.80. (kris.hudson@wsj.com; @KrisHudsonWSJ)

17:21 EDT - 3Q data on international trade prices from the Australian Bureau of Statistics due Thursday
could be interesting, given the around 6% slide in the Australian dollar against the greenback since the
start of September, says Carl Weinberg, chief economist at High Frequency Economics. "Everyone
knows that coal and iron-ore prices have decayed, so a deterioration in the terms of trade is pretty
widely expected," he says. "What we cannot judge easily is how much currency depreciation has offset
those declines." (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)
17:16 EDT - Ecuador's Minister for Strategic Sectors Rafael Poveda visits China seeking to attract
investment to develop projects considered as strategic by the government, including a shipyard on the
country's Pacific coast, a steel complex and a plant to produce urea. China and Ecuador also are
negotiating financing for the $10N Refineria del Pacifico, the most important infrastructure project for the
Ecuadorean government. Last Week President Rafael Correa visited Qatar, also looking for investments.
(mercedes.alvaro@wsj.com)

17:10 EDT - Gilead (GILD) sees early signs for strong launch of its new hepatitis C drug, Harvoni, which
FDA approved on Oct. 10. Looking at the first week of prescriptions, GILD said it saw doctors who hadn't
prescribed an older hepatitis C drug prescribing Harvoni. GILD also saw doctors writing prescriptions for
Harvoni sooner than physicians did for the older drug, Sovaldi. Sovaldi has had the biggest-selling drug
launch, ringing up $8.6B in sales during the first nine months of this year. GILD, which gave the update
during its 3Q earnings call, didn't give the number of Harvoni prescriptions, but analysts say it's many
more than Sovaldi during its first week on sale. GILD off 2.4% at $110.70 after hours.
(jonathan.rockoff@wsj.com, @jonathanrockoff)
17:06 EDT - At WSJD Live, an executive at the human resources software company Cornerstone
onDemand talks about a recent acquisition of big data analytics startup Evolv for $42M. Cornerstone
has data on 15M employees globally, on everything from performance reviews to retention to recruiting.
But that data is a black box, CTO Mark Goldin says. Evolv, which is backed by some big names in
Silicon Valley, including Google's (GOOGL) HR chief, will apply data mining techniques to Cornerstone's
data. That could enable Cornerstone to predict top performers, bonuses, satisfaction and make decisions
about who needs training, he says. Despite largely positive press, Evolv's low acquisition price is
questionable and suggests that big data companies are still figuring out a business model. The exec
wouldn't comment on that. (elizabeth.dwoskin@wsj.com)

16:53 EDT - GT Advanced Technologies' (GTATQ) shareholders are seeking a formal seat at the
bankruptcy bargaining table in the Chapter 11 case filed by the failed would-be supplier of smartphone
screen material to Apple (AAPL). The company's stock cratered when GTATQ filed for Chapter 11
protection, and moved for a court order to cloak documents explaining what happened to the
arrangement with AAPL. Lawyers today for 35 investors that own more than 2.5M GTATQ shares
revealed they've asked federal bankruptcy monitors to appoint an official committee to represent
shareholders in the Chapter 11 case. (peg.brickley@wsj.com)

To contact the Market Talk Editors,
Kevin Kingsbury, 212 416-2354, kevin.kingsbury@wsj.com
Cynthia Lin, 212 416-4403, Cynthia.lin@wsj.com
John Shipman, 212 416-2181, john.shipman@wsj.com
Patrick Sullivan, 212 416-2326, Patrick.sullivan@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

October 28, 2014 18:39 ET (22:39 GMT)

CO
IN

woraus : Worleyparsons Limited
i1 : Energy | i1300005 : Support Activities for Oil/Gas | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas

Page123of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

c152 : Earnings Projections | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | nenac : Energy
Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | c15 :
Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin :
C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020141028eaas0048j

Page124of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.