Developers keep pouring in the funds for political parties, despite bans

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Developers keep pouring in the funds for political parties, despite bans

»JAMES ROBERTSON, LEESHA MCKENNY
727 words
8 June 2014
Sun Herald
SHD
First
4
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Property developers continue to donate hundreds of thousands a year to state political parties four
years after the state government banned the practice.

A Fairfax Media check of donations disclosures shows parties are continuing to take major developer
donations, long after voters were assured state politics was rid of perceptions developer money
influenced planning decisions.

The law prohibits political donations from companies or people who are developers - anyone who
profits from planning applications.
But the law banning property developers can be sidestepped because prohibited donors are allowed
to donate to the NSW branch of any party provided the party declares the money is going to federal
campaigns.

However, state and federal regulators are unable to say if anyone is policing the parties' claims that
the money is spent in line with the law.

Donations to the NSW branches of the two main parties in the past two financial years include:
■ $150,000 from Steve Nolan Constructions to the NSW Liberals. Searches of property and council
records show Mr Nolan and his partners sold $17 million worth of properties he redeveloped and he
and his family's property empire was valued at $16 million when he went bankrupt in February. He
had applied to modify applications for several projects including a $30 million apartment block that
was before North Sydney Council at the time of his donation.
■ In 2012-13, donations totalling $490,000 to Liberal and Labor parties were made by Yuhu Group
and its chief executive, Huang Changren. The Chinese company describes itself as a business for
the "development of residential, commercial and mixed-use land".

■ Between 2011-13, donations totalling $44,000 were declared by construction giant Brookfield
Multiplex as being sent to the finance director of the NSW Liberals. A spokesman for the company
said the money was raised through the Millennium Forum, a NSW Liberal fund-raising body that is run
by senior party figures.

Experts say the practice is legally defensible: donations for federal campaigns are beyond the reach
of the NSW law.

But they say it raises perceptions that developers could be using the practice to win favours through a
backdoor.

"It's a way of getting around the provisions," said Anne Twomey, a professor of constitutional law at
the University of Sydney.

Page65of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."They're not breaking the law, they're just giving the money to the parties for the purposes of
Commonwealth elections, but still may be using that as a lever to influence state ministers."

The state and federal Liberal Party said the money had been spent on federal campaigns but refused
to answer further questions.

Kevin Rozzoli, the former speaker of the NSW Parliament and a long-serving Liberal MP, said: "How
well is spending delineated between state and federal campaigns? I suspect that isn't very well done
and is fairly blurred."

Money flows back and forth between party branches, which get money from a range of fund-raising
bodies and "associated entities" such as the Free Enterprise Foundation and the Millennium Forum.
A $50,000 donation to the Free Enterprise Foundation was made by Harry Triguboff of property giant
Meriton. The company said it donated to the foundation "on the basis it be used for the federal Liberal
Party".

The Free Enterprise Foundation has been named in ICAC as a means of laundering illegal campaign
contributions from prohibited donors back into NSW.

The chairman of the Millennium Forum, Paul Nicolaou, resigned last month after a corruption inquiry
heard allegations the body was used to disguise payments from prohibited donors.

The revelations raise questions about who is auditing the parties' claims that the money is used for
federal campaigns, because they fall into a grey area between the federal and state governments.

The NSW regulator, the Election Funding Authority, said: "It is for the recipient of the donation to
decide to what purpose it will be put."
ALP secretary Jamie Clements said money from the Chinese developing giant went into a separate
ALP NSW bank account reserved for federal campaigns.

The Liberals declined to comment on how they handled donations, other than to say they were for
federal campaigns and were compliant with the law.

Multiplex donation $44k

Steve Nolan Constructions donation $150k
Yuhu Group donation $490k

NS

RE

PUB
AN

gpol : Domestic Politics | greg : Regional Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir :
Politics/International Relations
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SHD0000020140608ea680000w

Page66of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.