Wood gets rough ride at WorleyParsons

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Wood gets rough ride at WorleyParsons

Jenny Wiggins
1,355 words
20 January 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
40
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

WorleyParsons is used to having a pretty easy ride from investors. The $4.3 billion company that was
morphed by founder John Grill from a small Australian consultancy group into a global engineering
brand has traditionally been so highly valued that its stock has traded at premiums of up to 30 per cent
against its peers.

Presiding over an expanding business, Grill did such a good job most of the time that investors did not
question the company's sometimes opaque disclosure and lack of detailed profits guidance.

But new chief executive Andrew Wood, who replaced Grill just over a year ago, is having a much
rougher ride.

Wood issued his first profit warning just seven months after becoming CEO, telling investors in May
that fiscal 2013 net profit after tax would be between $320 million and $340 million – not more than
$345.6 million as expected. Six months later, Wood cut fiscal 2014 guidance from "increased
earnings" on 2013's reported net profit of $322 million to a new range of between $260 million to
$300 million.

Investors were stunned by the second warning on November 20; it came just six weeks after
WorleyParsons had reaffirmed its previous guidance at its annual meeting. The company's shares,
which slumped 26 per cent after the second warning – wiping $1.3 billion off its market value – have
not recovered to previous levels, and are trading at their lowest price for five years.
Wood blamed the most recent cut in guidance on "slow starts" to the company's engineering and
project management contracts around the world, arguing expected recoveries following the resources
slump in some arms of its business, such as its minerals and metals division, had not eventuated.

The group's Canadian business, which generates almost a third of group revenues, is also facing
challenges as oil sands projects encounter tougher competition from low-cost shale-oil production.
Canadian oil sand producers have had difficulties transporting oil to export markets due to lack of
pipeline and trucking capacity, forcing them to buy rail carriages so they can use rail networks.

Investors who have held on to their stock after the profit warnings say the engineering group has
historically been good at adapting its business to changing circumstances, and that they believe the
share price will recover when capital spending by oil and gas producers – WorleyParsons's most
lucrative clients – picks up.

Even after its share price plunge, WorleyParsons is trading at an 8.3 per cent premium to its peer base
– which includes international engineering and construction groups such as KBR, Halliburton, Fluor and
Foster Wheeler – on a price/earnings ratio of 14.3 times, says research from Moelis.Seeking to
assuage investor concerns

Page191of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Wood has sought to assuage investor concerns over the suddenness of the most recent profit warning
– which led to the filing of one class action lawsuit from Melbourne City Investments and spurred
Maurice Blackburn to investigate potential legal action – by telling investors WorleyParsons will
re-examine its budget and forecasting process and be more transparent in disclosing information that
could influence future profits.

The Melbourne City lawsuit, filed by former Minter Ellison partner Mark Elliot, alleges that
WorleyParsons's internal reporting systems should have alerted the company before November 20
that its 2014 income would be lower than forecast, and that it did not immediately disclose information
affecting its earnings forecast.

But some investors are abstaining from the stock, worried by the extent of WorleyParsons's project
slowdowns, with Wood confirming in November that they were not limited to core markets in Australia
and Canada, but extended globally (the group operates in more than 40 countries) and that he was
uncertain how long they would last.

Some market observers have also questioned whether WorleyParsons is facing structural changes to
its operational model that require more radical changes to its business at a time of increasing
consolidation in the engineering sector that could make the company vulnerable to a potential
takeover.

WorleyParsons's group profit margins were lower in fiscal 2013, with margins on earnings before
interest and taxation (EBIT) on aggregated revenue falling to 6.9 per cent from 7.2 per cent, and well
down on the 9.7 per cent reached in 2009.

WorleyParsons makes most of its profits from its hydrocarbons division, which provides a range of
services – from evaluation studies to engineering design and construction management – for new and
existing oil and gas projects around the world.

The division generated a solid performance in fiscal 2013, increasing EBIT by 6 per cent to
$634 million and keeping margins steady at 11.9 per cent while its minerals, metals and chemicals
division generated only a marginal increase in EBIT to $136 million.
Oil and gas explorers and producers have traditionally hired engineering, production, construction and
management companies (EPCM) like WorleyParsons to do initial engineering work and hire and
manage construction companies to build the project.Hiring constructions companies directly

But exploration and production companies are increasingly hiring construction companies directly to
build projects, which in turn subcontract engineering work out to companies like WorleyParsons,
according to analysts at research group CLSA.

WorleyParsons acknowledges that some clients will switch from EPCM companies to general
construction groups on some contracts, but argues that its customers – which include multinational oil
and gas producers like Shell and BP – are highly sophisticated and will pay for customised services.
It believes that while oil and gas producers may favour construction groups that work on lower-margin
lump-sum contracts for "repeatable" work like building liquefied natural gas plants; for more risky and
complex projects they will prefer EPCM companies that work on more flexible contracts.

Wood has no plans to take WorleyParsons down the path of lump-sum contracts, and intends to try to
lift the group's performance in its existing markets, even as its customers are under pressure to
become more efficient and cut costs, forcing delays to projects – not just in the metals and mining
sector, but also in hydrocarbons.
He sees opportunities in further developing the company's "Improve" division, which upgrades assets
on existing projects, as well as following its customers into new regions, such as eastern Africa and the
Arctic Circle.

WorleyParsons is also expanding its advisory business to try to develop new business markets, and
last year set up a "New Ventures" group led by David Steele, a member of the contractor's executive
committee, and struck an alliance with accounting group Deloitte Australia.
In addition, it is looking for new ways to cut costs. Wood told analysts last year that the company,
which employs about 39,800 people globally, had become "overhead" heavy and needed to get rid of
more jobs.

Page192of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.WorleyParsons has been trying to reduce salary costs by designing and developing more of its
resources projects outside its Australian headquarters, with India, China, Malaysia and the US
increasingly used as venues for "engineering centres".

Still, Wood may be forced to reshape WorleyParsons's business even faster if he is to keep up with
competitors such as the UK's AMEC, which last week announced a provisional $US3.2 billion
takeover of fellow engineering and construction group Foster Wheeler. AMEC has pitched the
purchase, which would create a group with a market capitalisation of about $US9 billion, as a
transformational deal that will dramatically improve its position in the oil and gas chain by creating a
vertically integrated business allowing it to provide services throughout the oil and gas supply chain.

The deal has led analysts to speculate on what role WorleyParsons, which has been an active acquirer
in the past, may play in further consolidation.
Analysts at Morgans note WorleyParsons is now the largest engineering firm globally without a
dedicated construction arm.
But Credit Suisse has speculated that WorleyParsons is unlikely to make a large acquisition until it
has addressed its operational issues, and that it could instead become a target for a competitor
wanting to boost its own professional services business.

jwiggins@afr.com.au

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

woraus : Worleyparsons Limited
icnsl : Business Consultancy | iacc : Accounting/Consulting | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | i1 :
Energy
cprofi : Profit Warnings | cbrand : Branding | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | reqrac
: Suggested Reading Accounting/Consulting | c15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | c31 :
Marketing | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | redit :
Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140119ea1k00022

Page193of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.