Herbert Smith Freehills advises Japara Healthcare Ltd on its Initial Public Offering 17 April 2014

Herbert Smith Freehills advises Japara Healthcare Ltd on its Initial Public Offering 17 April 2014

HD
WC 751 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

17 April 2014
News Bites - Private Companies
NBPRCO
English
Copyright 2014. News Bites Pty Ltd.

NEWS BITES - PRIVATE COMPANIES
[Company Release]

TD

Herbert Smith Freehills has advised Japara Healthcare Limited on its A$525m initial public offering on the
Australian Securities Exchange. Macquarie Capital acted as lead manager and underwriter and CBA
Equities Limited and Morgans Corporate Limited were each co-lead managers.
This offering included a corporate restructure to amalgamate the operating entities and the property
investment trust of the Japara group under the new listed company.
Japara is one of the largest residential aged care operators of healthcare services in Australia servicing
over 3,000 residents nationally across 35 facilities located in Victoria, New South Wales, South Australia
and Tasmania.

Andrew Sudholz, CEO of Japara, said, "We are pleased with the outcome of our IPO and thank all our
advisers for making this complex transaction a smooth process."
The transaction was led by Herbert Smith Freehills' co-head of equity capital markets Michael Ziegelaar,
senior associate Cecilia Mehl and solicitor Andrew Earle. Herbert Smith Freehills banking experts Dan
Brealey and Christine Joo, head office advisory experts Priscilla Bryans and Stefanie Wilkinson, employee
relations expert Natalie Perrin, healthcare expert Natalie Bryce and property expert Sebastian Renato
were also part of the team.

Michael Ziegelaar said, "It has been really rewarding to contribute to Japara's success, having worked
closely with Japara since 2007. We wish Japara every success as a listed company and look forward to
continuing to work together with them."

Click here for the full original announcement
COMPANY BACKGROUND

ACTIVITIES
Herbert Smith LLP provides legal advisory services. The firm focuses on areas including dispute
resolution, intellectual property, real estate, international law, trusts and charities, tax, and capital
markets. It has strategic alliance with Gleiss Lutz and Stibbe. Herbert Smith was founded in 1882 and is
based in London, United Kingdom with additional offices in Japan, Singapore, China, France, Hong Kong,
and Belgium.

BUSINESS NEWS ROUND UP
15 April 2014: Herbert Smith Freehills advises Shunfeng Photovoltaic on RMB3 Billion acquisition of
Wuxi Suntech Power
[Company Release] Herbert Smith Freehills has advised Shunfeng Photovoltaic International Limited on
the acquisition of 100% interests in Wuxi Suntech Power Co. Ltd. from its administrator for RMB3 billion
(US$482 million). The Herbert Smith Freehills team was led by Hong Kong partner Jason Sung, who
was supported by associates Ruth Lau, Eugene Lau and Jessica Leung in Hong Kong.

Click here for the full original announcement

Page203of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.14 April 2014: Herbert Smith Freehills advises Safran on its EUR200 million Eurobond Issue
[Company Release] Herbert Smith Freehills Paris LLP has advised Safran, a leading international
high-tech group with three core businesses: aerospace (engines and equipment), defence and security,
on a EUR200 million bond issue. The bonds are due to mature in 2024. The issue consisted of a private
placement listed on NYSE Euronext arranged by Morgan Stanley & Co.

Click here for the full original announcement

10 April 2014: Herbert Smith Freehills improves diversity with launch of disability network
[Company Release] Herbert Smith Freehills has launched a disability network, HSF Ability, to recognise
the importance of increasing awareness and understanding of disability throughout the firm. The
introduction of the network follows a gradual increase in the number of individuals declaring a disability in
the firm's annual London/Belfast diversity audit.

Click here for the full original announcement
10 April 2014: Herbert Smith Freehills advises Ingeus Limited on sale to Providence Service Corporation
[Company Release] Herbert Smith Freehills has advised Ingeus Limited (Ingeus), a multi-national
Australian-based recruitment company, on its sale to US firmProvidence Service Corporation
(Providence). Under the deal, Providence will acquire 100% of Ingeus for GBP Pound35 million in cash
payable at closing and restricted stock and cash with a combined value of GBP Pound14,345,794 subject
to a vesting schedule of four years.

Click here for the full original announcement
10 April 2014: Herbert Smith Freehills advises David Jones on $A2.15 billion takeover offer
[Company Release] Herbert Smith Freehills is advising David Jones (ASX:DJS) on a proposed takeover
of David Jones by South African based retail group Woolworths (JSE:WHL) valued at A$2.15 billion. The
Board of David Jones has entered into a Scheme Implementation Deed with Woolworths under which it is
proposed that Woolworths will acquire all of the David Jones shares outstanding by way of a scheme of
arrangement for A$4.00 cash per share.

Click here for the full original announcement

CO mcqbnk : Macquarie Group Limited | freeho : Freehills
IN

i814 : Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | i835 : Legal Services | ibcs :
Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
c1521 : Analyst Comments/Recommendations | c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | c1711 :
Initial Public Offerings | npress : Press Releases | c02 : Corporate Changes | c14 : Stock Listings | c15 :
Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | c17 : Funding/Capital | c171 : Share Capital | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce :
FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | uk : United Kingdom | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | eecz : European
Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe

NS

RE

IPD ACTIVITIES; BUSINESS NEWS ROUND UP
PUB News Bites Pty Ltd (Europe)
AN

Document NBPRCO0020140417ea4h001v1

Page204of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.