Rio profit thrills market as Walsh makes his mark

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Finance
Rio profit thrills market as Walsh makes his mark

MATT CHAMBERS, RESOURCES
740 words
14 February 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
19
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

RIO Tinto has delivered an unexpectedly strong increase in earnings and dividends for last year but
has indicated to shareholders they should not be expecting more substantial capital returns this year.

Chief executive Sam Walsh unveiled the results of his impressive first year in the top job at Rio, with
his focus on cost cutting and capital restraint reaching the company's bottom line and delivering a
full-year underlying profit of $US10.22 billion ($11.3bn), up 10 per cent on the previous year and
beating expectations by $US500 million.

The result beat estimates as cost savings of $US2.3bn for 2013, which beat a previous $US2bn
target and were described by Mr Walsh as ``stunning'', combined with increased volumes to increase
cashflow and help pay down debt.
A full-year dividend, fully franked for holders of the dual-listed company's Australian shares, of
$US1.92 per share was up 15 per cent on 2012 and beat most expectations.

Mr Walsh cautioned against expectations that the good results would mean special dividends or
buybacks in 2014..

``This year is a year of continuing to improve the business to reduce debt and really to provide
options for 2015 for our board in terms of shareholder returns and in relations to growth,'' he said.

Rio surprised the market by revealing its net debt had fallen from $US22bn to $US18.1bn in the past
six months.

But asset sales contributed to this and analysts said that it should not be seen as a run rate for
reduction this year, or that chief financial officer Chris Lynch's goal for debt in the ``mid-teens'' of
billions would be met by the end of this half.

BT Investment Management fund manager Brenton Saunders said it was an impressive all-round
result.

``It's pretty much stronger than expected everywhere,'' Mr Saunders said.

``The fact they have had material cost-outs during the year and exceeded their own targets helped
everywhere -- it's reduced debt, it's reduced interest on debt and it's cascaded down.''

Rio's shares rose 1.5 per cent in early London trading yesterday, beating a 0.7 per cent gain by rival
BHP Billiton.

Mr Saunders said it was still possible for Rio to announce shareholder returns later this year if things
went well, particularly with guidance in its all-important iron ore unit looking conservative.
As usual, the company's West Australian iron ore unit, which reported net earnings of $US9.86bn,
up from $US9.25bn in 2012, made up nearly all the company's underlying profit.

Page246of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.But the struggling aluminium unit also made its first reasonable contribution in a long time, reporting
$US557 million of net profit, up from $US54m in 2012, thanks to cost cutting and the closure or sale
of five aluminium assets. This meant it made more money for Rio than the coal and uranium unit
and the diamonds and minerals unit.

Rio's net profit of $US3.665bn, which included one-off items, was up from 2012's $US2.9bn net loss
(when Rio reported

Continued on Page 20

Continued from Page 19
$US14.4bn of writedowns on aluminium and Mozambique coking coal assets). The company
announced $US3.4bn of writedowns, mainly at Oyu Tolgoi (due to an accounting uplift), the Kitimat
aluminium smelter in Canada and the Gove alumina refinery in the Northern Territory.
Mr Walsh was upbeat about the global economy and iron ore demand, saying both were looking
positive.

While short-term global risk remained, positive signs of recovery were appearing in developed
nations, which for the first time in several years would underpin an increase in global growth this year
and next, Mr Walsh said.
This would also help exports in China, where Rio is forecasting 7.5 per cent growth this year.

Growth in developing nations would continue to support commodities demand, Mr Walsh said.
Rio revealed teething problems at the $US6bn Oyu Tolgoi copper and gold mine in Mongolia and
further potential delays of the underground expansion needed there to drive most of its value.

There have been post-commissioning issues at the new plant, which started last year, which would
limit production for six to eight weeks.

Rio warned that despite an option to restart the stalled second stage being proposed, further delays
could occur if financing issues were not resolved.

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

rtz : Rio Tinto PLC | craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c151 : Earnings | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
nterry : Northern Territory | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140213ea2e0001u

Page247of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.