Gindalbie shares fall further after $640 million impairment announcement of Karara stake

Gindalbie shares fall further after $640 million impairment announcement of Karara stake

By Gian De Poloni

HD
BY
WC 435 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

11 August 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) News
ABCNEW
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

Gindalbie Metals has seen the value of its stake in Karara Mining cut by about $640 million.
Shares in the company were placed in a trading halt on July 31, pending the announcement.

TD

They fell nearly 19 per cent when trading reopened on the back of the $640 million impairment.

The announcement was part of an evaluation of Gindalbie assets presented to its board today.
The company says the drop in value is attributed to lower than forecast production levels at the mine, the
lower than forecast iron ore price and a higher than anticipated Australian dollar.
Gindalbie owns a 48 per cent stake in Karara Mining, which is a joint venture with Chinese steel maker
Ansteel to develop the Karara Iron Ore project.

earlier this year.
Gindalbie's major asset is its stake in Karara but the mine has been plagued with problems including
production delays.
The company's shares have fallen from a trading high of $1.30 in the last quarter of 2011, to 4.5 cents at
4pm AWST today.
Morningstar Equity Research senior analyst Gareth James has questioned the viability of the Karara
project.

"This project has had a string of problems," he said.
"It cost around $3 billion to build the project and there's a high degree of debt in the project as well, about
$2 million worth of debt, so it's pretty highly leveraged.

"The real problem with this project is that the costs are quite high and that's largely to do with the type of
iron ore that they're mining, which is magnetite which needs to be processed.
"It's very energy intense and requires a lot of capital equipment which means the production costs are
pretty high.
"With the iron ore price coming down, it looks like it's going to be a real struggle for this mine to operate
profitably and to repay interest and capital that's been borrowed."
Mr James said the project's future was in the hands of the Chinese.
"It's really up to Chinese banks what they want to do, whether they want to continue to fund this project or
not," he said.

"There's been talk of expanding the project in order to try and gain some economies of scale and reduce
the production costs a bit but I think that's going to be a hard ask to get the Chinese to pour more money
into this thing after they've already put $3 billion into it."

Page20of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO
IN

NS

gingol : Gindalbie Metals Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i22 : Primary Metals |
ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia

RE
IPD Gindalbie
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCNEW0020140811ea8b000bh

Page21of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.