kitchen spy

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Good Food
kitchen spy

stephanie clifford-smith
892 words
15 April 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
19
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

ben o'donoghue

chef

Having worked overseas in high-end restaurants including London's River Cafe for most of his career,
Ben O'Donoghue settled in Brisbane in 2008. Last October he opened a suburban cafe, Billykart
Kitchen, with his wife De-Arne. He'd developed a celebrity profile through several TV series, including
Surfing the Menu which he made with Curtis Stone. The new casual dining venture is a manageable
lifestyle move as he and De-Arne raise their children Ruby 11, Herb, 9, and Cash, 7. He attributes his
love of cooking to his culinary savvy grandmother who lived with the family when he was a child, and the
decision to become a chef to a Eureka moment making his first bearnaise sauce at 18. He'll reveal
some of Singapore's best-kept food secrets with friend Tom Williams in Tom & Ben's Singapore Sling
tonight on Seven.

Wish I had

A cooktop in a central island so I could stand and cook and watch everything going on in the house
instead of having my back to it.

The staples

My pantry: Megachef fish sauce is my favourite one because it has quite a pure flavour. I use it to
season south-east Asian curries, soups, salads and noodles. Barilla pastas in loads of different shapes
are great for the kids or a quick meal. There's always an array of spices in the cupboard, generally in
small jars so we use them up quickly, and they stay fresh. And there's chocolate for making muffins, just
a cheap one from Aldi for cooking.

My fridge: A number of open jars of relishes and jams - our fridge is a disaster! I make my own chilli
sauces so there's a few of those. Hellmann's American mustard for hot dogs because the kids love that.
Heinz tomato ketchup's there in force. Lots of fruit and veg, obviously. Apples, pears, strawberries,
blueberries. Bornhoffen yoghurt which we have with raspberries and honey. And there's Mainland tasty
cheese slices for the kids' lunches. I have chicken thighs, pork and beef mince, all good for quick
dinners. I might make red chicken curry with the thighs and stir-fries with the mince.

My toolkit

My KitchenAid mixer is fantastic for cakes but it has all the attachments so I make pasta, ice-cream and
sausages as well. The stone mortar and pestle is a major tool used. I bought it in Chinatown in London
and carried it all the way back. I make all our milkshakes and smoothies with a Braun stick blender. All
my pots are Le Creuset. For frypans I just buy cheap non-stick ones and when they're ruined I just buy
another one.

Most memorable meal

Page146of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.When I was working at The River Cafe in London we had a trip to Italy to source olive oil and we went to
a restaurant on the side of a mountain in Alba. I had pheasant baked whole in farro which was
presented at the table, then taken away, deboned and re-served. There were stuffed baked onions
topped with loads of white truffle. One of the courses was simply a fried egg with white truffle shaved on
top of it. There was baby goat turning on a spit in the hearth so we had some of that; it was amazing.
Lots of beautiful barolo and other local wines and we all had zabaglione served from a copper bowl in
glasses for dessert.

Favourite

I lived in a warehouse flat in London for a few years and I had a big solid wooden workbench put in. We
needed to cut a bit out of it to put the sink in and that piece became my chopping board. It's been with
me for 16 years now and I wouldn't like to see it go.

Secret vice

There's usually a bag of Kit Kats in the cupboard for those sneaky chocolate moments.
I'm drinking
I drink Liptons tea at home with milk and only drink coffee at work. I'm drinking Howard Park merlot a
bit lately. I did a range of wines through Wine Selector so we have some Ben O'Donoghue pinot gris. I
like tequila so there's a Kah

reposado (oak aged) in a Day of the Dead bottle.

Saturday night tipple:
I'd start with a cold beer, say a 28 Pale Ale from the Burleigh brewing company, and then go on to a
nice glass of red wine. I love cabernet so anything from the Coonawarra's good.

Celebration:

Billecart champagne!
I'm cooking

My last dinner at home I did a saddle of lamb, stuffed with spinach and rolled and slow-roasted. I served
it with some sauteed greens and potatoes and a nice bit of jus I nicked from work.

Inspiration

I get it from travelling, reading, eating out, pretty much everywhere. I just bought The Art of
Fermentation by Sandor Ellix Katz which I'm enjoying. And I reckon Yotam Ottolenghi's books are great
too.

Wish I had

A cooktop in a central island so I could stand and cook and watch everything going on in the house
instead of having my back to it.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gfod : Food/Drink | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140414ea4f0005m

Page147of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.