Cashed-up investors take eye off global warning signs

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Cashed-up investors take eye off global warning signs

454 words
22 July 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
Second
1
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

Australian Foundation Investment Company’s warning about investor complacency has reinforced
the growing sense of caution around equity markets.
The country’s biggest listed investment company is echoing a growing number of investors and
observers by voicing concerns about an increasingly clouded outlook.

Unlike others, AFIC, which yesterday struck a 4.8 per cent rise in annual net profit to $254.2 million,
isn’t tipping a correction. But it believes that after two comfortable years of good returns, Australian
investors are “somewhat complacent” about the “elevated” risks stalking the local market.

Managing director Ross Barker says these risks include a worryingly lengthening list of geopolitical
concerns, with the downing of MH17 and Israel’s deadly assault on Gaza now added to the niggling
between Japan and China, Iraq’s descent into chaos and Syria.

But he also reckons the latest market rally is too reliant on low interest rates and unsupported by
commensurate growth in company earnings.

It doesn’t signal any changes to AFIC’s major investments. Barker says the group is “reasonably
comfortable” with the top-end of its $6.3 billion portfolio, 40 per cent of which is weighted to the big
four banks, Wesfarmers and Telstra.

But AFIC continues to add to and diversify its portfolio, with Japara Healthcare, Qube Holdings and
21st Century Fox among the recent additions.

Its metals and minerals exposure is confined to BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto and small holdings in
Alumina and Iluka but it is overweight in energy (Oil Search, Woodside, Santos, Origin Energy)
and has a liking for infrastructure (Transurban and pipeline operator APA Group).
A share purchase plan announced yesterday that provides the opportunity for its 97,000
shareholders to top up with $15,000 of new stock will replenish the cash kitty.

The cash will likely fund AFIC’s participation in upcoming floats, including Medibank Private, though
Barker says the high asking prices on previous offerings have deterred involvement.

New Jones joins ranks

Another Jones has joined the senior leadership group at Navitas.
Scott Jones, one of company co-founder and chief executive Rod Jones’ two sons, is settling into
his new role as chief of Navitas’ British-based SAE media training division.

Formerly the division’s chief operating officer, the younger Jones had been running SAE in an interim
capacity since Romy Hawatt finished up in March.

Page158of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Bought for $290 million in 2010, SAE is the smallest of Navitas’ three divisions, with December-half
revenues of $68 million. The integration has had its challenges, with SAE’s early performance under
Navitas disappointing investors and the start-up costs of new colleges impeding growth in its more
recent results.

CO

IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

ausfnd : Australian Foundation Investment Company Limited | werejb : Goldman Sachs JBWere
Group Holdings Pty Ltd
i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140721ea7m00042

Page159of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.