King squeaks in as Sundance chairman

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
King squeaks in as Sundance chairman

Tess Ingram
495 words
28 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
20
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Sundance Resources' shareholders have narrowly approved the appointment of the controversial
former boss of Leighton Holdings, Wal King, to their board with more than 40 per cent of investors
voting against his election as chairman.
At a tense event, shareholders also gave the company's remuneration report its first strike, with
55.4 per cent of votes cast against the package.

The shareholder rebuke comes as the company, which plans to develop the Mbalam-Nabeba iron
ore mine in central Africa, works to win billions of dollars in funding to develop the landlocked mine
and infrastructure during the worst economic conditions for iron ore in more than five years.

Mr King said the vote against the remuneration report was "not completely unexpected" due to its
major shareholder Hanlong Mining Investment voting against the resolution.
Sundance was the target of a protracted $1.3 billion takeover bid from the Chinese group between
2011 and 2013.

Hanlong was approved by the Foreign Investment Review Board to buy Sundance in June
2012.Deadlines missed
But the deal collapsed after the Chinese firm failed to meet financing deadlines and the Australian
Securities and Investments Commission launched investigations into three of its Australia-based
executives for insider trading.
Hanlong retains a 14.1 per cent stake in the company.

Sundance could face a vote over a possible spill of the board if more than 25 per cent of shareholders
oppose the remuneration report at next year's annual meeting. Asked how he would steer the
company away from this threat during the course of the 2015 financial year, Mr King said it would
announce further cost-saving measures in due course.
"As George Jones has said the company will be looking at the 'go forward' over the next 12 months
and the 'go forward' means the structure and strategy of the company in relation to the market – and
in simple terms, the company has to cut its costs to suit the occasion. We will make an
announcement in due course. We have to go evaluate first, we are not going to shoot from the hip."
Managing director Giulio Casello echoed his new chairman's comments, explaining the company
would be making further cost reduction over the next "couple of weeks".

"The share price is 3.6¢ and shareholders are unhappy about that," Mr Casello said.

Page6of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."We have cut costs and we obviously need to cut more and we will do that.We will announce
something in a couple of weeks but we are looking at all areas – people, salaries – but we will
announce something in a few weeks.
The iron ore price has crashed more than 45 per cent this year to below $US70 a tonne, casting
shadows over the future of marginal iron ore producers and companies seeking to develop iron ore
mines..

Sundance shares have fallen 5.6 per cent to 3.4c.2019 target for production

CO

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

leiho : Leighton Holdings Ltd | hocht : Hochtief AG | ocisa : ACS Actividades de Construcciones y
Servicios SA
i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying | i502 : Heavy Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction
c411 : Management Moves | cboard : Board of Directors | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c41 :
Management | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter |
nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141127eabs0001s

Page7of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.