TWE 'tardy' disclosure cops flak

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
TWE 'tardy' disclosure cops flak

Julie-anne Sprague
473 words
24 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
36
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Treasury Wine Estates says it has the support of the majority of its largest shareholders over its
handling of a $3.05 billion takeover approach by private equity firmKohlberg Kravis Roberts.

It comes as some investors hit out at a month-long delay in revealing the bid and called on Treasury
to engage in discussions with KKR and extract a higher offer. "If someone has put a price on the
table, a limited due diligence is not out of the question," one shareholder said.

Treasury waited 33 days before telling the market on Tuesday that it had received an indicative,
non-binding offer from KKR. It said it informed the market after the private equity giant began secretly
approaching shareholders about its offer, a move Treasury believed created a risk that confidentiality
had been lost.

KKR became frustrated at a lack of cooperation from Treasury on an initial $4.70 cash per share
proposal and while it approached some Treasury shareholders it maintains "appropriate confidentiality
protocols" were in place.

A Treasury shareholder and senior institutional fund manager lashed out at Treasury's disclosure. "If
you get a genuine approach from a credible place with a price attached to it, my reading of the listing
rules is you should disclose that," the fund manager said.

"Juxtapose it to their position, and their actual disclosure, saying they were not talking to Pernod
Ricard or they were not talking to Constellation. It's ludicrous. The whole time they knew about the
KKR approach."
KRR's offer has put Treasury in play but China's Bright Food Group distanced itself from speculation
it was eyeing the Penfolds and Wolf Blass winemaker. A spokesman told Bloomberg Bright Foods
had not had internal discussions about whether to bid for the winemaker.

Treasury maintains it has not breached disclosure rules because KKR's offer was incomplete and
confidential. Treasury chairman Paul Rayner declined to comment on Friday but a Treasury
spokesman said the company had been in discussions with the majority of its largest shareholders
and had their support. "They fully support our position on how and why the market was informed," the
spokesman said.
The board would seriously consider any offer put forward to the company, and if those proposals
"represent fair value", Treasury "would be prepared to open the books to due diligence", he said. A
number of shareholders and analysts believe KKR needs to pay more than $5 a share to win the
company.

Another fund manager earlier this week said it was "pretty poor" Treasury failed to disclose the bid
when it was first made. "If you get approached with the stock at $3.70, I would say that was a material
bid," the fund manager said.

Page101of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Perspective Treasury's big squeeze p19

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

kkr : KKR & Co. L.P. | trzwn : Treasury Wine Estates Ltd
i8150203 : Private Equity | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | ialtinv : Alternative Investments |
ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i426 : Wine |
ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods
cacqu : Acquisitions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 :
Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140523ea5o0000c

Page102of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.