Q3 2014 Saputo Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final

HD Q3 2014 Saputo Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
WC 8,135 words
PD 6 February 2014
SN CQ FD Disclosure
SC FNDW
LA English
CY © 2014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.
LP

Presentation

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentleman, thank you for standing by and welcome to the Saputo's third-quarter
results for FY14 conference call. During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we'll conduct a question-and-answer session.

TD

(Operator Instructions)

As a reminder today's call is being recorded Thursday, February 6, 2014. I would now like to turn the
conference over to Mr. Lino Saputo, Junior.
LINO SAPUTO , CEO & VICE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD, SAPUTO INC: Thank you very much,
Tommy.

SANDY VASSIADIS, DIRECTOR, CORPORATE COMMUNICATIONS, SAPUTO INC: Good afternoon
everyone and thank you for joining us today. A press release detailing our results for the third quarter of
FY14 was issued earlier today and is also available as we speak on our website at www.saputo.com. This
call is being recorded and will be posted on our website for future reference. I would like to specify that our
listeners on the phone and on the internet, as well as journalists, are on a listen-only mode. Members of the
media are invited to ask their questions by phone after this call.

Before we proceed, I'll remind you that certain statements that will be made during this call may constitute
forward-looking statements within the meaning of Securities Laws. Caution should be used in the
interpretation of such statements. Since Management has made certain assumptions including among
others; assumptions regarding projected revenues and expenses, and references to beliefs, expectations,
objectives and strategy that are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties which could cause actual
results to differ materially from those presented in such forward-looking statements.

For more information on these risks and uncertainties, please refer to the materials filed with the Canadian
Securities Regulatory Authorities including our most recent annual report available on SEDAR. Any
forward-looking statement made during this call is based on Management's current reasonable estimates,
expectations and assumptions, and we do not undertake to update or revise such forward-looking
statements except as required under Securities Laws.

The speakers today are Mr. Louis-Philippe Carriere, our Executive Vice President Finance and
Administration; and Mr. Lino A Saputo, Junior, our Chief Executive Officer and Vice Chairman of the Board.
After a brief presentation we will conclude the call with your questions. Louis-Philippe will now begin the
conference, followed by Lino, Junior.

LOUIS-PHILIPPE CARRIERE, EVP FINANCE AND ADMINISTRATION, SAPUTO INC: Thank you, Sandy,
and good afternoon. I will now present our results for the third quarter of FY14 in comparison to those of
the corresponding quarter last fiscal year. At the beginning of this fiscal year we realigned our reporting
structure, consistent with our operating structure, and are since reporting under three geographic sectors,
specifically the Canada sector, USA sector and International sector. The comparative figures have been
reclassified to reflect this reporting structure.
Net earnings total CAD144.1 million, an increase of CAD14.1 million or 10.8%. Earnings before interest,
income taxes, depreciation and amortization, EBITDA, amounted to CAD260 million, an increase of
CAD47.5 million or 22.4%. EBITDA for the Canada sector totaled CAD116.1 million, a decrease of
CAD7.1 million or 5.8%. In the Dairy Division Canada, higher ingredients and operational costs offset the

Page108of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.positive contribution of increased sales volume on EBITDA. The Bakery Division in EBITDA increased
slightly for the quarter due to lower operational costs.
EBITDA for the USA sector totaled CAD121.1 million, an increase of CAD40.1 million or 49.5%. The
increase was mainly due to the inclusion of the Morningstar acquisition. During the quarter, combined
market factors had a positive impact of approximately CAD9 million on EBITDA. Such market factors
include more favorable relationship between the average block market per pound of cheese and the cost of
milk as raw material. More favorable realization of inventories and non-favorable absorption of fixed cost.
During the quarter, EBITDA was negatively affected by lower cheese sales volume, increased ingredient
and operational cost, as well as higher milk costs resulting from the temporary revised milk pricing formula
in California, partially offset by slightly favorable product mix. The weakening of the Canadian dollar versus
the US dollar had a positive impact on EBITDA of approximately CAD5 million.
EBITDA for the International sector amounted to CAD22.8 million, a CAD14.5 million increase. EBITDA of
the Dairy Division Argentina increased mainly due to increased sales volume and higher selling prices on
the export market. EBITDA for the Dairy Ingredients Division was comparable to the corresponding quarter
last fiscal year. As it benefited from better product mix, offsetting lower selling prices in the international
market and increased operational cost. Consolidated revenue was amount to CAD2.343 billion an
increase of CAD552.6 million or 30.1%. This increase was mainly due to the inclusion of the revenue was
derived from the Morningstar acquisition.
Net cash generated from operating activities amounted to CAD209.8 million in comparison to CAD156.2
million for the corresponding quarter last fiscal year, an increase of CAD53.6 million. During the third
quarter, CAD46.1 million were invested into addition to property, plant and equipment. And also during
the quarter we repaid CAD39.9 million of long-term debt, issued shares as part of stock option plan for
cash consideration of CAD7.9 million, paid CAD14.4 million for the repurchase of share capital as part of
the normal course issuer bid, and paid CAD44.7 million in dividends.
The Board of Directors approved a dividend of CAD0.23 per share payable on March 14, 2014 to common
shareholders of record on March 3, 2014. Lino Junior will now proceed with the presentation of our outlook.
LINO SAPUTO : Thank you, LP, and good afternoon to you all. It has been a very busy quarter, and I'm
quite enthusiastic about our accomplishments and excited about the future. Net earnings, EBITDA and
revenues are up in the double-digits. This mainly due to the inclusion of the Morningstar acquisition. Much
like the previous quarter, Q3 was marked by continued competitiveness in our respective markets,
especially in Canada. Dairy Division Canada has therefore continued to implement measures to subside
the erosion on volume losses and on profit generation. As such, we now see a stabilization of EBITDA.
Though the reality is, dairy consumption is declining in Canada. Therefore, our team continues to look for
opportunities that bring additional value for our customers and our consumers.
In the Cheese Division USA we've maintained our focus on recuperating lost volume. We are now better
aligned and are starting to reap the benefits of our actions. As always we will continue to closely monitor
market fluctuations and will implement appropriate measures to mitigate any negative operational impacts
when necessary. As for the Dairy Foods Division USA, we've seen an increase in volumes in comparison
to last year. Notwithstanding the Division's profitability was impacted by an unfavorable product mix and
other expenses.

Concerning the International sector, we've witnessed another strong quarter, both from a volume and profit
perspectives. On the mergers and acquisitions front in early October we announced a takeover bid for the
Australian dairy company, Warrnambool Cheese and Butter. For months we were one of three bidders
vying for WCB, this battle was without a doubt the most public acquisition process we've ever
experienced. And though there may have been many twists and turns, today I'm delighted to report we've
acquired 79% of the WCB shares.

Our offer slated to close on February 12, unless we reach a relevant interest of more than 90% in which
case the offer is automatically extended pursuant to Australian law. For quite some time I've stated
acquiring a platform in Australia was something we've worked to accomplish for the better part of the last
decade. We've been patient and have spent time in Australia and over the years we've gotten to know the
team at Warrnambool quite well. We now look forward to officially welcoming them to our team soon.
Last month we also announced having entered into an agreement to acquire the fluid activities of
Scotsburn Co-Operative Services Limited, based in Atlantic Canada. The transaction is expected to close
in March. It will enable our Canadian dairy division to increase its presence in Atlantic Canada. Now, can
we expect to see more acquisitions? I would certainly hope so.

We continue to evaluate possibilities. Our balance sheet remains strong. And we have the necessary
resources to integrate multiple acquisitions at the same time. We will continue to look for growth

Page109of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.opportunities and will aim to find ways to develop new markets while always remaining disciplined. On that
note, I thank you for your time. And we will now proceed to answer your questions. Tommy?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you very much.

(Operator Instructions)

And we'll proceed with our first question on the line of Irene Nattel from RBC Capital Management. Go right
ahead.

IRENE NATTEL, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MANAGEMENT: Thanks and good afternoon, everyone. If we
could just start with WCB, yes many twists and turns, although we certainly seem to be pretty close to the
finish line. Just wondering, I guess number one, if you don't quite get to the 90% by February 12, what
happens? And number two, assuming that it's still nonetheless all goes forward, can you just walk us
through what we should expect over the next several quarters in terms of visibility on our side around
WCB?

LINO SAPUTO : I'll give you perhaps maybe a general outlook on that and then I think LP can add in some
color with some technicalities on the legal side, but our hope is that we do get beyond the 90% by February
12. If we don't get beyond the 90% February 12, this will be a subsidy of Saputo Inc. and it will have to
operate as a separate entity with an operating structure.

Again, we believe that irrespective of whether we have 100% or 90% or 80%, we are still very delighted
with this transaction. We think as a subsidy it could be a very, very good platform for us, and I think we
can leverage some of the strength that Saputo has to making Warrnambool a much stronger player in the
international markets. On the technicalities, I'll ask LP to give a bit more color.

LOUIS-PHILIPPE CARRIERE: As you certainly saw as of January 21, we essentially surpassed the 50%
threshold. So that means that essentially as of that date we going to start to consolidate even the balance
sheet, more importantly, the results into our numbers.

So we should expect certainly for, let's say, the quarter ending in March for which we're going to
consolidate the entire balance sheet with the numbers from the purchase price with the allocation as we
usually do. Certainly depending if we end up with 100% or if we end up to a lower level, a lower level, that
would mean essentially minority interest on the balance sheet, and the same kind of method will be true
from a P&L or result perspective.

So that means that essentially we're going to have the revenue EBITDA, all the expense from a P&L
perspective, and depending for the period of January 21 up to the end of March, and depending again if
we're ending up with 100%, that's an easy one. If we're ending up with less than 100%, we again are going
to have a line for minority interest for their proportion of the net earning. So that would be essentially it, but
everything will be consolidated into Saputo as of -- for the next publication, which is going to be our
year-end and the fourth quarter.

IRENE NATTEL: Just LP, will it be in the international segment or will you add another segment?

LOUIS-PHILIPPE CARRIERE: Yes, it will be in the international segment, as we're contemplating when we
reorganize or realign our structure last year, that will be part from the financial reporting aspect, it will be
part certainly of the international segment.

IRENE NATTEL: That's great. And from an integration perspective, but -- what are the current plans or is it
too early to talk about it?

LINO SAPUTO : It's a little early to talk about integration plans. Of course, it will be heavily dependent upon
whether we're at 80% or 100%, but our message has been very, very clear from the very beginning in
terms of our intentions.

We would like to be facilitators for the organization to ramp up on some of the plans that they've had for a
very long time, and perhaps didn't have the finances to execute. Again, I think Warrnambool can leverage
on the strength that Saputo has in the international markets; instead of being price takers, they can be price
drivers, so I think that there could be some benefit there.

But from an operating standpoint, we have a lot of confidence in David and his team. Like I said in my
opening remarks, I've had the opportunity over the course of last 10 years to get to know Warrnambool and
their management quite well. In fact, over the course of the last month and-a-half, I've had more intense
discussions with them.

Page110of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.I have full confidence that David can manage that division very, very well. With our financial support and
perhaps some sales guidance, I think that the division can flourish.

IRENE NATTEL: That's great. One more question, if I might, and this is going back to your small North
American business. Could you just talk a little bit about the evolution of competitive intensity and some of
the steps that you've taken to, I guess, strengthen your business in the face of that competitive intensity
and how it might have changed since the last quarter?

LINO SAPUTO : Well, Canada, the unfortunate thing about this market is that it's in the decline mode. Now,
having said that, despite the fact that Canada's per capita consumption is declining around 2% per year,
we, Saputo, have seen growth in our volume, so we're defending our position extremely well. The
unfortunate thing, again, is that it comes at the expense of some margin.
We've got the right people in place, we know this business inside out. We know our customers extremely
well, we know our competitors extremely well. And I think that we've leveraged on our strength to be able to
grow the market, even though consumption is declining.

And of course, that would make our competitors that much more aggressive in terms of trying to find ways
that they can grow their market share. This is the nature of the beast in Canada, it unfortunately is a
characteristic of a market that's not in growth, and I think we're defending ourselves extremely well here.

IRENE NATTEL: That's great. Thank you.

LINO SAPUTO : Thank you, Irene.

OPERATOR: We'll proceed to our next question; it is from the line of Michael Van Aelst from TD Securities.
Go right ahead.

MICHAEL VAN AELST, ANALYST, TD SECURITIES: Thank you. Just to continue on Canada for now, you
mentioned during your comments something about profit having stabilized in Canada. Can you just explain
that?

LINO SAPUTO : Well, initially at the -- when we looked at the beginning of our fiscal year, we were coming
right off of a milk price increase that typically is an uneventful experience in Canada. This year,
unfortunately, some of that milk price increase was not able to be passed on to some of our customers,
again because of the competitive nature of the landscape here.

We have since had a chance to re-look at our product mix and product portfolio, had a chance to even at
times look at some contracts with some of our long-standing customers and extend those beyond this year
and next. And so I think that we've taken good, concrete measures to look at controlling our own destiny for
the foreseeable future. And so despite, again, some of the competitive nature that we've seen in the
industry, our folks have taken some proactive measures to try to give us some stability as we look into
2015.

MICHAEL VAN AELST: When you say your profits stabilized, it doesn't mean it's stabilized on a
year-over-year basis, you mean that you kind of hit a level where you think you can -- it can be sustained
given your contracted business and things like that?

LOUIS-PHILIPPE CARRIERE: Yes, and certainly if we're referring to, let's say, from the beginning of the
year, certainly they can't not be more than stable than that from CAD115.7 million to CAD116.1, so we're
pretty stable since the beginning of the year. Certainly in Q1, we were certainly below of the preceding
year. That was essentially the trend in Q2 and Q3, but on a stable basis we delivered in the CAD115
million to CAD116 million back at back, first three quarters.
MICHAEL VAN AELST: The transaction costs of CAD6.6 million for Warrnambool, have those been
capitalized or are those in another line item?

LOUIS-PHILIPPE CARRIERE: No you're going to find out in the OCI, that's the sheet on the other
comprehensive income, it's a technicality, and light of essentially we end up in the end of December with
12% of the shares of Warrnambool. So the investment first is qualifying as a portfolio investment, that's the
nature of the accounting at that point, so it's a portfolio investment. There's a mark-to-market, there was a
small gain on that in comparison to the stock price at the end of December, and also the expense related to
the transaction which accounts for about CAD6.5 million, or globalized into a net kind of loss on which
you can find out in the statement of other comprehensive income.

Just to continue on that precision for next quarter, certainly in light of being a full subsidy of Saputo and all
the consolidation and all that stuff, certainly the acquisition cost will be reverted to against -- into the P&L,
so we'll find out into the expense. Similarly, as we saw in Q4 of last year, when we account for the

Page111of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Morningstar acquisition, for which there was some acquisition cost. So there would be reverted in Q4
into the -- as expense into the profit and loss statement.
MICHAEL VAN AELST: Okay. And in the international business, in particular in Argentina, can you explain
you how the milk and the operating costs, like labor and energy, are affected in US dollar terms, as the
peso devaluates? So are they decreasing as in US dollar terms as the peso goes down, or is the inflation
there offsetting it and keeping those costs in US dollar terms similar? So just trying to gauge how it's
affecting your profitability, both in the domestic market in Argentina versus the profitability on the
international market.

LOUIS-PHILIPPE CARRIERE: Well, first we're buying, let's say, for electricity or any good that we're buying
in Argentina, there are essentially purchased into pesos, so at the end of the devaluation of the currency
per se is not being affected. We're not trading, we're not buying let's say in US dollars. So everything that's
in pesos is in pesos, essentially.

Certainly even the devaluation as you see there's certainly some impact, in terms of the revenue being
impact, globally speaking. But certainly dealing on the international market, we are recapturing I would say
a good portion of it in terms of the net impact.
MICHAEL VAN AELST: So when you talk about the higher, the issues with the rising cost of raw milk in
Argentina, your profits surged in this quarter on the international side. Is that mostly or almost entirely then
because of the high export prices?

LOUIS-PHILIPPE CARRIERE: I would say both, a bit of both volume and export prices.

MICHAEL VAN AELST: Was volume just op related -- as a rebound off of the floods last year or was there
also some growth on top of that?

LINO SAPUTO : We had some growth on top of that. We had announced a capital project that would give
us the potential to take on more milk, run more capacity through our plants. We're in the mode now of
start-up for that new incremental capacity, and so we are actually processing more milk and we are
collecting more milk off the farms.

MICHAEL VAN AELST: Is there enough growth in the supply to keep pace with the capacity that you're
adding?

LINO SAPUTO : Yes. Understand that we are the plant of last resort for all of the farmers that we've
committed to, and so there is some upside in terms of ability for us to produce more product, run more
capacity through our plants, but everything is going pretty much as we had expected it would be. We
should close out this year with the amount of milk processed that we budgeted at the beginning of our
fiscal year.

MICHAEL VAN AELST: All right. Thank you very much.

LINO SAPUTO : Thanks, Michael.

OPERATOR: Thank you. We'll proceed with our next question, from the line of David Hartley with Credit
Suisse. Go right ahead.

DAVID HARTLEY, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks. Good afternoon. Just want to ask you a bit about
profitability in the US over the past quarter -- four quarters, EBITDA margin's been around the 10%, 11%
range, and finishing up on the high end in the quarter. What do you see as we move forward here for the
US margin and the volatility or the range of profitability that you would expect in that business?
LINO SAPUTO : Well, there are two aspects to our US business. One is the cheese side, the other one is
the dairy foods side. The dairy foods side, and you probably noticed this at the time of acquisition, the
margins typically and historically have been lower, and again that is heavily influenced by product mix as
well.
If I look at the cheese side, this quarter we were positively impacted by inventory realization with the run-up
of the block price. Operationally we're doing extremely well in terms of volume; we have recaptured a lot of
the volume that we had lost the beginning of the fiscal year, so the US cheese side is really running at a
very good pace and had a nice little bump-up at the end of the quarter because of the high block price.
On the dairy food side, our volumes are greater than what Morningstar had achieved last year. However,
the product mix was unfavorable. We sold a lot more of the less than value-added product, more
commodity products than we would have liked. Again, we're in tight with a lot of our customers, and on the
one hand we're following the trends of our customers and on the other hand we're bringing new categories

Page112of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.of product in front of them, and so our expectation as we move forward is to focus more on value-added
products for the dairy foods division.

DAVID HARTLEY: Okay. So when I think about that and the unfavorable product mix you just mentioned, is
that related -- kind of macroeconomic driven if you will, consumer driven, and do you expect that to kind of
change around as times get better, if you will, in the US?

LINO SAPUTO : I think it's driven by the menu items that our customers are actually promoting. Over the
course of the last couple of quarters, a lot of promotion on just driving volume through the QSRs, and
again, we're following our customers in terms of the quantities and volumes that they would require.
Again, it's our responsibility as a progressive, innovative dairy company to come up with new recipes that
could not only drive volume through the QSR but also add value. Those are the types of initiatives we're
working on now with dairy foods.

DAVID HARTLEY: I notice that you are spending some time rejigging packaging and introducing new
higher end products in the channels. Is that an accurate description for what's going on in the US now and
how is that going so far?

LINO SAPUTO : That is precise, yes, and so we do have especially since we have acquired the platform of
DCI a couple of years ago, we are looking at value-added categories of products. Sometimes that would be
new product development in the way of cheeses, and other times it would be product development in terms
of packaging and packaging formats. So yes, it's a combination of the two that would allow us to have
categories of products that are less commodity-driven and more value-driven.

DAVID HARTLEY: Okay. That's helpful. Just thinking about Canada a little bit, given the state of affairs that
you described, and I noticed the Scotsburn acquisition and some of your competitors -- one of your
competitors in particular buying up a lot of small operations in Canada. Is that what you expect the trend
will be for the next year, that a lot of small operations will come onto the market and will get purchased by
the likes of yourself or your other two big Canadian competitors?
LINO SAPUTO : Yes, I think so. There's the three of us that have about 75% of the milk intake here in
Canada. Again, the characteristic of this market is that the only way that you can find growth really is either
to steal volume from your competitor, or perhaps even to make some acquisitions. So I'm not overly
surprised to see ourselves, and perhaps some of our competitors, making acquisitions.

DAVID HARTLEY: Okay, and in terms of major acquisitions on a global sense, whether it be Brazil, or
further Australia, is there anything pressing, could you characterize kind of the state of affairs for a big
acquisition right now for Saputo?

LINO SAPUTO : Well, David, I've said that we always have three or four files on our desk at any given time.
For us, they're all pressing and they're all exciting. We materializes two acquisitions in the span of maybe
three or four months, Warrnambool and Scotsburn. These are files that we've had on or table, and ideas
and priorities that we've been thinking about, in some cases, in Warrnambool, for the better part of 10
years, and the opportunity came along for us to actually make a play for it.

So again, we've always -- we always have files on our table. I would say the runway still is very, very long. I
see that in the US space both on the cheese and on the dairy foods side, despite our size, we represent a
small percentage of the overall volume, so I think that there could be some other potential acquisitions in
the US.

You talked about Brazil. I did mention that in previous conference calls that we have taken trips out to
Brazil on a number of occasions. We're exporting product from Argentina into Brazil, and so it's a natural
evolution for us to be a player with manufacturing infrastructure in Brazil. We just need to find the right one
at the right price, with the right strategic value for us.

Beyond that, I'd say now with Warrnambool we have a strong, solid platform in Australia, perhaps if there
could be some other small tuck-in businesses in Australia, we would be more than happy to look at it now
that we have a management team that would be able to absorb it, and manage it and run it. And I would
also say that New Zealand looks pretty interesting for us as well, now that in Oceania we do have that
infrastructure.
So again, I'm very bullish on the market. I feel very, very good about our position on the world stage in
dairy. I feel very good about the industry in dairy.
In fact, I just came from a conference in California where the dairy players meet on a yearly basis, and all
of the economists that are talking about the dairy space right now are extremely bullish about supply and
demand. I believe that the demand will outpace supply, and in fact we're seeing some of that right now, and

Page113of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.this is why we're seeing the international prices as strong as they are, and we're also seeing the effects of
that on the US market.

So we feel very good about our position. We've always tried to keep our balance sheet extremely clean, so
we can capitalize on some of those acquisition opportunities that come about. And LP and I work on a
regular basis at planting seeds to see, perhaps, if a tree can grow somewhere.

DAVID HARTLEY: Thank you very much for that.

OPERATOR: Thank you.

(Operator Instructions)

Our next question from the line of Mark Petrie with CIBC. Go right ahead.

MARK PETRIE, ANALYST, CIBC WORLD MARKETS: You actually just sort of touched on my first
question. But it was -- could you just give your sort of outlook for dairy prices and the dairy market in
general over the rest of the year?

LINO SAPUTO : Well, the timing is actually quite good for me to do that, because I have insight from a few
of the economists that I spoke to and listened to at the dairy conference. What everyone is looking at right
now is that there is a rising demand of dairy protein around the world.
And if you look at what's going on in China, China in fact is declining in their own domestic production of
milk. Economic conditions as well as other factors have made it such that from 35 billion liters of milk,
where they once were, now they're starting to recede below that. In addition to that, you've got a rising
demand from the middle class that continues to grow.
That is present not only in China but we're starting to see a lot of interest from Japan, Taiwan, the Middle
East, Russia continues to be a strong platform of net importer of dairy products. Brazil is a strong importer
of dairy products. And there are only so many countries around the world that have the infrastructure and
the capability to produce the milk.
This is why we thought that Australia was so key for us, in terms of our long-term outlook as a dairy player
on a global scale. If I look at different countries around the world that have the infrastructure, you've got the
US that went from 10 years ago 2% of its total production being exported, now it's up closer to 15% or 16%.

Argentina, our platform in the 10 years that we've been there, we've doubled our throughput, our capacity,
and yet 50% of our production is still going to the export market, and so that has grown quite substantially.
And then you look at New Zealand, with their milk base, that's been growing and Australia over the course
of the last 10 years has been either stable or declining. But again, those are the real platforms of dairy
production, and so if you want to be a player on a global scale, provide the tools to your workforce to be
able to get out there, your sales force to be able to get out there and offer product from different regions,
there are only maybe four or five regions in the world that make sense, and this is why Australia and WCB
made a whole lot of sense for us.
MARK PETRIE: And in terms of WCB and the Australian milk production, is it just a matter of the
international price holding in to see production in Australia grow?

LINO SAPUTO : I think so. I had the chance in the month of November and early December to talk to a lot
of different farmers, and quite frankly, they've been beaten down, and I think that the level of optimism was
actually quite low. I talked about -- with the dairy farmers while I was there what I'm seeing on the market.
It's not that we're creating it but this is what we see and I shared with them my optimism about the dairy
industry.
I think that if dairy demand continues, the prices will hold firm, and if the prices hold firm then all
stakeholders in the dairy industry will benefit, including dairy farmers. We need to make sure that the
dairy farmers are making money, if we want dairy farmers to be in business long term. So I think that the
high international pricing does and will have an effect on the milk production in Australia.

MARK PETRIE: Okay, that's helpful. Thanks. And just on Australia, just sort of taking a step back, can you
just talk a bit about Warrnambool and their production, and their production capacity, and what they're
actually producing, their product mix, and how that fits into the Saputo portfolio now internationally, as you
kind of think about serving those international markets over the course of time? Like is there synergy
opportunity really, I guess, between Australian production and Argentina and even the US?

LINO SAPUTO : I think there is a lot of synergy, and again, with my conversations that I've had over the
course of the last few months more intensively with David and Terry, who's the Chairman of the Board, I

Page114of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.think some of the synergies, to their own admission, is that they're making commodity products and they're
price takers on the market. We are specialty oriented. Perhaps we can make some products that would
have derive higher value on the market.

I think our sales force at Saputo has a very, very good understanding of the different markets, the growing
markets, the specialty markets, and I think that there could be some synergies there, just by sharing ideas
and allowing that management team to flourish under some of our guidance and perhaps some of our fiscal
support.
Some of the products of categories are similar, when you look at block cheese or pressed-type cheeses,
we're making those in Argentina as well as in the United States and in Canada. WCB produces
pressed-type cheeses, but there are also other categories of product that WCB produces that's we don't
produce.

They have a specialized bi-product that they're selling in partnership with FrieslandCampina, which is a
great, innovative product. They manufacture a lactoferrin, which is a specialized protein, which Saputo
does not have access to. So I think there are going to be some synergies in what WCB does in terms of
them adding value to the Saputo portfolio, and perhaps Saputo adding value to the go-to-market strategies
that WCB can employ.

MARK PETRIE: Okay. Thanks. And then just one quick question. In Argentina, I mean you talked about it
already, but just too sort of be clear, forgetting international pricing and then the movement of the peso,
fundamentally there, it seems like things have improved and stabilized. Is the outlook -- forgetting those
external factors, is the outlook for that business to continue to improve profitability?

LOUIS-PHILIPPE CARRIERE: I would say so, certainly in light of in addition to what Lino was mentioning;
adding capacity, getting more milk, and certainly everything is aligned in a good direction.

MARK PETRIE: Thanks very much.

LINO SAPUTO : Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you very much. I will proceed with our next question, from the line of Keith Howlett
with Desjardins Securities. Go right ahead.

KEITH HOWLETT, ANALYST, DESJARDINS SECURITIES: Yes, I had some questions on Argentina. First
one was, what do you mean that you're the plant of last resort there?

LINO SAPUTO : Well, what that means essentially is that the system is unlike any that we operate in.
When we make a commitment to a dairy farmer, we make a commitment to take 100% of his milk, and
there is some seasonality and some fluctuation in his milk production.
So ultimately if he's going to be growing his base of milk production by, say, 10% or 15% or 20%, he has
no other place to go; we are his plant of last resort. So we need to make sure that we have the capacity to
take on his incremental volume. And so the reference to that was that we had built additional capacity in
Argentina to make sure that when we're at the peak of production, we are taking all of our farmers' milk,
even if that means certain times of the year we're running below our 100% capacity utilization.

KEITH HOWLETT: Nice, and then just on Australia, what percentage of the -- I don't know whether volume
or dollars is the better way to do this, is exported versus domestically consumed?

LOUIS-PHILIPPE CARRIERE: I would say about 50% of their volume goes to the international market.
KEITH HOWLETT: And when you mention the currency effect is about CAD17 million from the decline in
the Argentine peso, is that just looking at the domestic portion of the Argentine business or does that
include the benefit of the international as well?

LOUIS-PHILIPPE CARRIERE: Two aspects, even if we're dealing on the international level with US
currency, you need to keep in mind that -- let's say in Argentina I would say the ledgers are all in pesos at
the end of the day, and certainly we're taking those ledgers and we're converting them into Canadian
dollar, so this is where the variation is created.
KEITH HOWLETT: Great. Thank you. And then just on the China market, where is Australia in that? Do
they need a free trade agreement to access the China market or they don't need that or --?

LINO SAPUTO : There is no free trade agreement as it stands, but they have access to the market so it's
really based on competitive pricing of their solids that they can manufacture and sell into the market. But
there is no free trade agreement right now with China.

Page115of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.But again, let me make something clear here. China is one market; China is not the only market. We're
selling into 40 or 50 different countries around the world, and that's the way we like it.

We're not going to put all of our eggs in one basket. Whether that would be from the platform of United
States, whether that would be from Argentina and in the future Australia as well.

We don't believe that there's only one market for us. There are 40, 50 different countries around the world
that are net importers of dairy product. Our sales force is experienced enough to understand those
markets and understand where we can derive the best value for our solids.

KEITH HOWLETT: And when it comes to Argentina, are they the pretty much fully booked as it were, just
exporting within Latin America or are they sending things to Asia as well?

LINO SAPUTO : Argentina's sending things all over the world. Of course, the proximity to Brazil makes it
easy for us to export product into Brazil, but it certainly is not the only market that we're selling into. We are
selling into 40, 50 different countries around the world from the Argentinean base right now.

KEITH HOWLETT: Just had some questions on the Canadian market. In terms of product lineup, there was
a mozzarella company that was recently sold. Are you still interested in expanding mozzarella by
acquisition or are you already sort of too large to make an acquisition there?
LINO SAPUTO : I think if there are dairy assets that become available in Canada, we would definitely look
at them, mozzarella included. We are leaders in mozzarella in Canada, but that doesn't mean that we
wouldn't look at acquiring another asset that would have a mozzarella platform. So I think there still are
some small tuck-in businesses that's could make sense for us including other mozzarella manufacturers.

KEITH HOWLETT: And then just on the yogurt category, which I guess is one that has experienced growth,
what is -- is that anything that you'd like to get into or not really?

LINO SAPUTO : Well, I have to be clear about our strengths and our weaknesses. We're very, very strong
R&D folks on the cheese side. I think we're very, very strong R&D folks on the bi-product side; I think we've
grown our platforms substantially there.
We work in every category of dairy that could derive a very good profit for us where we can serve our
customers. The category that's we're not in dairy would be things like ice cream.

We had ventured into ice cream; I think it was in 1999 or 2000 or so, around that time frame when we
bought Cremerie des Trois Rivieries, they were manufacturing ice cream. We realized the dynamics of the
ice cream market are very competitive, and perhaps we were in a position where we were not controlling
our own destiny, and quite frankly, we were not innovative in that category of product and we decided to
exit that.

We have the same reflection with yogurt; there are some big very innovative companies that do a very,
very good job in yogurt. We are yogurt manufacturers, but I you would not say we are the most innovative
Company when it comes to yogurt. I think our energy, and our resources, and our focus will be perhaps
better suited in cheeses and in other dairy solids.
KEITH HOWLETT: And just finally on the sports drink milk products that you've been innovating on in the
last few years, how is that process or project going?
LINO SAPUTO : It's very good; in fact, in the single serve value-added milk we are the number one player,
with a wide range of flavored products. We did launch, and you're probably referring to the Milk 2 Go Sport,
we're capitalizing on the value of the Milk 2 Go brand, but really segmenting it towards athletes that are
looking for a recuperation drink after physical activity. It's very much in line with what we stand for as a
company, in terms of having full profile of healthy eating and physical activity to stay active and stay
healthy, and so Milk 2 Go really follows that channel and follows that focus.

KEITH HOWLETT: Thanks very much.

LINO SAPUTO : Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question is it another follow-up question from the line of Michael Van Aelst from TD
Securities.

MICHAEL VAN AELST: Just understanding Morningstar, did some of the cost, some of those unusual
costs that you had in I think it was Q2, did those fall off in Q3 or were they still present?

LOUIS-PHILIPPE CARRIERE: I would say for vast majority, they fall off.

Page116of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.MICHAEL VAN AELST: Okay. And the performance of cottage cheese and sour cream that you
highlighted last time being a little weaker in Q2, how did -- what happened in Q3 with those products?
LINO SAPUTO : Cottage cheese and sour cream is a flat category. We've got some good brands.
Friendship is a very recognized brand in East Coast USA, but quite frankly, it's a flat category.

MICHAEL VAN AELST: But you didn't see the drops that you saw in Q2?

LINO SAPUTO : No, no, those drops have stabilized.
MICHAEL VAN AELST: And then just finally, I guess if I -- I'm still trying to understand that huge jump in
the international profit. Can you just give us an idea of the conditions that need to be in place for that level
of dollar profit to be sustainable?

LOUIS-PHILIPPE CARRIERE: That would be to give you our recipe, and we'll not give you the recipe. At
the end of the day certainly in light of additional volume, and there's not much more that I can say,
additional volume is certainly the pricing that we are getting for our product on the international, certainly
helped throughout the quarter.

Again, if we're comparing quarter to probably weaker quarter last year, so we're improving. The market is
giving certainly us a reward for that, and there's not much more that I you can give you in terms of the
recipe for our numbers.

MICHAEL VAN AELST: Okay. But is there anything that was timing in the quarter that might -- or the prices
ran up ahead of the costs and the costs are just catching up, or is it just normal market?

LOUIS-PHILIPPE CARRIERE: You need to keep in mind also that we are recapturing from pricing, in the
sense that pricing is evolving in the right direction. Certainly we're not producing only product in the same
month, so milk price is rising also in Argentina, so certainly out of it we're benefiting from better price, from
inventory that were certainly probably manufactured at lower cost. So all in all, that's what essentially we
were able to generate throughout the quarter, and which we're very happy.

MICHAEL VAN AELST: All right. Thank you.

LOUIS-PHILIPPE CARRIERE: You're welcome.

OPERATOR: Thank you. We do have another follow-up from the line of Keith Howlett from Desjardins
Securities. Go right ahead.

KEITH HOWLETT: Just a question on the Morningstar. Are you now completely disengaged from the Dean
Foods infrastructure?

LOUIS-PHILIPPE CARRIERE: Yes, from a system perspective on which we were connected until I would
suspect mid-November, so everything we're by our own actually, and which -- we're okay with that and
which is going good, actually. So we can plan for the future working on our infrastructure.

KEITH HOWLETT: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you very much. And Mr. Saputo, we have no further questions. I'll turn it back to you.

LINO SAPUTO : Thank you very much, Tommy.
UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE, SAPUTO INC: We thank you for taking part in this
conference call. We hope you will join us for the presentation of our 2014 fourth quarter and year-end
results on June 5, 2014. Have a nice day.

OPERATOR: Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. This concludes the call for today. We thank you
for your participation and ask that you disconnect your lines. Have a great day, everyone.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this
web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon
current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those
stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more
specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and
believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the

Page117of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results
contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF
THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE
AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR
INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO
WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE
COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE
BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND
THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER
DECISIONS.]

CO sapgrp : Saputo Inc
IN i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy Products | i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | icnp :

Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products

NS c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content

Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin :
FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter

RE usa : United States | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr :

Australia | namz : North America

PUB CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
AN Document FNDW000020140208ea26006my

Page118of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.