Solar power lights life at luxury apartments

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

BusinessJournal
Solar power lights life at luxury apartments

VALERINA CHANGARATHIL
437 words
26 August 2014
The Advertiser
ADVTSR
Advertiser
29
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

A $450,000 solar panel installation will cover five roof faces of the $112 million six-storey luxury
retirement apartments under construction at Fullarton, offering incoming residents a stake in green
power.

Two hundred of the 800 panels making up the 200 kilowatt system have been installed on the former
Julia Farr site with South Australian retailer Solar Depot hoping to have the rest completed by
mid-September.

The installation is believed to be the second largest in the state – behind the Adelaide Showground’s $8
million, 1 megawatt rooftop generation.

The 1ha Fisher St site includes 142 one, two and three-bedroom apartments, ranging in price from
$470,000 to $1.5 million. The solar energy generated will not be enough to offset all consumption on
the Living Choice site but will power common areas and allow partnering residents to offset some of
their power.

The “theoretical ownership” of the system has been offered as a package into the long-term lease on
the apartments for those residents that want it.

A third-party managing the internal power network for Living Choice, Embedded Network Solutions
Australia, will read individual apartment meters and bill tenants, offsetting some costs for those signed
up to the system.
The panels on the Fullarton site are made in China while the inverter is imported from Germany.
Solar Depot general manager Scott Limbert said itwas one of the largest commercial contracts for the
company – packaged with the installation of solar panels on other sites of Living Choice owner Eureka
Group.

The Eureka Group, which owns 26 pubs nationally, including 16 in the state, has also commissioned
Solar Depot to put panels on the rooves of its office and two pubs.
“The domestic market has been tough for solar operators because there is no feed-in tariff any more,”
Mr Limbert said. “But the commercial market is quite strong and we are doing quite well in that space.”
Solar Depot, which has an annual turnover of $10 million and employs about 29 staff, has completed
installations worth close to $400,000 for aged care facilities group Padman Healthcare in SA and has
other commercial projects in NSW.

“We have some good quotes on our books in terms of future projects, so we are looking good,” he said.

Living Choice director Graham Hobbs said a green offering was always intended of the group’s first
village in SA.“We have seen great demand for the apartments and nearly half of those signing up have
elected to take a share in the solar power system.”

Page20of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document ADVTSR0020140825ea8q0006s

Page21of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.