Streamlining Regulations Boosts Wine Trade

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Streamlining Regulations Boosts Wine Trade

1,117 words
23 January 2014
M2 Presswire
MTPW
English
© 2014, M2 Communications. All rights reserved.

In a trendy corner of Beijings Chaoyang district, a crowd of professionals share a wine-tasting menu
sampling Cabernets from Australia, Chile, New Zealand and the United States. These wine bars, a
growing trend in Asia, are gaining ground in China. Chinese consumers increasingly want the quality
and diversity of their wine-tasting experiences abroad, causing wine imports to skyrocket.

The value of the APEC wine trade has tripled The value of the APEC region wine trade has tripled,
increasing from just USD 7 billion in 2000 to USD 23 billion in 2012, said Tom LaFaille, Vice
President and International Trade Counsel of the Wine Institute, an industry association in the United
States.

In China alone, wine consumption has doubled twice in the last five years and the economy is
expected to be the largest wine consumer by 2016.

However, although the Pacific Rim regions wine trade has increased steadily, so too have unnecessary
trade barriers, added Mr LaFaille.

The APEC Wine Regulatory Forum was formed in 2008 as part of the APEC Sub-Committee on
Standards and Conformance to help eliminate some of these trade barriers for wine exporters. The
Forum is focused on reducing the cost of cross-border wine trade to stimulate demand and sales,
particularly for small and medium wine producers, who make up the bulk of the regional wine industry.
Ultimately, minimizing these costs will lead to cheaper prices and more choices for wine consumers in
the Asia-Pacific.

APEC Wine Regulatory Forum tackles growing barriers to wine trade The APEC Sub-Committee on
Standards and Conformance has a history of tackling forward-leaning issues and they quickly
recognized with the significant increase in wine trade in the region comes a growing number of
unnecessary non-tariff barriers, said Ambassador Wade Armstrong, Head of the New Zealand
Delegation to the World Wine Trade Group, who is actively involved in the APEC Wine Regulatory
Forum.

These non-tariff barriers are estimated to cost businesses, primarily small and medium-sized wine
producers, approximately USD 1 billion a year, added Mr Armstrong.

This high cost to businesses is largely due to unnecessary testing and the requirement of duplicative
and burdensome export certificates. For example, Economy A may require a certificate of origin,
chemical analysis, and hygiene certificate while Economy B only requires a chemical analysis.
Economy C requires a certificate of origin, hygiene, a certificate of free sale, and sometimes a
chemical analysis while Economy D requires no certificates at all. This complex web of certificates for
wine exporters is confusing, not to mention costly and duplicative.

In New Zealand, every wine production facility must register an internationally-recognized hazard
analysis and food safety plan setting out how it complies with New Zealand wine standards, and
compliance with this plan is independently audited every year, said Dr John Barker, General Counsel
of New Zealand Winegrowers, an industry association.

From a wine producers perspective, the New Zealand system already provides assurance that the
wine is made free of food safety risks. However, export wines have to go through this additional
certification process in each different economy.

Page30of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.All these various certificates are aimed at the same fundamental objectiveto establish that a wine has
been produced in accordance with New Zealand rules and is therefore safe for human consumption,
explained Dr Barker.

However, each certificate has a cost attached to producing and receiving ita cost that could easily be
rationalized, he added.

APEC is reducing complex web of export certificates for wine In order to reduce this cost and
duplication, the APEC Wine Regulatory Forum has established an Export Certificate Working Group
and is collaborating with APEC government regulators on how to consolidate the certificate process
across the APEC region. The World Bank estimates that consolidating these certificates will decrease
document preparation from 9 days to 3 days and reduce costs from US $156 to $52.

The APEC Wine Regulatory Forum is specifically working on eliminating export certificates where
unnecessary, promoting electronic submission and developing a model wine certificate, said Theresa
McCarthy, Assistant Administrator for Headquarters Operations, United States Alcohol and Tobacco
Tax and Trade Bureau, who is involved in the APEC Forum.

As a result, some economies have begun innovating on this front. For example, the United States and
China have agreed on a consolidated wine export certificate, and Chile has initiated a pilot program for
electronic submission of export certificates, explained Ms McCarthy.

Absence of standardized regulations partly due to lack of knowledge Standardization of regulations is
also key to encouraging wine producers to export their wines more widely throughout the region.

For example, a local wine producer in New Zealand, using a particular additive that is legally permitted
in all wine producing economies, discovered that the importing economy did not include this additive in
their regulations, said Dr Barker.

In this situation, the New Zealand wine producer had to forgo the opportunity to export its wine to this
particular market to avoid the risk of non-compliance, added Dr Barker.

According to Ms McCarthy, the absence of standardized regulations across the Asia-Pacific region is
partly due to a lack of technical knowledge by government regulators on the specifics of the wine
industry. As a result, the larger objective of the APEC Wine Regulatory Forum is not only to encourage
regulatory alignment within the APEC region but also to enhance the capacity of government
regulators.

The Forum is surveying members on their laboratory wine testing capabilities and needs, in order to
identify potential capacity building efforts, said Ms McCarthy.

Once identified, these needs will be tackled through technical exchanges, sharing of information on risk
assessment strategies, and a study to determine test method accuracy.

All of these efforts encourage standardization of wine testing among economies while allowing
developing economies to gain improved assurance of the safety of imported wine, explained Ms
McCarthy.

More wine for more consumers By striking a balance between regulating safe and truthful products
with efficient and cost-effective administration, the APEC Wine Regulatory Forum is facilitating trade
and boosting export sales of small and medium wine producers across the region. As more wine
connoisseurs in the Asia-Pacific desire diverse and quality wines, the APEC Wine Regulatory Forum is
making it easier for a savvy wine-taster in Beijing to enjoy a glass of Cabernet from small boutique
vineyards in Margaret River, Colchagua, Marlborough, and Napa Valley.

For more information, contact: media@apec.org

((M2 Communications disclaims all liability for information provided within M2 PressWIRE. Data
supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2 PressWIRE can be obtained at
http://www.presswire.com on the world wide web. Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

CO
IN

NS

wneit : The Wine Institute
i426 : Wine | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge :
Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods
npress : Press Releases | ncat : Content Types | gwine : Wine | gcat : Political/General News | gfod :
Food/Drink | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gwbs : Wine/Beer/Spirits

Page31of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

PUB
AN

ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | chil : Chile | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America | samz : South
America
Normans Media Ltd
Document MTPW000020140124ea1n0008j

Page32of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.