Bright Food circles Treasury Wine Estates post-KKR bid

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Market Wrap - Street Talk
Bright Food circles Treasury Wine Estates post-KKR bid

Edited by Sarah Thompson, Anthony Macdonald and Gretchen Friemann
266 words
23 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
14
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Ailing Treasury Wine Estates appears to have gained another suitor even though buyout giant KKR
was shown the door.
The brusque dismissal of KKR's highly conditional $3 billion bid, equating to $4.70 per share, led
some in the market to conclude the winemaker will retain its relatively lucrative US arm on the
expectation its more robust performance will turbocharge earnings growth across the group.

However, it seems interest in Treasury Wine is far from subsiding.
Street Talk understands the Chinese-owned food group, Bright Food, is weighing a potential offer.
News of another mooted buyer follows recent speculation, denied by Treasury Wine, about interest
in the US division from Pernod Ricard and Constellation Wines.
Persistent talk about a takeover – Bright Food was linked to the company in 2011 – has sent the
stock into overdrive over the past week, even though management signalled a potential downgrade
to earnings.
New Treasury Wine boss Michael Clarke has repeatedly quashed hopes of a partial sale of the
group, insisting publicly that the US wine business is an integral part of the company.
But the company's determination to soldier on amid challenging conditions in both the Australian
and Chinese wine markets has not deterred KKR.
The buyout firm is understood to be closing in on a debt package for Treasury Wine, with some in
the market predicting the company will eventually gain access to due diligence.

In 2011, Bright Food denied it had any potential interest.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

trzwn : Treasury Wine Estates Ltd | brgfdc : Bright Food (Group) Co Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i426 : Wine | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge :
Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140522ea5n0002j

Page115of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.