Lend Lease ready to sell its stake

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Commercial realestate
Lend Lease ready to sell its stake

Carolyn Cummins Commercial Property Editor
468 words
22 October 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
27
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Barangaroo - Office towers on block
Lend Lease is closer to selling its stake in Barangaroo South amid market speculation a full sale or a
joint venture partner is about to sign a deal.

This was prompted by news that Lend Lease is preparing its balance sheet for a sell-down of its stake
in the Barangaroo office towers, with a proposal to allocate $400.5 million to its subsidiary, Lend
Lease Trust, in a new capitalisation plan.
Property agents have said they understand Lend Lease is talking with domestic and international
investors. An announcement of a deal was expected "sooner rather than later", one said.

The plan requires shareholder approval at the Lend Lease annual shareholder meeting, scheduled for
Friday November 14, in Sydney.

The agents said super funds such as ISPT, Cbus and UniSuper would be interested parties, with the
Singaporean, Chinese, British and German funds competing, to take advantage of the weaker
Australian dollar and low interest rates.

However, if the reallocation proposal is passed next month, the Lend Lease Trust could also look to
invest directly.
Lend Lease chief executive Steve McCann has repeatedly said every asset of the company in all
divisions is potentially for sale, and he has made it clear that Lend Lease's remaining interest in
Barangaroo is on the market.

In the notice of meeting it says that in 2012 Lend Lease allocated $500 million into the wholesale
Lend Lease International Towers Sydney Trust. This resulted in it holding a 25 per cent indirect stake
in the commercial towers, known as Tower 2 and Tower 3, at the Barangaroo South development in
Sydney.
"The Lend Lease group intends to introduce co-investors into Tower 1 at an appropriate time in the
future. In line with the intended benefits of the stapling, Lend Lease Trust may invest in Tower 1 in the
future," the notice of meeting says.

In April this year, Lend Lease unveiled an agreement to reduce its co-investment in the International
Towers Sydney Trust from 25 per cent to 15 per cent via a sale to international pension fund APG.
"Also in April 2014, the company announced that the Lend Lease group will commence the
development and funding of 100 per cent of the Barangaroo South commercial building known as
Tower 1, via existing capital sources. The development activities in relation to the Barangaroo South
development, including Tower 1, are managed by a subsidiary of the company," the notice of
meeting says.

Page281of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.This was also supported by Mr McCann at the recent investor day where he said a focus of the group
remains on securing further large-scale urban redevelopments, with cash coming from the sale of
existing projects.

llc : Lend Lease Group
i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest : Real Estate
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020141021eaam00054

CO
IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page282of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.