Thirsting for water realism

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News - Letters
Thirsting for water realism

LETTERS
1,232 words
30 August 2014
The Newcastle Herald
NEHR
First
20
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

opinion YOUR SAY

Thirsting for water realism

IF Mike Moraza ("Committed to best practice" Herald 29/8) thinks that securing gas for NSW may be
an issue in the future, he could not begin to imagine how difficult supplying safe drinking water will
become should coal seam gas "fracking" be allowed in our water catchments.
The hasty approval of four new coal seam gas exploration wells in Gloucester puts at risk the Manning
River that supplies nearly 80,000 people in 27 towns from Crowdy Head in the north, to Hawks Nest in
the south and Barrington in the west.
But Moraza is also wrong by stating that NSW needs the Gloucester coal seam gas project.
There is no gas shortage, in my view, and there are alternatives to gas for energy supply and usage in
the home, but there is no alternative to water.

It's time for bipartisan support from our state government on banning fracking in our water catchments.

Prue Bodsworth,

Tighes Hill

Renewables still too costly
LOOKING at the complete picture on renewable energy paints a somewhat less favourable conclusion
about its so-called benefit as presented by Kane Thornton ("Abolishing RET would be costly" Letters
28/8).
Wind energy, for example, is very intermittent, requiring additional 100 per cent backup (thermal)
capacity and requires the market to purchase substitute power when wind energy shuts down due to
excessive or low wind speeds.

This happens regularly. Loss of load incidents occur on a grand scale and require intervention from
backup facilities at a premium — up to the current market cap of $10,000/MW.

Who pays for the added cost of this unnecessary spot market volatility? We do.
If renewable energy is so good, why can't it thrive without subsidies like Power Purchase Agreements
(which are very generous to wind-farms), Renewable Energy Certificates, which are a federal tax on
all Australians that has added over $8 billion to power bills and possibly a further $54 billion by 2031,
and a Renewable Energy Target?

Peter Devey,

Page48of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Merewether

Way forward now needed

THE sexual abuse scandal among different religious denominations is being exposed almost daily.
Cardinal George Pell's comparison of the Catholic Church with a trucking company has been
condemned.

Bishop Greg Thompson, as head of Hunter region Anglicans is very clear ("We are not a trucking
company" Herald 28/8).

Bishop Bill Ray, from Queensland, said Cardinal Pell's analogy was "absolutely appalling".

The notion that being celibate is a cause of paedophilia has been put to rest because we know that
clergy who have partners also commit the crime of sexual abuse.

Now what are we going to do about it?

Are the parishioners of all sects content that their money will be spent defending these predators and
compensating their victims?

We have been duped and hoodwinked and now we must see that justice is done.

All ideas welcome.

Pat Garnett,

Newcastle East

Rehabilitation part of consent
BEFORE a mining project receives development consent, a detailed plan for rehabilitation is required
to be approved ("I don't dig the restoration" Letters 28/8).

That plan will have been developed with government agencies, and in consultation with the community.

Most frequently, land that has been disturbed is returned to a similar condition and use to its
pre-mining state.

However, there may be good reasons to change land use during rehabilitation. For instance, in the
Hunter Valley, rehabilitation can provide opportunities to turn poorer classes of agricultural land into
native vegetation communities, contributing to regional conservation corridors.
There are very few examples of mining on Class 1 or 2 agricultural land in NSW.
Coal & Allied was permitted to mine Class 1 and 2 land in the Hunter Valley on the strict conditions
relating to the restoration of the agricultural productivity of that land.

You can see more details on that rehabilitation project on our website (nswmining.com.au).

Stephen Galilee, CEO,

NSW Minerals Council

Allegiances may yet cost

MALCOLM Fraser is correct when he observed recently that Australia's strong defence ties with the
United States, and the US's commitment to Japan's defence in the event of hostilities, potentially with
China, would draw Australia into a conflict.
China and Japan are at odds over islands claimed as territory by both nations.

Japan's constitution is to change to allow its "self defence forces to become able to conduct
aggression" in Asia, or anywhere else if they so desire, and to increase spending on an already
formidable so-called self defence force.

Australia would be in bed with the US and drawn into conflict with our two largest trading partners.

Page49of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In recent history, Australia blindly followed the US into Vietnam, Iraq and Afghanistan, all of which were
unwinnable conflicts.
We have no animosity to China or China to us, but in a conflict with Japan where would Australia put
its allegiance?

Peter Routley,

Balmoral

High risk of election farce

THE NSW government needs to have a serious look at the way the byelections are going to be run in
Newcastle over the coming months.

There is a real possibility that four elections will take place over the coming months with the state
byelection due in October, mayoral election in November with a possible January/February ward
election and then a fresh state election in March.

The cost of running potentially four elections in as many months will add quite a cost burden to both
state and local government coffers.

Premier Mike Baird and the Local Government Minister need to review this farce for a more fair and
cost-effective solution.

Nathan Clarke,

Warabrook

Cambodia is not asylum answer

THE Australian government is trying to negotiate a deal with Cambodia to resettle asylum seekers in
exchange for money.

Cambodia is one of the poorest countries in the world, riddled with poverty, unemployment, all sorts of
social problems, including crime and corruption.

It is my view that, if successful, Australia will have achieved one of the lowest and cowardly acts that a
government could commit upon other human beings.

The government will place itself as worse than the people smugglers that it so often denounces.

Problem solving at any cost should not be the Australian way and, in my opinion, if this deal goes
ahead they should be tarred and feathered as they are thrown out of parliament.

Allan Earl,

Thornton

Standing up for the truckies
CARDINAL George Pell's comparison of the Catholic Church with a trucking company while giving
evidence to the royal commission into child abuse last week is a deep slur and quite insulting to all
truckies and truck companies in this country.

Trucking companies would not turn a "blind eye" to their drivers picking up children and sexually
abusing them - a practice that has been going on in the Catholic Church for the past 60 years at least,
according to the royal commission.

They say silence gives consent, as this church has been doing.

Shame, shame, cardinal for comparing hard-working truckies to paedophile priests.

Truck companies must answer and refute this outrageous claim.

Richard Ryan, Summerland Point

LETTER OF THE WEEK

Page50of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.This week's special Herald pen goes to John Holmes, of Arcadia Vale, for his letter about creating a tax
on oxygen. The pen is in the mail.

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

ifrack : Fracking | i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | iextra
: Natural Gas/Oil Extraction | imet : Mining/Quarrying
nlet : Letters | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE
Filter | nrgn : Routine General News
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document NEHR000020140831ea8u0000e

Page51of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.