China has plenty of cards to play on its economy

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News - Opinion
China has plenty of cards to play on its economy

Warren Hogan
911 words
19 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
51
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Fiscal policy China's new leaders are more likely to turn back to fiscal stimulus to fire their economy
than to loosen monetary policy. Warren Hogan
The Chinese government must navigate the implementation of economic reforms while maintaining
growth at a pace sufficient to keep unemployment steady. This is a difficult task for any government,
and particularly so for the Chinese right now, as many critical reforms to the economy will be potentially
disruptive to growth. This is all happening at a time in which most analysts and markets are worried
about a significant loss of momentum in the Chinese economy.

To delay reforms is in itself a risk to growth, albeit over the medium term. China's financial system
presents a number of problems for its government. It is not allocating capital effectively, unregulated
elements are growing rapidly, and the monetary policy transmission mechanism is under question.
Most of the immediate concerns around China focus on a collapse in property prices and construction
activity. We do not believe China's property market is a macro-economic bubble waiting to burst.
House prices have been volatile in recent years and there is nothing to say that the recent softening is
any different to recent cyclical slowdowns. Furthermore, there have been major constraints on the
market including tight lending conditions and a variety of curbs such as restrictive loan-to-value ratio
targets for borrowers.
The major concern around the residential property market is construction activity, which looks to be
more vulnerable to a slowdown than at any time since the global financial crisis. Developers are pulling
back on land purchases and building commencements are slowing. As a result, construction is
expected to slow down and help the market rebalance as demand softens. With this slowing comes the
risk of a significant retrenchment which requires monitoring.
Despite these challenges, it should be clear that there is no disaster scenario on the horizon for China,
no matter how dysfunctional the financial system appears to be. There is no "Lehman moment" just
around the corner. China is, if anything, over-insured. It runs a savings rate of almost 50 per cent of
GDP and presently has approximately $US4 trillion ($4.28 trillion) in FX reserves.
China can bail itself out of any financial mess that comes its way, and has been doing so for decades.
That doesn't mean there won't be hiccups and volatility – because there will. Indeed, the noise around
the Chinese financial system is likely to pick up as reform efforts continue.Growth targets the main
priority

What we do know is from a policy perspective, reform momentum has taken a back seat to growth
momentum in recent months. Premier Li Keqiang has targeted growth of 7.5 per cent. He sees it as
critical to "hit the target" early in his term of government for his own credibility with the Chinese people.
One could argue he needs this credibility to push forward with key reforms. In this sense the current
hiatus in reforms is no big deal. The problem is if they run the macro-economy too hard, it could
exacerbate any imbalances that are building in the finance and property sectors.

Page15of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.For China and Li, a desired slowing in property activity risks not achieving the growth target this year.
Ideally, this would be offset by stronger activity from private sector SMEs and households. Easier
monetary conditions, which have been kept quite tight in recent years, would help. The problem is the
complexity of monetary policy operations at this point. It's not as simple as just reducing the required
rate of return. The bulk of bank funding costs are determined by the deposit rate; this must also be cut.

Finally, the authorities want to make sure any new credit goes to the right sectors. This would require
some diligent administrative guidelines for the banks as well. All of this makes one wonder how
effective domestic monetary easing would ultimately be. It also does not factor in the possibility that
lower interest rates in the core banking system might add to growth in the shadow system.
For China, a weaker currency would be very helpful at present. It would build on the momentum
appearing in the export sector – the result of both a weaker currency and a stronger regional economy.
However, a weaker currency will be hard to achieve in a world of quantitative easing. Although the Fed
continues to taper, the European Central Bank is upping the production of liquidity while flagging the
possibility of a full-scale QE at some stage. Meanwhile, the Japanese may need to up their QE efforts if
they are to meet their inflation targets. The People's Bank of China may end up intervening in the FX
markets just to keep the yuan from appreciating.
The latest numbers suggest that China's economy is moving along at above a 7 per cent pace. If it
does show signs of faltering, the government may need to refocus on fiscal policy, as manipulating
monetary conditions appears particularly fraught at present. We have no reason to believe renewed
fiscal stimulus will not be infrastructure-intensive and therefore good for commodities. The Chinese
government has announced plans to build metro transport systems and redevelop shanty towns in the
central and western provinces.
Warren Hogan is chief economist at the ANZ Banking Group.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

ereal : Real Estate Markets | nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators |
ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News
Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140618ea6j0004l

Page16of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.