Australian junior miners optimistic on recovery despite continuous challenges

Drilling Down Under; Blog
Australian junior miners optimistic on recovery despite continuous challenges

SE
HD
BY
Angela Kean
WC 1,312 words
PD
10 October 2014
SN
SNL Metals & Mining Daily: West Edition
SC
SNLMMDW
VOL Issue: 82528
LA
CY
LP

English
Copyright 2014. SNL Financial LC

TD

ASX-listed mining and exploration companies at the junior end of the sector are becoming more
optimistic that the bottom of the cycle may have passed and there are a number of indicators to suggest a
pickup is on the cards, albeit a slow one.

At the launch of the 2014 Grant Thornton JUMEX report in Perth, Australia, on Oct. 8, Grant Thornton
Australia energy and resources partner Holly Stiles told attendees that there have been early signs of
improvement in the junior mining sector.

The JUMEX report is compiled from the results of a survey of ASX-listed mining firms with a market
capitalization of up to A$500 million, which accounts for about 755, or 35%, of the companies listed on
the exchange.

Two-thirds of the 100 companies that responded to the survey are either experiencing improved investor
interest or expect to see an improvement over the next 12 months. Meanwhile, 72% anticipate an
increase in the price of their core commodity over the next year, compared to 56% in 2013.

Some also expect transaction values to improve, with 11% of respondents confident of stronger valuations
on capital raisings and a diminishing need to significantly discount equity prices.
Stiles said that while equity challenges will continue in the 2015 financial year, there is perhaps a little bit
of optimism about share prices. "That came up as the No. 2 issue for 2014 and it has dropped to No. 5 for
this year," she said.

Patersons Securities' director of corporate finance, Michael Atkins, who is also chairman of Azumah
Resources Ltd. and Legend Mining Ltd., pointed to the rising level of capital raised by Patersons during
the third quarter as an indicator of a more confident approach to equity raisings.

"We've got, I think, a fairly positive start to the second half of 2014," he said. "Patersons would not have
been as busy as we are at the moment with capital raisings for probably three years."
For the nine months to Sept. 30, the Australian stockbroker raised A$267 million for junior mining and
exploration firms, which is just shy of 2x the A$135 million it raised in the first six months of 2014.
Atkins noted that there are a lot of small raisings of around A$1 million to A$1.5 million being done.
M&A set to rise

A further indicator that a potential recovery is close at hand is the number of companies seriously
considering some type of transaction.

According to the report, 52% of juniors are considering a joint venture, 42% are considering the
acquisition of a project and 16% are considering a takeover or corporate acquisition. Only 19% are not
anticipating a major corporate transaction in the next 12 months.

"The third-highest priority for funds from the next fund-raising is acquisitions, after exploration and working
capital, which suggests that JUMEX companies are actually now a little bit more serious about these
transactions and there may be a little bit of an uptick in M&A activity," Stiles said.

Page201of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Also highlighting increasing optimism is the fact that 68% of survey respondents have an exploration
program planned for the 2015 financial year.

Policy issues still linger
Despite the repeal of the controversial carbon and mining taxes by the Australian government, regulatory
issues are still anticipated to be the third-most significant constraint to business in the current financial
year.

Western Australian Mines and Petroleum Minister Bill Marmion told attendees at the JUMEX report launch
that with the recent change in federal government, there needs to be real reforms in regulation and not
just a narrative which gives the impression of change.

"One such reform that is being touted is the one-stop shop and more work has to be done to ensure that
this policy is delivered without cumbersome caveats and I'll be keeping an eye on that," he said.

"Reforms need to stimulate activity and remove barriers to investment; in other words, to encourage
exploration and streamline approvals."

The Australian government's one-stop shop is aimed at creating a single environmental assessment and
approval process for nationally protected matters as a means of simplifying and speeding up the
approvals process. The government estimated the move would cut red and green tape, saving around
A$1 billion.
However, as in the case of the move to scrap the mining and carbon taxes, the introduction of the reform
has faced opposition from Palmer United Party, or PUP, senators, along with senators from the Australian
Labor and Greens parties.

"How bizarre is it when the PUPs and the Greens collude to try and throw out a federal mandate to sign
up each state and territory into the one-stop shop provisions after they've just had all the [memorandums
of understanding] signed off at each state level," Association of Mining and Exploration Companies, or
AMEC, CEO Simon Bennison said.

The federal government and AMEC are also still trying to get the exploration development incentive, or
EDI, bill, which was introduced at the start of July, through the Senate.

"The detailed legislation, let alone the regulations, is far from on the table, and we've been working in
current weeks with the Department of Treasury, [the Australian Taxation Office] and [Industry Minister] Ian
Macfarlane's office to get this through," Bennison said. "No one's more frustrated than myself at the time
it's taken.

"I can assure you we are still trying to advocate to make sure this gets through in the short term."
The EDI, which is capped at A$100 million over the next three years, is a refundable tax offset designed
to encourage investment in greenfields exploration in Australia.

Bennison also expressed concern over the potential outcome of the royalty review currently underway by
the Western Australian government.

The current royalty system applies a 7.5% rate for bulk materials crushed and screened, 5% for
concentrates and 2.5% for metallic form.

Western Australia was one of the states that increased royalties when the minerals resource rent tax was
introduced, but failed to lower them after the tax was scrapped.

In its review, the state government aims to examine the policy that revenue return from royalties is broadly
equivalent to 10% of the total mine head value of the mineral, to examine the extent to which the current
royalty rate's structure produces revenue that differs from the 10% benchmark, and to address any
anomalies identified in the royalty structure.

"This is not the time and it's not the place in which to be putting additional costs on top of industry at the
moment, and frankly, with all the economic modeling that AMEC has done, I believe there is very strong
case as to why the status quo should be sustained," Bennison said. "I hope common sense prevails at the
end of the day with this process."
However, despite the challenges that continue to face the Australian mining industry, Bennison remains
confident juniors will prevail.

Page202of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."I am more than confident that we are going to come out the other end," he said. "Sure, this is the
correction, if you like, that China had to have. It's filtered through; the world economy is going through a
tricky period, but to suggest that our industry won't be coming out through the worst of this in 2015 I think
is nonsense."

While there is a glimmer of hope starting to emerge, Grant Thornton's Stiles cautioned that the recovery
will be slow.

"I don't think anyone is expecting a dramatic pickup in investor interest, particularly for early stage
projects," she said.

"Any pickup is going to be slow, it's going to be erratic and it's going to be selective."

imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

IN
NS
RE
IPD Industry News
PUB SNL Financial LC
AN

Document SNLMMDW020141015eaaa0000v

Page203of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.