Dairy eyes on NSW?growth

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

EARLY GENERAL NEWS
Dairy eyes on NSW?growth

Andrew Marshall
669 words
18 September 2014
The Land
FTLAND
16
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

CHEAPER land and well-advanced plans to add export value to NSW milk are set to make the
State's Central West a growth zone for the Australian dairy industry in the next two years.
Although long overlooked by the milk industry as something of a "bridesmaid" State for
manufacturing, NSW's dairy potential is now being seriously reviewed by overseas investors, says
Dairy Connect NSW chief executive officer Mike Logan.

Part of the attraction was the State's dairy farmland values, which at $20,000 a hectare were
typically $30,000/ha cheaper than New Zealand, and well below Victoria and Tasmania.

Sea freight costs to Asia were lower from Sydney.
Mr Logan said the first of three proposed milk powder plant projects in NSW was on the cusp of
being signed off with foreign investment backing at Orange, and off-take agreements for powder
products had already been lined up with Chinese retailers.
Australia produced just 108,000 tonnes of whole milk powder last year (down 22 per cent on the
previous year), while China consumed 1.8 million tonnes, including most of NZ's 1.25m tonne
output.
With backing from energy supplier AGL, Dairy Connect's push to get similar small, but efficient
powder plants built at Gloucester on the Mid North Coast and Nowra on the South Coast was likely
to require up to 500 million litres annually for all three sites, lifting milk demand from NSW farms by
50 per cent within five years, Mr Logan said.
"We believe the Central West will be an enormous growth area for dairy within two years," he told
this month's Australia-China Business- Week forum.
"NSW represents a great chance to invest at a grass roots level, particularly for the Chinese
industry.

"We're showing investors we are competitive with NZ or Victoria or Tasmania and well-run farms can
make serious money."

He pointed to a relatively modest-sized, low-cost 300-cow Lachlan Valley farm milking 38 litres a
head daily (well up from the NSW average of about 26L/day).

"This bloke has a tax problem, so he's just bought the farm next door," Mr Logan said.
Given Chinese dairy retailers were now legally responsible for guaranteeing the quality of products
they sold, it made sense for Chinese businesses to co-invest in the entire milk supply chain.
Dairy Connect also wants to see NSW's emerging milk powder sector value-added with a nutritional
powder or infant formula production plant in Sydney.

Page50of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.While the Norco co-operative had broken new ground proving the credibility of NSW processing and
quality assurance standards with its much-applauded fresh milk exports to China, Mr Logan was not
convinced the fresh milk export advantage would last for long.

"We need to get into a market that's bigger and infant formula is certainly an area that's suitable for
NSW," he said, noting Chinese families were obsessed with the health and nutritional needs of their
children.
"The Chinese mum might seem like a nice enough lady, but she's the toughest and probably the
most well informed mother in the world when it comes to knowing about her child's health and needs.

"She's educated, connected, internet savvy and has an enormous impact on the marketplace when
making decisions about what's safe and good for her child."
Freedom Foods has also focused on servicing the needs of Chinese brands including Bright Foods
and New Hope, helping them build their quality credibility with Australian-sourced milk products.

"We focus on what we're good at making quality product and helping build the reputation of others'
brands in Asia," said managing director Rory Macleod.

"I don't think we can easily be good at taking our own brands to Asia when local companies already
have a market position, but our products can enhance their brands."

IN

RE

PUB
AN

i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i413 : Dairy Products | i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i0 :
Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
austr : Australia | china : China | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FTLAND0020140917ea9i0002y

Page51of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.