Bannerman poised for recovery as RCF watches

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Bannerman poised for recovery as RCF watches

475 words
9 April 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
First
2
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

Spurned by capital markets, and with commodity prices at multi-year lows, it’s been a tough couple
of years for junior uranium plays.

There’s been some recent interest in the sector after Japan’s February announcement of a draft
energy policy that could see it begin to switch on nuclear reactors that meet new safety standards
towards the end of this year.

Notwithstanding the environmental movement’s global opposition to the use of nuclear fuels, China’s
push to cut emissions in its industrial heartlands has also added impetus to suggestions uranium
could again emerge from its multi-year doldrums.
But the question of how uranium juniors push ahead until the markets begin a full recovery — not
tipped by most for another 12 to 18 months — has been a vexed one.

Bannerman Resources has given its shareholders some new milestones to watch, going back to
free-spending Resource Capital Funds for a fresh convertible note issue to help push ahead with a
pilot plant for its Etango project in Namibia.
It’s a small step. The plant will cost about $1.3 million this year to build and operate and will process
only 3000 tonnes of the low grade Etango ore but Bannerman hopes it will boost the company’s
chances of attracting the $US870 million needed to build the project if the market recovers next
year.

The main hope is that the pilot plant will show its processing flow sheet is viable outside of the
laboratory, where 90 per cent recovery rates have been seen, and lend weight to an argument that
its 2012 definitive feasibility study got the numbers right the first time round.

Bannerman modelled its DFS on an 84.5 per cent recovery rate, so any improvement on those
numbers at scale should help push the case that Etango should be first cab off the rank when the
sector’s development spigots are turned back on.
That same DFS was modelled on a $US75-a-pound uranium price. With spot prices below $US34/lb
and reports indicating contract prices, which historically run well above spot prices to help encourage
a long term supply, may have dipped beneath $US50/lb recently, there’s still plenty of clear sky
before Etango looks doable.
Bannerman also has to convince shareholders the $4 million convertible note deal is better than an
equity raising.
RCF already holds $8 million of Bannerman convertible notes, plus a 13.6 per stake.

Shareholders ticked off on the extension and conversion of the last tranche, with RCF approved to
emerge with up to 36 per cent of Bannerman at a 9.5¢ conversion rate, just shy of Bannerman’s 9.3¢
close.

Page31of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.‘Bannerman also has to convince shareholders the $4 million convertible note deal is better than an
equity raising.’ ”

IN

RE
PUB
AN

i1610109 : Electric Power Generation - Nuclear | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16101 : Electric
Power Generation | ieutil : Electric Utilities | iutil : Utilities
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140408ea490000f

Page32of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.