Asian funds lift dairy farm listing

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Asian funds lift dairy farm listing

Jared Lynch
297 words
29 October 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
41
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Agribusiness
Asian investment funds have dominated the share register of Australia's first listed dairy farm, which
began trading on the ASX on Tuesday after raising $9.3 million.

Of the 12 institutional funds backing Australian Dairy Farms, two are from Australia.
Company director Adrian Rowley attributed the lack of interest from local investors to complacency
about food supply. "I think they do take the food supply for granted here whereas in Asia it is a huge
issue and at the forefront of their minds," he said. "They understand the strategic value." The
company's shares rose 10 per cent to 22¢ in afternoon trade. Its listing has enabled Australian Dairy
Farms to settle two properties near Warrnambool and inject $2 million into its balance sheet.
Mr Rowley said the company was planning to buy another 12 farms in the region to meet its goal of
owning 14 properties that would produce about 50 million litres of milk a year by 2016.

Domestic investors have traditionally been reluctant to invest in agriculture assets because of the risks.
Mr Rowley said this spring had been drier than 2013. "However the local region where the existing
farms are located, colloquially known as the Golden Triangle, has lived up to its prime location
reputation in providing regular rain despite poor conditions in other Victorian and South Australian
locations."
Although media reports have suggested that Chinese investors are eager to buy dairy farms, Mr
Rowley said he had not noticed any transactions to support that.
Joshua Taylor, the chief financial officer of Australia's biggest dairy operation - Van Diemen's Land
Company - said although Asian buyers were interested, they were reluctant to directly to invest in dairy
farms.

RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020141028eaat00046

Page100of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.