Roy Hill kicks on despite Rinehart kids, ore price

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

TheNation
Roy Hill kicks on despite Rinehart kids, ore price

ANDREW BURRELL
687 words
21 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
5
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

the construction of Gina Rinehart’s prized $10 billionRoy Hill mine in Western Australia is now
two-thirds complete and not even the twin threats of fresh litigation and a plunging iron ore price
appear able to derail the massive project.

As Mrs Rinehart hosted her major investors at the site in the Pilbara yesterday, bankers to Roy Hill
said the project would be able to weather low prices and repay its $US7.2bn ($8.3bn) debt load
because it had been designed as a low-cost producer.

Analysis by investment bank UBS shows that Roy Hill has an estimated break-even cost of around
$US57 a tonne — below the current iron ore price of around $US70 a tonne.
Only Pilbara iron ore giants BHP Billiton ($US50) and Rio Tinto ($US45) have a lower break-even
price.
“Even at today’s iron price and exchange rate, they will still be able to comfortably service their debt,”
said one adviser to the debt package secured by Roy Hill in April.

“Roy Hill will also be a high-quality product, more akin to what BHP and Rio are producing in the
Pilbara.” Roy Hill chief executive Barry Fitzgerald said last month that he was not concerned about
the iron ore price, but the company was “comfortable with where it sat in the lower quartile of the
cost curve”. “I don’t stay awake at night worrying about the price of iron ore,” he said.

A Roy Hill spokesman said yesterday that the project had just passed the milestone of being
two-thirds complete and it remained on track to begin production by the end of next year.

He said Mrs Rinehart was yesterday escorting senior executives from Japan’s Marubeni Corp, South
Korea’s Posco and Taiwan’s China Steel Corporation around the construction site.

The three companies own a combined 30 per cent of Roy Hill, with Mrs Rinehart’s Hancock
Prospecting owning the remaining 70 per cent.

But the timing of Mrs Rinehart’s tour of Roy Hill could not have been worse as it emerged this week
that Mrs Rinehart’s two eldest children are disputing ownership of the project and alleging that their
mother did not, as she claims, discover the tenements that underpin the development.

Mrs Rinehart was accused in court documents of “fraudulent concealment” as well as misleading and
deceptive conduct, unconscionable conduct and breach of fiduciary duties.

Mrs Rinehart has previously claimed that she pegged the tenements in the Pilbara with Hancock
Prospecting’s chief geologist, Richard Paquay, on their “initial prospecting trip” to Roy Hill in 1992.

The statement of claim makes detailed allegations that Mrs Rinehart knew that a family-owned
company, Hancock Resources (HRL), had already applied to explore at Roy Hill at the time of Mr
Hancock’s death.

Page59of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In May 1992, HRL’s application for the Roy Hill exploration licence was rejected, according to the
statement of claim.

The Australian has seen publicly available documents which appear to confirm that HRL applied for
the tenements covering the Roy Hill project in 1991, well before Mrs Rinehart took control of Hancock
Prospecting.

According to the statement of claim, Mrs Rinehart was aware of HRL’s application and knew that HRL
could have filed another application for the licences to correct any errors in the initial application.

Instead, Mrs Rinehart applied for separate exploration licences covering the same area through
Hancock Prospecting. The licences were given to Hancock Prospecting in January 1993.

According to the statement of claim, Mrs Rinehart used her knowledge of the previous applications to
secure the tenements for Hancock Prospecting rather than HRL, which was owned by a family trust.
This allegedly benefited Mrs Rinehart and deprived the children of a stake in the Roy Hill asset.

Mrs Rinehart labelled the claims as false and an abuse of process.“I feel parents everywhere cringe
at this scene, watching extremely privileged children suing to get even more money unearned by
them, after their mother’s lifetime of hard work,” she said.

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | reqrmm : Suggested Reading Metals/Mining | redit : Selection of
Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141120eabl0001j

Page60of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.