Baosteel jostles for offtake

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Baosteel jostles for offtake

Nick Evans
439 words
7 May 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
Second
1
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

Baosteel’s desire for direct control of the output of a WA iron ore mine is emerging as the key factor
in its $1.4 billion tilt for control of Aquila Resources, with the company’s joint bid with haulage
provider Aurizon disclosing that the Chinese steelmaker made an offtake agreement a key
component.

Aquila boss Tony Poli is yet to publicly indicate whether he will accept the $3.40-a-share offer for his
29 per cent stake in the company he co-founded in 2000.

But it is becoming clear Aquila’s executive chairman is likely to be isolated by both of his joint venture
partners in the $7.4 billion West Pilbara iron ore project, with POSCO tipped to join American Metal
& Coal International in support of the Baosteel offer. POSCO and AMCI own half of West Pilbara and
Aquila the other 50 per cent.

The Baosteel-Aurizon bidder’s statement could be released later this week.

Senior POSCO executives in WA would not comment on the Baosteel offer yesterday.
But while the South Korean company has long been marked down as a potential seller of its 24.5
per cent stake in the Australian Premium Iron joint venture that controls the West Pilbara project,
sources close to POSCO suggest that could change if the Baosteel-Aurizon tilt results in an
ownership restructure.

Aurizon and Baosteel made it clear on Monday they intend to separate API’s assets.

Aurizon’s goal is to secure majority ownership of the rail and port infrastructure and Baosteel is
targeting Aquila’s half stake in the 40 million tonne-a-year iron ore mine.

That could strip the bulk of the capital costs from Baosteel, AMCI and POSCO, leaving them required
to find only $1.7 billion to develop the mine if they want no infrastructure stake.

Baosteel Resources chief financial officer Wu Yiming on Monday nominated a failure to agree over
offtake as a key frustration that led to its decision to bid for Aquila, rather than take a direct project
stake.

Aurizon proved more amenable, agreeing to cede Baosteel the right to 80 per cent of Aquila’s share
of West Pilbara’s output, in line with its total shareholding, if the bid is successful.

It is understood POSCO’s interest is similar. Debt stressed, POSCO baulked at paying a quarter of
the total construction bill.

Industry sources suggest a deal to contribute only to the mine development in exchange for
guaranteed offtake in proportion to its spending would be more palatable.

Page78of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Aquila shares yesterday gained 3¢ to $3.37.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

aqures : Aquila Resources Ltd. | baois : Shanghai Baosteel Group Corp | pohn : Posco Co
i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining | isteel : Steel
Production
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140506ea570000f

Page79of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.