Corporate: FCL digests Australand amid market unease

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Corporate: FCL digests Australand amid market unease

By Goola Warden
1,751 words
8 December 2014
The Edge Singapore
EDGESI
English
(c) 2014 The Edge Publishing Pte Ltd. All Rights Reserved.

Frasers Centrepoint Ltd’s acquisition of Australand has widened the scope of its business, but the hefty
price it paid could come back to haunt it, especially if strategists calling the top of the Australian property
market turn out to be right.
Lim Ee Seng, CEO of FCL, told analysts and reporters at the company’s recent results briefing that the
opportunity to expand regionally by acquiring Australand was too good to pass up. “We had been
planning on achieving several key strategic initiatives over the medium term, such as more overseas
income and recurring income as well as enhancing our operating platform in Australia, and this
acquisition ticked all the boxes,” he said. “We had an organic plan to achieve our medium-term objective
but this would have taken five to 10 years to reach. This acquisition helps to achieve our target
immediately, bringing forward our five-year plan.”

Why the hurry to expand in a mature market like Australia? Lim says the country has “favourable
fundamentals” such as transparent regulations and strong corporate governance. And, while growth in a
developed market is bound to be slower than in an emerging one, Australand has a scaleable business,
he adds. “With scale and depth, we can do much more in Australia. This is what the acquisition is all
about.”

Chia Khong Shoong, chief financial officer of FCL, adds that Australand has steady cash flows, which
could help boost FCL’s financial stability. Australand was a stapled security, comprising a property trust
and a developer. In 1HFY2014, its investment property portfolio contributed A$97.8 million ($108.7
million) or 76% to total earnings before interest and tax (Ebit). A further A$38.8 million came from its
residential, commercial and industrial developments.

“When we bought it, one of the reasons was for its recurring income,” Chia says. He adds that FCL has
been exploring the expansion of its real estate investment trust (REIT) platform. However, the group
wants to ensure that the rest of the group is capable of generating recurring income too. “It’s a balancing
act that we think we can manage quite well.”

Yet, the relatively high price that FCL paid for Australand and the sheer size of the acquisition have some
market watchers worrying that the group might have bitten off more than it can chew. FCL paid A$4.48
per stapled security for Australand, or a total of A$2.6 billion. That was 6% more than Australand’s
shareholders’ funds of A$2.4 billion as at June 30. Most Singapore-listed property groups currently trade
at discounts of 25% to 40% to their net asset value (NAV). FCL is trading at a 26% discount to its book
value of $2.23.

As at Sept 30, FCL’s net debt-to-equity ratio stood at 0.95 times, versus 0.57 times a year ago. “Our
position reflects the acquisition of Australand and $600 million of perpetual securities issued in
September,” Chia says. The perpetuals were part of FCL’s medium-term note programme that was
upsized to $3 billion from $1 billion during an extraordinary general meeting on Nov 12.

Another concern is that FCL funded the acquisition of Australand largely with Singapore dollar debt,
resulting in a currency mismatch between its debt and assets. As at Sept 30, some 42% of FCL’s assets
were in Australia. Yet, Australian dollar debt accounted for only 30% of its total debt. Since the
acquisition of Australand was completed in September, the Australian dollar has depreciated 4% against

Page20of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.the Singapore dollar. According to Chia, for every 1% change in the value of the Australian dollar against
the Singapore dollar, FCL’s portfolio sees a $25 million to $30 million change.

Other concerns that have cropped up include the likelihood that the tax benefits Australand enjoyed as a
stapled security will no longer apply now that it is completely owned by FCL. Property trusts generally
have greater tax transparency than companies. FCL’s management has also indicated it will revalue
Australand’s assets only once every two years instead of annually, to keep costs down. As the last
revaluation was done in June, the next one will not be due until 2016. Yet, accounting rules require that
the goodwill FCL is carrying be tested for impairment annually. As at Sept 30, FCL had intangible assets
of $510 million, which analysts attribute mainly to the acquisition of Australand.

Addressing concerns

Chia sought to put these concerns to rest during FCL’s recent results briefing. For starters, he denies that
the group now has too much debt. “Given the capital-intensive nature of our industry, we believe a
sensible level of gearing is… about 0.8 to 1 times,” he says. Moreover, FCL plans to issue a further $600
million worth of perpetual securities, which would lower its gearing ratio from the current 0.95 times.

Chia also points out that FCL itself has $2.1 billion of unrecognised revenues from presales, and there is
a further $1 billion of unrecognised revenues at Australand. As these are booked as revenue and
earnings, it would lower the group’s gearing ratio. “Most of this will come in the next 24 to 30 months,”
Chia says. On top of that, FCL might raise additional cash by offloading some of its assets into its REITs.
“We talked about Alexandra Point as a potential divestment,” Chia says. Frasers Commercial Trust has
a right of first refusal to Alexandra Point, which is valued at $289 million.
As for the currency mismatch between its debt and assets, Chia indicates that the FCL group is looking
at the matter. “We will, over time, look at making adjustments to this position,” he says. “What we do
hedge is the income and cash flows.” He promises that there will be disclosure on this matter in FCL’s
next annual report.

Chia also says FCL will not necessarily suffer significantly higher taxes after acquiring Australand,
despite the loss of some tax benefits at the Australian unit. “We are going to achieve fairly similar tax
outcomes as to what it was before. It may not be as proficient, but we could get most of the way there,”
he says.

Stable in Singapore
Meanwhile, FCL is not doing too badly in Singapore. This year, it managed to sell some 480 residential
units from various developments. “Sales continue to move. All our current projects are over 95% sold,”
says CEO Lim. “We are one of the most efficient developers and are able to launch a project within six to
eight months of acquiring a plot of land.”

That quick turnaround means FCL’s projects tend to have a high level of presales before construction
even starts. “A high level of presales means we can fund construction costs with progress payments,”
Lim says. However, FCL has less room to do this with projects in overseas markets such as China and
Australia, where the development has to be completed before the company can book any revenue and
earnings.

At any one point, FCL aims to hold sufficient land for 1½ years of supply, or around 1,500 units. Last
year, FCL paid $1.43 billion, or $1,077 psf per plot ratio (ppr) for a site in Yishun that has been named
Northpoint City. Construction starts next year, and when completed, it will have 900 residential units
atop a shopping mall that will be integrated with Northpoint 1 and Northpoint 2. “The mall at Northpoint
City will be integrated with the two malls Northpoint 1 and 2 to form a new mall with half a million sq ft of
leasable area,” Lim says proudly.

Separately, FCL is developing an 800,000 sq ft Grade-A office block on Cecil Street, which could be
completed as early as 2017. FCL acquired this site in August last year for $924 million, of $1,112 psf
ppr.
At the moment, FCL has limited exposure to China. It is developing a logistics hub in Chengdu, and a
residential project in Suzhou. It is also developing a township in Songjiang, outside Shanghai, now
called Gemdale Megacity. Previously, FCL held a 100% stake, but divested 55% to Gemdale, after which
it was able to move sales.
Lim says FCL is approaching China cautiously amid the turmoil in its property sector, but emphasises
that the company cannot avoid trying to become a player in that market. “China is one country in Asia
that we cannot ignore, because of the trends of rapid urbanisation and rising wealth,” he says, adding

Page21of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.that the volatility could last for the next two to three years. “Building a base in China from bottom up
takes a long time and is not easy, and one of the best ways is to find partners you can work with.”

Analysts cautious

Many analysts are expecting a placement of FCL shares soon. Thai billionaire Charoen
Sirivadhanabhakdi now controls around 88% of the company and needs to loosen his grip to boost the
shareholding spread. Some market watchers expect to see some heavy trading of the stock and a rise in
its market price ahead of the exercise.

Yet, few analysts are making strong calls on FCL. In fact, although its results briefing on Nov 13 was very
well attended, only two reports have been issued so far. One is from DBS Vickers and the other is from
CIMB. Both research houses are recommending “buys” on the stock.

For its financial year to Sept 30, FCL reported a 30.7% decline in earnings to $500.7 million on a 33.2%
rise in revenues to $2.7 billion. The company declared total dividends of 8.6 cents per share for the
year, which translates into a yield of 5.2%. The dividends for FY2014 represented a payout ratio of 50%
The company’s policy is to pay out as much as 75% of earnings. “We have calibrated the payout, so we
hope not to disappoint,” Chia says.

CIMB forecasts a 14% rise in earnings to $571.7 million for FY2015. Shares in FCL are up 10.7% since
they listed by way of introduction in February. At current levels, they are trading at 8.25 times forward
earnings, and about 0.73 times FY2014 NAV of $2.23 per share. CIMB has a price target of $2.11,
representing a 30% discount to FCL’s estimated RNAV $3.02.

CO
IN

NS

RE

ceprol : Frasers Centrepoint Ltd | ahlaus : Australand Property Group
i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | i8500031 : Residential Property
Dealing/Owning | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest : Real
Estate | irreal : Residential Real Estate
cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | singp : Singapore | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
seasiaz : Southeast Asia

PUB The Edge Publishing Pte Ltd
AN

Document EDGESI0020141209eac800009

Page22of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.