CHRIS WALLACE

CHRIS WALLACE

By The Canberra Times

HD
BY
WC 778 words
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

11 October 2014
Canberra Times
CANBTZ
F005
English
(c) 2014 The Canberra Times

CHRIS WALLACE A capital vote of confidence

TD

A s spring unfolds this year, there's a sense around Canberra that, somehow, we've beaten the bastards.
The Abbott government did its best to crush our collective spirit with a series of mean policy decisions; the
third of the four most recent federal governments to do so. The Rudd and Howard governments were the
others. The Gillard government didn't do us any favours but at least didn't gratuitously whack us the way
the incoming Abbott, Rudd and Howard governments did. Yet we didn't crumble. Spring has taken hold
and spirits have lifted. They tried to get us but Canberra's now deeply rooted resilience got us through,
and the mood is up. Here are exhibits A, B, C and D from the alphabet of signs that not only have we
survived, but that the Canberra moment might be arriving, too. Exhibit A is the opening of NGA
Contemporary on the southern foreshore of Lake Burley Griffin. Ron Radford arrived in Canberra
determined to do many things with the National Gallery of Australia, and achieved a remarkable number
of them. Getting contemporary Australian art out of the "attic" - as he calls the top rear galleries of the
NGA building where it's housed now - was one of them. Not getting stage two of his redevelopment plan
up before completing his directorship, it looked like it he wouldn't manage it in any form. Then, on the eve
of leaving, came Radford's inspired takeover of an underutilised

National Capital Authority building within NGA strolling distance to showcase contemporary Australian art;
just until stage two is approved, funded and built, of course. A brilliant move. Exhibit B is The Code
running in prime time on Sunday nights on ABC TV. Could Australians get a visually sexier new look at
their national capital, or be more stimulated to think about what actually goes on here and what it means
for them and the world? I don't think so. The ABC executive who green lit The Code ought to get if not the
keys to the city, at least an arboretum grove dedicated in their honour. The producer, writer, director, art
director, cinematographer and key cast all ought to have streets named after them as a thank you. And
let's include the main title designer in that list; the titles are exquisite. The Code reveals to the outside
world what we've always known: from the coolest contemporary building (think John Curtin School of
Medical Research) to the daggiest fast-food caravan, from here to the coast, we live in an incredible
place. From David Wenham's evil deputy prime minister, to Adele Perovic's compromised hacker and Dan
Spielman's questing, caring journalist - yes, they exist - we've got good and bad like everywhere else.
We're not boring. Exhibit C is noted national food critic John Lethlean's recent reviews of Canberra
restaurants Monster, Aubergine and Temporada. Lethlean is one tough hombre as a restaurant reviewer.
Temporada's food was praised highly (though he bagged out the

allegedly more interested in each other than the customers staff). He eulogised Aubergine's food and
service while Monster had him in ecstasy. Is Monster's yabbie jaffle Canberra's defining dish of the early
21st century? Fun, cool, innovative, nutritious, delicious; yes, that's early 21st century Canberra to me.
Once it was hard to get even decent bread in Canberra. Now we not only pass but have restaurants that
thrill exacting Lethlean. That's significant. Exhibit D is how often Canberra and our region, the Monaro,
turn up one way or another in wider Australia these days. This month you can see Kryptonite, Sue Smith's
new play at the Sydney Theatre Company; billed as a love story for the Asian century, but equally a hard
look at Australia-China relations and contemporary gender relations. One of the two characters, Dylan, is
a Greens senator whose personal and political crisis is our daily bread and butter. While in Sydney, you
could drop into the Hughes Gallery in Surry Hills to see if the sole remaining Weed painting from Lucy
Culliton's just-closed Weeds of the Monaro show is still in the stockroom for sale. Culliton's other 26

Page158of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Weeds of the Monaro pieces all sold at prices ranging from $5000 to $9000. It was a great show. I look at
weeds in a different light now. Even though Culliton lives at the other end of the Monaro, where the
Monaro Highway crosses the Bombala River, Canberra is hers, too.

60968239
nlgllu : National Gallery of Australia
gcoart : Contemporary Art | gart : Art | gcat : Political/General News | gent : Arts/Entertainment
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RF
CO
NS
RE
PUB Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty Ltd
AN

Document CANBTZ0020141010eaab00043

Page159of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.