Corporate: Ground engineer Ryobi Kiso bets on more infrastructure projects for growth

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Corporate: Ground engineer Ryobi Kiso bets on more infrastructure projects for growth

By Michelle Teo
1,523 words
1 December 2014
The Edge Singapore
EDGESI
English
(c) 2014 The Edge Publishing Pte Ltd. All Rights Reserved.

Walk down the lower half of Cecil Street and you might come across six-foot-tall posts, each with a solar
panel perched on top. These posts, probably unnoticed by the hundreds of people who pass them every
day, are sensors driven deep into the ground. Powered by the solar panel, they perform critical tasks
which include the monitoring of ground vibrations, the strength and integrity of retaining structures
underground or of the buildings nearby; even underground water pressure and water table levels.

The metal casing, presumably housing circuitry, is labelled Ryobi-G, short for Ryobi Geotechnique, a unit
of ground engineering and piling specialist Ryobi Kiso Holdings. Ryobi Kiso’s CEO Ong Tiong Siew was
quite animated when describing the ground sensors and their applications during an interview with The
Edge Singapore. Ong says thousands of these sensors were deployed in the Chinatown area, for
instance, under Land Transport Authority contracts, as construction works for the new MRT lines take
place.
Ryobi Kiso has deployed other critical monitoring equipment around the island to measure, among other
things, the degree to which buildings here shake from an earthquake in Sumatra. Information and data
from these sensors are fed back to the ground engineer’s offices automatically using 3G Internet
connectivity. This means a much faster response in the case of an irregularity or emergency. “Before,
you’d had to wait until people complained,” Ong quips.

Ong, 60, is tanned from his years in the construction industry and his recent, frequent trips to Western
Australia where the company has expanded into building projects. A civil engineer by training, and a
former Singapore Government Merit Scholar, Ong started Kiso Engineering in 1988 with his brother
Teng Choon. The brothers then purchased specialist rock boring equipment from Japanese company
Ryobi, and Kiso Engineering became the first company in Singapore to have large-diameter rock boring
capabilities. In 1990, Ong and Ryobi Japan’s founder Shuntaro Shiga established Ryobi Kiso in
Singapore.
Today, the company works on a wide range of projects in Singapore’s infrastructure sector. The bulk of
its revenue, or some 75%, comes from piling services. Contracts included bored piling works for the
Singapore Flyer and eco-friendly piling for the Punggol Waterway HDB housing estate, as well as
infrastructure works for the Marina Coastal Expressway. It has won some $180 million worth of
contracts this year, including for foundation and geoservices for MRT works at Marina South for the
upcoming Thomson Line.

In recent years, Ryobi Kiso has expanded its construction activities overseas to Malaysia and Australia.
After its IPO in January 2010, it moved into property development and investment to diversify its income
base. The company has completed the first phase of a light industrial development within the
Ascendas-Protrade Singapore Tech Park in Binh Duong,Vietnam.

Challenges in construction
Yet, Ryobi Kiso has not fared well in the past few years. It made a loss of some $5 million in FY2014
ended June, after eking out just $441,000 in earnings the year before. Revenues were $140.2 million,
10% lower than in FY2013.

Page154of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The company attributed the poorer performance to cost overruns at its projects in Perth, Western
Australia, where it has been doing piling and geoservices works for a commercial redevelopment project
at Kings Square, and the Perth City Busport in nearby Wellington Street.

“We faced issues with labour, management and cost controls,” Ong explains. He adds, however, that
there have been improvements since the company relocated a team of senior managers to Perth to
oversee the projects about eight months ago. “We have put in controls and managed our costs better.”
Still, the experience wasn’t something out of the ordinary, he says. “When we venture overseas to
countries like Vietnam, Australia and Malaysia, there is always an initial phase when we have to adapt to
local practices and understand the conditions.”
For 1QFY2015 ended September, earnings attributable to equity holders of the company were 20%
lower y-o-y at $270,000, even though revenue was 34.6% higher at $48.8 million. Still, the results were
better than the previous quarter, when Ryobi Kiso recorded a loss of $3.35 million. Gross profit margins
for the quarter ended Sept 30 were lower than the year before at 13.2%. The company attributes this
partly to intense competition in the construction industry.

Indeed, Ong says the industry has been stuck in a low cycle for most of the past decade. In 2008 and
2009, the property market improved and construction activity picked up. However, along with the
building boom triggered by the two integrated resorts, came an excess of construction capacity that still
lingers today, Ong says. To make matters worse, the tightening of labour regulations over the past few
years has driven up contractors’ costs. “Competition in the piling industry is still very tough, and
companies are not operating at reasonable margins,” he laments.

And it may not get better any time soon for the industry. Ong notes that HDB is cutting back on the
building of new flats, given the bumper crop over the past few years, while private property investment
is also muted following the cooling measures implemented by the government that have curbed loan
values and raised the bar for foreign ownership of property. “So I would say the only hope is from the
infrastructure sector,” Ong states.

Infrastructure bet

The Building and Construction Authority (BCA) estimates that the total value of construction demand in
Singapore for 2015 and 2016 is expected to be between $25 billion and $34 billion a year. About 40%
of that is expected to come from civil engineering projects.

Ong is optimistic about the impending pipeline of work, pointing out that the prime minister had outlined
several ambitious projects in his National Day Rally speeches. These are located throughout the island,
and range from the expansion of Changi Airport where land preparation work is already underway, to the
rejuvenation of Jurong Lake District. There are also the addition of multiple lines to the MRT network, the
expansion of the container port at Pasir Panjang and various public improvement projects.

In Ong’s view, the stream of public works should continue regardless of the state of the economy or the
rate of investment in the private building sector. “In the past, you heard Japanese contractors complain
that our government started on infrastructure projects during market downturns, and managed to get
very cheap prices. There’s been a change in mindset, compared to 10, 15 years ago,” he explains.

“Looking forward, Singapore probably cannot afford to wait for the low market before coming in to build. I
think one of the problems we have is that we were not building much from 1998 to 2003. We chose to
build fewer HDB flats, we didn’t build our MRT fast enough, we didn’t build our expressways fast enough.
So can we continue to use that methodology?”

Apart from local infrastructure projects, Ong expects work to come also from Malaysia, where six new
highways in the state of Selangor, and a high-speed rail network are being planned. He believes that
infrastructure projects in Singapore and Malaysia will contribute strongly to Ryobi Kiso’s results.
At the same time, the company will continue to “consolidate” its business in overseas markets where it
already has a presence. Ong is particularly keen on emerging markets such as Vietnam and Indonesia,
where he sees potential in building affordable housing.

Indeed, last month, Ryobi Kiso announced that its wholly-owned Indonesian subsidiary had signed a
memorandum of understanding with an Indonesian construction company to jointly develop a plot of
land in Jakarta that has been slated for commercial and residential use.

For its industrial project in Vietnam, Ong says Ryobi Kiso will gauge demand before embarking on
subsequent phases. He says the first phase is about 70% to 80% sold. Meanwhile, it continues to look
for opportunistic property investments, such as its joint venture with Heeton Holdings to acquire a hotel
company in the UK.

Page155of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“The reason for our diversifying into different countries is to benefit from the different business cycles,”
Ong says. “In the last few years, when Singapore was in the low business cycle, our overseas
businesses were contributing 20% to 30% of revenue.” He adds, however, that Ryobi Kiso is unlikely to
expand beyond Asia-Pacific, as it could be more challenging to move manpower and equipment further.

Ryobi Kiso appeared on The Edge Markets’ Stocks with Momentum column last month after its share
buybacks sparked investor interest in the stock. Ong says the share buybacks are for employee rewards.

The stock is now trading at about 0.8 times its net asset value of 14.4 cents as at Sept 30, with a
dividend yield of about 2.8%. CSC Holdings, which also does major civil engineering and piling works, is
trading at about 0.44 times its net asset value.

Financial information on Ryobi Kiso Holdings is available to www.theedgemarkets.com/sg

CO
IN
RE

rkspl : Ryobi Kiso Holdings Ltd.
i503 : Special Trade Contractors | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction
austr : Australia | singp : Singapore | indon : Indonesia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific
| asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | seasiaz : Southeast Asia

PUB The Edge Publishing Pte Ltd
AN

Document EDGESI0020141202eac100007

Page156of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.