Developer to divest prime site

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Developer to divest prime site

292 words
26 September 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
63
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

GOLD Coast property industry figure John Potter has firmed up plans to sell a prime central
Southport asset.
The 3805sq m property, held for 11 years, is home to ANZ and HSBC bank branches, government
offices and LeisureCom travel group, and is recognised as a key redevelopment site.

It backs on to the Australia Fair shopping centre and is at 83 Scarborough St at the core of
Southport’s central business district.
The property was bought for $6.5 million by Mr Potter and Phillip George through company
Leadingedge (Pacific) No 3.

The fully leased, two-building holding was placed on the market in July and is now being marketed by
Lachlan Harris and Mason Kidman, from CBRE, in an expression of interest campaign closing on
November 5.

It delivers an annual net return of $1.02 million and leases expire over the next two years, providing a
holding income for the period required to assess development options and gain approvals.
The site sits within Southport’s Priority Development Area, which streamlines the development
approval process.

Also, under the city council’s 2015 town plan, the landholding is unconstrained by height limit or
residential-density restrictions.
“It represents a fantastic opportunity for prospective purchasers to secure a prominent site with
excellent return revenue prospects while a development application is processed, ” Mr Harris said Mr
Kidman said he expected to see substantial interest from Chinese buyers, both offshore and onshore.
“The establishment of the Southport Chinatown will no doubt attract attention as well as Asian
investment,” he said.“Chinatown is part of a broader plan to revitalise Southport as the CBD of the
Gold Coast that includes the city’s now operating light-rail rapid-transit system.”

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020140925ea9q0000s

Page19of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.