espresso

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Epicure
espresso

hilary mcnevin & roslyn grundy with Leanne Clancey, Michelle Potts, Gail Thomas
1,189 words
8 April 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
2
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Comme makes way
News that St Kilda's Stokehouse is moving to the city in May while the Jacka Boulevard site is being
rebuilt after the January 17 fire came as a surprise to staff at Comme, who will make way for the
Stokehouse team. "No one was expecting it but we're all understanding of the news," says Daniel
Southern, who has headed the Comme kitchen since 2009.

He will remain at the Alfred Place site until it closes on April 20 and is unsure what he'll do after that.

In a statement, owner Frank van Haandel said: "We thank Daniel for his understanding of the situation
that we find ourselves in. We are very sad and very reluctant to let him go ... Daniel has made an
extremely significant contribution to Comme, and we have no doubt he will be snapped up by a
respected operator in no time."

Last October, Espresso reported van Haandel was going into business at Comme with Maurice Terzini,
owner of Sydney's Icebergs, and his consultant chef Paul Wilson.

Terzini says he hasn't shut the door on the deal but has postponed it because of the Stokehouse's move
to the Alfred Place site.

"I've spoken to Frank and I told him to do what he has to do and we'll regroup in a year's time," says
Terzini. "You can't control what's happened here. The Stokehouse burned down and people's livelihoods
are at stake."

Comme will close on April 20, reopening mid-May as the Stokehouse after a Pascale Gomes-McNabb
makeover. Work is expected to start on the new St Kilda restaurant in July.

PICCOLO
■ Albert Park restaurant the Point has been sold to Chinese investors. Rabih Yanni, who has owned
the restaurant on Albert Park Lake since February 1996, says head chef Justin Wise and manager
Bryan Lloyd will stay on, while he plans to take a short break with his family before plunging into his next
venture. "I've done 80-hour weeks for the past 21 years; I'll definitely get back into it soon."

■ Scott Borg, co-owner of the Smith in Prahran, will join his High Street business partners, chef Michael
Lambie and restaurateur George Sykiotis, as co-owner and director of operations at their new city
venture, Lucy Liu's Kitchen & Bar, previously the site of Philippe Mouchel's French bistro PM24. The
140-seat Asian fusion diner is scheduled to open mid-June after a refit.

■ Stefano's head chef Jim McDougall is following up his first side project, the Black Stump Bistro at
Mildura's historic Settlers Hotel, with more of the same. He and Liam Wood have taken over the nearby
Red Cliffs Hotel, which will get a spit and polish before a second Black Stump Bistro opens there in
June.

Page144of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.■ Elwood restaurant Sails on the Bay (pictured) is marking 20 years in business with retrospective
specials drawing on some of its most popular dishes of days past, including Japanese hors d'oeuvres
(2004), and blue eye wrapped in kaiserfleisch with autumn vegetables (1995). On the menu since day
one is seafood melange, a four-course seafood extravaganza ($75 a head).

■ Craft beer bar Two Row, an offshoot of Richmond craft beer retailer Slowbeer, opened last week at
351 Smith Street, Fitzroy. To drink: rare and boutique craft beers, bourbons, whiskys and wines. And to
sop up the booze: grilled cheese sandwiches, including one in a pretzel bun.
■ Prahran-based catering company Tommy Collins is stepping up its food offering, hiring Emile
Avramides as executive chef and Michael Fox as head chef. Avramides has worked with Jason Atherton
in Gordon Ramsay's Maze in London and at Cutler & Co in Fitzroy, while Fox was The Age Good Food
Guide Young Chef of the Year in 2011, at Cecconi's.

Just Open

Fonda Mexican
Fonda Mexican's third and biggest site was unveiled in the CBD last week - splashing life and colour
across the sprawling Flinders Lane site that once housed Virginia Plain and, briefly, Mercy Bar + Eatery.
"We wanted this one to feel warm, casual and fun," says co-owner Tim McDonald (above, right, with
business partner David Youl). Design studio Techne has nailed the brief, giving the light-filled,
open-fronted 200-seater a vibrant fitout. CBD diners can now score the same fast, accessible and fresh
mod-Mexican that has made Fonda a hit with locals in Windsor and Richmond.

Fonda Mexican, 31 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, 8686 2660, fondamexican.com.au- Leanne Clancey

A month of yum days

Good Food Month is on its way for 2014, expanding this year to four states and territories (NSW,
Victoria, ACT and Queensland). Mega-star chef Ferran Adria (right) makes an appearance at this year's
first official Good Food Month event, a preview of planned events, today at Queensland's Gallery of
Modern Art.
And last week's competition to win a money-can't-buy invitation to meet Ferran Adria tomorrow night
attracted poems, limericks and even prayers, but there could be only one winner. Reader Cathy
Anderson will meet Adria at his only Melbourne engagement, a reception at the Essential Ingredient
Prahran.

Hatted Italian

Cecconi's has a handsome new look. Designed by Scott Mollard of Mollard Interiors, it's a combination
of clean lines, interesting textures and a palette of black, white and hints of copper.

In the cellar bar, black geometric print banquettes, black bentwood chairs and mink parquetry contrast
bright white walls and whitewashed timber tables edged in copper, remodelled by craftsman Don
Bennett, Maria Bortolotto's husband. Copper wedge wall lights spotlight photographs saluting Italian
heritage and

la famiglia.

Replica skygarden dome pendants and original marble bars link the more casual eatery with the elegant
linen-clad dining space clustered in plush black and white high-backs. Michelle Potts

Cecconi's, Basement, 61 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, 8663 0500, cecconis.com

The whole box and dice

Drop an artwork-adorned shipping container equipped with a kitchen into a vacant block off Geelong's
main drag, and lo! Instant cafe. Box Office has an enclosed deck with rustic furniture out front, a tiny
courtyard with faux lawn, potted herbs and a sandpit out back. The menu uses local ingredients such as
Barwon lamb in souvlakis and Otway pork in sliders, plus there's a cabinet full of sweets, and coffee
from Axil Coffee Roasters. Open Mon-Fri, 7am-4pm, Sat-Sun, 8am-4pm.Gail Thomas

Box Office, 77 Preston Street, Geelong West (no phone).

Northern Seoul

Page145of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The folk behind popular Abbotsford Korean restaurant Seoul Soul have flung the doors open on a stylish
Northcote outpost. Stop when you spot the pink neon signage. Inside, there is the moody, industrial-chic
fitout that co-owner and interior designer Insu Kim has made a signature, as well as some really good
bibimbap. Open daily for lunch and dinner (liquor licence pending). Seoul Soul, 315 High Street,
Northcote, 9481 3027.Leanne Clancey

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gfod : Food/Drink | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | skorea : South Korea | victor : Victoria (Australia) | seoul : Seoul |
apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140407ea480005c

Page146of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.