Apartment prices on way up

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Apartment prices on way up

TURI CONDON
464 words
9 August 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
27
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Property: The wave of apartment developments is stoking land and building costs across the major
capital cities, putting further pressure on apartment prices and seeding a potential boom-bust
scenario in some markets.
Veteran developer David Devine is selling a Brisbane site to a Chinese group for $46 million, more
than double the $22m he paid for the South Brisbane property in December.

While declining to comment on the sale of the former TAFE college, Mr Devine whose Metro
Property Development has 1465 apartments in the pipeline and another 1000 planned, said land
prices in Brisbane had risen 60 per cent in the past year on the back of strong demand from Asian
developers.
“The result will be that apartment prices will increase,” Mr Devine said. Former head of property for
Macquarie GroupBill Moss said the rash of development would push up building costs and flow on to
the price of apartments.

“It’s a classic building cycle. We don’t have inflation, sheer demand will send costs up.” The cost
pressures would take another year to build a head of steam, he said. But what could temper a
potential boom-bust scenario was ongoing Asian, and particularly Chinese, investment in Australia’s
residential market, Mr Moss said.
While offshore developers were contributing to the building boom, increasing demand from Chinese
buyers could put a floor under the local apartment market, he said.
“One of the biggest risks will be if Chinese buyers walked away from their deposits.” A report
released yesterday by property advisory group Deep End Services and previewed by The
Australian last month, estimated offshore-backed developers have 36,000 units either planned or
under construction in Australia.

The consultants expect the 60 separate offshore, mostly Asian, companies would build an average
of 6000 apartments a year in Australia between this year and 2018.

“As the projects become larger and take longer to build, we anticipate the number of completions is
likely to rise substantially in 2016 before peaking in 2017,” Deep End said.
Deloitte Capland Real Estate Advisory partner Damian Winterburn said less experienced developers
were likely to see margins squeezed.

“Eighteen months ago the building pipeline was very soft, but now they (builders) are busy and
looking at what business they will chase,” he said.

While Australian Bureau of Statistics figures showed a slight uplift of 0.3 per cent in construction
work for the March quarter, the volume of construction was expected to fall in coming years, Mr
Winterburn noted.

Page104of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.This would take pressure off the building trades as some moved from the commercial to the
residential sector, he said.
Mr Devine sees a strong apartment market particularly in Brisbane for the next three to four years.

PRIMESPACE P38

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

mcqbnk : Macquarie Group Limited
i814 : Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit |
ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140808ea890005t

Page105of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.