AMP Capital Infrastructure Debt Fund II beats target with US$1.1 billion final close

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

AMP Capital Infrastructure Debt Fund II beats target with US$1.1 billion final close

592 words
5 November 2014
ENP Newswire
ENPNEW
English
(c) 2014, Electronic News Publishing. All Rights Reserved.

Release date - 05112014
AMP Capital’s Infrastructure Debt Fund II (IDF II) has completed its final close, raising US$1.1 billion
during its fundraising period.

More than 50 investors from eight countries including the US, the UK, Germany, Switzerland, Korea,
Japan, Hong Kong/China and Bahrain have now invested in IDF II. In addition to the total amount
invested in the fund, which had a target of US$1 billion, AMP Capital has also secured additional
co-investment pledges of US$250 million.

AMP Capital Global Head of Infrastructure Debt Andrew Jones said: ‘This is a fantastic result for IDF II
and one that reflects the strength of AMP Capital’s infrastructure debt team, which has successfully
managed capital in this strategy since the 1990s. Not only have we received strong support from existing
investors, a significant number of new investors have committed to our infrastructure debt strategy for the
first time as part of this fundraising.

‘The outlook for infrastructure debt continues to be strong. There is an increased understanding of, and
interest in, the asset class. The recent volatility in markets around the world has also underscored
investor demand for investments, such as infrastructure debt, that offer stable and predictable yields at an
attractive level.’
AMP Capital has already called more than US$400 million in capital and secured five investments to
build out IDF II’s portfolio. Recent investments include subordinated loans to Canadian renewable energy
companyAlterra Power Corporation and US power generation facility Astoria Project Partners.

Mr Jones continued: ‘We are delighted that all of our key investment markets are contributing right now. A
strong pipeline of energy-related opportunities in the North American market at the moment is
complemented by increasing M&A activity in Europe, with the sale of a number of regulated utilities
across that region currently underway. We are also seeing some interesting resource-related
opportunities in the Australian market.

‘Our focus now is on deploying the remainder of the capital for IDF II and continuing to manage the assets
of our first and second debt funds.’

AMP Capital’s first infrastructure debt fund was closed to new investment in 2012 after raising US$500
million globally. AMP Capital has been investing in the subordinated debt of infrastructure assets since
1998 and now has a team of ten infrastructure debt investment professionals located in London, New
York and Sydney.

About AMP Capital
AMP Capital is a specialist investment manager with more than A$145 billion in funds under
management as at 30 September 2014 and more than 250 investment professionals. AMP Capital is one
of the most experienced global infrastructure managers with more than 20 years’ experience and over
100 infrastructure (equity and debt) investments globally since 1988. AMP Capital was one of the first to
invest in infrastructure when it participated in the financing of the Sydney Harbour Tunnel in 1988.

Page146of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AMP Capital’s European infrastructure business invests in a portfolio of infrastructure assets diversified
by European countries and sectors including, energy/utilities, transport, social and asset life cycles.

AMP Capital today manages unlisted and listed infrastructure investments in Asia, Europe, North
America, Australia and New Zealand. AMP Capital is a subsidiary of AMP Limited. Established in 1849,
AMP has more than 160 years of experience providing financial services, and is one of Australia’s largest
retail and corporate pension providers.

[Editorial queries for this story should be sent to newswire@enpublishing.co.uk]

CO
IN

NS

ampcil : AMP Capital Investors Limited | austmp : AMP Ltd
irenewf : Renewable Energy Facility Construction | i502 : Heavy Construction | i5020044 : Power Station
Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv :
Investing/Securities
gcha : Charities | npress : Press Releases | gcat : Political/General News | gcom :
Society/Community/Work | ncat : Content Types
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Electronic News Publishing Ltd.
AN

Document ENPNEW0020141105eab5000ch

Page147of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.