Clamour for property boosts retail trade

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Clamour for property boosts retail trade

Jane Harper
302 words
15 March 2014
Herald-Sun
HERSUN
HeraldSun
60
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

RETAIL FOREIGN buyers snapping up Australian property are helping boost the local retail sector,
according to new research.
Overseas investors pumped $17.2 billion into the residential property market in the year to last
June, the research shows, with the increased demand having a positive flow-on impact at the tills.

The report from property group Colliers International said higher house prices made consumers feel
more confident about opening their wallets.
“Increasing residential property values impact on how wealthy consumers feel and in turn their
propensity to spend,” Colliers head of retail Michael Bate said.

“There has also been a direct impact on retail spending, as many of these foreign buyers —
particularly the Asian buyers — are making the most of the lower Australian dollar to purchase their
luxury retail goods here in Australia.” The report found Chinese buyers were spending nearly $6
billion a year on Australian residential and commercial property.
Research published earlier this month by investment bank Credit Suisse showed Chinese buyers
have led an international charge into Australian property, investing $24 billion over the past seven
years.

Retail spending rose 1.2 per cent in January to $22.9 billion, seasonally adjusted, according to latest
figures from the Australian Bureau of Statistics.

It followed a rise of 0.7 per cent in December and 0.7 per cent in November. The Colliers report said
the weaker Australian dollar, which has fallen about 10 per cent against the greenback since August,
was a key factor.

Director of research at Colliers, Nora Farren, said a lower dollar discouraged spending on overseas
websites.“The good news for domestic retailers is that they are winning a greater proportion of total
online sales revenue, with around 74 per cent of online retail sales,” she said.

IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

iretail : Retail | i64 : Retail/Wholesale
e1107 : Retail Sales | ereal : Real Estate Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat :
Economic News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document HERSUN0020140314ea3f0005u

Page104of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.