NO HOLIDAY SPELL FOR METALS

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
NO HOLIDAY SPELL FOR METALS

ROBIN BROMBY, PURE SPECULATION
1,140 words
28 July 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
19
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

With zinc leading the charge, most have recovered in price NORTHERN hemisphere metals sentiment
seems to be holding up even as the Europeans head off for their favourite Adriatic haunts or rented
Tuscan villas, usually a time for commodities to go into snooze mode.
The good manufacturing numbers out of China helped and metals ripped away on Thursday. Friday
was considerably less frenetic. Aluminium signalled it may have been overbought and copper shed
$US49 to close at $US7120 a tonne — still, not too bad considering where the red one has been this
year. Nickel did well ending at $US19,200 a tonne (especially as stocks rose yet again to an all-time
warehouse record of 312,156 tonnes), lead firmed and tin made a three-week high of $US22,475 a
tonne.

But it was zinc that showed the rest of the complex a clean pair of heels. On Friday it nearly reached a
three-year high, flirting around $US2400 a tonne before subsiding to close at $US2390. It should be
noted that contracts on the Shanghai Futures Exchange are going through at $US278 a tonne lower
than the last reported Chinese price for delivered zinc metal, indicating sufficient inventories on the
mainland.

But we’re certainly at a position far better than many would have expected a few months ago. Of the
base metals, only copper is down on its January 1 level (and by only 2.6 per cent), tin and lead are
pretty well back where they began the year, but aluminium is up 12.5 per cent, zinc 16.2 per cent and
nickel a whopping 37.8 per cent.

No wonder the nickel star Sirius Resources (SIR) saw its capital raising heavily oversubscribed, the
company walking away with $189 million. Segue Resources (SEG), with its Plumridge nickel, also in
the hot Fraser Range district, will bank $2m and send back the other $1m it was offered. On the gold
front, GBM Resources (GBZ) rustled up $1.14m to keep the momentum going.
Speaking of gold, the doom merchants were out again on news Chinese buying had fallen dramatically,
which sent the price well below the $US1300 an ounce mark. But the jeering was still echoing in our
ears on Friday, when the metal suddenly put on $US18 to close at $US1311.
Deutsche Bank, which has been rather mixed on gold, put out an intriguing note at the end of the week
wondering who was behind the demand for gold of late.

“We are not sure where it came from,” the Deutsche note continued. In recent months, the bank now
believes, the obvious candidates — the central banks, as well as India and China’s rapacious
consumers — appear not to have been involved. After all, the latest figures from the China Gold
Association suggest demand fell by 20 per cent in the first half of the year and Chinese domestic gold
production grew by 10 per cent over the same period.

“Also, someone has been buying up goldmining stocks in a meaningful way since the start of 2014.” Can
you hear the plot thickening? And, concludes Deutsche, “it would strike us as odd, therefore, if the
sudden disappearance of long-term demand was more than just a temporary respite”.

Page148of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Hallelujah! The gold conspiracy crowd may just have a new member.

Scandium play soars INTEREST does seem to be switching back to the junior end as the majors
struggle with various problems from the iron ore glut to unwanted operations. Anglo American’s
first-half results out last week were fairly unimpressive and the company, along with partner BHP
Billiton (BHP), is now selling their manganese assets.
The ripper of the week, by contrast, came from a company capitalised at just $30m. Shares of Platina
Resources (PGM) closed the previous week at 5.2c. Then came Monday’s announcement that Inner
Mongolia Honfine Zirconium Industry Co had signed a heads of agreement to take 15 tonnes of
scandium from the junior’s Owendale project in NSW.

Regular Pure Speculation readers have been well-informed on scandium, the rare-earth used in many
applications from golf clubs to Russian fighter jets, and of which only about 10 tonnes a year is at
present produced. Late last year we noted that PGM had increased its scandium resource to 5700
tonnes. Scandium prices over the past four years have ranged between $US1400 and $US3700 a
kilogram (and the metal is complemented at Owendale by a large platinum resource, useful considering
the problems the South African producers are facing and the Russian miners may confront in the
unlikely event of Europe getting up the gumption to impose some meaningful sanctions). Anyway,
Platina’s shares gained 76.9 per cent on the news. Then, three days later, they rose a further 27.8 per
cent and on Friday they were up another 100 per cent to close at 23c.

Meanwhile the former scandium frontrunner Metallica Minerals (MLM) continues to look for an offtake
deal while it also pursues mineral sands and Jervois Mining (JRV) announced retesting of samples from
its scandium deposit showed higher grades.

Pencil in graphite GRAPHITE gets everyone very excitable, too. Buxton Resources (BUX) and junior
partner Montezuma Mining (MZM) got good price jumps on drilling results from the Yalbra project in
Western Australia while Talga Resources (TLG) became the first Australian player to make a sale of the
wonder material, graphene. Its Swedish graphite needs little work to process to graphene, while all the
others will require complex processing.

Still no news of the rumoured Glencore takeover bid for Syrah Resources (SYR) — well, we did tell you
not to hold your breath.

And we received this email from an industrial mineral consultant: “As far as I can make out, the actual
Western graphite producers aren’t exactly exploring in any way like the juniors as they have quite
sufficient resources. Even Imerys hasn’t made a sound about graphite which may say something.” The
Paris-based Imerys is one of the world’s biggest graphite processors.

New player THIS week’s minerals defector is Parker Resources (PKR) whose main purpose in life was a
farm-in opportunity at a WA gold project. Soon, though, it will be known as Ensurance after buying on
online insurance brokerage outfit.

But, for once, this is offset by a new resources entrant. Bisan (BSN), which has been interested in cotton
and turning plastics into diesel, has acquired a stake in — wait for it — a graphite project. This one’s in
Botswana. BSN stock was up 45 per cent on the news. The party roars on.

robin.bromby@news.com.auNo investment advice is implied and investors should seek professional
guidance. The writer does not own shares in any company mentioned.

NS

RE
PUB
AN

mnonfr : Non-ferrous Metals | mtin : Tin Markets | mlead : Lead Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets |
m142 : Metals Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140727ea7s0003u

Page149of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.