Fitch: New Zealand Subnational Ratings Still Underpinned by Institutional Framework 25 May 2014

HD Fitch: New Zealand Subnational Ratings Still Underpinned by Institutional Framework 25 May 2014
WC 1,079 words
PD
26 May 2014
SN
News Bites - Private Companies
SC
NBPRCO
LA
English
CY
Copyright 2014. News Bites Pty Ltd.
LP

NEWS BITES - PRIVATE COMPANIES
[Company Release] Fitch Ratings-Sydney-25 May 2014: Fitch Ratings says in a newly-published report
that the overall strength of the New Zealand institutional framework remains a major positive credit factor
for subnationals. The positive factors within the framework focus on substantial disclosure, including full
accruals-based balance sheet, income statement, cash flow and 10-year rolling long-term plan which sets
out revenue, expenditure and debt projections. It is a requirement that this plan be updated on a regular
basis. The reporting of financials is in line with IFRS, with all budgetary and financial information being
readily and promptly available. Fitch considers this level of disclosure and transparency to be optimal and
compares very favourably with international peers.

TD

There have been positive enhancements to the control and supervision of the subnationals with the
Minister of Local Government powers increasing dramatically. The Amendment Act 2012 to the Local
Government Act 2002, outlines six key powers the minister now has when considering whether to
intervene in a council's activities. These powers gradually increase, depending on the seriousness of the
issue.

Furthermore, lenders are protected by the local authority's ability to charge any assets to secure
borrowings, including property rates via a debenture. This allows for high levels of recovery. The report
also highlights some weaknesses including lack of prudential borrowing regulations. This could include
maximum debt to operating revenues and maximum debt servicing ratios, which allows for a more formal
overall control by the central government, with regards to the level of borrowing by local councils. The
government has introduced new regulations that require all councils to disclose performance against
benchmarks in their annual reports from FY14 onwards.

There is also no fiscal equalisation system in place, which would allow the weaker councils to improve
their overall revenues. This is mitigated by the fact that the majority of revenues such as property rates,
are less correlated to the local socio-economic profile.

The special report, entitled "Institutional Framework for New Zealand Subnationals' is one in a series of
Fitch's reports examining the institutional frameworks for subnationals in various countries which are
available on the agency's website at www.fitchratings.com. Contacts:

Matthew Wright Director +61 2 8256 0323 Fitch Australia Pty. Ltd., Level 15, 77 King Street, Sydney NSW
2000

Fernando Mayorga Managing Director +34 93 323 8407

Media Relations: Leni Vu, Sydney, Tel: +61 2 8256 0325, Email: Leni.Vu@fitchratings.com.

Applicable criteria, "Tax-Supported Rating Criteria", dated 14 August 2012, and "Local and Regional
Governments Rating Criteria", dated 23 April 2014, are available on www.fitchratings.com.

Click here for the full original announcement
COMPANY BACKGROUND

ACTIVITIES

Fitch Training Ltd. designs, develops, and delivers credit, risk, and corporate finance training courses for
individuals and corporate clients in the United Kingdom and internationally. Its training courses include

Page47of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.workshops for corporate; non-bank financial institutions, insurance, and banks courses; risk and capital,
and risk applications courses; and securitization courses. The company was founded in 1987 and is
based in London, United Kingdom with locations in Dubai, Frankfurt, London, Paris, Riyadh, Stockholm,
Beijing, Hong Kong, Singapore, Sydney, Chicago, New York, San Francisco, Sao Paulo, and Toronto;
and Washington, D.C. Fitch Training Ltd. operates as a subsidiary of Fitch Group, Inc.

BUSINESS NEWS ROUND UP

23 May 2014: Fitch: Turkey Rate Cut Sends Mixed Message, Highlights Risks
[Company Release] The Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey's (CBRT) decision to cut its main interest
rate while leaving other rates unchanged sends a mixed message regarding monetary policy that may
dent its credibility, and highlights the risk that policy reversals could undermine economic adjustment,
Fitch Ratings says. The CBRT on Thursday unexpectedly cut its one-week repo rate by 50bp to 9.5%,
while leaving its overnight borrowing and lending rates unchanged at 12% and 8% respectively.

Click here for the full original announcement

23 May 2014: Fitch Affirms Two Platinum Trusts at "BBB-sf"; Outlook Stable.
[Company Release] Fitch Ratings has affirmed Platinum Trust February 2013 Tranche II (Platinum Feb
13 II) and Platinum Trust March 2013 (Platinum Mar 13). The transactions are securitisations of
commercial vehicle loans in India originated by Cholamandalam Investment and Finance Co.

Click here for the full original announcement

23 May 2014: Fitch: Nordic Credit Markets Expect Bank & Sovereign Links To Remain, Despite
Resolution Tools
[Company Release] Fitch Ratings-London-23 May 2014: The vast majority of nearly 200 delegates who
attended Fitch Ratings' "Viking Tour" events this month said that sovereign support for domestic
systemically important banks (D-SIFIs) in the Nordic region remained as likely as before, or at least still
highly probable, despite the coming resolution tools being introduced to deal with failing banks. Over the
three events, held in Copenhagen, Helsinki and Stockholm from 7 to 9 May, just 2% to 7% of delegates
thought new resolution tools would make sovereign support less likely for D-SIFIs. The majority of
delegates (spanning 48% to 62% over the three events) also said they expect the Nordic high-yield market
to continue growing and that high-yield bonds would establish themselves as a permanent funding source.

Click here for the full original announcement

23 May 2014: Fitch Assigns Deutsche Bank's Additional Tier 1 Securities "BB+" Final Rating
[Company Release] Fitch Ratings-Frankfurt/London-23 May 2014: Fitch Ratings has assigned Deutsche
Bank AG's (A+/Negative/a/F1+) undated non-cumulative fixed to reset rate additional Tier 1 securities of
2014 a final rating of "BB+". The rating is in line with the expected rating assigned on 2 May 2014. KEY
RATING DRIVERS The notes are additional Tier 1 (AT1) instruments with fully discretionary coupon
payments and are subject to a write-down if Deutsche Bank breaches a 5.125% Basel III common equity
Tier 1 (CET1) ratio.

Click here for the full original announcement
21 May 2014: Fitch: China's New Cross-Border Guarantee Scheme a Market Positive.
[Company Release] Fitch Ratings-Shanghai/Singapore-20 May 2014: Fitch Ratings says China's
relaxation of restrictions on cross-border debt guarantees is a positive development for the offshore
Chinese bond market as it simplifies the regulatory and administrative process for onshore corporates to
register their offshore debt guarantees with the foreign-exchange regulator.

Click here for the full original announcement

NS

RE

c1521 : Analyst Comments/Recommendations | c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | npress :
Press Releases | c15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat
: Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
uk : United Kingdom | nz : New Zealand | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | nswals : New
South Wales | weurz : Western Europe

IPD ACTIVITIES; BUSINESS NEWS ROUND UP

Page48of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB News Bites Pty Ltd (Europe)
AN Document NBPRCO0020140526ea5q000b5

Page49of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.