AIRLIE AWAKENING AIRLIE TO BE INVESTMENT HOLE-IN-ONE

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
AIRLIE AWAKENING AIRLIE TO BE INVESTMENT HOLE-IN-ONE

CHRISTIE ANDERSON
669 words
1 November 2014
Townsville Bulletin
TOWNBU
Townsville
4
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

AIRLIE BEACH, A LONG-TIME HOT SPOT FOR INTERNATIONAL BACKPACKERS, IS ABOUT TO
REINVENT ITSELF WITH SEVERAL EXCITING DEVELOPMENTS, REPORTS CHRISTIE
ANDERSON.

AIRLIE BEACH is tipped to transform from backpacker central to a high-class tourism destination, with
Chinese investors spending up big to develop the coastal town.

Several exciting new developments are either in progress or on the drawing board.
A “Chinatown” development is on the cards, with its own Buddhist temple to attract cashed-up Asian
tourists.

A multi-million-dollar golf course is under construction to help attract the luxury market.
Chinese consortium bids of up to $5 billion dollars have been received for the Whitsundays to be
granted a casino licence, while the council is keen to upgrade the airport to international status.

Whitsunday Regional Council Mayor Jenny Whitney said Airlie Beach was undergoing a huge
transformation after attracting interest from new investors who have been dubbed “the flash pack”.
“The Chinese have identified there is opportunity in Whitsundays and there is more than one brand of
Chinese companies interested,” she said.

“One of the groups expressed interest in an integrated resort development to do a Buddhist temple and
Chinatown development but at this stage we haven’t received a development application.

“I think it’s very positive we are seeing growth within Airlie Beach and Cannonvale.” Work has recently
finished on the multi-million-dollar Whisper Bay development by Chinese company Nanjing
Construction.

The development includes 104 luxury waterfront buildings on the Airlie Beach foreshore with views of
the Coral Sea and Whitsunday Islands.

Ground has also been broken on a $70 million ONE Whitsundays resort development at Shingley
Beach.

The planned luxury, five-star resort will be the first of its kind in the area and comprises 75 strata-titled
apartments with many attracting price tags of up to $3.2 million.
The resort will be run as a hotel complete with restaurants, a spa and 300 person conference centre,
and is expected to be opened within two years.

Page157of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.ONE Whitsundays CEO John Zappia said he was predicting Airlie Beach would become the next
investment hot spot and the resort would take advantage of the region’s spike in tourism.

“Airlie Beach is on the brink of huge economic growth,” he said. “Given the recent infrastructural
developments in the area, and the fact that occupancy rates are already going through the roof, this is
an imminent boom investment opportunity.” Work is well in progress on Airlie Beach’s $500 million golf
course, with the driving range opening earlier this week.
The 18-hole golf course will form part of the Regatta Waters residential development and will be
available for use by locals and visitors, but it is hoped the facility will be a drawcard for tourists.
Regatta Waters will ultimately comprise 2500 residential lots made up of traditional homes, villas,
townhouses and apartments and will include a gym, Olympic-sized heated lap pool, tennis court, resort
pool, saunas and spas.

The upmarket development has attracted interest locally, from interstate buyers and international
investors, and 26 of the 49 lots in stage one have already been sold.

Ray White project marketing manager Steve Marks said the golf course would be a valuable asset for
the region.

“There hasn’t been an accessible golf course in Airlie Beach for over eight years, which just isn’t good
enough,” he said.

“This is a major coup for the region and a golf course is a huge tourism pull.” Mr Marks said he was
predicting property prices in Airlie Beach would soon rise.

“Things you’d have on the market for months and months are moving in 30 to 60 days,” he said.
“The first stage of recovery is an increase in transactions and we are already seeing that.“There is an
abundance of development sites sold in the last three of four years and the sites are going very well in
terms of pricing.”

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gtour : Travel | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document TOWNBU0020141101eab10000v

Page158of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.