Canada's loss is Australia's gain in Saputo bid for WCB

Ian Lee, Assistant Professor at Carleton University

HD Canada's loss is Australia's gain in Saputo bid for WCB
BY
WC 927 words
PD 12 January 2014
SN The Conversation
SC CONVAU
LA
CY Copyright 2014. The Conservation Media Group.
LP

English

TD

Canadian dairy giant Saputo Inc has lifted its stake in Warrnambool Cheese & Butter, as it creeps up the
register following its A$504 million bid for Australia’s oldest dairy producer.
Saputo is pitted against well-known Australian dairy cooperative, Murray Goulburn, which is seeking
approval from the Competition Tribunal, arguing the net public benefit of its takeover would outweigh any
anti-competitive effects. Saputo’s bid is favoured by WCB’s board.

Australians are probably curious about who Saputo is and what it is trying to do in attempting to enter the
Australian market, so far from its home base in Canada.

The strategic issue facing Saputo is fundamentally the issue facing many firms in Canada. Europe
represents Canada’s past while the US represents Canada’s present but Asia represents Canada’s future.
Of course Australia understood this much earlier than other western countries.

In a remarkable speech given by the Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney shortly before he departed
for the UK to become the Governor of the Bank of England, he strongly urged Canadian firms to adopt
“trade diversification” strategies by seeking business opportunities in Asia. Throughout the 20th century
and to the present, the US accounts for 75% to 80% of the totality of Canada’s exports.
Saputo understands that Asia, and more specifically China, is its future.
And this is where the policy history facing Saputo comes in. The critical input – milk – is far too costly in
Canada due to our destructive supply management policy, meaning Saputo’s leaders have realised they
need to enter Australia to establish a base there to target exports to China.

Against all odds
Saputo started out as a small family-owned company established by Italian immigrants to Canada in
1954, led by the family patriarch Giuseppe Saputo who had been a master cheese maker in Italy. That in
itself is not unusual. What is unusual is that the Saputo family firm grew in the following 70 years from its
base in Montreal, Quebec – Canada’s second largest city – to a very successful multinational with over
CA$7 billion in sales.

https://c479107.ssl.cf2.rackcdn.com/files/38782/width237/69nm58qx-1389310667.jpg
However, even more unusual is that Saputo was not acquired by a larger firm – so often the case in
Canada - but continued to grow while being led by père Saputo and then his children.
The success of this company was improbable because it was based in Quebec. Shortly after Saputo’s
founding in 1954, the French-speaking province underwent “la revolution tranquille” or the Quiet
Revolution with the election of a new interventionist Liberal government in 1960, based on the principle of
“maîtres chez nous” or “masters of our own house”.

Over the next 50 years, successive Quebec governments – both separatist and federalist provincial
governments - steadily ratcheted up corporate and personal taxes to finance state intervention in the
economy such as Hydro Quebec. Quebec now has the dubious distinction of having some of the highest
tax rates in North America, coupled with restrictive laws that compel the use of the French language in the
workplace, making it difficult to recruit people from outside Quebec.

Supply management

Page78of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.If this was not a hostile enough climate for business, in the late 1960s the federal liberal government in
partnership with provincial governments and aggressive lobbying by the dairy farmers led to the adoption
of “supply management” designed to restrict the supply of milk using quotas to drive up the price of milk
to farmers. Australians have their own experience with supply management and indeed wisely decided to
terminate it in 2000.

However, sadly, in Canada, every political party continues to support supply management, milking and
plucking 35 million Canadians to enrich 12,000 multimillionaire dairy farmers. Numerous economists,
every think tank, and even the OECD have condemned this pernicious, destructive, and irresponsible
policy, which has increased the price of dairy products in Canada by 50% to 100% over equivalent US
products. All to no avail.

https://c479107.ssl.cf2.rackcdn.com/files/38783/width668/mg5xntqw-1389310828.jpg

A formidable investor
Notwithstanding the significant increases in milk prices, Saputo has grown gross revenues to CA$7.3
billion, becoming one of the 10 largest dairy processors in the world, the largest in Canada, third largest
in Argentina and one of the top three cheese producers in the US.
Today, Saputo produces and distributes a broad range of dairy products in Canada, the US, Argentina
and Europe. Its products include cheese, fluid milk, yoghurt, cream products, culture products, dairy
ingredients and snack cakes.
However, dairy products account for 98% of Saputo revenues while grocery products account for only 2%.
Canada, Europe and Argentina account for 56% of its dairy revenues while US dairy sales account for
42%.
Saputo’s brands, sold in more than 40 countries, include Alexis de Portneuf, Armstrong, Baxter,
Dairyland, Dragon, DuVillage 1860, Friendship, Frigo Cheese Heads, Great Midwest, King’s Choice,
Kingsey, La Paulina, Milk2Go, Neilson, Nutrilait, Ricrem, Salemville, Stella and Treasure Cave.
If Saputo acquires WSB, it will invest in new capital equipment in Australia to target the Chinese market,
thereby benefiting Australia’s economy and workers.

Canada’s destructive agricultural supply management policies could be Canada’s unwitting gift to
Australia.
Ian Lee does not work for, consult to, own shares in or receive funding from any company or organisation
that would benefit from this article, and has no relevant affiliations.

CO mryglb : Murray Goulburn Co-operative Company Limited | sapgrp : Saputo Inc
IN

i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy Products | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | cana : Canada | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North America

NS
RE
PUB The Conversation Media Group Limited
AN Document CONVAU0020140113ea1c0000b

Page79of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.