TSB shows growth TSB Bank reported its deposits have increased by over 4 per...

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

TSB shows growth TSB Bank reported its deposits have increased by over 4 per...

514 words
31 May 2014
Hawke's Bay Today
APNHBT
English
Copyright 2014 APN New Zealand Ltd - Regionals. All Rights Reserved

TSB shows growth TSB Bank reported its deposits have increased by over 4 per cent. Its lending
portfolios also increased by nearly 8 per cent. The bank's made a pre-tax profit of nearly $68 million.

Protest on bottle ban The Brewer's Guild of New Zealand has serious concerns about local authorities
proposing a ban on sales of single bottles of beer at off-licence premises. Auckland, Marlborough and
Rotorua are considering the bans. President Ralph Bungard says this is a crude way to try to deal with
the issues and will be bad for consumer choice and sensible and moderate drinking habits.

Australia to miss out? Australia's tourism industry has to lift its game if it is to capture China's new class
of globe-trotters, says Crown chief executive Rowen Craigie. The number of Chinese travelling overseas
had grown 10-fold to 100 million since 2000 and was expected to double again, he said. "If Australia
doesn't get its act together it won't capture a market share it otherwise would," he said.
Less for Synlait Synlait Milk has revised its forecast profit for this year downwards by $7.5 million from a
range of $25-$30 million, to a somewhere between $17.5 million and $22.5 million, partly blaming the
high dollar.

Flightpath efficiencies A draft report on a new flightpath trial at Auckland Airport says aircraft using the
SMART flightpaths flew 25,000 fewer nautical miles, resulting in a 739,000kg reduction in carbon-dioxide
emissions and a 234,000kg reduction in fuel use. Noise levels over residential areas are only slightly
higher by three decibels.

Fewer building permits New Zealand building consents issued for residential housing, excluding
apartments, fell 5.2 percent in April following strong gains the previous two months as activity slowed due
to public holidays. The number of consents for new houses, excluding apartments which can be volatile,
fell to a seasonally adjusted 1720 in April. Lew buys into Jones Billionaire Premier Investments chairman
Solomon Lew has taken a small stake in David Jones, potentially complicating a takeover deal for the
department store chain. Earlier this month Australia's Foreign Investment Review Board gave the
go-ahead for South African retailer Woolworths Holdings' $2.15 billion takeover of David Jones.
Packer eyes China Billionaire James Packer is keen to do more business in China and says while he
prefers democracies, the Chinese government is doing the right thing by its people. Mr Packer also
predicted massive opportunities in Chinese films while appearing via a video interview at the Australia in
China's Century conference in Melbourne.

Rise of the phablet Global sales of tablet computers are likely to slow this year, hurt in part by saturation
and adoption of large-screen smartphones or "phablets", research firm IDC said. The emergence of
phablets is "causing many people to second-guess tablet purchases as the larger screens on these
phones are often adequate for tasks once reserved for tablets."

CO
IN

NS

ltsp : TSB Banking Group PLC | tsb : Lloyds Banking Group PLC
itablcm : Tablet Computers | i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | i3302011 : Portable Computers |
icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware | itech : Technology | i3454 : Personal Electronics | ielec :
Consumer Electronics | ihandaps : Handheld Electronic Devices | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial
Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
gcat : Political/General News

Page195of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

nz : New Zealand | china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

PUB APN New Zealand Ltd - Regionals
AN

Document APNHBT0020140530ea5v0002n

Page196of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.