Patent puts a plug in Penfolds sales

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Patent puts a plug in Penfolds sales

Angus GriggAFR correspondent
569 words
6 August 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
16
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Shanghai Treasury Wine Estates' top-selling Penfolds brand has been removed from all
InterContinental Hotels in China, amid fears those selling the wine could be liable for damages in a
long-running trademark dispute.
The removal is a blow to the takeover target's China strategy and raises fears other large hotel
chains, supermarkets and online stores may follow in suspending sales of Australia's best known
wine.

InterContinental, which has 214 hotels across China, removed Penfolds from its wine lists last week
citing legal advice.

"I would ask you to pull your Penfolds branded wines off your menus until further notice," Tim
Stanhope, the director of food and beverage operations, said in an email to managers on July 28.
"We don't want to be involved in any further law actions."
The Australian Financial Review reported on July 13 that Penfolds had failed to register its Chinese
name and was now locked in a legal battle with a notorious trademark squatter to reclaim it.
Penfolds said it had won an initial court case against the man, but the ruling was being appealed
and the matter ongoing.
Penfolds is up against the same squatter who won a record 33.73 million yuan ($5.8 million) from
French wine giant Castel, after he registered its Chinese name.

In a phone conversation, Mr Stanhope confirmed InterContinental had stopped selling Penfolds
wine and said the company was being cautious.

An industry source estimated the InterContinental contract could be worth around 5000 cases
annually to Penfolds or around 5 per cent of its total shipments to China.
"Do you want to take the risk of being sued or do you just find another brand to sell? Lets be frank,
there are plenty of other brands," said the wine industry source.
The InterContinental decision comes amid a deteriorating business environment for foreign
companies in China, who are increasingly being targeted by regulators and the state controlled
media.

In recent months, United States tech firms Microsoft and Qualcomm have come under investigation
for anti-competitive behaviour, while Apple and Starbucks have been singled out for heavy criticism
in the media.
In this environment, many foreign business are being overly cautious.

Page180of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In his email, Mr Stanhope said under Chinese law outlets which sold goods found to have infringed
a trademark were also considered to be have broken the law. "Therefore in order to play it safe, it's
better that hotels stop selling the wine until there is a court judgement announced," the email said.
This could be months if not years away as Treasury began legal action to reclaim its Chinese name,
Ben Fu, in 2011.

Treasury representatives were not available for comment.
A search of China's trademarks office found three variations of Penfolds' Chinese name, which
loosely translates to "chasing prosperity", have been registered. The last of these was approved in
December 2013, more than two years after Treasury began legal action to reclaim the name.

The trademarks are held by Li Shen and Li Daozhi, both from the coastal city of Wenzhou and are
thought to be related. Li Daozhi won the record trademark claim against Castel in August last year
after registering the French giants Chinese name, Kasite.
He now markets his own wine under the Kasite brand in China in direct competition to the French
wine maker.

inhogr : InterContinental Hotels Group PLC | trzwn : Treasury Wine Estates Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i426 : Wine | i66 : Hotels/Restaurants | i665 : Lodgings | i6651 :
Hotels (except Casino)/Motels | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks |
icnp : Consumer Goods | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality | itourm : Tourism
ctmark : Trademarks | c133 : Patents | cgymtr : Intellectual Property | ccat : Corporate/Industrial
News | cinprp : Industrial Property Rights (Patents/Trademarks)
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140805ea8600021

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page181of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.