Hong Kong lawmakers demand inquiry into city leader's payoffleung says the transaction occurred before #124he took office

HD

WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Hong Kong lawmakers demand inquiry into city leader's payoffleung says the transaction
occurred before #124he took office
637 words
6 November 2014
The Nation
THENAT
English
(c) 2014 Nation Multimedia Group Public Co., Ltd

Agencies
HONG KONG

Hong Kong's democratic lawmakers called for an official inquiry into the city's embattled leader
yesterday, saying that he "has no political integrity" after receiving large undeclared payments from an
Australian company.
It came hours after the territory's former governor Chris Patten criticised Hong Kong's lack of leadership
in the face of mass democracy protests, which have lasted more than a month.

Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying's approval ratings are at an all-time low as demonstrators continue to
occupy key parts of the city.

Adding to his woes, Leung was forced to deny allegations made by an Australian newspaper last month
that he had failed to declare HK$50 million (Bt212 million), which he received from Australian
engineering company UGL while in office.

The payments relate to a deal struck in December 2011, months before Leung took office, but a week
after he announced his candidacy, during UGL's purchase of insolvent property services firm DTZ, for
which Leung was director and chairman of its regional operations.
Leung's office has said the deal was "a confidential commercial arrangement and a standard business
practice" which did not need to be declared.

But accusations of dishonesty continue to dog him.

"Leung Chun-ying has no political integrity at all ... until now he hasn't made it clear why he didn't make
a declaration," lawmaker Claudia Mo said yesterday in the Legislative Council, the city's de facto
parliament.

Mo put forward a motion backed by more than 20 other lawmakers for a select committee to investigate.
A complaint by members of the city's Democracy Party has already been lodged with the city's
corruption bureau.

"Obviously there is something he can't say. Are there details that he doesn't dare come out to talk
about? It's not clear to Hong Kong people what he has been doing," Mo said.

Speaking before the UK parliament's Foreign Affairs Committee late on Tuesday, Patten, the last British
governor of the territory, said that there was a "seriously sad" and "extraordinary lack of leadership" from
the chief executive in response to the protests which have gripped the city.

"The worry now is that it's become increasingly difficult for anybody to climb down," he said.

Beijing ruled in August that candidates for the city's next leadership elections in 2017 must be vetted by
a loyalist committee in what protesters call "fake democracy".

Page123of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The student movement calling for full democracy for Hong Kong are hoping to take their protest to
Communist Party rulers in Beijing and are expected to announce details of their new battle plan today.

The plan signals a shift in the focus of the protests away from the government which has said it has
limited room for manoeuvre. But China is highly unlikely to allow any known pro-democracy activists
into Beijing, especially if the trip coincides with this weekend's Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (Apec)
forum there.

"I think one of the ways we can solve this problem is to go to Beijing personally and have a direct
dialogue with Beijing officials on this matter since the [Hong Kong] government claims that all decisions
have to be passed up to the NPC," Alex Chow, leader of the Hong Kong Federation of Students
(HKFS), said last week, referring to China's parliament, the National People's Congress.
The protesters blocked key roads leading into three of Hong Kong's most economically and politically
important districts for weeks.

The HKFS has not said whether its planned trip was to coincide with Apec, which would mean, if
allowed, it would take place in front of an audience of world leaders.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gpir : Politics/International Relations | gcat : Political/General News
china : China | hkong : Hong Kong | austr : Australia | beijin : Beijing | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Nation News Network Co., Ltd.
Document THENAT0020141106eab60000n

Page124of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.