Lambie’s one very wild PUP

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Lambie’s one very wild PUP

DANIEL MEERS
867 words
23 August 2014
Northern Territory News
NORTHT
NTNews
24
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

The absurdly outspoken senator has attracted plenty of attention of the worst kind in Australia and
overseas and threatens her own party, reports DANIEL MEERS CLIVE Palmer hung up on a radio
interviewer in Perth this week. He wasn’t asked about allegations he siphoned $12 million from a
Chinese government-owned company to pay for his election campaign.

It wasn’t even intense pressure over his brain snap, on the ABC, that left the leader of the Palmer
United Party (PUP) so speechless all he could come up with was “goodbye’’.

In fact, the interview-ending question wasn’t even about him. All it took was two words: Jacqui Lambie.

His potty-mouthed Tasmanian senator, who wants a rich, well-hung man and believes Australia should
buy missiles to fire at the Chinese when they come to invade us and turn our grandchildren into
slaves.

The above paragraph would be funny, if Ms Lambie didn’t hold so much power. Prime Minister Tony
Abbott cannot get any legislation passed without the support of Ms Lambie and PUP.

Put simply, the chief dog has bought a PUP that has a bigger bite than himself. And he doesn’t know
what to do with her.

MPs from both sides of politics believe she is a risk of fleeing the kennel and equally could be
damaging to Mr Palmer if she is not put on a tight leash.

The single mother of two decided to join PUP because she didn’t have enough money to run as an
independent.

Ms Lambie is good with other people’s money. She even got the defence force to pay for a breast
reduction as part of compensation she claimed from back problems sustained while working in the force
for more than a decade.
The former military truck driver’s decision to use the billionaire mining magnate’s money to run for
Parliament worked. She was elected with just 6.6 per cent of the vote and now earns about $200,000 a
year for the next six years.

Her foray into public life has been littered with gaffes and wild statements. If you missed this week’s
efforts, here’s a taste: “If anybody thinks we should have a national security and defence policy which
ignores the threat of a Chinese communist invasion, you’re delusional and got rocks in your head.

“Both Labor and the Liberals-Nationals have failed to build an Australian military that is able to defend
us and stop our grandchildren from becoming slaves to an aggressive, anti-democratic, totalitarian
foreign power.” Ms Lambie, for all her wild talk, is an influential senator and her comments are looked at
globally.

Page227of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Such idiocy has the potential to put Australia’s $150 billion trade relationship with China at risk.

Then there’s her views on a potential suitor.

“They must have heaps of cash and they’ve got to have a package between their legs,” she said. “They
don’t even need to speak.” Her open-book approach gets even more open when she spoke about her
bikini line on a radio program.
“Right now the state I’m in, you’d want to bring out that whipper snipper first,” she said.

Yes, that’s who is running our country at the moment.

Her views on politicians are just as fascinating.

She once said Mr Abbott needed a bucket of cement.

“You’ve one of two choices. You can run and hide or you can say to yourself ‘here’s a bucket of cement
– toughen up’.” There are mixed views in the corridors of power in Canberra over Jacqui Lambie. Some
think she is dumb and has no idea what is going to come out of her mouth. Sydney radio host Ray
Hadley, in all sincerity, this week suggested Ms Lambie needed mental help.
Others believe the woman from Burnie, in Tasmania’s north, knows how to craftily milk the media.

She knows her market. She knows Tasmanians want a street fighter who will stick it up Canberra.

What is of concern is the damage Ms Lambie could do both to Australia and PUP. Mr Palmer knows
that. It’s why he hung up. He simply doesn’t know how to solve a problem like Jacqui.

As Mr Palmer tried to hose down his Q&A brain snap this week, Ms Lambie issued that infamous
statement taking his views further.

Mr Palmer probably wisely didn’t comment and copped the embarrassment of hanging up on an
interview.

“I don’t want to talk about that ... because I don’t have to. Goodbye,’’ was his response.

He has a problem.

Without all the PUPs in one kennel, Mr Palmer’s clout as Australia’s most influential politician is shot.
He knew that. He flew to Western Australia after describing the Chinese as “mongrels” to ensure his
Chinese- born senator Dio Wang was still in the kennel.

He is acutely aware Ms Lambie is a loose cannon.

A public rebuke could cause her to jump ship.Expect a few more dial tones while Clive works out how
to play his biggest problem.

RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document NORTHT0020140824ea8n0004j

Page228of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.