Falling commodity prices rattle investors

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Smart Money
Falling commodity prices rattle investors

Karen Maley
820 words
15 March 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
27
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Big picture

Investors in Australian resource stocks face an uncertain period as they wait to see whether prices of
key commodities such as copper and iron ore fall even lower while Beijing continues its crackdown on
"hot money" inflows.

This week, commodity prices tumbled to the lowest level in years as investors fretted that China's poor
export performance in February was a sign the country's economic machine is faltering. Copper
dropped to its lowest level since July 2010, while iron ore hit its lowest level since October 2012.
These falls weighed on the share prices of the country's mining giants BHP Billiton, Rio Tinto and
Fortescue Metals, along with copper miners such as OZ Minerals, PanAust and Sandfire Resources.
Investors have been unnerved by the Chinese central bank's strong warning to speculators and
Chinese borrowers not to bet on a continued strengthening of the yuan. So far this year, the People's
Bank of China, which keeps a tight grip on the currency, has pushed the yuan down by 1.5 per cent, a
stark contrast to the 2.9 per cent rise it enjoyed last year.

The PBOC's move has reverberated through global financial markets. Analysts believe that in recent
months, a large proportion of the estimated $100 billion that has flowed out of troubled emerging
markets has made its way to China, which was seen as free from currency risk. For Chinese firms, it
made commercial sense to borrow in a currency that was likely to drop, such as the Japanese yen,
and to use the proceeds to buy high-yielding Chinese assets.
Riskier borrowers such as small property developers, which find it difficult to obtain loans from the
major banks, used copper and iron ore as collateral for their loans from China's "shadow banks",
buying copper or iron ore abroad using US dollars or yen and storing them in China for use as
collateral for yuan-denominated loans.

The yuan's fall has choked off some inflows of foreign funds into the shadow banking system. This,
combined with concerns over Chinese growth, has caused the prices of these two commodities to
plunge. These falls have prompted growing margin calls from nervous lenders, worried that the value of
their collateral is falling. The fear is that an increasing number of borrowers could be forced to liquidate
their stockpiles of copper and iron ore to repay their loans and that this could drive the prices of both
commodities even lower. At the same time, Beijing's determination to reduce overcapacity in its steel
industry by closing down loss-making steel mills has fuelled fears that Chinese demand for iron ore
could fall sharply.

Tensions were further exacerbated earlier this month by the first default on a publicly traded corporate
bond in China, that of solar-panel maker Chaori Solar.

Page102of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Analysts warned the default could be the tip of an iceberg as the Chinese credit bubble bursts. In
particular, they warn loss-making steel mills could be forced to cancel iron ore orders as their funding
dries up after last week's bond default. A copper beat-up
Although some analysts believe the sell-off in copper and iron ore is likely to continue – and that iron
ore may fall to $US70 a tonne this year from its present level of just over $US100 a tonne – others
believe the latest price declines are overdone. They argue Beijing will make sure Chinese growth
remains buoyant, which will translate into continued strong demand for Australian commodity exports.
What's more, they point out that Beijing's latest policy moves are no cause for alarm because the
Chinese government has previously signalled its intention to tackle runaway credit growth and to close
some older loss-making steel mills.

This view appears to be shared by the miners. This week, Rio Tinto chief Sam Walsh said he expected
demand for iron ore to remain strong, despite Beijing's move to close down some older mills.
"China indicated six months ago they wanted to rationalise their steel industry and we are now seeing
that," he said. "If you look at our business, we supply the major steel mills . . . the blue chip steel mills.
Yes, we are seeing volatility. Yes, we are seeing credit tightening. None of that should surprise us
because the government had flagged it."
Meanwhile, self-proclaimed "copper bull" Owen Hegarty, who has exposure to copper through his
stake in Tigers Realm Minerals Group, says he believes speculators are behind the fall in copper
prices.

"I don't think the data itself is too bad," he told the AFR Weekend. "I can't see anything that is obviously
affecting it; there's no big new project that is suddenly throwing lots of copper into the market, so I think
it's just a bit of speculative activity there."

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

golpla : OZ Minerals Limited | pbchin : The People's Bank of China | sanfir : Sandfire Resources Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
gpersf : Personal Finance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News
china : China | austr : Australia | beijin : Beijing | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140314ea3f0002g

Page103of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.