Glencore runs ruler over Syrah

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Glencore runs ruler over Syrah

Amanda Saunders
897 words
11 July 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
18
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Swiss commodities giant Glencore is understood to have made an informal approach to Syrah
Resources that could value the graphite and vanadium junior at as much as $2 billion.

Melbourne-based Syrah's prized asset is the mammoth Balama graphite and vanadium deposit in
northern Mozambique. After AFR.com revealed Glencore's interest on Thursday, the company's shares
surged as much as 25 per cent before being placed in a trading halt.

When shares stopped trading, Syrah's shares were up 19 per cent at $5.09. The shares have more
than doubled in value since touching a 52-week low of $2 on July 10 last year.

Syrah responded promptly to the The Australian Financial Review's report and a share price query from
the ASX on Thursday afternoon, saying: "From time to time Syrah receives informal,confidential and
non-binding inquiries from various parties regarding Syrah's interest in entering takeover discussions.

"None of these inquiries have progressed to formal discussions or resulted in any indicative offers being
received by Syrah."

Sources said Ivan Glasenberg's Glencore, one of the largest producers of primary vanadium in the
world, is keen to exert control over the wider vanadium market. Pouncing on Syrah and securing its
Balama project would be an early strategic play to shut out fresh competition.

The level of interest from Glencore and others is such that Syrah has also received multiple approaches
from investment banks keen to lead a possible takeover defence strategy for the ASX group, which has
seen its shares leap 29-fold in three years.

Vanadium plays a critical role in rapidly growing battery markets, and is also an important ingredient in
the new world of energy storage.

The Financial Review understands Glencore approached Syrah to informally convey it would be willing
to pay between $1 billion and $2 billion for the company. But the three men behind the company –
chairman Tom Eadie, managing director Paul Kehoe and Tolga Kumova, an executive director – clearly
think it could ultimately be worth a lot more than that.
The end game for the directors is the potential of vanadium to make renewable energy economical.

The trio has about 22 per cent of the Syrah register between them, but Mr Kehoe, with 12 per cent, and
Mr Kumova, with 9 per cent, are the company's key shareholders. Meteoric share price riseMr Kehoe's
stake is worth $86.4 million; Mr Kumova, a member of BRW's Young Rich list, has a stake worth
$62.3 million. Shares in Syrah have enjoyed a meteoric rise to $4.30 from about 15¢ in late 2011, with
its market capitalisation rising to $730 million from $15 million in that time.

Credit Suisse analyst Michael Slifirski says the board of Syrah is "commercially minded but they
probably also have an idea as to where they want to take this company and what it could be worth". A

Page227of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.play by Glencore made sense, given the Balama project would be "extremely disruptive" to the graphite
and vanadium projects if it came online, he says.

"Syrah could do a lot of damage to other existing market participants and there is no doubt it (a
takeover) makes a lot of strategic sense as an option for those in the market that want to maintain their
positions of control. Whether or not there is a deal to be done, there will be a lot of companies trying to
have talks with Syrah to understand what the strategy is for the owner of the world's largest graphite
and vanadium deposit." Credit Suisse has a $5.60 valuation on the stock, based on a very conservative
take on the graphite price, of $US800 ($850) a tonne. Syrah says Balama has an inferred vanadium
resource of 1.15 billion tonnes, at a high concentrate level. It is about four times larger than Glencore's
Rhovan deposit in South Africa.

Part of Balama's vanadium resource has been upgraded to make it suitable for steel hardening, while
test work is under way to upgrade part of it to a grade suitable for redox flow batteries. Syrah's offtake
partner Chalieco, a subsidiary of Chinalco, has run a scoping study on the financial viability of the
vanadium resources and Syrah is reviewing the results. Some sources have suggested Glencore is also
angling for an offtake deal for Syrah's vanadium. Graphite is also key to Syrah's appeal. Syrah says
Balama contains 117 million tonnes of graphite, larger than the rest of the world's reserves combined.
It is tipped to be the lowest-cost graphite producer in the world, with its asset set to come online in 2016
if all goes to plan.

High-quality graphite is also a crucial raw material for the production of lithium-ion batteries for
smartphones, tablets and laptops, and a fundamental component in the development of storage
batteries able to power electric cars.
Graphite is an opaque market and dominated by Chinese suppliers; prices are usually set based on
deals between companies and purity levels. Also in its favour is Syrah's small capital bill for its Balama
project, with the spend on the mine and infrastructure earmarked to be about $US92 million
($98 million). Later this year, Syrah expects to have permits and environment approvals.

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

rsrhrl : Syrah Resources Limited | march : Glencore PLC
i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | ibcs :
Business/Consumer Services | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c15 : Performance | ncat
: Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140710ea7b00021

Page228of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.