PRESTIGE ADDRESS

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
PRESTIGE ADDRESS

Matthew Smith
1,643 words
17 January 2014
Financial Review Smart Investor
FRSINV
First
38
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

PROPERTY
Top sales in 2013
Address
State
Sale Price Area Bedrooms Bathrooms Parking
(sq m)
9 WolseleyCrescent,
Point Piper
June 1
Towers Rd,Toorak
48 The Crescent, Vaucluse NSW
27 Eastbourne Road,
Darling Point
NSW March 28
52 The Crescent, Vaucluse NSW
46 Vaucluse Road, Vaucluse
NSW
N/A: Not available.
Source: Australian Property Monitors

NSW July 4

$33.5m

Vic

6

1359
$21.5m
May 20
5
6
$16.35m
May 20
N/A
February 26 $15.0m 1711

5
9
3901
$19.0m
584
5
$15.0m

2
7
1191
6
1026

4
5

2

N/A
5

5

N/A
2

As the property market gears up for another year we take you on a tour of Australia's exclusive
suburbs and their most expensive homes. Have a sneak peek inside lifestyles of the rich and famous
as Matthew Smith crunches the numbers on some of the biggest gains and losses made on high-end
real estate.
The prestige property market is geared for a comeback in 2014 as one-of-a-kind homes are prepared
for sale in near perfect conditions. Records are expected to tumble as developers, foreign buyers and
cashed-up locals eye a number of landmark homes being offered for the first time in decades.

After spending a few years being outshone by new money in the north and west of Australia, Sydney is
expected to lead the charge as heated bidding puts one in seven homes sold at auction into
million-plus territory.
It is the $100 million price tag attached to a sprawling harbour front property named Elaine however
that has people talking. The property has been in the hands of the family of former publisher and
namesake of the owner of this magazine, Fairfax, for generations and experts are tipping it will set a
new record for residential property.
Buoyant equity markets, a more affordable currency and a new visa category for significant investors
are all expected to play into the owners achieving a "fair price" for the property. However, readers of
more modest means may wonder how such an investment stacks up for the buyer.
While nimble vendors are sometimes able to bank millions after flipping these piles, the truth is that
gains are more likely to be a slow and tedious grind.

Page76of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The glamorous Point Piper mansion Altona, for instance, smashed Sydney records when it was
reportedly sold for $54 million in May 2013. Based on the 1992 auction price of Altona, the property
has appreciated at a compound rate of 11.8 per cent a year. The previous owner, however, wasn't able
to achieve anything like that.
Bought in 2002 for $28.5 million, Altona's owner Deke Miskin managed a return of just 6 per cent, or
the same return Seven West Media director Bruce McWilliam earned when he sold his 9 Wolseley
Crescent property, also in Point Piper, in April 2013 for $33.5 million.
At this end of the market timing isn't everything, it is the only thing. Getting a property to market a few
months late can make all the difference and distressed sellers are eaten alive.
With this in mind, the only chance a buyer has to make money out of the Fairfax's enormous property
is likely to be through developing it.
Simon Cohen, a buyer's agent for exclusive property advisory group CohenHandler, reckons that to
reach its $100 million potential, the Fairfax family home will need to be split up to make the most of
the almost 7000 square metres of prime waterfront land.
Marketing material for the Elaine estate is in the process of being put together, according to Ken
Jacobs, Sydney-based managing director of Ken Jacobs real estate, who has been asked by the
Fairfax family to sell the property.
"There's no formula for marketing a property like this," Jacobs says of the sale process. He will be
targeting overseas buyers, tapping the global client base of his firm's partner, Christie's International
Real Estate, a branch of the famous auction house. "Sometimes it's a matter of picking up the phone
and ringing logical buyers," he says.

"Other times it requires an international campaign. It's not difficult to find people with money to spend,
the difficulty is finding buyers with the money and who have a need to be in Sydney."All eyes on Point
Piper, Vaucluse . . . and Toorak
In terms of the top-end real estate stakes, Sydney is leading the country, with more exclusive,
high-profile housese changing hands there in the past year than in any other state.
Among them is the $19 million paid for a five-bedroom, five-bathroom property in The Crescent,
Vaucluse, overlooking the exclusive Kutti beach.

And yet the biggest deals in the nation are expected to occur in Sydney in the year to come.

A home under construction on Sydney's renowned Carrara Road, Vaucluse, is creating a buzz after
appearing on the market this year, setting expectations for a potential $60 million-plus sale. The
seven-bedroom, 12-bathroom modern mansion is owned by London-based international bank
consultant Andrew Ipkendanz.

The closest interstate rival to the harbourside suburbs of Point Piper and Vaucluse, in Sydney's east,
and Mosman on the lower north shore is Toorak in Melbourne. This moneyed, leafy, inner-city suburb
registered a string of high-end exclusive home sales in the past year, a few of which pushed the
$20 million mark.
Deals, such as the $17 million sale of the home of former Legg Mason wealth management executive
Ron Dewhurst in October 2012, as well as the $20 million sale of a sprawling St George Road
mansion to a Chinese buyer in October 2013, placed Toorak at the top of Smart Investor's
highest-ranked suburbs in Australia, based on median home sales for 2012-13.

Michael Gibson, managing director of prestigious Toorak agency Kay & Burton, who was personally
responsible for multiple home sales in the $10 million to $20 million category last year, says the
high-end property market has come to life.Asian buyers driving the market

Gibson believes interest from overseas buyers is one of the main factors boosting demand for the
exclusive market. He says Asian buyers in particular are on the lookout for prestigious properties in
premium locations.
While foreign buyers are limited in terms of which properties they are allowed to buy in Australia, the
global wealthy have not only targeted the country as a place to live, but they also see our resilient
property market as a place to park their cash.
To be eligible to buy an existing property, foreigners must either be a resident or hold a temporary
residency visa, which permits them to stay in Australia for a continuous period of more than 12 months.

Page77of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.However the rules are relaxed for wealthy buyers.
The introduction of new visas in 2012 for applicants with more than $5 million to invest in complying
assets over a four-year period has added to the pool of buyers. The federal government has approved
65 Significant Investor Applications (also called 888 visas) since November 2012, thereby bringing in
more than $325 million in capital.

Indeed, the increase in activity at the high luxury end of the market has been driven by overseas
buyers, according to most agents. CohenHandler's Simon Cohen has seen this first hand, but notes
that competition from local buyers stepping up to compete with foreigners, so as not to "miss out on
these once-in-a-lifetime opportunities", is also spurring on the exclusive market.

While factors such as low interest rates and employment might dictate activity in the broader mass
affluent or entry-level property market, the ultra high-end market has its own set of drivers, says RP
Data senior research analyst Cameron Kusher.

The strong performance of the Australian sharemarket, he says, along with a spate of initial public
offerings has meant many young local entrepreneurs, as well as high-flying company executives, have
cashed up.

This in turn has driven domestic demand for properties, which is competing with international demand
and creating a more favourable market for individuals and families – owners who have been sitting on
their properties for some time and who are convinced now may be the right time to sell.Top-down
recovery The high-end luxury residential market was the hardest hit during the global financial crisis
and is leading the country's real estate recovery, Kusher explains.
At the height of the financial boom it was Hedges Avenue on the Gold Coast, known as Millionaire's
Mile, where parcels of land were regularly traded for $30 million. Former AFL player turned travel
industry entrepreneur Tony Smith famously bought up five blocks along the prestigious street, only to
be forced to sell what would have been his dream mega mansion to stay afloat.

More recently the strip claimed former LM Investment director Peter Drake. He was forced to accept a
massive discount on his property, which was once valued at $30 million, after LM Investment
collapsed in March.

Drake, who obviously hadn't paid much attention to the troubles of Tony Smith, reportedly bought the
neighbouring block for $4 million for his children. In the end, the six-bedroom, eight-bathroom home
with 25 metres of beach frontage sold for $7.35 million.

Now, it is Sydney's turn to throw open the doors and host a series of what are likely to be the most
extraordinary open for inspections the country has ever seen. If the pundits are correct it could be the
biggest year in recent memory. But if history is any guide we may see some of those properties come
back on the market more quickly than you might otherwise expect.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

ereal : Real Estate Markets | glux : Luxury Homes/Estates | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators |
ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | greest : Real
Estate/Property
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FRSINV0020140116ea1h0001c

Page78of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.