Fifth Element secures May gold listing

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Fifth Element secures May gold listing

IPO watch Sally Rose
719 words
15 April 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
32
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Chinese-backed junior gold explorer Fifth Element Resources has succeeded in scraping together
enough investors via Hong Kong to secure a local listing in May.
The early stage gold and copper explorer presents a highly speculative investment opportunity with
no guarantee of returns. The prospectus touts the mining and finance industry experience of the
board as a strength.

Non-executive director Andrew Bryden Skinner who is described as an Australian tax accountant
turned academic, was one of three former directors of the failed trustee company Commercial
Nominees of Australia who was disqualified by the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority and
banned for three years by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission from acting as a
representative of a dealer or adviser back in 2003.
Mr Skinner is also a director of Dome Gold Mines, which floated in October, Augur Resources and
Zamia Metals, which both listed in 2007, and unlisted junior Magma Mines.
Chairman Chi Ho William Lo is a Hong-Kong based, British-educated accountant and qualified
chemical engineer. Mr Lo is also a director of NSW explorer Ridgelands Coal and is a former chief
executive of Sino Gas.

The offer, which opened on March 7, and was originally scheduled to close on April 2, was for up to
15.5 million shares at 20¢ apiece to raise up to $5 million.
After a couple of short time extensions, the company finally succeeded in securing enough
commitments to breach the minimum $3.5 million needed to green-light the float on Friday.
"Fifth Element has secured about $4 million from a selection of investors, mostly wealthy individuals
based in Hong Kong and around Asia, as well as a few locals," Bryce Reynolds of sponsoring broker
Veritas Securities said.Final listing date expected soon

Under the amended timetable the offer will now close this Thursday, April 17, the day that was
originally slated for the float. The minimum contribution from investors is $2000.

Confirmation of a final listing date is expected in the coming days. It is likely shares will commence
normal trading in the first week of May.
Fifth Element owns a portfolio of four prospective gold and copper tenements in New South Wales.
Fairholme and Pine Hill, are located near the town of Condobolin, while the Trangie project is situated
near Narromine and Mendoornan outside Gilgandra.

According to the prospectus, all four projects are located on remnants of, "Ordovician to earliest
Silurian volcanic arc-related rocks that are prospective copper and gold".

Page195of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Most of the money raised in the IPO will be used to pay for drilling and testing at the existing
tenements. The strategy is to invest fairly evenly across the four projects with a view to adding to the
value of the resources as recognised by the Joint Ore Reserves Committee.
Some of the fresh capital will fund new exploration, as the company has aspirations to acquire more
projects in Australia and offshore. At the time of issuing the prospectus the explorer had a little over
$100,000 in the bank.
If a commercial resource is discovered, it is uncertain whether the company would raise more capital,
thereby diluting the value of shares, to develop a mine or sell out to a bigger producer.
Either strategy could be made more difficult by a significant decline in the gold price or stubborn
strength in the Australian dollar.

The capital structure poses risks to the interests of new investors. At listing, existing shareholders will
control about 53 per cent of the company.
The Chinese owners have employed the Beresfield NSW arm of SRK Consulting to act as technical
managers on its sites. The Australian mining consultants are affiliates of a large South African
multinational network.
Lead corporate adviser on the deal is Breakaway Mining Services, a division of Breakaway
Investment Group the Sydney-based private equity house that invests in junior resources companies .

How the shares perform on debut will likely be closely watched by those considering investing in rival
China Mining, another Chinese backed Australian gold explorer that is still in the process of taking a
second-tilt at a local listing after having to shelve plans for a February float due to a lack of interest
and a bearish outlook for gold prices.

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

dmexld : Dome Gold Mines Ltd | ffthlr : Fifth Element Resources Ltd. | zamiag : Zamia Metals Ltd.
i22472 : Precious Metals | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals |
ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining
c1711 : Initial Public Offerings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c02 : Corporate Changes | c14 :
Stock Listings | c17 : Funding/Capital | c171 : Share Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140414ea4f00015

Page196of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.