Redefining Melbourne's skyline

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Redefining Melbourne's skyline

1,277 words
31 October 2014
Business Times
BTMAL
8
English
(c) 2014

KUALA LUMPUR: UEM Sunrise Bhd's Aurora Melbourne Central project on La Trobe Street in
Melbourne, its first Australian development, has gone beyond the epitome of location.

Location is about buying properties in prime spots such as in the vicinity of top-rated schools and
colleges, near public transportation, hospitals, parks, entertainment and shopping.

As an example, UEM Sunrise has embarked on projects in economically stable neighbourhoods such
as Mont' Kiara in Kuala Lumpur and Iskandar Malaysia in Johor.
Last year, the company made its maiden foray in Melbourne for its strong growth prospects. It picked
La Trobe Street, a major street in Melbourne's central business district (CBD) and home to several
precincts and public and private spaces.
UEM Sunrise acquired a 0.4ha site on La Trobe Street and a 0.4ha site on Mackenzie Street for
A$65 million (RM189 million) due to the super locations, excellent connectivity and accessibility.
The company plans to build luxury serviced apartments with some form of retail at both sites, which
will have more than RM3 billion in gross development value (GDV) in the next four to five years.

The first launch, Aurora Melbourne Central, will have a GDV of A$770 million, said UEM Sunrise chief
operating officer for commercial Raymond Cheah.

He said Aurora Melbourne Central would create a new epicentre of retail and living spaces, and rise
majestically in the Melbourne skyline.
The massive residential skyscraper with 92 floors, the city's largest to date, will house 941 serviced
apartments in three separate collections - Stratus, Cumulus and Australis.

It is behind a soaring double-glazed glass exterior with sophisticated coating system.

"The one-bedroom apartments will sell from A$395,000 while the two-a sculpted tower that houses
the resibedroom units will be priced at more than A$550,000 each. Apartments with three bedrooms
will sell for more than A$1.1 million," Cheah told Property Times in an interview, here, recently.
"If you purchase based on location, location, location, Aurora Melbourne Central has gone beyond
that. A picture tells a thousand words, and when you buy a unit here, you will have diverse views.
There are five parks surrounding the development, namely the Fitzroy and Treasury Gardens, Royal
Botanic Gardens, Albert Park with its artificial lake, Flagstaff Gardens and Carlton Gardens.

"The project is also at the doorstep of the education precinct that houses the University of Melbourne,
Melbourne Institute of Technology and RMIT University.

"When you talk about public transportation, Aurora Melbourne Central will have direct underground
connection to the Melbourne Central train station. A number of tram routes travel along La Trobe
Street, including the city circle. The tram stops just outside the building.

"You have parks, universities and train station. Next, you would want shopping. Melbourne central
station is connected to the Melbourne Central shopping centre, Emporium, Myer, David Jones and

Page243of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.GPO. When Aurora Melbourne Central is fully developed in four years, it will be connected to these
malls as we are located above the station.

"The project is also close to two bustling office districts, namely Southbank and Docklands. So how
wrong can you go owning a property here? Queen Victoria is located within a 10-minute walk and
there is a casino about 25 minutes by foot," said Cheah.

Notable buildings in La Trobe Street include the State Library of Victoria, Etihad Stadium, the Family
Court complex and the former Melbourne Mint.

For the project to be outstanding and iconic, UEM Sunrise had shortlisted COX Architecture, Elenberg
Fraser and Fender Katsalidis Architects - three home-grown Australian master-class architectural
practices with international presence and accolades.
They were selected based on their established residential and mixed-use oeuvre, international
eminence with local contextual adaptability and their passion for exemplar design, that are
sympathetic to the various functional requirements of integrated developments.

The brief for the projects called for a design solution that "stands for something" - unique, inspiring,
elegant and highly efficient to live up to the global standards of design and urban living.

Elenberg Fraser's design was named as the winning scheme. Featuring a Malaysia-Melbourne
cultural integration, the design includes a vibrant retail podium with direct underground connection to
Melbourne Central station a sculpted tower that houses the residential units and facilities, and unique
star-shaped floor plates offering each residential unit some of the most treasured views in
Melbourne.

"This development will offer one of the most generous provision of communal facilities to the
residents. The building is not just about a beautiful design, but how end user will enjoy and appreciate
the space.

It is kind of a defining moment for the city and we believe the apartments will have strong rental
potential. I think this is a terrific investment," said Callum Fraser, founding partner of Elenberg Fraser.

Solid long-term investment opportunity

UEM Sunrise Bhd's Aurora Melbourne Central development has proven to be a big hit among buyers
in Malaysia with more than 90 per cent of the 200 allocated units snapped up at a special preview
recently.

Aurora Melbourne Central offers a total of 941 luxury serviced apartments with prices ranging from
A$395,000 (one bedroom) to A$1.1 million (three bedrooms).
The rest of the units are for buyers from Australia, China, Hong Kong, Indonesia and Singapore.
UEM Sunrise chief operating officer for commercial Raymond Cheah said 182 of the 200 allocated
units were snapped up during the two-day exclusive preview at the White Box @ Publika Solaris
Dutamas in Kuala Lumpur recently.
"They liked what they saw and grabbed the opportunity to own a property there. Aurora Melbourne
Central is surrounded by numerous activities from lifestyle and leisure, entertainment and shopping as
well as education. It is in a prime location and all units offer an excellent view of Melbourne city,"
Cheah told Property Times.

Malaysia is the first country to hold an exclusive preview of Aurora Melbourne Central.

Cheah said the remaining units will be launched in Beijing (October 30), Shanghai (November 1),
Hong Kong (November 3), Singapore (November 6), Melbourne (November 8) Sydney (November
10) and Jakarta (November 12).
So far, UEM Sunrise has sold 403 units worth a combined A$202 million during its exclusive
previews.
This includes the units sold in Malaysia.
Malaysians are among the main investors in the Australian property market as Australia provides a
solid long-term investment environment.

Page244of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.According to a recent report, prices in Melbourne have risen by more than seven per cent over the
past year. Until interest rates start to rise, it is likely that prices will continue to move up.

The Victorian state government is spending A$5.1 billion (RM14.8 billion) in major projects, primarily
built around road and rail infrastructure, logistics and trade, to support the greater Melbourne potential
to become a city of 7.8 million people by 2051, from 4.3 million people last year.

It means that more homes will be required within the city area and outskirts, and this would make
buying a property in Melbourne now worthwhile.

The Melbourne CBD (central business district) will benefit from these projects as the multiplier effect
takes place.
UEM Sunrise will launch Conservatory, the residential project on Mackenzie street with a GDV of
A$300 million next.

Conservatory will be located at the corner of the world heritage-listed, 25.6ha Carlton Gardens and
the Royal Exhibition Building.

Cheah said it would also offer an excellent view over the pristine gardens, and with excellent proximity
to the activities of the CBD.

The building was designed by COX Architecture, inspired by the classic "Victorian Wardian Case."

( END )

CO
IN
RE

IPC
PUB
AN

uemlhb : UEM Sunrise Berhad
iretail : Retail | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest : Real Estate
austr : Australia | malay : Malaysia | kuala : Kuala Lumpur | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria
(Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Property times
New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad
Document BTMAL00020141031eaav0000b

Page245of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.