South Coast Brekkie Wrap

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

blog
South Coast Brekkie Wrap

BLAKE FODEN
2,004 words
18 December 2014
Magnet
FEDENM
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

9.00AM: That's all from me for now, but check back this afternoon for a re-heated brekkie wrap, with all
the added trimmings from up and down the coast. I'll leave you with this...

8.55AM: Lake Illawarra Police have welcomed the return of the 'Think B4U Drink' program, which
provides an alternative to legal proceedings for minors who get caught in possession, or consuming
alcohol in a public place.

Check out the full story here.

8.50AM: It was one of those parts of town people paid no attention to.

But now the laneway between the Shoalhaven Arts Centre and the former Betta Electrical building is at
the centre of attention as the first of a number of art-filled laneways.

Check it out by clicking here.

8.45AM: It's things like this that prove what a great community we live in. The Bega District News' toy
drive was a raging success thanks to everyone's generosity.

Click here for the full story.

8.40AM: Bombala's local butchery has changed hands. Click here to read more.

8.35AM: Have you got your Christmas lights up? A list of Ulladulla homes that are looking all bright and
Christmassy can be found here.

8.30AM: Know someone who nailed the HSC? Congratulate them on our message wall by clicking here.

8.25AM: All but two Sapphire Coast beaches have received the highest water quality rating possible
after recent flooding. Check out the individual beach ratings here.

8.20AM: Get that shoe out of here!

8.15AM: The NSW Department of Primary lndustries have refused an application by a grower to grow
triploid or sterile Pacific oysters in Wagonga Inlet.

The full story is here.
8.10AM: I'm sure many of you will be able to relate to this...

8.05AM: Still on the siege, it's been revealed that two former Moruya residents were among the
hostages. They included Louisa Hope, who the gunman used as a human shield.

Click here to read more.

8.00AM: Frightening news for parents of seven Ulladulla students, who were taking photos outside the
Lindt cafe in Sydney as gunman Man Haron Monis sat inside, sipping coffee.

Page181of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Thankfully, the students were out of harm's way by the time the siege began. Read more here.

7.55AM: Christmas came early for Eden last night, and wasn't it just a cracking night! The Grocery Grab
was my clear highlight, and we've got video of it, plus a whole stack of photos from the festivities here.

7.45AM: Merimbula Lake oysters are back on the menu, just in time for Christmas too! Read the full
story here.

7.40AM: Attention Tony Abbott, here's what some of your constituents think you need to fix up. Among
the list of Tathra Preschool students' suggestions is to "not be a bossy boots"!

Read the full list here.

7.35AM: Shellharbour City Councillor Peter Moran "will not cease" his advocacy of protecting Killalea
State Park from development, despite being stripped of his role as the council delegate on the trust
board.

Read the full story here.

7.30AM: There are some incredible stories of HSC high achievers right up and down the coast after
yesterday's ATAR release.

7.25AM: Last day of work today? It is for me! If you're planning on heading off on a long drive, test your
tired self first. Stay safe and take the test here.

7.20AM: Police have taken a statement from a 49-year-old man who was shot in Nowra late Tuesday
evening.

They are reassuring the public that it was not a random incident, and said the victim is known to police.

Read the full story by clicking here.

7.15AM: Morning folks! The Far South Coast turned on a dazzling lightning display last night. I shot this
from the near Marine Rescue Eden base, overlooking Twofold Bay. Enjoy!

-------------------------------

Need a national news snapshot first thing - well, we have you covered.

" Check out the front pages from Fairfax Media publications across Australia, here.

" ALBURY-WODONGA: Victoria and NSW police will ride the XPT between Melbourne and Sydney in a
new operation to discourage illegal behaviour on the trip. The joint operation will see VIC police board
the train in Melbourne and NSW police board from Sydney. Read more.

" BENDIGO: Police have charged a 34-year-old Ascot man with drug trafficking, possession of firearms
and possessing proceeds of crime. The charges come after raids at a business and a home in Arrawalli
Avenue in Ascot where police found a loaded gun, drugs, ammunition and large amounts of cash.
Police are seeking to submit a remand application to keep the man in custody rather than release him
until his appearance in court. VIDEO.
" CANBERRA: It's shaping up as a winning Christmas for Hong Kong billionaire entrepreneur father
and son Tony and Justin Fung, with approval of their bid for Canberra's ailing casino expected to be
announced early next week. The ACT Gambling and Racing Commission will likely deliver the pair's
second return in as many weeks after their Aquis Resorts company was granted environmental
approval for its proposed $8.15 billion resort and casino development in far north Queensland on
Thursday. Read more.
" GLOUCESTER: Potentially contaminated wastewater used to frack AGL's Gloucester coal seam gas
project has been dumped unlawfully into the Hunter's sewer system by the private company hired to
treat it. Transpacific, one of the nation's largest wastewater management firms, has been fined $30,000
by Hunter Water for releasing treated "flow-back" fluid from the gas project into the region's sewer
network. Read more.

" LAUNCESTON: Emergency patients at the Launceston General Hospital are waiting as long as 20
hours for a bed, but new research has found a surprising 27 per cent of patients occupying beds do not
need to be there. The research, commissioned by the University of Tasmania as part of a
Commonwealth-funded clinical redesign program, has also revealed that LGH patients are potentially
waiting hours for beds that were empty when they arrived at the hospital.

Page182of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved." MANDURAH: Police seized about 70 cannabis plants and hydroponics equipment during a drug
warrant search in Madora Bay on Thursday. About 7.30am officers attended the home after they
received anonymous information that cannabis was being grown on the property. Drug paraphernalia
and dried cannabis was also found.

" MORUYA: A Moruya family is reeling after two of their own were taken as hostages and subsequently
injured in Monday's Lindt Caf- siege. Robin Hope (nee Quinn), 74, and her daughter, Louisa Hope, 52,
are both former Moruya residents and now live in Sydney. It is understood Louisa, who has MS and
uses a walking stick, was used as human shield by the gunman, and was dragged around each time he
moved his position.

" WARRNAMBOOL: WHILE most two-year-olds will be enjoying the thrill of opening Christmas presents
in their family home, Remy Roberts will be in a hospital isolation ward awaiting a life-saving operation.
She has severe aplastic anaemia " a rare condition that causes bone marrow failure " and is being kept
alive by blood transfusions. Her future depends on being able to receive a compatible bone marrow
transplant.

" WHYALLA: QantasLink has officially announced it will start flying to Whyalla next year. QantasLink will
offer a double daily service on its 50-seat Q300 aircraft from April 13, 2015, providing 1300 seats per
week or more than 65,000 seats a year between Whyalla and Adelaide. QantasLink chief executive
officer John Gissing said the new route would expand business and tourism opportunities for the
Whyalla community.

" Woolworths buyers have told suppliers their products could be pulled from shelves just days before
Christmas if they refuse to fund the supermarket giant's new Cheap Cheap advertising campaign. Read
more.

" A GP of 20 years, Charlotte Hespe fears for the future of her profession. "Under these incentives,
what junior doctor would want to come and work in primary care?" she asked. "You'd be better off going
and working as a barista than as an expert GP." Read more.

" The NSW government is planning to sell the first of the state's electricity distributors as soon as it can
" if it receives electoral support at the March state election, and has already begun work to prepare for
the sale before the vote. The first asset to be sold will be the high-voltage network companyTransgrid,
which will be fully privatised.

" The bodies of the Martin Place siege victims will be laid to rest before Christmas. Cafe manager Tori
Johnson, 34, and barrister Katrina Dawson, 38, were killed at the end of a 16-hour siege staged by
gunman Man Haron Monis, who also died. The NSW Coroner announced that the victims' bodies had
undergone autopsies and would be released to their families at 7pm on Thursday. Read more.

" The ABC has lost three Canberra reporters less than a week before Christmas. 7.30 ACT presenter
Chris Kimball and long-time producer Patricia Barraclough are leaving the public broadcaster after the
state editions of the current affairs program were axed amid budget cuts. Parliament house reporter
Lyndal Curtis has also announced her resignation.

" It's easy to become jaded about modern-day sportspeople, especially some cricketers. Thank
heavens for Brad Haddin. Details have emerged of how Steve Smith became the 45th Test captain of
Australia, and while Haddin would be embarrassed about what's about to follow, it needs to be said.
When he learned that the selectors and Cricket Australia board would require a long-term solution,
because Michael Clarke's hamstring and back problems meant he would be sidelined indefinitely,
Haddin felt Smith would be a wiser choice.

" Like most Australians, former Australian Idol contestant Wes Carr found himself dealing with a
powerful mix of thoughts and feelings as a result of the Martin Place siege in Sydney. In Wes' case, he
put those thoughts and feelings into words, and uploaded the song to Youtube. Called "I Pray", here it
is.
" What is extraordinary about this brutal CIA report into assassination operations is how the spy
agency failed to anticipate the devastating cost to US prestige from extrajudicial killing. The report sets
out to judge the effectiveness of what is euphemistically called "high value targeting" - operations
radically expanded as deadly drone attacks under Barack Obama.

" As funerals began for the 148 victims of the Pakistani Taliban attack on a school in Peshawar,
Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif vowed to crush the insurgents and lifted a moratorium on the
death penalty. With Pakistan reeling from the attack that left 132 students dead, Mr Sharif said all
political parties had agreed to draft within a week a national action plan to combat the Taliban, which
would be acted on immediately.

Page183of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved." President Barack Obama has opened the door to restoring full diplomatic relations with Cuba after 50
years of sanctions and embargo, announcing that the US would seek to open an embassy in the
coming months and to relax economic and travel restrictions. The announcement was made after an
exchange of jailed spies was negotiated struck and, separately, an American imprisoned in Cuba
named Alan Gross, was released.

Terry Richardson from Henty has fulfilled one of his lifetime goals by having his novel, Justice for
Constable Cook, published after years of writing and years of contacting literary agents.

Mr Richardson attempted to go the traditional route to get his book onto shelves but literary agents in
Australia weren't interested.

He then sent it to America and got the offer to have his book published by "Rosedog" who print it on a
demand basis.

"I am very proud and very happy," Mr Richardson said.

"I would love to bring it to Australia (to be published) if I got the chance." Read more.

RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | tasman : Tasmania | victor : Victoria
(Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FEDENM0020141219eaci00002

Page184of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.