RETAIL entrepreneur Brett Blundy, whose portfolio of br

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

AGRIBUS
RETAIL entrepreneur Brett Blundy, whose portfolio of br

JARED LYNCH
536 words
24 July 2014
Queensland Country Life
FQLCOL
23
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

RETAIL entrepreneur Brett Blundy, whose portfolio of brands includes Bras N Things, is expanding his
beef operations to cash in on Asia's burgeoning middle class.
Mr Blundy's company BBRC has bought a cattle station in the Northern Territory for $6.5 million to
increase its live exports to Indonesia.

BBRC diversified into beef in 2010 and has 85,000 head of cattle. It plans to use its latest acquisition,
Amungee Mungee Station near Katherine, to grow its herd to 150,000.

More and more companies are eyeing Australia's food bowl, which analysts say is under-capitalised
from years of investors shying away from the sector because of the risks associated with primary
production.
Such is the interest that billionaireAndrew Forrest, who made his fortune exporting iron ore, bought
Western Australia's only licensed exporter of beef to China in a deal reportedly worth more than $30
million in May.
"When you overlay food security and increased demand for protein in China, but also in the broader
Asian region, it seems like it is a sector that is naturally leveraged to future growth trends," a BBRC
spokesman said. "For us that definitely seems attractive."

BBRC owns three other beef stations Beetaloo, Mungabroom, and OT Downs in the Northern
Territory's Barkly Tableland.
Though the company is quick to highlight the benefits of being exposed to Asia's growing affluence
China's middle class is forecast to more than double to 630 million by 2022 its connections to
agriculture run deep.
Mr Blundy, valued at $945 million on the BRW Rich 200 list in May, grew up on a farm in Victoria
before building his $1 billion retail and property empire, which now includes six brands in 850 stores
across 13 countries.

"Brett always says he is a country boy at heart ... so he has always been naturally interested in the
space," the BBRC spokesman said. "He was just looking for the right opportunity."

BBRC exports the majority of its live cattle to Indonesia, with some stock going to Vietnam.
The spokesman said Indonesia had similar growth prospects to China and the company was focused
more on live cattle exports than trading processed beef.

"That's not to say never. But I wouldn't say it's (processed beef) in the plans at the moment. We still
see plenty of opportunities in live exports.

Page51of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."Indonesia in a number of ways it's pretty similar to China. There is a growing middle class, increased
beef consumption, increas ed focus on quality all those types of issues, and it's a market that's a good
200 million people."
BBRC has bought Amungee Mungee in partnership with Bullwaddy, which has a minority stake in the
station.
Bullwaddy owners Adrian and Emma Brown will live on the property and oversee its daily operations.
The company bought the 316,900-hectare station bare and plans to complete its first round of
purchases for restocking by the end of September.
The acquisition takes BBRC land holdings to 1.4 million hectares.

l Building a northern porfolio, p 81.

CO
IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

bnthpl : Bras N Things Pty Ltd
i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i645 : Clothing Stores | i654 : Specialty Stores | iretail : Retail
c312 : External Markets | mlvstk : Livestock/Meat Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c31 :
Marketing | m14 : Commodity Markets | m141 : Agricultural Commodity Markets | mcat :
Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E
Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
nswals : New South Wales | nterry : Northern Territory | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
| austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FQLCOL0020140723ea7o0001l

Page52of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.