Deals for a slew of urban high-rises

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CommercialProperty
Deals for a slew of urban high-rises

KYLAR LOUSSIKIAN, APARTMENTS
453 words
14 June 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
36
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

SINGAPORE and Malaysian developers have swooped on apartment and hotel projects along the
eastern seaboard with an end value approaching $1 billion as the high-rise boom rolls on.
Singapore-listed Fragrance Group struck a deal to purchase the 24-storey 555 Collins Street
building in Melbourne that it plans to convert to a landmark mixed-use development.

Fragrance Group purchased the building from property developer Harry Stamoulis for $78 million
after the failure of an earlier attempt, in a partnership with Daniel Grollo’s Grocon, to redevelop the
site.
Fragrance entered the Australian market last month with the purchase of a Hobart development.
The Melbourne project is on a much larger scale.

Malaysian developers have also shown an interest in Sydney, with the listed Eco World announcing
this week it will join with locally based Dyldam to develop 300 units on a 4775sq m site in Church
Street, Parramatta, in the city’s west. Dyldam is already involved with a number of other residential
developments in the Parramatta CBD.
In Queensland, three Singapore firms new to Australian residential development registered a joint
local subsidiary on Thursday night.
KSH Holdings, Heeton Holdings and Lian Beng Group are significant developers in Singapore,
Malaysia and China. Their new Australian subsidiary, Wickham 186, is 15 per cent-owned by KSH,
55 per cent-owned by Heeton and 30 per cent-owned by Lian Beng.
The Weekend Australian understands the company has been set up for a proposed development
fronting Wickham Street in Brisbane’s inner-city Fortitude Valley.
That project could see three towers built on vacant land, with two residential towers — one
30-storey tower with 187 units and another 23 storeys with 137 units — and a third 25-storey hotel
building.

Plans for the Fortitude Valley proposal were submitted by Marvel Investments but will be jointly
developed by the Singapore companies and Perth firms Twin Ocean Property and Sunfire Asset.
Ralph Nunis, director of Sunfire, confirmed the company had been in talks with a Singapore firm
with a view of bringing them on as an equity partner.

Southeast Asian capital could be heading back to the Australian market for new projects, according
to property researcher Kevin Stanley.
“(Chinese developers) represent a relatively recent addition and it’s interesting that a number of new
developments could represent a fresh wave from Singapore and Malaysia,” he said.

Page27of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“Offshore developers are still trying to tap into a buoyant market in Australia, in terms of house
prices, but they need to be careful to buy at a level which will still make good returns feasible.“The
pressure is certainly on as site values start to rise.”

NS

RE

PUB
AN

gplan : Urban Planning/Development | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International
Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics
austr : Australia | malay : Malaysia | singp : Singapore | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | seasiaz
: Southeast Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140613ea6e0009b

Page28of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.