'White elephant' of rail comes of age

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
'White elephant' of rail comes of age

Stephen Cauchi
1,438 words
22 March 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
12
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

News Feature

The Adelaide to Darwin freight line is Genesee's jewel, writes Stephen Cauchi.

It was a proud nation-building moment, the biggest project of its kind since the Snowy Mountains
scheme was finished in 1974. When the first train from Adelaide arrived in Darwin in January 2004 - with
the prime minister John Howard in the driver's cab - it was the realisation of a 150-year dream: a
north-south transcontinental railway. Via its connection with Darwin port, the line was to be Australia's
gateway to the lucrative markets of Asia, one that would transform trade to the region by slashing travel
times.

From the day the first sod was dug in 2001, however, the railway's critics predicted it would not attract
enough business. The $1.3 billion line was built and operated by private operator FreightLink, but it took
$800 million in federal and state government subsidies to get the project started.

Interstate trucking and coastal shipping operators predicted a white elephant. Memorably, Patrick boss
Chris Corrigan said returns on the line would be "smaller than a tick's testicles". Unfortunately,
Corrigan's doubts proved justified.
FreightLink made profits but the company was heavily indebted by the line's construction. Investors
were not satisfied and in May 2008 the company was put up for sale. In June 2010 it was purchased by
American operator Genesee and Wyoming, which had entered Australia in 1997 with the purchase of
freight lines in South Australia.

Genesee has turned the line's fortunes around and is now set for expansion.
In January, the company celebrated the 10th anniversary of the line's opening with a function at its
Darwin terminal. Guests, including Northern Territory Chief Minister Adam Giles and former deputy
prime minister and rail aficionado Tim Fischer, were told the railway shifted 5.9 million tonnes of
containers a year - up 65 per cent since 2004. In addition to these six-weekly 1.8-kilometre-long
container trains, 24 weekly trains on the line carry 3 million tonnes of manganese and iron ore from NT
mines to Darwin port. More mines and trains are in the pipeline.
In February the microscope turned to the performance of the US parent company. Analysts' reviews
were positive and there was much talk of growth, either above-rail (rail services on open access lines) or
below-rail (ownership of track).
The company also runs a regional freight network in South Australia and freight trains on the
open-access interstate network, putting it a distant third in terms of Australian rail freight, behind Aurizon
and Asciano. But the Adelaide-Darwin line is Genesee's jewel in the crown: the only privately owned
intercity main line in Australia, and a transcontinental one at that. The others have been owned by the
federal government's Australian Rail Track Corporation (ARTC) since 1997.

Page111of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."We think the FreightLink acquisition was very good for Genesee and Wyoming and that it performed
better than expected," said US-based Wells Fargo analyst Anthony Gallo. He said the company had
drastically lifted its share of the lucrative containers and metallic ores market, with the less lucrative
agriculture, minerals and stone freight down in the mix.

"Genesee has continued to invest in track and high horsepower locomotives in the Australian market,"
Gallo said. "Overall, I think it is very pleased with the acquisition and the prospects for future growth in
those markets."

Genesee and Wyoming's business is focused mostly on American regional railways but it also runs
trains in Canada, the Netherlands and Belgium in addition to Australia. Of the company's global
revenue of $US1.57 billion, about 20 per cent comes from Australia.

As measured by operating ratio (operating expenses as a percentage of revenue), it is the Australian
sector of Genesee that is the best-performing, noted an analysts' report from Maryland investment
banking firm Stifel. The Australian segment improved to 70 per cent in 2013. The American and
European segment, thanks to unseasonably cold weather and an increase in fuel consumption,
worsened to 77 per cent. Stifel anticipated that Australia would remain the best-performing sector in
2014 with an operating ratio falling to 69 per cent.

"Genesee is a high-quality growth story," Stephens analyst Justin Long told US magazine Barrons in
January. "The management team is extremely strong, with a great track record of completing deals and
integrating acquisitions." In the same article, Eagle Asset Management portfolio manager Matt McGeary
echoed that sentiment, calling the growth outlook for Genesee "very strong".
Company chief executive Jack Hellmann told analysts, "We are actively engaged in multiple
acquisition and business development projects in both North America and Australia.There is a pipeline
[of Australian projects] and it's active."
Greg Pauline, managing director of Genesee's Australian operations, said: "We have the strongest
growth of any of the [Genesee] regions over the last three or four years. We've got a very supportive
[parent company] who's looking for us to sensibly grow in both intermodal [container] and organic bulk
customers. And also below-rail acquisition.

"One of the main reasons I joined the business was to look at the really sensible, profitable growth
opportunities in other states."
The Pilbara mining railways are definitely on Genesee's radar, Pauline said. "We're looking at one
opportunity now, ." The company is also interested in expanding business on the national open-access
rail network. "We're looking at a few opportunities to provide our services to other customers in New
South Wales, Queensland and Western Australia right now, and that's mostly around bulk commodities."

Despite being the most prestigious asset in Genesee's Australian portfolio, the Northern Territory line
only contributes about a third of the company's revenue, with the open-access business and the
Whyalla network accounting for the rest, according to Pauline. But it is an asset the company was glad
to acquire.

"There were some troubled early days," he said of the FreightLink era. "It was great that it was built, but
in some of these infrastructure projects it's often the first or second buyer who gets the sort of deal that
makes sense. Then you can actually sweat those assets and make money."

Besides shipping containers from Adelaide, the NT railway also ships manganese from Bootu Creek and
iron ore from Frances Creek. More mines look set to come on board, the leading candidate being
Sherwin Iron, which is developing a big mine 600 kilometres south of Darwin.

Genesee is also looking to move Asian freight south from Darwin and move produce from the
long-rumoured Ord River food bowl. The Adelaide-Darwin Ghan passenger train pays Genesee to use
the track.

Australia's 8500-kilometre interstate railway is an obvious below-rail target.

"There's been some speculation that ARTC might be divested to the private sector," Pauline said.
"Those sorts of opportunities would interest us. Clearly that would be a very very large transaction so
we'd need to look at how we'd respond to something like that."

Expansion plans are dependent on the strength of the resources sector. Jack Hellmann hinted strongly
during the earnings call discussion that a Chinese slowdown, or a collapse in the resource sector, would

Page112of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.bring Genesee's Australian plans to a halt. "There were projects a couple of years ago that I had thought
would come to fruition but did not because of the slowdown in China," he said.
"In terms of the existing business, the one variable to watch is the price of iron ore ... if it fell $US40
there could be some concern on a sustained basis."

There are other caution signals on the line ahead. In December 2011, a Genesee train derailed and spilt
1200 tonnes of toxic copper concentrate into the Edith River, north of Katherine. Last December,
another train derailed at Union Reef, about 200 kilometres south of Darwin. The latter derailment, plus
another in Alabama, cost the company $US3.5 million and was cited by analysts as one reason for a
disappointing 2013 fourth quarter. The declining Australian and Canadian dollars cost the company
another $US2 million.

Regardless, one of Australia's two transcontinental railways will remain in American hands. The
company has spent heavily on track upgrades and $50 million on new locomotives for the tough
53-hour trip across the brutal Australian interior. "The railway has been transformed," Hellmann told
business magazine Territory Q. "When we bought it the line was on its knees. Now it's thriving," he said.

RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | adelai : Adelaide | saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140321ea3m0005c

Page113of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.