Local producers get raw deal

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Local producers get raw deal

641 words
4 October 2014
The Gympie Times
APNGYT
Main
11
English
Copyright 2014 APN Newspapers Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

UNFORTUNATELY this is not a letter written in good spirits, nor with pride for the leaders of our
nation, this is one written in bitter disappointment.

Again we have watched as our smaller industries are trampled by the supermarket giants, while those
who were elected to protect them stood idly aside.

First it was the dairy farmers who suffered as the grocery duopoly charged more for a bottle of water
than they do for two litres of milk. The immediate effects of these price wars hit agricultural
communities across the nation.

In the past decade alone we have seen farming families pull out of the industry at an alarming rate,
leaving under 500 operating in Queensland, with disastrous impact on families and local economies.

This week however it was the bakers and wheat producers who copped an undeserved blow to the hip
pocket.

We saw the dawn of a new low for the industry, as the Coles/Woolworths duopoly began to charge just
85c for a loaf of bread, which amounts to just 4c per slice.

According to a spokesman for the Baking Association of Australia, as quoted in the Queensland
Country Life, a loaf of bread cannot be made for under $1.50, 40% more than the retailers were willing
to charge.

However the tragedy doesn’t stop at the price tag, the quality of the product was also compromised.
Coles, which was selling its bread under the guise of ‘freshly baked’, was ordered by a Federal Court
Notice to tell consumers it had broken Australian consumer law, due to false advertising.

In truth, the loaves were partially baked and then frozen, many weeks previous, some of which had
been imported from overseas.

Sadly this instance is a common occurrence! Across the country we are watching the Australian
consumer get taken for granted, as the international markets and multinational companies reap the
rewards.

While everyday essentials should be accessible to your average working family, we need to be wary
that these industries keep many in a job.

Competition only works when there is true competition, and a market share between two giants is
hardly that.
When there are only two to buy from there are only two to sell to.

A situation which is proving to be disastrous for producers in nearly every primary industry.

Page160of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Unfortunately though, the plight of the producer is an issue which is out of sight, out of mind for those
in Canberra. As of a Federal Government decision this week, even our armed forces will be wearing
imported footwear.
Rossi Boots, an Adelaide-based manufacturer has lost out on a contract of $15 million, to produce
non-combat boots for the Australian Defence Force. Instead the representatives of our nation have
favoured a company which will supply Indonesian-made boots.

Clearly the Abbott Government has a shorter memory span than that of most Australians as we have
run into trouble with imported products before.
In May of 2012, just two years ago ,the ABC reported on issues regarding Chinese dress boots which
were made for the Australian Defence Force. The glue holding the footwear together was melting in
the hot Australian climate. This is not new news.

Why then do we as a nation insist on selling off our home-grown stock just to be replaced by inferior
products?

Why do we continue to have such blind faith in the neo-liberal free market?

Why do we forget the simple mistakes of the past?

The fact of the matter is, the average Australian doesn’t, we are simply without a choice as the
LNP-led government removes the working hands of this country - one finger at a time.

Shane Paulger,

Katter’s Australian Party Candidate (KAP) Gympie

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
APN Newspapers Pty Ltd
Document APNGYT0020141003eaa4000bc

Page161of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.