Commodity traders on the acquisition trail

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY

LP

TD

Commodity traders on the acquisition trail

By Neil Hume, Commodities Editor
617 words
16 July 2014
18:42
Financial Times (FT.Com)
FTCOM
English
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and
redistribute by email or post to the web.

As trading has become more competitive and markets more transparent, big commodity traders have
responded by sinking billion of dollars into refineries, power plants, ports and other assets.

It is a narrative that has taken up many column inches over the past couple of years and there is more
than a kernel of truth to it. Some energy and metals traders have indeed become more asset heavy
through targeted acquisitions. Vitol, for example, recently acquired Royal Dutch Shell's Australian
refinery and petrol station assets for $2.6bn, while Mercuria is set to buy the physical commodities
business of JPMorgan Chase.

But the reality is more nuanced and complicated as Craig Pirrong, professor of finance at the University
of Houston, noted in his recent whitepaper on commodity trading firms.

"The patterns of asset ownership among commodity traders are extremely diverse, complex and
dynamic, making generalisations impossible," Mr Pirrong wrote in the report.
One firm taking a different approach to many of its peers is Singapore-listed Noble Group. It has been
reducing its direct exposure to upstream, or production, assets and so that it can focus on trading and
transportation - or what its chief executive Yusuf Alireza has described as its core competency.
Earlier this week, Noble, which trades more than 230m tonnes of energy and agricultural commodities
each year, joined forces with EIG Global Energy Partners to launch a new investment vehicle aimed at
snapping up assets in the energy sector.
Harbour Energy will be seeded by $150m from Noble and $50m from EIG, according to people familiar
with the company's plans. The day-to-day running of Harbour will be managed by EIG and a team led
by Linda Cook, a former top executive of Royal Dutch Shell, while Noble focuses on the marketing,
trading and transportation of the company's products.
The tie-up with EIG mirrors two earlier deals struck by Mr Alireza. In April, Noble sold a majority stake in
its agribusiness to Cofco, China's state-owned grains trader, for $1.5bn. Before that, Noble invested
$500m in X2 Resources, the new investment vehicle of Mick Davis, the former head of Xstrata. Noble
will be the preferred "marketer" for the new vehicle and manage its supply chain and logistics.

Analysts say Harbour, which is looking to raise $2bn from investors, should have no trouble finding
suitable targets. International oil companies are shedding non-core assets to streamline their
operations as shareholders press for lower capital expenditure and higher dividends. Up to $300bn of
assets could be on the market according to some estimates.

Equally its joint venture with Cofco will add heft to Noble's trading business and provide valuable insights
into the Chinese market. Noble Agri will become the principal platform for Cofco to source commodities
directly, rather than buying them from intermediaries
The jury, however, is still out on mining. Although private equity groups are showing heightened
interest in the sector many are sceptical they can make deals work.

Page194of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Unlike the oil majors, big mining houses are not under any significant pressure to divest assets, so
prices are high, while the inherent volatility of the mining industry makes highly leveraged acquisitions
risky.
Indeed, the difficulties facing private equity firms or groups looking to buy mining assets was summed
up by Glencore chief executive Ivan Glasenberg earlier this year.

He told the FT Commodities Global Summit that the problem with the commodities space if you have
high gearing is "that you are not running Boots where you have a pretty constant earnings base."

The Commodities Note is a regular online commentary on the industry from the Financial Times

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

uohous : University of Houston | cnyc : JPMorgan Chase & Co.
i14 : Petroleum/Coal Products | i14001 : Petroleum Refining | i1 : Energy | iindstrls : Industrial Goods |
ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
c182 : Asset Transactions | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 :
Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | neth : Netherlands | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | benluxz :
Benelux Countries | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)
Document FTCOM00020140716ea7g0012z

Page195of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.