Fee for foreign buyers

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Fee for foreign buyers

SAMANTHA MAIDEN NATIONAL POLITICAL EDITOR
494 words
23 November 2014
Herald-Sun
HERSUN
HeraldSun
7
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

EXCLUSIVE FOREIGN investors snapping up Australian real estate would be slapped with a $1500
application fee for every property they buy.

The Abbott Government is understood to be seriously considering the measure amid anecdotal fears
that investors are driving up house prices in pockets of the major cities.

The Parliamentary Budget Office has costed a proposal to introduce an administration fee for foreign
buyers that would raise more than $500 million over the next decade.

The funds raised would be used to beef up the compliance powers of the Foreign Investment
Review Board.

The Parliamentary Budget Office says the impost would not deter investors, “given the small cost of
the proposed fee relative to the cost of purchasing residential real estate’’.

The costings, seen by the Sunday Herald Sun, suggest the administration fee could be introduced
from July 1. If implemented, it would raise about $50 million a year. The fee would apply to every
application by an overseas buyer to purchase property in Australia.
A long-awaited report into foreign investment in Australian real estate, to be released on Thursday,
is also expected to examine moving toward a user-pays system for investors applying for permission
to purchase residential real estate.

Another option it is expected to consider is a national register to provide better data on what real
estate overseas investors are buying and where they are purchasing.

Chaired by Liberal MP Kelly O’Dwyer, the committee is expected to criticise FIRB for failing to
aggressively enforce compliance with existing laws.

Since 2008, FIRB has not issued a single divestment order forcing investors who have breached the
rules to sell their assets.

The report is believed to have been delayed because the Abbott Government was concerned that
proposals might have created controversy in the lead-up to the Chinese free-trade agreement
signing.

The committee considered but abandoned proposals to apply higher stamp duty on foreign
investors. But the plan to introduce a user-pays system to beef up the compliance powers of FIRB
has won favour.
Currently, there are no fees associated with applying to FIRB for approval to purchase residential
property as an overseas investor.

Page189of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The new fee would be used to fund a crackdown on investors who breach rules that prohibit the
purchase of existing housing stock rather than encouraging new buildings.
Foreigners can legally purchase real estate in Australia but are prohibited from buying existing
homes.
A temporary resident who has had a visa for longer than 12 months can purchase a single property
to live in but must sell it within three months of leaving Australia.
There are concerns this rule — designed to encourage investors to purchase new or off-the-plan
properties — is not being aggressively enforced.
There are also concerns at a lack of penalties for real estate agents who knowingly assist investors
to break the law.

samantha.maiden@news.com.auTwitter: @samanthamaiden

IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document HERSUN0020141123eabn00028

Page190of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.