Virgin's majority stake in Velocity to remain

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

RF
CO
IN

RE
PUB Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty Ltd
AN

Document CANBTZ0020141117eabi0000n

Virgin's majority stake in Velocity to remain

Aviation Jamie Freed
455 words
18 November 2014
Canberra Times
CANBTZ
B009
English
(c) 2014 The Canberra Times

Virgin's majority stake in Velocity to remain
Aviation Jamie Freed Velocity says it's too early to say whether a float or part sale was likely . Photo:
Louise Kennerley

Virgin Australia Holdings will maintain a majority stake in its Velocity loyalty business even if part-owner
Affinity Equity Partners chooses to exit its 35 per cent stake via a float or trade sale three years from
now, says Velocity chief executive Neil Thompson.Virgin last week revealed to new bondholders that the
private equity could choose to exit three years after the $336 million purchase closed last month,
although Virgin would have the first right of refusal in certain circumstances and the right to participate in
Affinity's exit mechanisms. Mr Thompson said it was too early to say whether a float or trade sale of part
of Velocity was likely. "It is very, very early days to say what might or might not happen," he told Fairfax
Media on Monday after Velocity unveiled a new partnership with petrol retailer BP. Mr Thompson exited
the Velocity board in the wake of the Affinity deal but Virgin chief executive chairman John Borghetti is the
chairman. The other members include Virgin chief financial officer Sankar Narayan, Sydney-based Affinity
partner Brett Sutton and Hong Kong-based Affinity chairman Kok Yew Tang. Rival Qantas Airways in
August announced it would keep full control of its frequent-flyer program after investigating a potential
float of a
minority stake. But Virgin believes having a partner could help it grow its program from 4.5 million
members to 7 million by 2017. Qantas has 10.3 million members of its loyalty program, which is much
older than Velocity. The new partnership with BP will allow Velocity members to earn points when buying
petrol and retail items at the oil company's 1400 service stations across Australia. It will be Virgin's first
points-earning partnership for everyday spending, along the lines of the deal Qantas has with retailer
Woolworths, although Velocity members can also earn points on purchases through linked credit cards.
Details of how Velocity members will earn points with BP will be announced before the program begins in
the first quarter of next year. Mr Thompson said Velocity would continue to unveil new partnerships

to make the program more attractive. It will also consider raising debt financing to help it further invest in
technology, marketing and more employees. He said the Velocity website would also continue to add
features, such as being able to redeem points through bookings from all of the program's airline partners.

The reporter travelled to Melbourne as a guest of Virgin

62251052
vrbair : Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd
i75 : Airlines | i7501 : Scheduled Passenger Airlines | iairtr : Air Transport | ilowair : Low Cost Airlines |
itsp : Transportation/Shipping
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

Page142of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Page143of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.