Krucible cash funds drive for discovery

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Krucible cash funds drive for discovery

TONY RAGGATT Business Editor tony.raggatt@news.com.au
437 words
30 January 2014
Townsville Bulletin
TOWNBU
Townsville
31
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE sale of phosphate tenements in northwest Queensland has Townsville-based explorer Krucible
Metals cashed up to search for that next big discovery.
The company is also researching new biogeochemical exploration technology and looking to
commercialise more of its discoveries as part of a strategy to avoid a repeat of 2012 when a looming
cashflow crisis threatened its survival Krucible struck phosphate when it was looking for copper and
gold at the Korella tenement 150km south of Mount Isa in 2008.

After attempting a joint venture to mine the small but high grade resource of about five million tonnes
at 30.8 per cent phosphate, Krucible negotiated the sale of the Korella lease and other tenements to
Chinese-backed Australia New Agribusiness and Chemical Group for just over $12 million.

Krucible also found rare earth element yttrium in the overburden at Korella for which it retained first
right of refusal to joint venture its development.

Krucible announced this week a bonus options proposal to reward loyal shareholders but at the same
time avoid draining the company of cash needed to fund its exploration.

Krucible managing director Allan Branch believed the proposal struck a good compromise.

“While it has been discussed in open forums that a cash dividend might be viewed favourably by the
market, an equal number of comments have recognised the merit of keeping the company’s
hard-earned cash in-house to contribute to exploration,” he said in a statement to shareholders.

“Krucible is, after all, an explorer and the main interest from investors is to speculate on a big
discovery.” The company has allocated about $2 million for explor–ation for this year and
preparations are being made for its first field trip of the year to tenements in the Mount Isa region and
areas straddling the border with the Northern Territory.

Krucible plans to issue bonus options to shareholders on the basis of one option for every four shares.

The options will have an exercise price of 5c and will have an expiry date of January 23, 2016.

A prospectus is being prepared with first trading in the options expected at the end of March.

Mr Branch said Krucible would implement strategies to ensure exploration budgets were protected well
into the future.

It also intended to enter into acquisitions, joint ventures, mergers or any suitable project that would
generate an alternative revenue stream.“Part of the rational is to avoid another threat like the company
faced in 2012 with a looming cash flow crisis,” he said.

CO

krcmet : Krucible Metals Limited

Page254of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
gcat : Political/General News
queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
News Ltd.
Document TOWNBU0020140130ea1u0001o

Page255of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.