Horizon, Roc deal hits snag after approach by unnamed suitor

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Horizon, Roc deal hits snag after approach by unnamed suitor

Brian Robins
369 words
26 June 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
24
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Mergers
Optimism for a smooth merger between Horizon Oil and Roc Oil has been derailed less than a week
before initial court hearings for the proposal were to be held, with Roc entertaining an approach from
an unnamed party.

Horizon and Roc said in late April they intend to merge via a scheme of arrangement, with Horizon
shareholders to receive 0.724 Roc shares for each Horizon share held. Roc's share price surged 7 per
cent on Wednesday to close at 60¢ with Horizon dumped, ending down 7 per cent at 35.5¢, as
investors reacted nervously to the prospect the deal could fail.
If the $800 million merger is consummated, Roc shareholders will own 42 per cent of the merged
entity and Horizon shareholders the balance.

Roc said on Wednesday it had received a "confidential, unsolicited, indicative and incomplete" offer,
without disclosing the identity of the party.

Until a deal is completed, Horizon will not be made aware of the identity of the new party. The
approach is not yet a competing transaction, allowing the identity to remain confidential.

"ASX-listed parties would appear unlikely, with probably only three companies (AWE, Beach or Senex)
having the appropriate scale, acquisition interest and complementary operations to contemplate an
approach," Ord Minnett analyst John Young told clients on Wednesday.

"Interest may instead come from outside Australia."

Among the reasons put forward for the merger were that the two companies have an Asian-focused
portfolio with assets across China, Malaysia, Myanmar and PNG as well as Australia and New
Zealand.

The merger would also consolidate existing overlapping interests in the Beibu Gulf and Bohai Bay.
Roc is the smaller of the parties, valued in the sharemarket at $385 million and Horizon $495 million,
with their spread of assets of greater interest to a mid-tier player, rather than an industry major.

Both companies have cash flowing from oilfields to fund ongoing exploration and development work,
unlike others such as Nexus, which collapsed earlier this month, or Karoon, forced to sell a prized
asset in the Browse basin to Origin Energy, to fund other exploration.

IN
NS

i1 : Energy
c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter

Page159of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140625ea6q00048

Page160of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.