It's a high-Stokes game or bust

It's a high-Stokes game or bust

By The Canberra Times

HD
BY
WC 1,131 words
PD
1 April 2014
SN
Canberra Times
SC
CANBTZ
PG B012
LA
CY
LP

English
(c) 2014 The Canberra Times

It's a high-Stokes game or bust

'As for potential skeletons inside Nexus' closet, Seven has that covered.'

TD

Bargain: A low- cost way of getting into the energy industry for Kerry Stokes. Photo: Penny Bradfield
I t was a "the price is right" moment for West Australian billionaireKerry Stokes when his Seven Group
Holdings offered to outlay $400million to buy and revive the ailing oil and gas companyNexus Energy.
The deal conjures all those words used to described low- ball offers - cheap, opportunistic and cheeky -
and only capable of success because Nexus is in such a financially parlous shape that it has two choices:
Stokes or bankruptcy. Nexus has been hanging on to solvency by a thread for several months trying to
restructure its finances, including selling assets or raising fresh equity. But an electrical problem that
caused it to shut down its only cash-producing asset, the Longtom gasfield in Bass Strait, tipped the
balance. Seven Group seized the opportunity to pick up Nexus, which owns some good prospective
assets off Western Australia, for 2ï¿½ a share, - which represents about a third of the price at which the
shares last traded on the Australian Securities Exchange. And as for potential skeletons inside Nexus'
closet, Seven has that covered. Until a few months ago, Seven Group's chief executive, Don Voelte, was
Nexus chairman so he is particularly well acquainted with the value of its assets. The deal also involves
Seven extending an immediate bridging loan lifeline and repaying Nexus' bank loans. The fly in the
ointment is that Seven must also convince bondholders to accept its proposed discount offer of 89ï¿½ in
the dollar. Two-thirds of these bond investors have agreed but at least one major Hong Kong-based
hedge fund, Tor Investment Management, still seems to be holding out. The risk for Tor in snubbing
Seven's offer is that Nexus proceeds to liquidation and ultimately the bondholders receive even less. The
bid would value Nexus' equity at less than $30 million but Seven's deal also involves paying out
$50million to senior debt holders, $100million to the noteholders and a capital expenditure commitment of
$235million. Arguably the Nexus assets have value beyond what Seven is offering but selling them while
in a liquidation auction is a less-than- ideal outcome. For example the value of Nexus' 15per cent Crux
stake was implied at $560million in a 2012 sell-down of its once-larger stake in the project to Shell. But
Nexus said it had already gone down the path of trying to offload various investments and had no success
within the bank-imposed time frame. The Nexus board has agreed to the offer and to comply with several
conditions, including not to hawk the company or its assets to anyone else. For Seven, acquiring Nexus
is a low-cost way of getting its foot in the door of the energy industry and at the same time making better
use of the skills of its chief executive and former oil and gas executive, Don Voelte. Stokes lured Voelte
into the camp several years ago to run Seven West Media - which was always considered an awkward
use of his skill set. He ultimately moved to Stokes' head-listed company, Seven Group Holdings, which
has investments in the media group as well as WesTrac, which runs a Caterpillar equipment franchise.

While Seven Group Holdings has plenty of cash, its profit performance has been under pressure primarily
because of the decline in contribution from WesTrac, which supplies equipment
to the mining industry. At the annual meeting last year, Stokes promised the company would be looking
for fresh investments in other industries. Oil and gas - along with healthcare, education and agriculture -
were all on the list as potential ways to tap into the growing Asian markets. Seven Group's chief operating
officer, Ryan Stokes, said the group was looking to industries in which Australia had a competitive

Page25of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.advantage and was attracted to the longer-term dynamics of oil and gas as energy consumption would
increase worldwide and there would be a shift from less environmentally friendly sources.

Savings call

It won't come as a surprise that the Australian Bankers Association's submission to the financial system
inquiry honed in on how the government should help boost the level of bank deposits in the local system
by making saving as tax effective as investing in shares. This has been a real bugbear for banks for years
but has become more so since the global financial crisis exposed just how difficult and expensive it could
be for banks to rely on offshore markets for funding.

At the very least the global financial crisis gave the banks a platform to lobby the government to look more
favourably at making savings more tax effective. The banks hate the need to compete hard for deposits -
it makes them expensive. But regulators and ratings agencies love them. But in reality governments have
shown no appetite for making bank deposits more tax friendly and it would be surprising if the man
running the financial services inquiry, David Murray, was inclined to push that line. He is more likely to
come up with some suggestions that could gain traction with Canberra. From the banking industry
perspective (more particularly from the large four), there is probably little to be gained from tinkering too
much with the status quo. The smaller banks want a more level playing field when it comes to their cost
and access to funding, so for the second-tier banks there will be competition issues. But the big players
have demonstrated clearly since the GFC, and even in a low-credit-growth environment, that the present
settings allow them to make stellar and reliable returns. And their combined market share has risen
significantly over the past five years. Of course there are other funding sources that the banks would like
to see enhanced or encouraged - the Australian corporate bond market, the government bond market and
broader use of securitisation. But the real pot of gold for banks is to encourage the public to use deposits.
The difference between credit demand and money supply within Australia now sits at more than
$600billion. Of this more than $390billion is raised by Australian banks in overseas markets, with about
$120billion of that total renewed each year. So getting a bigger portion of that supply from depositors is at
the top of the industry's wish-list. Placing one's money in the sharemarket has obvious risk drawbacks but
clear tax advantages over bank deposits, thanks to dividend franking. Similarly, superannuation is far
more tax effective than placing money on term deposit in a bank.

55486222

RF
CO entity : Nexus Energy Ltd
IN
RE
PUB Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty Ltd
AN

Document CANBTZ0020140331ea4100010

i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

Page26of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.