Foreign lead in spending

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Foreign lead in spending

Olga Galacho
337 words
7 May 2014
Herald-Sun
HERSUN
HeraldSun
54
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

COMMERCIAL PROPERTY WEALTHY offshore investors are increasingly trumping their Australian
counterparts in the battle to buy into the nation’s commercial property sector, according to new
research.

The insight, in a report on investment trends across the Asia Pacific, describes activity in the sector as
broadly subdued with fewer buying opportunities than normal.

The report, by agents CBRE, says that across the Asia Pacific region, funds are still focused on
opportunities in Australia.

“However, high net worth individuals and private buyers from Australia are increasingly being eclipsed
by their overseas rivals,” it says.

Although the report does not provide hard data on the number of foreign investors, it notes strong
interest from overseas is again being led by private investors from China, Hong Kong Malaysia and
Singapore.

While local buyers are not entirely dormant, it is domestic funds that appear keener to allocate cash to
real estate and Australian real estate investment trusts (A-REITs), the report says.

Few A-grade properties featured in the major deals inked during the first three months of the year
compared with the same period last year.
Older and secondary assets emerged as equally attractive and transactions generally showed a
greater appetite for risk as buyers who were denied higher performing assets were forced to settle for
limited choices.
“Overall there remains a lack of quality assets available for sale and investors continue to move up
the risk curve in order to get into the market,” the report says.

“Australian banks remain very cautious and this market continues to see an influx of non-bank lenders
including pension and insurance money.

“Following a very strong 2013, Australia saw a comparatively quiet start to 2014 in terms of completed
deals … and Sydney emerged as slightly stronger than Melbourne, which saw little activity compared
to the first quarter of 2013.”Activity in the second quarter is expected to firm, CBRE says, as many
major deals are going through due diligence and are expected to close imminently.

NS
RE
PUB

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.

Page103of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document HERSUN0020140506ea570000t

Page104of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.