Alternative sources appeal for funds

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Alternative sources appeal for funds

Dan Wilkie
704 words
11 March 2014
Business News
WABN
English
© Copyright 2014 Business News Pty Ltd.

Tight debt and equity environments have led many junior mining and exploration firms to seek
alternative arrangements to finance their operations.
Private equity funding, debt or vendor finance and contributions from high-net worth individuals have
emerged as the only realistic options for junior mining and exploration firms struggling to win the
interest of investors on the Australian Securities Exchange.

Wolf Minerals managing director Russell Clark told Business News his company would not have
achieved the progress it had on its $230 million Hemerdon tungsten and tin project in the UK without
the backing of private equity funder Resource Capital Funds.

Construction at the Hemerdon project is due to begin in June this year, while the project's $222
million financing package - comprising a £75 million ($139 million) debt facility from a suite of
European banks and a $US75 million bridge finance facility from RCF - was awarded deal of the
year for 2013 by European Mining and Metals.
"The company was financed with relatively few capital raisings," Mr Clark said.

"Tungsten is a commodity that's not particularly well understood; the project we've got has been
worked before so it's not totally greenfields, and when off-takers and the project finance banks looked
at it, they were happy that it met their criteria.

"The other thing that was quite clever was that we took a bridging loan from RCF last June when
there was still a lot of risk associated with the project.

"At some point we will have to raise money, but the alternative would have been to do it in the middle
of last year and dilute our existing shareholders.

"Now we've got a much stronger project and a much stronger share price."
Another company that was unable to tap ASX investors for project finance was iron ore minnow
FairStar Resources.
Midway through 2013, FairStar managing director Kevin Robertson thought the company had signed
a landmark deal that would put it on the path to production at its Steeple Hill iron ore deposit in the
eastern Goldfields.
The $260 million, 50:50 profit sharing joint venture arrangement with Alliance Super Holdings was
cancelled last week, however, and will be replaced by a series of vendor finance arrangements with
international infrastructure groups.
Mr Robertson said a $US176 million rail infrastructure deal with Chinese state-owned CSR Ziyang
was the first funding package announced for the project.

"(Steeple Hill) is a more attractive proposition now because nobody is standing alone any more," he
said.

Page36of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."The parties that we are talking to now and the parties that are knocking on our door are from
different backgrounds, and their feeling and their understanding is a lot more positive because
nobody is taking the risk 100 per cent.

"That's why we split it, when we started talking to people about the financing and splitting it up, it
became the preferred option, no doubt about it.

"This strategy is definitely opening a lot more doors for us, particularly in the challenging debt and
equity markets out there."
The traditional ASXequity option, however, is not totally shut down for juniors, according to Red
Mountain Mining managing director Jon Dugdale.
With a recent uptick in the gold price, Mr Dugdale said investors were more open to gold stocks and
certain companies were able to raise equity funding.

"It's limited to particular stories at the moment, stories that look like they aren't going to need a huge
amount of capital to get up and running, are reasonably advanced, have higher grades and potential
low costs," he said.

"But as the year goes on and those projects get funded, then market conditions will hopefully loosen
up even more and investors and financial groups will be less gun-shy and have confidence that the
market is on a much more positive footing for the medium-term.

"Certainly that smaller capital requirement with rapid payback potential is an easy discussion to have
with financing groups because they can see that when you get to the point of feasibility, a project will
be low risk and able to take advantage of shorter-term conditions and be able to withstand price
fluctuations."

IN

RE
PUB
AN

i8150203 : Private Equity | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | ialtinv : Alternative Investments
| ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Business News Pty Ltd
Document WABN000020140311ea3b0002t

Page37of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.