Chinese Gold Producer Hunts for Foreign Assets

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Chinese Gold Producer Hunts for Foreign Assets

By Chuin-Wei Yap
454 words
23 October 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
21
English
Copyright © 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

TIANJIN, China -- Shandong Zhaojin Group Co., one of China's largest gold producers, is in talks to
acquire gold-mining assets in North America and Australia, Chairman Lu Dongshang said on
Wednesday.

The state-controlled ingot producer is in variously advanced and preliminary stages of discussions
with potential targets, Mr. Lu said on the sidelines of an industry conference. He declined to disclose
the identities of the targets.

Even as gold prices have fallen 10% this year, Chinese gold producers have continued to scour the
world for mining assets, betting that resilient longer-term domestic demand will underpin their
investments.
China consumes about 1,176 metric tons of gold a year but produces only 428 tons, leaving
considerable room for imports, according to the China Gold Association. Gold imports are tightly
controlled by the government, with only a handful of banks and state-owned gold producers
permitted to undertake shipments.
While an avid buyer of domestic assets, Zhaojin has lagged behind larger Chinese rivals like China
National Gold Corp., Zijin Mining Group Co. and Shandong Gold Group Co. in pursuing foreign
acquisitions.
Despite recently failed talks to acquire Ivanhoe Mines Ltd.'s African properties, China National Gold
said earlier this year that it was still on the hunt for global assets.
Zijin's $223 million takeover of Australia's Norton Gold Fields Ltd. in 2012 gave Chinese
state-owned gold miners one of their most significant successes in securing offshore assets, paving
the way for more Chinese ventures abroad to try to plug output shortfalls in resource-scarce China.
Shandong Gold failed in its $1 billion bid for Brazil's Jaguar Mining Inc. in 2011, but successfully
took a $238 million stake in Australia's Focus Minerals Ltd. the following year.
Chinese gold consumption and output last year reached record levels as the country overtook India
as the world's top bullion consumer, despite 2013 being a lackluster year for the precious metal's
prices. The World Gold Council is projecting relatively flat demand growth this year.
Shandong Zhaojin's Mr. Lu said foreign acquisition targets would have to yield at least five grams of
gold per metric ton mined as a basic criterion, while domestic acquisitions must produce at least two
grams per ton. He said that is because foreign mines tend to have far higher costs of production.
Overseas asset targets would also have to have gold deposit reserves of 50 tons "at the very least,"
he added.

Shandong Zhaojin said it is intent on shoring up its market share at home. "We're also considering
domestic assets for consolidation," Mr. Lu said.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

Page171of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO
IN

NS

RE

IPC
PUB
AN

chglda : China Gold Association
i22472 : Precious Metals | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | i22 : Primary
Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | imet : Mining/Quarrying | ireest : Real Estate
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | c182 : Asset Transactions |
c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | usa : United States | shand : Shandong | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz
: Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North
America
ABO
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document AWSJ000020141022eaan00017

Page172of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.