No regrets on takeover bid: Smedley

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
No regrets on takeover bid: Smedley

Tim Binsted
746 words
19 August 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
21
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Outgoing Arrium chairman Peter Smedley said he has "no doubt" he was right to reject the
$1.2 billion takeover from a Posco-led consortium in 2012 as the mining and steel group announced
Jerry Maycock as its new chair.
Pressured by balance sheet concerns and the 34 per cent slide in iron ore prices over the past year,
Arrium shares are fetching around 76¢, below the 88¢-a-share offer Steelmakers Australia put on the
table two years ago.

Mr Smedley said the 88¢ offer from Steelmakers Australia, which was led by Korean steel giant
Posco and commodities trader Noble Group, represented a full 44 per cent takeover premium to
Arrium's depressed share price at the time, while today's market price means the offer has no control
premium.

"I have no doubt it [rejecting the offer] was the right decision," he said.
Mr Smedley has chaired Arrium since 2000 and will pass the reins on to Mr Maycock after the iron
ore, steel and mining consumables group's general meeting on November 17.
Mr Maycock, a former managing director of building products group CSR, is chairman of AGL Energy,
chairman of Port of Brisbane, and a non-executive director of Nuplex Limited.
"Arrium has challenges and I'm really excited about the opportunity. I have experience in capital
intensive industrial corporations, especially relating to construction materials, resources and energy,
so I can draw on that," Mr Maycock said.
During Mr Maycock's time at CSR the company made its disastrous and expensive foray into glass,
which has led to around $1 billion in write-downs.

Mr Maycock said he thinks the move into glass made sense strategically but he has learned from the
experience.

"Hindsight is a wonderful thing and there is no doubt that we paid a high price for the glass assets.
Pre-GFC [global financial crisis] and with a low Australian dollar it looked like a very different
business proposition," he said.One sweet deal
But Mr Maycock points to the 2010 sale of CSR's $1.8 billion Sucrogen sugar business to Wilmar as
an example of his deal-making savvy, and said he has not been scared off big decisions.
"The sugar trade sale was beyond the market's wildest dreams and realised a lot of value. I don't
think Arrium has shown a willingness to duck hard decisions or investment opportunities.

"The platform that has been created does offer some interesting growth prospects," Mr Maycock said.

Page88of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Arrium began life as OneSteel when BHP Billiton spun out its steel long products division in 2000.
During Mr Smedley's time as chairman the company has been reinvented to become the nation's
fourth-biggest iron ore exporter, and has diversified into mining consumables.
The company converted its Whyalla steelworks in 2005 to feed magnetite ore, freeing up its
hematite ore for export. Arrium is on track to export 13 million tonnes of iron ore a year in
2015.Acquisitions
On Mr Smedley's watch the company acquired rival Smorgon Steel and snapped up grinding media
business Moly Cop for $US932 million ($999 million). OneSteel was renamed Arrium to reflect the
changed company.
"I'm very pleased with the progress the company has made converting itself from a national steel
maker to an international mining and materials company," Mr Smedley said.
"It has broader income streams and broader client revenues . . . I'm pleased with the progress
successive management teams have made to deliver a strong base for the future board and
management."
The acquisition spree has, however, piled the debt pressure on Arrium. There is concern that a
sustained plunge in iron ore prices below $US80 a tonne would force an equity raising.
Iron ore is fetching $US93.40 a tonne. Arrium has a market value of about $1.05 billion and has
$2 billion of debt.

Mr Smedley said the board and management are both focused on reducing debt but said he could
not comment further, given that Arrium reports its full-year results on Tuesday.
Analysts' consensus forecasts are for earnings before interest and tax of $503.7 million and net
profit of $293.1 million, according to S&P Capital IQ.
In its quarterly trading update last month Arrium reported record quarterly iron ore sales but
significantly lower sales prices as iron ore is battered by excess inventory and stricter credit
standards in China.

onestl : Arrium Limited
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys |
imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i222 : Steel Products
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | reqrmm : Suggested Reading
Metals/Mining | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial
News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | redit :
Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140818ea8j0001s

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page89of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.