FOLLOW SP SETIA'™S OVERSEAS LEAD, MUSTAPA TELLS MALAYSIANS

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

FOLLOW SP SETIA'™S OVERSEAS LEAD, MUSTAPA TELLS MALAYSIANS

347 words
15 August 2014
Bernama Daily Malaysian News
BRNAMA
English
(c) 2014 Bernama - Malaysian National News Agency

By Neville D'Cruz

The Minister of International Trade and Industry, Datuk Seri Mustapa Mohamed said he is proud of the
extraordinary work of Malaysian companySP Setia Bhd in relation to its two prestigious apartment
developments here -- Fulton Lane and Parque Melbourne.

Parque Melbourne, on a prestigious site in St Kilda Road, has sold out while Fulton Lane has just a
few unsold units left -'“ all before construction work has been completed.

Mustapa said Malaysian developers, investors and entrepreneurs should venture overseas to make
their fortune.

"Be bold, confident, aggressive and open-minded as SP Setia had done here urne," he told Bernama
while visiting the Fulton Lane development yesterday, accompanied by SP Setia Melbourne Chief
Executive, Choong Kai Wai and Kota Tinggi Member of Parliament, Datuk Noor Ehsanuddin Harun
Narrashid.

"We need Malaysians with big ideas, who are brave and have the expertise to make a mark
overseas."

Mustapa some Malaysians tended to look inwards and complained of foreigners buying up Malaysian
businesses and properties.

"They should stop whining and source the world for opportunities. Do not be afraid."

He said he was pleased that several Malaysian companies had already made their mark in Australia.

"Malaysian investment and talent are much sought after around the world," he said.
"If you go to China, Singapore, the Middle East, Hongkong, Britain, the US and other countries, you
find Malaysians doing valuable work and making a name for themselves."

Mustapa is leading a delegation of about 80 Malaysian businesses and agencies to Sydney,
Melbourne and Adelaide to promote business opportunities in Malaysia.

He said he was delighted when 300 Australians attended the seminar in Sydney.

"About 200 had registered for the Melbourne seminar, but 250 or more turned up.

"I sensed there is a renewed interest in Malaysia, maybe it's the result of us signing the
Malaysia-Australia Free Trade Agreement which came into force in January 2013."

The mood at the seminars was upbeat and there was much interest in investing in Malaysia.

-- BERNAMA

NDC NDC NN

CO

spsmal : SP Setia Bhd

Page40of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

i501 : Building Construction | i5010022 : Residential Building Construction | iconst : Construction | icre
: Real Estate/Construction
gcat : Political/General News
malay : Malaysia | austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia
Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Pertubuhan Berita Nasional Malaysia (Bernama)
Document BRNAMA0020140818ea8f0000u

Page41of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.