Acciona boss: energy is key

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Acciona boss: energy is key

Jenny Wiggins
609 words
18 July 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
16
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Australia is missing an "enormous" opportunity if it does not encourage more investment in renewable
energy, the chairman of Acciona, one of Spain's largest infrastructure and energy companies, has
warned.

"Australia is sending mixed signals and capital in this industry is very sensitive to mixed signals," said
José Manuel Entrecanales, Acciona's chairman and chief executive, in an interview with The
Australian Financial Review.

"I would be a much heavier investor if there was a clear picture."
The Abbott government is reviewing Australia's Renewable Energy Target, and considering reducing
output to 26,000 gigawatt hours from 41,000 gigawatt hours by 2020.

Australia was in danger of being left behind other countries if it did not invest more heavily in
developing renewable technology, Mr Entrecanales said. "If you do not get into the race you are
probably going to be late in developing an industry of your own in the future," he said, adding he was
concerned the energy debate in Australia was being hijacked by political interests and that not
enough attention was being paid to the "technical" benefits of renewable energy.

Australia's strong winds, large land mass and copious sunshine gave it "enormous opportunity" to take
advantage of renewable energy as technology improved and costs fell, Mr Entrecanales said. "Why
should Australians reject a big amount of capital that is going to come happily to give the country a
position in an industry that is going to be an industry of the future?"
Acciona, which is controlled by the Entrecanales family and has a market capitalisation of €3.5 billion
($5 billion), has invested some $650 million in Australian energy and infrastructure projects since
2002.
A global agreement on emissions reductions could be reached in the next few months, and if China
and the US struck a deal, other countries would need to fall into line, Mr Entrecanales said. "If that
happens, the concept that countries like Australia are better off burning coal is going to become
debatable because there is going to be a cost assigned to the burning of fossil fuels.

"Preparing for that would be something that would be very prudent by any government, and I think that
it's a lot closer than people think."

United Nations negotiations are under way to draw up a new global climate agreement covering all
countries to achieve greater cuts in global emissions. The new framework is due to be finalised by
2015 and implemented from 2020.
The Australian government's vision for infrastructure was much clearer than on renewable energy, Mr
Entrecanales said, adding that its decision to encourage states to recycle capital from privatised
assets into new infrastructure was "very intelligent."

Page111of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Entrecanales, who is in Australia for the B20 summit and will be meeting with Communications
Minister Malcolm Turnbull, said he had already informally suggested to Trade and Investment Minister
Andrew Robb that the capital recycling idea be extended to the private sector.

Australia, with Mexico and Canada, is one of Acciona's key investment targets and the Spanish group
hopes to use Australia as a base to expand into Asia.
Its current investments include wind farms, solar projects, the Adelaide desalination plant and
Brisbane's Legacy Way road tunnel. It is competing for tenders to build new roads such as
Melbourne's East West Link and Sydney's WestConnex motorways.

Unlike Spanish construction group ACS, which owns Leighton Holdings, Acciona does not plan to
make a big acquisition of a local company such as John Holland. Acquisitions were "risky" Mr
Entrecanales said, adding Acciona wanted to build its own brand.

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

cumzov : Acciona SA
irenewf : Renewable Energy Facility Construction | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i502 : Heavy
Construction | i5020044 : Power Station Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | iutil : Utilities
niex : Interviews with Corporate Executives | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types |
nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nitv : Interviews
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140717ea7i00002

Page112of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.