Herbert Smith Freehills Wins Asia Pacific Energy Law Firm of the Year; Hilary Lau Takes Title as Asia Pacific Energy Lawyer of the Year

HD

Herbert Smith Freehills Wins Asia Pacific Energy Law Firm of the Year; Hilary Lau Takes Title as
Asia Pacific Energy Lawyer of the Year
Distributed by Contify.com

CR
WC 571 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

6 March 2014
Singapore Government News
ATGVSG
English
Copyright © 2014. Contify.com

TD

Singapore, March 6 -- Herbert Smith Freehills has been recognised as Asia Pacific's leading energy law
firm. The firm was presented with the Asia Pacific Energy Law Firm of the Year award at the The Asian
Lawyer All Star Legal Awards on 05 March 2014.
In addition to the accolade, Hong Kong-based partner Hilary Lau also took an individual title as Energy
All Star Lawyer of the Year at the ceremony, a significant achievement only awarded to two energy
specialists in Asia Pacific. Hilary was the youngest honoree amongst a total of 18 All Star Lawyers who
were selected across nine separate sectors including Infrastructure, TMT, Real Estate, Life Sciences and
Investments Funds.

With more than 220 energy lawyers in Greater China, Southeast Asia, Seoul, Tokyo and Australia,
Herbert Smith Freehills has one of the largest dedicated specialist energy teams based in Asia Pacific.
Over the past 18 months, the firm's Asia Pacific energy group has advised on a many multi-billion dollar
cross-border energy transactions. These include CNPC's US$4.2 billion acquisition of interest in a gas
field in Mozambique, Sinopec's US$1.5 billion acquisition of Talisman Energy Inc's UK North Sea
business and CNOOC's US$1.93 billion acquisition of major interests in the Queensland Curtis LNG
project in Australia.
Asia Energy Practice Head David Clinch commented:
"Our Asia Pacific and global energy practice has had a stellar year having helped many of our clients
successfully close their major deals around the world. Over the past 18 months, we have advised on many
of the world's largest and most prominent energy transactions. Our overall performance both in deal value
and volume has again been exceptional and our merger has given us even greater worldwide depth and
coverage. We are absolutely delighted with this award."

Hilary commented:
"It is a great honour to be recognised as one of the top energy lawyers in Asia Pacific, and I share this
milestone with my whole team. We will continue to leverage off the synergies within our Asia Pacific
network, especially between our Asia and Australian offices. We hold an excellent reputation in providing
innovative legal advice which spans the full energy and natural resources value chain."
The Awards was held at the Conrad Hotel in Hong Kong, and marks The Asian Lawyer's first gala event.
The Asian Lawyer is sister publication to The American Lawyer magazine, run by ALM Media, one of the
world's largest legal media publishers.
Herbert Smith Freehills' energy group is widely recognised as a top-tier practice. The teams in Greater
China, Indonesia, Singapore, Japan and Australia are ranked Band 1 by major legal directories including
Chambers and Partners, and Legal 500.
Other major energy transactions closed in 2013 that Herbert Smith Freehills has advised on:
* A$3.2bn purchase of a 30% stake in Gina Rinehart's Roy Hill project.
* Woodside Energy Limited's first two oil and gas exploration deals in the Republic of the Union of
Myanmar.
* PetroChina's acquisition of a 25% stake in phase one of the West Qurna field.

Page108of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.* Japan Petroleum Exploration Co.'s acquisition of a 10% interest in an integrated shale gas
development and LNG project in British Columbia, Canada.

CO freeho : Freehills
IN
NS
RE

i835 : Legal Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | singp : Singapore | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
seasiaz : Southeast Asia

PUB Athena Information Solutions Pvt. Ltd.
AN

Document ATGVSG0020140307ea36000e6

Page109of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.