Newman set to bankroll Galilee coal projects

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

TheNation
Newman set to bankroll Galilee coal projects

Michael McKenna Queensland Political Editor
806 words
17 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
7
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE opening-up of Australia’s next coal frontier will begin within months, with the Newman government
promising to help bankroll infrastructure for proposed mega-mines in central Queensland’s untapped
Galilee Basin.

Just a day after US President Barack Obama slapped down Australia for not doing enough to tackle
climate change and protect the Great Barrier Reef, it emerged that the state government is offering to
kickstart a massive expansion in coal exports to some of the world’s biggest carbon emitters, which
include India and China. An in-principle agreement will be announced today for Queensland to invest
and take a stake in Indian giant Adani’s $2.2 billion railway line, running from its proposed $16.5bn
Carmichael mine in the Galilee Basin to the coal port of Abbot Point.

The agreement, with the amount yet to be negotiated, is being touted as critical for Adani’s Indian and
US bankers to back the mine, with construction of the line now set to begin in the first quarter of next
year.
It is understood that the state government will offer hundreds of millions of dollars to fund short-term
equity stakes in rail, port, airport, water and electricity infrastructure servicing the basin’s proposed
coalmines.
At full production, it is estimated that there will be at least 100 million tonnes of coal from the Galilee
Basin shipped out annually through the World Heritage-listed Great Barrier Reef.

Businessman and federal MP Clive Palmer, who labelled the Newman government “corrupt’’ after failing
to secure favourable treatment for his mine project in the Galilee Basin, will also receive a written offer
for infrastructure investment this week.

The move was flagged yesterday as Queensland Premier Campbell Newman responded to Mr
Obama’s comments about the reef, saying he hoped to inform US officials in the future about efforts to
protect the reef in the face of a global campaign of “misinformation’’ from green groups.

“I am not about to criticise our guest,’’ Mr Newman said at the G20, when asked about Mr Obama’s
address on Saturday at the University of Queensland.

“If the President is concerned about the reef, I can absolutely reassure him that we have a government
that is really solid on reef protection, and there are many examples of that. One of the things I will be
doing in the future is making sure US officials perhaps know more about what is actually going on
because there has been a strong campaign of misinformation by green groups.’’ The infrastructure
investment, to be partly funded through the proposed privatisation of assets that will go to the vote at
the looming state election, is intended to help placate bankers and investors concerned about low coal
prices.

But the deal is conditional on the Indian giant giving “third-party access’’ to other miners for its rail line,
given preferred proponent status by the state government in a bid to reduce the number of rail lines
throughout the region.

Page67of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Deputy Premier Jeff Seeney told The Australian that the investments would be short-term, with the
government planning to sell its stakes in the “next five to 10 years’’.

The state government will invest in the infrastructure — including a possible airport for fly-in, fly-out
workers — on the condition it is available to other miners.

Mr Seeney said he expected the first agreement would trigger an announcement from the Bank of India
to extend a $1bn line of credit to Adani.

“The bankers want this sort of endorsement from the state government, and we want these projects to
go ahead because of the estimated 27,000 jobs it will create and the money that will flow into the state,’’
he said.

“If everything goes to plan, Adani wants to start construction in the first quarter of the year and take
advantage of the low-cost construction environment at the moment.’’ Adani Australia chief executive
Jeyakumar Janakaraj confirmed that the agreement would help win over their investors.
“Adani is well-established in building its long-term future with Queensland, with several billion dollars in
investments already made across the company’s integrated mine, rail and port project,” Mr Janakaraj
said in a statement. “It gives confidence to investors who are considering their long-term plans in the
basin that the state is committed to the best possible infrastructure being in place to support the further
development of the Galilee, and the jobs and exports that will provide.” Adani’s founder and chairman,
Gautam Adani, is believed to be in Australia for today’s announcement.It is estimated that Adani’s
proposed standard-gauge rail line will take two years to build. It has already received state and federal
environmental approval.

IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

i111 : Coal Mining | i1 : Energy | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
gclimt : Climate Change | gpol : Domestic Politics | greg : Regional Politics | gcat : Political/General
News | genv : Environmental News | gglobe : Global/World Issues | gpir : Politics/International Relations
| gwea : Weather
austr : Australia | india : India | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | indsubz : Indian Subcontinent | sasiaz : Southern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141116eabh0002v

Page68of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.