Nice for Eric, but not so good for Mount Gibson

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Nice for Eric, but not so good for Mount Gibson

Matthew Stevens
1,125 words
6 December 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
41
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Until very recently Koolan Island was home to a remarkable oceanside iron ore mine that employed
360 workers and to a massive old salt water crocodile named Eric.

Pretty soon the ageless Eric could be the last resident on the 12-kilometre stretch of sandstone and
hematite that sits on the fringes of the Indian Ocean just off the Kimberley coast.

Koolan was a unique iron ore mine: the main pit and the ocean were separated by a thin stretch of
rock and heavy clays that form a protective sea wall. It was sort of like an infinity pool in reverse. The
past tense is apposite here because just over a week ago, after two minor shifts in a critical point of the
hanging wall, the mine was flooded by a high tide that promptly filled the pit with an estimated
10 billion litres of sea water.

This might be good news for Eric but it is devastating for everyone else involved in the Koolan story.
The mine site is owned and operated by plucky Mount Gibson Iron. On Friday the company accepted
nature's judgment and place its mine on "care and maintenance" while it considers what to do next. As
a result, 200 Koolan miners were made redundant on Friday and Mount Gibson indicated that the
majority of the remaining 160 island employees would share that fate as mining was progressively
wound down.
Koolan sits in Mount Gibson's books at $630 million; the company says it will be reviewing that carry
value. It told shareholders to expect a substantial non-cash impairment when the December interim
numbers are published next year.

Rather hopefully, Mount Gibson said there will be a full assessment of its options before a decision can
be made on the mine's future. The issues that will shape this review include the cost of recovery (lots),
the outlook for iron ore (lower for longer and the Australian dollar (the same). But just a layman's look
at the damage wrought by the ocean's recovery of Koolan suggests that this might be a challenge too
far for the company.
Mind you, if any company understands the challenges of rehabilitating the pit, it is the team at Mount
Gibson. They have done this before after all.Northern outpost of BHP
The Koolan mine was one of the original northern outposts of BHP's interests in iron ore. Having
started digging up the stuff at Iron Knob in South Australia, the Australian steel company opened
mines at Koolan and nearby Cockatoo Island back in the 1940s. The attraction of both was very high
quality iron ore. The ore on Koolan, for example, averaged about 67 per cent through the 50 years
BHP mined there.

BHP eventually found bigger but similarly high quality deposits in the Pilbara and the inevitable decline
of the Koolan resource resulted in BHP closing the island mine in 1993. And, as part of BHP's
environmental mitigation agreement, the sea wall was blasted so the pit was left flooded.

Page73of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In 2006, at the dawn of the iron ore price boom, work began on recovery of the Koolan pit and some
of the inland pods of iron ore left behind by BHP, made suddenly quite valuable again by China's
appetite for steel's raw materials. Eventually, after a pause in progress caused by the global financial
crisis, Mount Gibson reopened, the main pit was recovered in 2010. The mine was at the mid-point of
the recovery program before this devastating leak.

Ironically, outside of the fact that Eric has been delivered a spanking new fish pond, the timing of this
disaster is about the only positive here. Mount Gibson had planned to invest up to $350 million on a
push-back of the landside wall of its pit to open access to a new shelf of Koolan's iron ore. In effect,
costs were about to rise substantially as overburden was removed, but the payback was going to be
four years of very low cost mining from 2018.

At best that investment is going to delayed for quite some time. At worse, it will not happen at all. And
that rather leaves Mount Gibson looking for a new reason to be.

To some degree, the event at Koolan merely brings forward a strategic reassessment that was already
under way. Koolan had an estimated seven years left in it and the horizon of the company's other two
smaller mines is even shorter.
Mount Gibson is sitting on $360 million of hard-earned, boomtime cash and it is substantially
debt-free. And it had already made it clear that expansion options other than iron ore were under
review.

To pick where it might head, you might start by looking at what interests its two main shareholders.
Mount Gibson is 26 per cent owned by Hong Kong-based APAC Resources and 14.54 per cent
owned by China Inc's Shougang Fushan. Both rate themselves as iron ore and coal traders. Given
the real possibility that Koolan's future has been washed away and that life on the margins of an
oversupplied iron ore market was getting very tough anyway, the feeling is that Mount Gibson will look
to coking coal as its next adventure.
Talking of adventures in mining, the news flow seems suddenly all pretty good for our favourite project
anywhere in the mining globe, the Rio-Tinto-managed Resolution copper prospect in Arizona.
The joy of Resolution for me is its back story as a mining disaster and an Apache sacred site. But its
increasing attractiveness to Rio is that it is big (the third-biggest undeveloped resource in the copper
world), it is relatively high grade and it sits in the traditional copper heart of the world's biggest
economy.

Resolution sits pretty much directly under the mine that nearly destroyed BHP before the turn of the
century. In December 1995, BHP paid $US3.2 billion for a US copper company called Magma. It
owned the newest flash smelter in the US and a mature copper mine called Superior.
It quickly emerged that Superior had less economic copper than expected and it was condemned to
closure by a sudden and dramatic fall in copper prices. The smelter was closed and scrapped and a
55 per cent share of the lease was eventually delivered to Rio.
It then defined a massive copper resource another kilometre pretty much directly below Superior.
Which is OK for BHP only because it retained a 45 per cent stake in a thing that Rio now reckons can
sustain a 600,000-tonnes-a-year project.

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

whitt : Mount Gibson Iron Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | reqrmm : Suggested Reading Metals/Mining | redit : Selection of Top
Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141205eac60000t

Page74of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.