Tassie riding high on the cow’s udder

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Tassie riding high on the cow’s udder

513 words
9 December 2014
Hobart Mercury
MRCURY
Hobart
14
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved

CHINA’S rapidly emerging middle class is creating unprecedented demand for milk, especially
powdered formulas for infants.
Of course, we all know that. However, few fully comprehend how feverish and determined the Chinese
are to secure their precious milk products.

Until recently, China’s 1.3 billion people were not great consumers of milk, as dairy was not a
traditional staple in their diet. The Chinese economic revolution in the past two decades has
transformed the eating habits of a burgeoning middle class and demand for milk has surged.
However, six years ago tainted infant formula killed six Chinese babies and sickened 300,000 more. It
sent shockwaves through China, but failed to stem demand. Chinese families began to buy large
quantities of infant formula when they went overseas, bringing it back home in their luggage.
Others turned to the internet where they purchased formula through small online Chinese companies
that guaranteed their products were bought from safe, overseas suppliers.
Many duck across to Hong Kong to buy foreign-made formula, leading to the imposition of a two-can
limit on travellers. Other big retailers, like Boots and Sainsbury’s in Britain, have also declared two-can
limits on purchases of infant formula by individual customers in their stores.
This desperation and growing demand for milk products has sent some dairy producing nations such
as Australia and New Zealand into raptures — and tiny Tasmania is at the head of the charge.
Tassie is leading the nation with record milk production and is on track for 10 per cent growth for this
season with most coming from existing farms. Plans are in place to create another 50 dairy farms —
from new properties and conversions from cropping acreage and tree plantations.

This is all great news for the state, however it pays to remember during this haste to make hay while
the sun shines that it will be the reliable, ethical and safe suppliers who will win the long-term benefits
from the Chinese demand.
Food safety scandals are common in China. In recent weeks Chinese authorities seized more than
30,000 tons of chicken feet contaminated by a cleaning agent and 17 people were in court on
accusations of selling dog meat that had been poisoned with cyanide or overdoses of anaesthetics.
It is imperative that Tasmanian dairy farmers and their associated manufacturers work now to ensure
the highest possible standards in production.
Reputation and brand is absolutely priceless in this context and if properly protected will stand the test
of time. The last thing we want is for Tasmania to become beholden to commodity prices and fall prey
to the inevitable boom and bust nature of such industry when other nations muscle in on
supply.Tasmania’s long-term future will rely on it becoming a trusted supplier of safe, healthy, premium

Page301of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.quality food. The time to build that priceless brand in the Chinese market is now, especially on the
back of the enormous publicity created by the visit of Chinese President Xi Jinping.

IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy Products | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
gcat : Political/General News
china : China | tasman : Tasmania | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
austr : Australia | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document MRCURY0020141208eac90000z

Page302of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.