*ANZ CEO Smith Sees Little Opportunity For Major Acquisition in Asia

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

*ANZ CEO Smith Sees Little Opportunity For Major Acquisition in Asia

718 words
13 January 2014
15:18
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

12 Jan 2014 23:19 EDT *ANZ CEO Smith Says Continues to Look for Assets But 'Stars Need To Align'

12 Jan 2014 23:20 EDT *ANZ CEO Smith Says Growing Trade Finance Competition From Japanese
Banks

13 Jan 2014 00:39 EDT ANZ CEO Says Bumper Asia Acquisition Looks Unlikely

By Enda Curran
HONG KONG--When Mike Smith took over as chief executive of Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. in 2007, he mapped out bold ambitions to grow the bank across Asia including through what
he hoped would be a "transformational acquisition."

Now, approaching seven years at the helm of the country's biggest lender, Mr. Smith says the
opportunity for a large buy has likely passed, leaving ANZ to focus on the nuts and bolts of banking such
as trade finance to grow its regional operation.

"We passed that point," Mr. Smith said in an interview. "It would be nice to have what I have always
called a transformational acquisition but I have always said the stars have to align."

The ANZ CEO has been frustrated in his ambitions to capture a large target. The bank's last major
acquisition was in 2009 when it paid US$550 million for some of Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC's
Asian banking operations.
In September, it was tipped to be interested in buying Hong Kong's Wing Hang Bank Ltd. but ultimately
didn't make an offer. Last year it also withdrew a US$900 million bid for the main Australian business of
U.K. lender Lloyds Banking Group.

"We continue to look but there isn't a lot out there," Mr. Smith said. "I have always been patient.
Something will happen at some stage. I still believe that some of the European bank assets will have to
be sold off," Mr. Smith said.

Some analysts expect that a fresh round of stress tests by the European Central Bank will force some of
Europe's lenders to raise new capital and sell assets in places like Asia, potentially throwing up
opportunities for ANZ.

Since assuming the CEO's role, Mr. Smith, who was once shot in the leg in Argentina while working for
HSBC, has pushed for the bank to hit a target of between 25% and 30% of its earnings from
Asia-Pacific, Europe and the America by 2017. Currently around 20% of the bank's revenue comes from
outside its home markets.

Like Australia's other large lenders, ANZ emerged from the global financial crisis and economic
slowdown relatively unscathed. That strength has allowed the bank to grow its Asian operations such
as transactional banking and trade finance, the type of lending and credit guarantees that greases the
wheels of the region's economy.

Page60of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.But Mr. Smith flagged growing competition in this sector and pointed to an increased presence of
Japanese banks, buoyed by the extra liquidity pumped into the system by the Bank of Japan's
ultra-loose monetary policy.

"They have been very competitive in terms of pricing," Mr. Smith said.

"You are having to run to stay in one place because in trade finance everybody is playing the game. But
it is still good business even if it is a lower return.""
The presence of hefty liquidity in the market from Japan is helping to offset the gradual wind down of
the U.S. Federal Reserve's own bond-buying program, which has pumped liquidity into Asia as investors
sought higher yields, sparking fears the move could trigger a sharp slowdown in emerging Asia.

Transactional banking in Asia remains a key focus too, Mr. Smith said: "That is a strategic no brainer."

On Australia, where ANZ's profits have been helped by lower bad debts and a round of cost cutting, Mr.
Smith said business confidence is showing signs of stability. He talked down fears of a hard landing for
the nation's economy, pointing to what he said are still historically high prices for key commodities
exports such as iron ore.

"For a country like Australia that is still pretty good news," Mr. Smith said.

Write to Enda Curran at enda.curran@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

January 13, 2014 00:39 ET (05:39 GMT)

CO
IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

aanzb : Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c411 : Management Moves | cacqu
: Acquisitions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cslmc : Senior Level Management | neqac : Equities
Asset Class News | niex : Interviews with Corporate Executives | npdn : DJ Dominant News - All | npqan
: DJ Dominant News - Equities | ntop : Top Wire News | nttwn : Today's Top Wire News | c41 :
Management Issues | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories |
nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | nitv :
Interviews | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis
austr : Australia | jap : Japan | nz : New Zealand | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document DJDN000020140113ea1d0028r

Page61of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.