APA wins BG pipeline auction in Australia

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

APA wins BG pipeline auction in Australia

by Paul Whitfield
635 words
10 December 2014
The Deal
DEALNEW
English
Copyright 2014. The Deal LLC.

The U.K.'s BG Group plc has agreed to sell its Australian gas pipeline business to Australia's APA Group
Ltd. for $5 billion, striking a second pipeline sale in the seven months since it ushered its CEO out the
door for failing to offload assets.

APA, Australia's largest gas pipeline operator, said the deal valued QCLNG Pipeline Pty Ltd. at about 13
times its $383 million of forecast Ebitda for its 2016 financial year.

"The sale of the QCLNG pipeline is in line with our strategy to focus on BG Group's core areas of oil and
gas exploration and production and LNG," said BG's acting CEO and chairman Andrew Gould.
The sale is the biggest disposal since Gould replaced Chris Finlayson at the helm in late April, with a
promise to accelerate the pace of disposals needed to fund new investment and to return cash to
shareholders. BG in October named Statoil ASA CEO Helge Lund as its new head, though he will not
take up the position until March. BG on Dec. 1 executed an about-turn on the highly regarded Lund's pay
package following a shareholder revolt.
For APA, the pipeline purchase will add 543 kilometers of new pipes that connect to its east coast
Australian network, and a route between the inland gasfields of the Surat Basin and the huge LNG
export terminals located at Gladstone in the northeast. The pipelines revenues are secured by 20-year
contracts with BG Groupoperations and China National Offshore Oil Corp.
"The acquisition of the QCLNG pipeline allows APA to obtain exposure to the globally-significant east
coast LNG sector and expands APA's contracted revenue base with revenue from highly creditworthy
counterparties," APA CEO Mick McCormack said in a statement.
APA secured the acquisition following an auction that also drew bids from consortiums led by Australian
fund managers AMP Capital Investors Ltd. and IFM Investors Pty.
Sydney-based APA said it will fund the purchase by selling A$1.8 billion ($1.5 billion) of shares with
the balance coming from a $4.1 billion syndicated bridge loan. The shares will be sold through a 1-for-3
rights issue priced at A$6.60 per share — a 17% discount to APA's closing price on Tuesday. Shares in
APA were suspended Wednesday at APA's request and will not resume trading until Dec. 15.
Ratings agency Moody's Investors Service Inc. gave its blessing to both APA's acquisition and its
funding on Wednesday. "The addition … to APA's pipeline portfolio will be positive for the group's
business profile, as it reduces … overall exposure to volume risk and broaden(s) its revenue
diversification beyond the Australian market," noted Moody's senior analyst Spencer Ng. "These benefits
provide credit support." Moody's rates APA's debt at Baa2 with a stable outlook.
BG said the sale would result in a post-tax profit of about $2.7 billion. It will retain control of the
remaining QCLNG assets, including the main two-train liquefied natural gas export facility at Gladstone.
Those assets were worth about $2 billion, the company said.
BG will use the proceeds to reduce debt, which stands at about $10.4 billion, and to fund new
investments.

Page186of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The company is likely to remain under pressure to secure more sales and return cash to shareholders,
with analysts tipping it to offload stakes in newly producing Brazilian operations and promising fields in
East Africa.

Shares in BG traded Wednesday at 897.2 pence, down 1.6 pence, or less than 1%, on their Tuesday
close. The company's market capitalization has tumbled just over 31%, to £31 billion ($48.6 billion),
since the start of the year.

CO
IN

NS

brgas : BG Group PLC | statl : Statoil ASA
i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300006 : Pipeline Transportation | i1 : Energy | i1300014 : Natural Gas
Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Article

RE
IPD
PUB The Deal, LLC
AN

Document DEALNEW020141217eaca00015

Page187of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.