China puts stock in Oz offerings

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
China puts stock in Oz offerings

JENNY ROGERS & MARTIN RASINI
501 words
13 October 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
40
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

STOCK and jus producer Bone Roasters is poised to tap into Chinese tastebuds after sealing a
distribution deal with a Shanghai company.
Bone Roasters operates from premises at Burleigh and its primary business is supplying restaurant
and hotel kitchens with stock, although its products also are available at gourmet delicatessens.

It is the vision of Conrad Brown, a chef who started his apprenticeship at Oskars on the Gold Coast in
1979.

He spent 25 years in Europe and the US, working at hotels and resorts before becoming chef to
renowned Australian television and film producer Reg Grundy.

“US and European food services markets, due to sheer size, are more specialised than the Australian
market and stock and jus producers were operating in both places 15 years ago,” Mr Brown said.

“I saw a niche opportunity for Australia.” Mr Brown came home eight years ago, establishing the
business the next year with partners Garry Erbacher and Tony Raineri, while Patrick Clancy, of
Clancy’s Pies fame, joined the firm more recently.

“Stock and jus are components without which many dishes are not possible,” Mr Brown said.
“Chefs have been loath to stop making them for fear of damaging business if quality is absent or
supply is unavailable,” he said.

“I knocked on one friend’s kitchen door every week for two years, only to have our products rejected.

“Finally, I visited on a day when something amiss had happened. “My friend needed stock and I
delivered in one hour. He has been a customer ever since.

“It has taken years to convince chefs to put their trust in us, and our commitment to quality and
reliability, supported by word-of-mouth testaments, has seen the business grow.” Bone Roasters,
which has seven staff as well as the four partners, obtains its raw material from abattoirs and poultry
processors. Waste is sent for conversion into fertiliser.
The company makes four veal stock products, two red wine jus products and a chicken stock and jus
that are sold across mainland Australia through third parties.
The company for some time has had distributors in Singapore and Dubai and now has a distributor in
China.
The Shanghai deal has prompted Bone Roasters – which operates from 200sq m – to seek out 800sq
m premises.

Page13of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Brown said the company, which supplies Disneyland Hong Kong, began to export after a call from
wholesalers in Singapore and, later, a call from Dubai that led to a link with Kuwait interests with a
chain of eateries in the Middle East.

He said he saw huge export potential for Bone Roasters.
“A friend in the US has a similar business that turns over $US35 million ($A40 million) a year.

“The market on Australia’s doorstep is substantially bigger than that of the US.”

BONE ROASTERS FOUNDED: 2007 FOUNDERS: Conrad Brown, Garry Erbacher, Tony Raineri
PRODUCTS: A range of veal stock and chicken stock and jus CLIENTS:Hotels, restaurants, resorts

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020141013eaad0000y

Page14of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.