Allianz Australia Wins Bid to Buy Government-owned TIO

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Allianz Australia Wins Bid to Buy Government-owned TIO

Ernesto Calucag
683 words
24 November 2014
Best's Insurance News
AMBEST
English
Copyright 2014 (c) A.M. Best Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

SYDNEY (BestWire) - Allianz Australia will be the new owner of the Territory Insurance Office,
Australia's last government-owned insurance company.

The government of the Northern Territory announced that TIO will be split into two, with Allianz Australia
chosen as the buyer of the insurance business, while the banking services will transition to People's
Choice Credit Union.

Chief Minister Adam Giles said in a statement the deal is worth A$424 million (US$367.3 million),
without indicating how much each business was worth.

Under the deal with Allianz, Giles said the TIO brand will be retained and flood, storm surge and cyclone
cover continue to be offered.

"All along, the government has said that any new owner must look after the respected TIO brand,
maintain the services Territorians rely on, and look after TIO's staff," Giles said. "Allianz have committed
to all this, ensuring that TIO has a long future in the Territory and that Territorians continue to have
access to the insurance cover they need."

Also part of the deal is a 10-year agreement for Allianz to manage the Government Motor Accidents
Compensation scheme, which will start in January 2015. The deal is subject to the passage of the
relevant legislation through the parliament of the Northern Territory and Australian Competition and
Consumer Commission approval.

Allianz Australia said winning the bid for TIO will be highly beneficial as they see northern Australia,
particularly the Northern Territory as the region that will play a major role for the company's growth in
the country.
"Allianz is Australia's fourth-largest insurance company, but our presence in the Northern Territory is
well below that of other states. Thus, TIO was a perfect 'fit' for Allianz in a business sense," Niran Peiris,
managing director of Allianz Australia, said in a statement.

Currently, Allianz offers workers' compensation cover in the Northern Territory. The insurer also provides
commercial property business and personal lines through intermediaries such as National Australia
Bank in the region. In the whole Australia, Allianz had gross written premiums of A$3.9 billion last year.
The acquisition will give Allianz huge scale in the Northern Territory, said the company, with TIO
considered a market leader in general insurance in the region. According to TIO's annual report for the
fiscal year ending June 2014, gross written premiums rose 2% to A$128.9 million.

Its reinsurance bill fell slightly to A$49.71 million and net premium revenue rose 10% to A$77.59 million.

Claims rose 29% to A$61.29 million resulting to a 3% decline in underwriting profit to A$23.04 million.

As a state-owned insurer in the Northern Territory, TIO said catastrophic weather events is "one of the
most significant risks" it is exposed to, particularly cyclones in the Darwin urban area.

Page99of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.TIO Chairman Bruce Carter said the sale protected the important community values of TIO, while giving
it access to the global capital markets it needed to compete in today's insurance market.

"TIO has a uniquely concentrated book of risk, it is dominated by one single catastrophic risk; Darwin
cyclone. This sale means TIO can now spread that risk beyond a single state, territory or even country.
It will make TIO stronger," Carter said.

Allianz said it can bring its technical capability in flood mapping, data analysis and risk pricing and will
work with the government as it invests in mitigation in flood prone areas such as Katherine and parts of
Darwin.

Giles said A$50 million of the total proceeds from privatizing TIO will go to flood mitigation work in Rapid
Creek, Katherine and Darwin's rural area.
Allianz Group reported a 11.2% increase in net income for the third quarter to â‚¬1.61 billion from
â‚¬1.45 billion in the same period last year, driven by strong performance in its property/casualty and
life insurance businesses (Best's News Service, Nov. 7. 2014).
(By Ernesto Calucag, Hong Kong news editor: Ernesto.Calucag@ambest.com)

CO
IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

allanz : Allianz SE | tio : Territory Insurance Office
i82 : Insurance | ifinal : Financial Services
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | nterry : Northern Territory | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales
A.M. Best Company, Inc.
Document AMBEST0020141124eabo0002t

Page100of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.