Preliminary 2014 Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd Earnings Presentation - Final

HD Preliminary 2014 Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd Earnings Presentation - Final
WC 14,177 words
PD 30 October 2014
SN CQ FD Disclosure
SC FNDW
LA English
CY © 2014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.
LP

Presentation
JILL CRAIG , GROUP GENERAL MANAGER INVESTOR RELATIONS, ANZ BANKING GROUP LIMITED
: Okay, thanks everybody. Good morning everyone, I'm Jill Craig , I'm the Head of Investor Relations for
ANZ. Welcome to those of you joining us in Sydney this morning, watching on the web or listening on the
phone to today's presentation of the ANZ 2014 full year financial results.

TD

Our CEO, Mike Smith and CFO, Shayne Elliott will present for around 40 minutes and then we'll go to Q
and A and I'll talk about the procedure for that then. Thanks Mike.
MIKE SMITH , CEO, ANZ BANKING GROUP LIMITED : Good morning everyone. After Monday, you might
have thought that I could shorten today's briefing a little bit, but I'm actually not going to because we have
released a good set of numbers today, in fact about 142 pages of them. So there is plenty to talk about.
Cash profit for the year, as many of you have guessed, was up 10% to AUD7.1 billion. Earnings per share
were up 9% to AUD2.603 per share, return on equity continued to increase up 10 basis points to 15.4%
and our capital position strengthened with the common equity Tier 1 ratio up 30 basis points to 8.8%. The
highlight here was our performance in the second half, which saw us generate AUD3 billion or 84 basis
points of organic capital. Now obviously there is a dividend impact in the second half which is not captured
in that figure, but this is a very strong performance.

The fully franked final dividend is up 14% half-on-half to AUD0.95 per share and that will see us pay out a
total of AUD4.9 billion to shareholders for the year. This is another good and clean set of numbers that I
think demonstrates very consistent execution of our super regional strategy, which shows strong growth in
Australia, in New Zealand and in Asia and indeed further progress against our 2016 cost and return targets.

We're also well positioned ahead of the new DSIB and wealth capital changes with our CET1 ratio already
in the high 8% range, well ahead of those changes coming into play. It's a result that demonstrates that
we're creating a better bank for our customers, whether big, small, retail or corporate and indeed a better
bank for shareholders.

Before I get to the results, I'd like to take a step back to highlight that our performance isn't the result of just
one year's work, it's the outcome of consistent execution of the strategy. In the six years since the GFC,
we've actually transformed ANZ into a bank that is more customer focused, more regionally diversified,
more efficient and indeed more sustainable.

We strengthened our position in our major domestic markets through consistent market share gains and in
New Zealand, through the transformation of our business which is now a source of real positive
differentiation. These gains highlight just how much investment we are putting into the growth of our
Australian and New Zealand businesses. They are core to our strategy and they are receiving every dollar
of capital they need to grow.

The concept that I've heard that we are somehow starving our core franchises to feed investment in Asia is
not only misleading, it's patently wrong. We have invested our excess capital in our business in Asia to
establish a unique competitive position for ANZ and that business is now really humming. It's also
producing a return above our costs of capital with growth rates which are well above those experienced in
Australia or New Zealand. I'd also like to highlight here that we've been pretty disciplined with our payout
ratio. We've kept this in the range of 65% to 70% because we have opportunities, investment opportunities
here in Australia, in New Zealand and in Asia that we believe will create longer term shareholder value.

Page288of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.We're also creating a leaner, lower risk bank, with higher quality earnings and we're a stronger bank with
more capital, more liquidity and a much better funded balance sheet. What's pleasing is that the bottom line
is that we've outperformed our peer banks over this five year period and looking forward, I believe we're
also better placed to perform in a changing business and indeed changing regulatory environment.
So let me give you a snapshot of how we see the outlook and how our strategy and business settings are
positioning us to perform in this environment. First the environment in Australia and New Zealand is going
to be one of low system growth while Asia continues to create strong regional opportunities. We've
anticipated this constrained domestic environment by setting performance targets and indeed prioritising
activities that drive our costs to income ratio below 43% and to improve returns with ROE above 16% by
the end of 2016. Now we know these targets have become tougher due to increased capital requirements,
but they're an important message to the management team about the standards that we aspire to.

Second, we expect to see a continuation of the benign risk environment certainly in the short term. At
present, that's playing out in two ways. Lending spreads have been coming down because there is lower
risk in the market, but that's been offset by lower bad debt charges. We're also continuing to reduce risk in
our portfolio. While this has the effect of amplifying raw margin compression, particularly in institutional, risk
adjusted returns have performed better and we are seeing benefits in terms of lower levels of impaired
assets.

Third, we expect to see a shift in the orientation of domestic growth in Australia and in New Zealand from
the consumer to the business segment. To be frank, we've expected to see this start during 2014 but I
think business confidence is taking longer to recover than we anticipated, however we believe that
conditions are in place for this shift to now occur.

The final point to make here is that I think that this environment really plays to ANZ's strengths. Our ability
to continue winning share in retail, our traditional strength in commercial banking, our positioning at both
ends of the regional trade and investment corridors and our focus on productivity and capital efficiency. I
actually believe we're now at a tipping point where our strategy positions us to take full advantage of the
big shifts that are redefining the global economy and are changing our customers' expectations of us.

Turning to the result, let's start by looking at the first pillar of our Super Regional Strategy, which is building
strong domestic businesses in our traditional heartland, here in Australia and in New Zealand. We have
now delivered 18 consecutive quarters [clears throat] excuse me, if I believe the AFR that's my Ebola
kicking in. I sincerely hope not. Yes, be the last meeting you have.

We have now delivered 18 consecutive quarters of above system home lending growth in Australia. We've
done this by having the leading home lending proposition and by investing in our channel capacity and
indeed our sales capability. We've used the same customer insights to grow above system in small
businesses in Australia with the strongest lending growth of all the major banks. This has been done and
this is important, this has been done without compromising credit standards.
In wealth we saw a 13% increase in the number of wealth solutions sold through ANZ channels and in
New Zealand, we're really motoring. We grew market share in all key segments. In home lending, for
example, we have now had five consecutive halves of above system growth and that has included a strong
performance in Auckland. We've also had further share gains in commercial and again have been
improving the quality of the overall portfolio.

For me, a key measure continues to be that more customers are choosing to bank with us. Over the past
12 months we've added 106,000 net new customers across retail and commercial in Australia, while our
wealth division has added another 390,000 customers. We also regained the number two position in
customer satisfaction in Australia, and in New Zealand ANZ brand consideration is at a historic high.

We're also more efficient. In the Australia division the underlying costs to income ratio was down a further
60 basis points to 37.2%. That is truly world class. In New Zealand, the cost to income ratio improved by
almost 2.4 percentage points to 41.1%, and since 2010 we've cut it by 7.3 percentage points.

In global wealth we also made good progress with the cost to income ratio down a further 3.8 percentage
points. At the same time we're also investing in the digital and mobile transformation of the business. In
short, our focus on strong domestic markets has again seen us provide more products to more customers
in more market segments.

As you know, the second pillar of our strategy is profitable expansion in Asia, through an integrated
network that connects customers with the faster growing capital trade and wealth flows of the region. We
have seen double digit revenue growth for institutional Asia up 18%, driven by strong performances in
transaction banking, in global loans but particularly in global markets. Asia is now a powerhouse for ANZ,
accounting for 27% of institutional revenue. That's up 3 percentage points and it now accounts for 29% of
global markets revenue which is up 6 percentage points.

Page289of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.We're also working hard in Asia to emphasise high quality growth and improved returns. Return on risk
weighted assets was up 17 basis points and as we move out of the initial investment phase of our Asia
build the cost to income ratio fell a further 4 percentage points. We have maintained our focus on high
quality investment grade clients. This has seen us deliver strong growth in the balance sheet and
investment grade clients continue to account for three quarters of all lending in Asia.

The key measure for me is our customers. Our regional connectivity is delivering significant outcomes
through a greater share of our client's financial institutions wallet and growing numbers of multi-country
clients. Once again we were ranked as the top four corporate bank in Asia by Greenwich Associates . In
Australia we were rated the number one lead bank by Peter Lee Associates, our strongest result since
2009. In New Zealand we were also rated number one lead bank by Peter Lee with a substantial and
actually growing gap over our peer banks.

The final pillar of our strategy is our enterprise approach to delivering more control and greater efficiency
that has seen us deliver double digit productivity growth in operations, it has seen us give better customer
service, and it has created a stronger risk and control environment. In 2014 we absorbed transaction
volume increases of around 8% while reducing operational expense by around 3%. This helped drive the
Group cost to income ratio to fall a further 94 basis points to 44.3%.

ANZ is now delivering a sustained productivity story and frankly there's more gas in this tank. Our current
expectation is that our approach to operations should give us the ability to continue to improve productivity
for some time to come.
Okay, now let me hand over to Shayne to look at the Group and divisional results in more detail.
SHAYNE ELLIOTT , CFO, ANZ BANKING GROUP LIMITED : Thanks, Mike. Good morning, everybody. It
is my pleasure to stand before you with these results. We've got a great headline number here that really
shows that the growth that we're seeing in our revenue line is continuing in through the year at 6.5%,
strong growth but importantly at a headline level also not at the expense of return. We've seen the ROE, as
Mike mentioned, again improve year-on-year.

But of course, we're here today a little bit also to talk about the second half. And at a headline level second
half performance continued that growth although there's clearly a moderation at a headline level in terms of
the growth numbers we've seen, both at a revenue level and certainly at an earnings level.

But really the story is a more nuanced one than that and actually when we talk about a few of the one-offs
and timing impacts the story in the second half is a very, very good one and that's what I want to take you
through.
As you know our business is heavily impacted by foreign exchange movements in terms of translation
gains, that's an outcome of our super regional strategy. This year the foreign exchange benefits were a net
benefit of around AUD83 million bottom line. That was more a first half impact than it was a second half
impact.

We also had two disposals of businesses that we highlighted during the year, and these were both in the
second half. One was the trustees business, that generated a gain on sale of AUD125 million in the
wealth business. We reinvested those proceeds. What we did with those, we put roughly a third, or almost
essentially exactly a third, back into the wealth business, to drive further productivity initiatives. A third
went into the IIB business, again to fund some productivity initiatives. And a third went into the Australia
division, which was actually a mix of some productivity initiatives and some growth initiatives.

The reason we're calling out those spends, some might say they're a kind of BAU expenditure, is they are
actually one-off in nature. So they're above the line, they're there, you can treat them as you will, but we
want to call them out because they are, in a sense, not repeatable going forward.

Then of course, right at the end of the second half, we did dispose of our shareholding in Saigon Securities.
That was actually resulted in a slight gain on -- in terms of against book value, but of course there was a
currency loss there. We don't hedge those investments, and so that resulted in a small AUD21 million loss.

So if we just put those three changes aside for a second and really look at the underlying performance of
the bank, if you will. Revenue growing at 4%, right on target. I stood here a year ago and said we expected
revenue to grow 4% to 5%, we hit the 4%. Expenses we'd expected to grow at 2%, we actually came in
marginally better than that, I think that's a really exceptionally good result at 1.8%. And so the NPAT -- core
NPAT growth of 8%.

What was the operating environment that we worked through during the year? None of this should be a
surprise. We've had very low interest rates right throughout the year globally, excess of liquidity and of
course very low trade volatility in our markets business, which is an important business for us. If you think

Page290of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.about the bank in two parts, and essentially it's almost 50/50, about half of our businesses are in the retail
-- servicing retail customers, so that includes the wealth division. And about half are in corporate, and there
I include everything from small business through to institutional.
The environments in the retail business, critically here in Australia and New Zealand, was a solid housing
market, strong savings demand and essentially improved system growth in both markets. That, in turn,
drove good credit growth for the system and for ourselves, but strong competition in both markets, margins
reasonably stable but provisions remaining low. And our intentions in that sector, and we highlighted this
last year, was to invest. These are businesses we like, these are great return businesses, businesses with
the opportunity to grow share. So we invested to grow share responsibly and a lot of that investment was
really about improving the customer experience.
On the corporate side of the business, quite a different story as Mike mentioned. Weak confidence, mostly
here in Australia, stronger in New Zealand and Asia. But corporates having very, very low -- maintaining
low levels of leverage and actually very low demand to change that. And so that meant we were in an
environment with slow credit growth, falling loan margins. Now the outcome of that is that there's some
balance sheet trading opportunities which we were able to take advantage of, but there's a lower demand
for hedging products because of that low volatility, but also feeding that low provisions and bad debts
outcome as well. So our focus in those areas was really on capital efficiency, really driving returns,
managing productivity and diversifying revenue.

So what actually happened? I think this is the most important slide that I have because it really talks to the
trends within the business. So just taking that through again, what happened in those retail oriented
businesses. Well revenue growth was reasonable through the year, but importantly the momentum actually
improved quite significantly. So revenue growth in the first half around 2% and actually doubling on a
like-for-like basis to almost 4% in the second half. So really strong momentum coming through, which we'll
talk about as we go through the divisional performance. Expenses in those retail, really tightly managed in
the first half. We continued to invest though and picked that up a little bit in the second half, to support
growth.
Now the corporate business is -- I think it's important to look at it excluding markets because we've talked
many times about the seasonality in markets. I'm just going to put that aside for a minute and talk about
that corporate sector, excluding the markets result. As we mentioned with those falling margins and the
weak credit demand -- actually the first half saw revenue in those sectors down -- very slightly down, 1%.
But we managed expenses accordingly and kept them almost flat at 0.5%.

The important story here is that the second half has really been a turnaround. And we've seen that not --
we've seen that across the board in our businesses. We're now actually seeing moderate, but some,
growth starting to emerge in the corporate sector across our markets. And you'll see there, we'd
prepositioned ourselves on the expenses to actually keep -- those expenses actually came down in the
second half. So I think that's a really good story for the underlying momentum and the outlook that we have
for the businesses.

Of course markets is an important part of the Bank, but there is a seasonality impact. Typically we see a
second half about 10% weaker than the first half. I'll show you some material later, and that was again what
we experienced this year, and that's what kind of overrides those underlying results in retail and corporate
so [you] see the Group numbers there.

So from a divisional perspective, what drove the profit? Actually we had really good results here, Australia
driving 8% earnings growth across the year, IIB 9%, New Zealand 10%. Wealth, actually there's some ins
and outs in the wealth results there, that are important to take note of. So while the headline number is
essentially flat, actually when you strip out those one-offs, there were some tax one-offs that we had last
year, essentially you end up with a underlying wealth performance is actually also up around 10%, 11%.

So all of the businesses growing very high single digit or low double digit. But again it's a story of the two
halves. First half the growth very much driven by our IIB and New Zealand franchises, really strong growth
there. Second half, that growth baton being passed to Australia and wealth which kicked through the
growth into that second half.

So digging down in a little bit more detail. Australia division, this is a really pleasing result, just ongoing high
quality growth, half after half. We've now -- as you can see here, strong lending growth. In fact the second
half of this year was the strongest growth we've had over the last three years, and importantly, not at the
expense of margin. Actually margin improving really healthily in the retail business here in Australia. So
that's a terrific outcome.
Similarly on the commercial side, we're getting growth, there's a slight element of seasonality in
commercial where we tend to get the growth in the second half. But importantly, looking at that chart

Page291of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.there, showing that actually it is not at the expense of credit quality. In fact the credit quality there is held
and marginally improved. So the good results on the underlying demand side and quality, and of course
we're getting -- that's giving us a real productivity dividend there. And you can see the CTI , Mike
mentioned the CTI , numbers continuing to improve for Australia division and also looking at revenue per
head as another measure of that. So net net outcome, very strong operating leverage and a great result for
the Australia division through the year.

New Zealand actually a very similar story, similar chart, slightly different numbers. Ongoing market share
growth in New Zealand retail, which has been terrific, and actually a reasonably marked improvement in
margin over that period of time. The same story in commercial. God solid high quality growth in terms of
asset levels and the quality indicators there actually improving over that time, as we've restructured the
book a few years ago and now we're getting the benefits of that on the quality side.

Productivity, an outstanding result, really a payback from the New Zealand simplification investments we
made some years ago and pretty strong improvement in CTI and also revenue per head also delivering that
similar strong operating leverage there for New Zealand as well.

Global wealth, our whole strategy in wealth is really to increase the cross-sell and connectivity of wealth
with our core franchises, but also to improve its efficiency. And the team here have done a great job. As
Mike mentioned, significantly more customers with a wealth product today, 25% growth in that over the
year. Which is really an outcome of the investments we've made, not only in innovative product but also in
innovative distribution channels.

Good results on the lapse rate so we've shown that we continue to manage the life book incredibly well and
had better experience than most on lapses, and we're sharing in the general market trends towards higher
net flows on FUM. Wealth has also contributed on the productivity side, as Mike mentioned, with some
good -- and improving there and that CTI coming down closer and closer to the group average. So yet
again, another division with strong operating leverage and an underlying very good result.

IIB, as you know, we've -- there's really a focus of the super regional strategy. Just to kind of talk you
through a few highlights on this one. First of all the Australia and New Zealand franchise, broadly flat over
the year. That doesn't really show you the fact that there's been a quality improvement in that profit result.
Clearly that margin decline that we've seen, that weak demand, has effectively hurt the Australia business
more than others. But what's great is that those divisions have been able to replace that earnings with
other sources of revenue and other sources of profit and keep their profit flat on there I think is a pretty
good outcome in the environment.

Asia really powering through and 30% growth for the year. It's a significant part of IIB, it's a significant part
of the Group, and that was really the powerhouse for growth for the year. And when we look at where did
that growth come from, from a product perspective it's nice to see that it's broadly based. So you look to the
top graph there, markets 8% growth, cash management 6%, trade 3%, exactly where you would want the
growth to be given our focus on trade and capital flow into mediation.

Productivity, obviously important given the focus on returns within institutional in particular. But there's
been a gentle increase in the CTI and revenue per head. And then we look at, I think, that bottom chart
there on cash profit is a really important one. Again it speaks to the fact that we've been very consciously
managing the balance between growth and return. And this is a division that is getting moderate [grow]
through and it's managing its return, it's getting that balance right. And that return on risk weighted assets,
actually the highest it's been, and improving, I think that's a great outcome for shareholders.

So digging into that a little bit deeper, looking at Asia in particular. Asia are delivering growth and improving
returns. That growth is broad based. It is coming across from a customer perspective, whether it's
multinationals, large locals, financial institutions, et cetera. All of that kind of high single digit growth during
the year. Growing faster essentially than average GDP across Asia, which is important, we're picking up
share there. And when we look at the sources from a product perspective, markets has been a big driver of
that, as you would expect given our focus on intermediating trade and capital flows, and clearly hedging is
a big chunk of that.

Cash management, that's really starting to get the payback from the investments we've made and
transacted and building up that platform. I think that's a very credible result in terms of a 13% increase,
which is really essentially through a flat interest rate environment, to be able to drive that is great. Trade, a
bit more moderated growth this year, and that again I think speaks well to the division's discipline in saying,
we're not going to -- we're going to manage that trade-off between growth and return.

A lot of that growth came in the first half, second half essentially flat, because we chose not to play the
game on price and just hold back in terms of risk appetite there, and focus elsewhere. And I think that's
served us incredibly well from a risk and return point of view. So productivity in Asia improving fairly

Page292of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.dramatically over the two years, and again that same story, really good cash profit growth from Asia and an
improvement in the return on risk weighted assets, which is exactly what we've promised you.
Now of course markets is an important business and it does have an impact. Here we see the
year-on-year growth remains very solid, low double digits, 10%, 11% growth over the last couple of years.
This seasonality -- and I remember standing, I think it was here, somewhere, two years ago, talking about
the seasonality that we were experiencing, and it's played out almost to the decimal point. We see exactly
that 10% lower second half than first half, and that's what happened again this year. But the underlying
annual growth very strong.

And it's also a terrific story here in diversification of that revenue, and where is that revenue growth coming
from? Increasingly, it's a more diverse business. Asia, two years ago, driving 20% of the market's
business, today almost 30%. Then if you look at that bottom chart, it says where is that coming from?
Again, it's broad based. You would expect to see a big chunk of that coming from the money centres of
Singapore and Hong Kong, and it does, but it's more than that. Singapore almost tripling revenues over
that period of time, which is our largest markets business in Asia. Second largest, Hong Kong, almost
doubling. China, the third largest, more than doubling. So really strong broad based growth in the Asian
markets business.

Of course, that's all the front side. None of that's possible without having a world class operation and
technology capability. Mike has talked about the operational leverage we're getting from here, and we've
talked about it in previous years, so I just want to spend a little bit of time talking about how we've
generated that.
Essentially, we're getting more productivity per person. So of our operations FTE we're getting more
transactions for FTE going through our hubs, and the average cost of those FTE coming down. Again,
that's not a one-time thing, that's just a continuing trend of getting that cost down as we move more of that
work to our centres of excellence.

I think what's really pleasing is that is absolutely not coming at the cost of quality. In fact, it's the reverse.
As a result of the strategy we're actually getting a massive increase, a very rapid increase, in quality. That,
of course, feeds through not just in terms of costs -- the cost of rework et cetera -- but actually a better
customer experience, and that's obviously supporting the revenue growth. So you see that operating
leverage is right across the board, and it is coming in all of the divisions, so it's a really, I think, a hidden
strength of the Group.
But, of course, operations is not the only part of the Bank that's focussed on expense, discipline and
productivity. Here, if you just look at the businesses, so putting aside the FX piece for a minute, we grew
our expenses 1.8%, a very low number. What was it? Technology was the single biggest driver, an
increase of AUD67 million. That's just in reflecting investments we're making to drive some of that
productivity and the improved customer experience. Not all of that is repeatable. Some of it was some
one-time costs in there, but that's the number one.
Second, depreciation and amortisation, again, reflecting the investments we're making in the business.
Other than that, we're talking very small numbers. Total cost of people, including bonuses, essentially, flat
on the year.

To the credit portfolio. Very -- continued improvements here, no surprise there. Gross impaireds continue to
come down. I think what's important there is to look at the large end of town there. Gross impaireds above
AUD100 million, almost non-existent in the book today.

Total provision charge, we've actually had three years where that total provision charge has been about
AUD1.2 billion, AUD1.3 billion. This year it took a step down to below AUD1 billion. It's important to note
there that that step down was really driven by IP. It's not through any release of management overlays or
any significant release of management overlays. And we think that's a new level for provisioning, going
forward.

Looking into that CP balance, (inaudible) has come down, but that bottom chart showing there that we've
had about 5%-ish growth due to lending, but it's really just the risk, the quality of that book improvement,
that's driven it down. Management overlay release for the year was a net AUD49 million, a very small
number with -- not terribly significant in the scheme of things.

Risk weighted assets, as you know we had an unusually large risk weighted asset growth in the first
quarter of the year. That was due to some -- remember, there was a big lot of refinancings that were
happening, particularly here in Australia, taking advantage of rates et cetera and market conditions, so that
drove a lot there. And there were some model changes we had with our regulators, but what you see here
is that really was very much isolated to the first quarter. Since then we've had almost no RWA growth.

Page293of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.And that shows we're being able to fund good quality credit growth, and we're being able to manage the
RWA very successfully. That's really a range of things that we're doing across the Bank. I mean if I think
about last year the big cultural shift, if you will, at the Bank was this big focus on returns, getting the
balance right. And this year it's really been -- we've driven it to the next level and a focus on capital
efficiency. Right across the bank we're seeing this taken much more seriously and really driving a great
outcome on RWA net usage, which in turn is leading to the strength we've had in capital generation for the
year.

Strong result, obviously, from cash NPAT. And the dividend, obviously you can work those out for yourself.
In terms of the other there, those 15 points really comes down to three things. It's literally a third, third,
third. A third of that is a dividend, essentially, from the investments we've made in data. So just getting
better data, higher data integrity is driving some benefits on capital.

Secondly, there are some benefits from ongoing investments we're making to improve models. Within both
of those drivers around 10 points of that are repeatable. Maybe not exactly basis point for basis point, but
there's more work to be done there. The third third is really just to do with some accounting noise in
statutory profit. Those are swings and roundabouts that come and go. You can't count on that for the
future. So a strong performance on capital.

So, in summary, we've done what we said we would do. We've strengthened our core markets, grown
share in Australia and New Zealand, maintained returns, increased the cross-sell of wealth products. We've
really delivered, I think, in terms of profitable Asian growth. We're getting profit growth in Asia and we're
improving the returns.

And as Andrew and the team mentioned on the Asia Road Show, now, with those returns above our cost of
capital and improving, so that's a terrific place to be. And as I mentioned, this enterprise approach, I think,
are possibly not really understood, but real strength of the Bank, being able to get benefits from working
together, doing things in one place, one way, has paid off pretty significantly for the Group, and will
continue to do so, as Mike mentioned.

So the point of the great strategy, we feel good about that but is it producing results? And I think the reality
[is it is]. If we look at the five year compound growth rates -- looking at our peer group we've clearly
outperformed in terms of revenue. That is our promise. That is what we are as a Bank. We're a growth
stock. We've delivered that. We've grown at 7% compound. This year, again, we grew at 7%, significantly
higher than our peer group.

We've grown our PB -- yes, we've spent a little to get there, but our PBP is right at the top of our peer
group comparative group, and we've been the least dependent on provisions in terms of driving the
earnings growth. So we've outperformed in cash NPAT over that five years. That's a terrific result. And
again, it has not come at the cost of return. We've improved return markedly and, again, in the upper bands
of that peer group. I think that's a terrific result, and there's more to come from that.

Thanks, Mike.

MIKE SMITH : Okay. Many thanks, Shayne. So, as you've seen, this is another good performance that
demonstrates consistent execution of the super regional strategy. Let me say though that the macro drivers
of growth in the sector are easing, and the environment is more challenging.

So we have been acting to get ahead of the game. In simple terms, in the environment we have been in,
and the one that we're expecting, we have been focussed on geographies and industries that we like, on
customers that we know and on products where we feel we have a competitive advantage.

This, I think, is an important discipline in the -- and as a contributor to the improved credit performance. It
means that in a tough environment we're well positioned to maintain our momentum and to deliver peer
leading EPS growth and TSR outcomes for shareholders over the medium term.

Now, the other uncertainty which I know is concerning investors globally is regulation and the outcome,
particularly, of the Financial System Inquiry here in Australia. So let me make a few comments on this.
First, everyone in the economy benefits from a strong and well managed banking system. Customers
benefit, shareholders benefit, indeed, taxpayers benefit. We also need to recognise that regulatory settings
have already been significantly strengthened since the GFC, and this has built on what was already a very
sound, well regulated and well supervised financial system here in Australia.

I believe that an approach is needed that focusses on the principles that are needed to guide policy and, on
a holistic approach, to system stability, to determine the required level of capital and, most importantly, loss
absorbency. It just cannot be in Australia's interest to place the financial system at a globally competitive
disadvantage. Indeed, we're already globally well positioned with the implementation of Basel III.

Page294of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The thing that I think is under-appreciated in some of the discussion that I've seen on capital and loss
absorbency is that Australia already has a low risk banking system. I can categorically say the major
Australian banks are now stronger and safer than ever. And this isn't just a matter of equity capital, but
thinking much more deeply about our full loss absorbency capacity.
An example I give here is ANZ. That loss absorbency amounts to around AUD56 billion, which is based on
profit, provision overlays, equity capital, other Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. Of course, there are many
other factors other than loss absorbency which underpin the strength of our system. Stress tests conducted
by APRA and others show Australia's system is already sound, benefiting from strong profitability and
provisioning, a conservative retail and commercial banking business mix, strong legal protections and
capital levels which are already more conservative than global standards.

Together this means we already have a very low risk banking system for Australia taxpayers, who are
rightly concerned about the too big to fail issue. But we need to think very carefully about importing other
people's solutions to other people's problems. Frankly, Australia deserves a better debate on this issue that
we've seen to date.

We need to understand that there is a real cost to regulation and policy settings that are too conservative
and too restrictive. Higher capital costs will come at a cost to customers, who will pay more for home
lending. It will come at a cost to business, who will pay more for loans to grow their business. And it will
come at a cost to the economy through lower growth, fewer jobs and lower tax revenue. There are those
who dispute these impacts but, frankly, these are simple economic facts.

Okay, let's go back to the results. That was all pretty clear, hopefully. ANZ has produced a good high
quality result for customers and for shareholders for the result for 2014. I would like to thank all of ANZ's
50,000 people for their hard work in delivering those outcomes.

Now let me pass back to Jill, who will open it up for questions. Many thanks indeed.

Questions and Answers

JILL CRAIG : Thanks, Mike. I know you all know this off by heart, but let me try it anyway. We're going to
take questions from the room first, if you can wait for a microphone, announce who you are. We'll then go
to the phone and Motty surely because that hand went up so quickly, you can start.

JON MOTT, ANALYST, UBS : Thanks Jill, Jon Mott from UBS . Two very quick questions, firstly Australia
had a very good margin outcome in the second half, up 5 basis points. I just wanted to get a bit of a feel for
it, [253 basis points] also a very good number for a margin.

The second one was on Asia. If you look at the geographical profit down 20% in the second half and I know
there's some seasonality in there, so conscious of that, but did you meet the cost of capital for your Asian
business in the second half, or do you really need that strong markets revenue in the first half to get that
cost of capital?

SHAYNE ELLIOTT : Okay maybe Phil can answer a little bit more colour on the margin, but the margin
outcome in Australia was actually a lot to do with also really good performance on the deposit side of the
business. So I don't know if there's really much more to add on that, Phil.

I think it's essentially what we saw in the first half, actually this is true across the Bank. First half NIM, and
there's a slide in the pack there somewhere, we're very much driven by asset competition and that level of
competition actually had very similar impact in the second half, but the second half had the benefit of a
pretty significant offset, almost 100% offset from funding cost and better deposit pricing coming through.

In terms of the geographic half-on-half, there's really three things that drive that. One was just FX impact,
that was about AUD21 million FX impact between the two. Two, the first half had the benefit of some
legacy write backs from the RBS acquisition, so AUD40 million, AUD50 million of that, which is -- that's
finished. The third was actually just some internal expense true ups between Australia and Asia around
AUD25 million. So those are the kind of technical reasons.

Your question though, Jonathan, you're right in the sense that markets obviously is an important part of the
Asia business, that's part of our strategy, so its performance, because it's generally higher return, has an
impact on it. The business is above its cost of capital for the second half, but not as much as the first half
obviously.

JILL CRAIG : Jarrod and then Brett.

JARROD MARTIN , ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE : It's Jarrod Martin from Credit Suisse . Mike, not going to
let's get away with one or two slides on the capital, we're going to have a bit of a friendly sparring match on

Page295of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.this. It's all well and good saying that the Aussie banks are well capitalised and they do look reasonably
well capitalised at this point in time, but it's a point in time measure and Aussie banks have got to the Basel
III requirements before the rest of the world. The rest of the world are accumulating capital.

So if we fast forward two or three years' time and the Aussie banks just stand still in terms of capital, they
will look relatively lower on capital than they do today. The fact is that the Aussie banks still rely on global
markets to raise funds, therefore isn't it right that the Aussie banks need to equivalently raise more capital
over the next couple of years to be in that top quartile versus the global peer group so that they can
actually raise those funds?
MIKE SMITH : Look I'm not going to talk about what the results of the inquiry are or whatever, but let's
assume that we conform with global standards (technical difficulty) and last week, you know, there was this
article on what the inquiry was going to create. If you want to follow those ideas and say, okay that's the
amount of new Tier 1 capital we require, that's going to be the adjustment to the mortgage book and
whatever, if you were to actually adjust Tier 1 capital by that amount, it would increase every loan in
Australia in terms of its pricing by 50 basis points, a little bit over, okay? If you were to achieve the same
result by actually increasing Tier 2 capital, the cost of that loan in Australia would be 3 basis points. It's an
amazing difference. So there is a smart way of doing this stuff and that's what I think regulators have to
now concentrate on.

The actual level of safety, though, is something which is a moot point. I have never seen a bank fall over
because of capital. They generally fall over because of the liquidity problem. So I really do not see the
obsession.

JILL CRAIG : Brett.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Thanks. Shayne you've got a slide in there, the return on risk weighted
assets in Asia. Does that include the profit from the Asia partnerships?

SHAYNE ELLIOTT : Yes.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: I noticed in the 4E there's no risk weighted assets for the Asia
partnerships, so there's no risk weighted assets in that calculation for the Asia partnerships, would that be
right?

SHAYNE ELLIOTT : I'll just check, is that right Adrian? Yes, it's capital reduction. But the point is it's the
same year-on-year right? So the point is the trend is improving.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Yes, so the absolute level is that you've got a number in the numerator but
you don't in the denominator.

SHAYNE ELLIOTT : For the return on risk weighted assets, absolutely right. Obviously we're not disclosing
the ROE, I accept that. We've given this as an indicator, as the best indicator we can publically or we feel
comfortable disclosing to show you that there's a trend. Actually the trend, not to the basis point, is
consistent with the trend that we have in ROE, okay?

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: The investments in associates shown in the back of the 4E, the deduction
against capital, that would be the reasonable number to put against the profit for the Asia partnerships,
wouldn't it?

SHAYNE ELLIOTT : In terms of just trying to understand the profitability of the Asia partnerships?

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Relative to the capital employed.

SHAYNE ELLIOTT : Yes, that would be a return on our investment, yes, it's a return on capital employed,
sure.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: And that number is increased about, more than 10% in the -- I think it's
increased 13%.

SHAYNE ELLIOTT : Yes.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Seems to be a greater effect than currency.

SHAYNE ELLIOTT : No, I mean the partnership's performed well. We had a good return on the partnership.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Just (inaudible) the change in that deduction is purely about currency?

Page296of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.SHAYNE ELLIOTT : Yes. The point is that the returns that we get on our partnerships are good, they're
above our cost of capital as a portfolio and they've actually been improving. What isn't seen in those
numbers, wherever you look, is actually the market value of those. They're obviously at cost or thereabouts
and so you're not getting the mark to market benefit which is reasonably significant on that portfolio.

JILL CRAIG : James.

JAMES FREEMAN, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK : James Freeman from Deutsche Bank . Just on the
bad debts and asset quality side, obviously a good result, but just having a look on page 9 and the graph
you had on Asian lending, it shows that the institutional component -- it seems that investment grade's
gone from 75% down to 70% in the last couple of years.

If I look at your bad debts to gross loans, it's now actually at the highest level of the peers given what we
saw out of NAB yesterday. Just trying to get a bit of an idea, you say you've de-risked the Bank and
granted your bad debt charge is a lot lower, but just in a relative context, do you think you guys are running
a higher risk profile than your peers are and if not, should your number come down to where the peers are?
SHAYNE ELLIOTT : No, I mean we're clearly not running a higher risk profile that our peer group. Part of
that is to do with the business mix between retail growth and the smaller end of town business investment
grade. It's actually not, you're right, that the statistic shows that it's declined a little bit from 75% to 70%, but
the number's here, it's a reasonably small impact. The quality of the book remains very high and it's higher
than the home book that we have in Australia.

UNIDENTIFIED CORPORATE REPRESENTATIVE: Actually Shayne, I think that legend's wrong, I think
the investment grade is across to 74%, I think that that's the tenor that's (inaudible).

SHAYNE ELLIOTT : Oh you've done it the other way, yes.

UNIDENTIFIED CORPORATE REPRESENTATIVE: I think that's -- it's an error.

SHAYNE ELLIOTT : It's the other way.

UNIDENTIFIED CORPORATE REPRESENTATIVE: So actually the investment grade's --

SHAYNE ELLIOTT : I mean, so the investment grade's dropped a percent --

JILL CRAIG : You're having a big week.

SHAYNE ELLIOTT : 1%.

MIKE SMITH : Yes, I was going to say, it's about 75%.

JILL CRAIG : James is having a cracker of a week for error pick up. Victor.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Thank you, Victor (inaudible) from Citi Equities. Question on markets
income, at the risk of asking for some outlook comments, given that you mentioned Mike that we're running
or we are in a benign risk environment, do you think in this sort of environment we can actually see markets
it can grow year on year?

I understand there is seasonality obviously half-on-half, but when we look at it on a year-on-year basis and
maybe secondly, more broadly, given that risk environment and given that you're consistently trying to
rebalance the Bank more towards less risk, does that, in the near term, put you at some disadvantage
because you're less reliant on BDDs and more reliant on things like markets income?

MIKE SMITH : No, I don't think it puts us at more risk. I mean in terms of the global markets income, I think
what's important to understand is that 75% of that income is flow business, it's customer driven business.
Now there is no doubt that increased volatility in markets means there's more customer activity in terms of
people wanting to hedge, et cetera. But in terms of trade, that's a fairly constant revenue stream and the
foreign exchange business that comes off the back of that.

Volatility, look it's a difficult one to read. I mean if you look at the way bond markets react, well a couple of
weeks ago, that was really quite extreme and you have to wonder why that happened. Because really the
actual provocation or the touch point to create the volatility was the announcement that the Fed was
pushing out its tightening and why was it that it created such an extraordinary reaction? I think it's because
actually a number of the major money centre banks have actually just pulled in the balance sheet, the
Deutsche 's, the UBS 's, the Morgan Stanley 's, the Goldman's, JP Morgan 's and whatever, there just isn't
the liquidity that there was before and therefore this volatility, I think, is just going to be a little bit more
extreme than we've seen before.

Page297of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.So overall, I feel very comfortable with the way that we positioned our global markets business. I think it's
been remarkably successful. It's been building up and as you saw, the influence now of the Asian
business or the Asian component of that is really very significant.
SHAYNE ELLIOTT : I think there's two points of that, there's two ways to grow that business. I think your
comments would be right if we were in a mature level in terms of our customer penetration and we were
reliant on the same number of customers year after year, but we're not. I mean we're growing our customer
franchise really importantly and that's what that diversity has seen through Asia.

I mean it's interesting to note that if you look at our share of global foreign exchange three years ago, we
were number 42 in the lead tables and now we're number 20 and that's really -- that's both from more
customers and more volume, so we can grow. I think the interesting point is, though, that won't be without
investment. We can't grow with not -- we need to continue to invest in terms of systems and product
capability.

MIKE SMITH : Do you want to say something Andrew?

JILL CRAIG : Richard.

RICHARD WILES , ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY : Richard Wiles from Morgan Stanley . I've got a
question for Shayne and a related question for Mike. Shayne on capital, the common equity Tier 1 ratio
has gone from roughly 7% to 9% in the last five years since the end of the crisis, but the leverage of the
Group, the simple leverage of the Group has remained relatively steady.

I wonder if you could give us a rough idea of how much of that has been driven by change in mix or how
much has, in terms of the increase in the ratio, the common equity ratio, how much has been driven by a
change in mix, how much has been driven by de-risking and how much has been driven simply by the
move to advance to accreditation and the risk optimisation or the RWA optimisation that we hear so much
about?

SHAYNE ELLIOTT : Yes, frankly off the top of my head I couldn't give you those balances. It's a good
question, I'll work it out and come back to you.

RICHARD WILES : Okay and my related question to Mike, let's forget Murray and the Financial System --

MIKE SMITH : I wish we could.

RICHARD WILES : -- Inquiry for a moment. In the seven years you've been in Australia you've always
commented on developments in global banking and you've tended to be a little bit ahead of people who are
more domestically focused.
So I'm interested in your views on the G20 and the Financial Stability Board . They're very vocal at the
moment on risk weightings for advanced banks. The FSB is chaired by Carney, who is clearly well
respected around the world. So I'm interested -- what do you think they are likely to propose at the G20
meeting? What do you counterparts in banks in Singapore, Hong Kong and other regions think will happen
on risk weighted assets for advanced to credited banks?

MIKE SMITH : The FSB at the moment is not so concerned around the issue of risk weighted assets. It's
priority is to get the TLAC issue for the G-SIBS in place. So that's what will happen at the G20. And that is
quite advanced now, in terms of where that will land. Quite clearly there's -- it's not only, they're looking at
the complete TLAC. So what will -- what that will include is an element of statutory bail in for example, fully
funded deposit schemes et cetera. And of course it will be different in various countries.

The other thing of course is the issue with derivatives, and they want to get that one cleared up as well, in
terms of -- to sort that out. But going back to TLAC, that is purely -- and they've made this very, very clear --
this is purely for G-SIBS. It is not about D-SIBS, or any other bank. Now we can assume that once the
TLAC is agreed for G-SIBS, it's a matter of time before they start to look at that, but that could be 2 years, 3
years out.

The issue on RWA is more from -- coming through the Basal Committee, and they're looking at how they
get better alignment, and better understanding. And I suspect that we will end up with something which is
somewhere between where we are right now, between the advanced and standardised. Is what I think will
probably emanate. But again they're talking, 3 years, 4 years, 5 years in advance. But the thing that they
do want to try and do there is get a proper correlation that the asset that we would have on our balance
sheet is the same as that asset that say JP Morgan would have on the balance sheet. Quite clearly that is
not the case right now.

Page298of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.And that's their main worry. So there is a degree of concern that -- and this is where the US have got a
problem with the whole concept of RWAs, because it relies on banks' models. The argument of course is
that well banks have to get approval from the local regulator to impose those models, so really the
regulatory environment has to get more coordinated as well here. But I actually think we all have to work
together on this one to sort it out. But I think it's quite a few years out, and this is just going to be an
ongoing thing.

Regulation is not coming to an end, I guess would be my message here. It's like the babbling brook, it will
just go on forever.

JILL CRAIG : Shayne, nothing? Okay. Michael.
MIKE WIBLIN, ANALYST, MACQUARIE GROUP: Mike Wiblin from Macquarie. Mike you mentioned that
there's still some productivity improvements to come from here. You gave us a target last year. I was
wondering, maybe just some colour around?

MIKE SMITH : Well we haven't met our next one yet. So when we've done that I'll give you a new one.

MIKE WIBLIN: FY15 I need something for my model. Can you give us a feel, I mean Shayne sort of
mentioned 1.8% and maybe next year it looks like that -- I mean is that where we're heading?

MIKE SMITH : Well you've got the target. It's out there.

SHAYNE ELLIOTT : So the target of 3.16% was that CTI would be at or below 43%. I'd say straight line
extrapolation is not a bad approach for that one.
MIKE WIBLIN: And on page 67 of the 4E, there's AUD58 million in impairment in retail, in Asia Pacific.
Can you just talk a little bit about what happened there?

SHAYNE ELLIOTT : Do you want to do that Nigel?
NIGEL WILLIAMS , GROUP CHIEF RISK OFFICER, ANZ BANKING GROUP LIMITED : So Nigel Williams
, CRO. If you look there [debts] in our credit card portfolios, largely in Indonesia and in Singapore. In
Indonesia there's a change in behaviour in one of the cohorts there and so then that flows through,
changes the origination models, changes the collections models and that shouldn't be repeating.

JILL CRAIG : Andrew.

ANDREW HILL, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH : Hi, Andrew Hill from Merrill Lynch . Can I just ask a
question about the RPA institutional business? The returns on risk weighted assets in that business have
been hovering around 1% for a few periods now. A little bit of volatility from the global markets business
this time round. But I'm just wondering, do you see that as a steady state return on risk weighted assets for
that business? Or do you see that tracking higher, and if so what are the drivers?

SHAYNE ELLIOTT : Do you want to do that one, or do you want me to? I -- look, I think it's dangerous
actually to think about the business and try and silo things into APEA and Asia and Australia et cetera.
That's not how we run the business, it's an integrated business. We do things in APEA for the benefit of
Asia, we do things in Australia for the benefit of Asia or whatever. And so there's a danger in doing that,
and particularly when you start getting down to kind of ratios around return.
Our target is to get a decent, acceptable return for the business overall in IIB. And Andrew maybe you can
talk about the specifics in that one. Clearly (inaudible) markets is an important part of the IIB business, it's
a relatively more important part of the Asia growth story, not necessarily APEA, but the Asian piece of it,
because that's our whole focus around trade and capital flows.
Markets generally by definition is a higher return business than others, not all but -- than others. So the
more weight we have towards, the more successful we are with that market strategy in Asia, the higher
generally the returns will be in Asia. And actually then that will feed through to the IIB business overall. Do
you want to add anything?
ANDREW GECZY , CEO INTERNATIONAL AND INSTITUTIONAL BANKING, ANZ BANKING GROUP
LIMITED : I guess I would just add the point around the fact that our markets business is still 75%, [70%]
customer flow business. And you know if we take a look at how we're trying to connect customers across
our quarters, it's about trade and foreign exchange which really drives that. Our foreign exchange
business is one of our higher returning businesses from a product line perspective.

So that's really what we've been building over the last few years and that has been the success that you've
seen flowing through in those customer relationships. So I think we'll continue to see that. And we continue
to believe there will be an improving trend associated with our returns.

Page299of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.JILL CRAIG : Might take a call from the phone please.

OPERATOR: Thank you. The first phone question comes from Matthew Wilson from JCP Investment
Partners, please go ahead.

MATTHEW WILSON, ANALYST, JCP INVESTMENT PARTNERS: Yes good morning. Given your
leadership in the resources space, could you talk us through the impact of soft commodity prices on your
balance sheet. While we've been worrying about David Murray the iron ore price has obviously slid
somewhat and coal continues to be very weak.

MIKE SMITH : We'll give that to our CRO.
NIGEL WILLIAMS : So Nigel Williams , CRO. The -- on iron ore, the iron ore price is still above the stress
levels that we've actually modelled most of our exposures on. So we're quite comfortable where iron ore
prices are currently. On coal, clearly a number of those businesses are under some cash flow pressure
and our portfolio tends to be in the lower quartile, sorry lower half of the cost curve. But profitability in that
sector is pretty poor. So as long as coal prices don't go significantly from here, we're not expecting any
material provisions.

SHAYNE ELLIOTT : He asked about softness as well.

NIGEL WILLIAMS : Soft -- I think there's a really good news story if you look at the way we've dealt with
our soft commodity portfolio. If you look at our agricultural exposure in New Zealand, we changed our credit
criteria there several years ago and you saw that our portfolio reduced. So we've very much focussed on
the long run price, so we were not factoring in a dairy payout price of [NZD8] in New Zealand, it's gone
down to [NZD5], so we see a very good portfolio performance through the cycle there. As with some of the
customers with more leverage chose to refinance over the last few years.

JILL CRAIG : Take another call please.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: With the investigation currently under way into foreign investment in
residential real estate, are there any potential operating risk concerns that may be exposed at ANZ?

MIKE SMITH : Sorry who is that from?

SHAYNE ELLIOTT : No there is nothing material from that. No.
UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: But if you funded a foreigner to buy an established property which
(inaudible) hasn't approved, are you inadvertently funding an illegal transaction?

NIGEL WILLIAMS : If you're looking for that sort of story then it's probably better to go and look for some of
the non-bank providers who I see have been providing up to 40% to that sector. Our flow there is de
minimis.

JILL CRAIG : Thanks Matt, if we could take the next caller please.

OPERATOR: Thank you the next phone question comes from Craig Williams from Citi. Please go ahead.

CRAIG WILLIAMS , ANALYST, CITI: Yes good morning and sorry I couldn't be there in person although by
the sound of your earlier reference to Ebola that may be fortuitous. Notable was the slowdown in loan
growth in Asia, I think 4% half-on-half and 15% year-on-year. And risk weighted asset growth. How much of
this was a reflection of prudence given regulatory uncertainty, how much of this is a realisation that there
are parts of the Asian business where growth was available but not suitably profitable?
I note that contraction in absolute balances of trade and transactional loan balances by a couple of per
cent in the second half, where ROE on the lending in isolation must have been low single digit I would
imagine. And excluding regulation changes, sort of -- how much change can we expect to see in
risk-weighted asset growth profile seen this half. How much of that is an anomaly, the sort of slowdown in
risk weighted asset growth?

SHAYNE ELLIOTT : So to your question about the asset growth in Asia, all of it was to do with our own
prudence, our own decisions around the risk reward trade-offs, and those businesses who we want to book
and we see decent returns from. So that was a conscious decision.

In terms of the RWA growth going forward, clearly you know the last 9 months keeping essentially flat is an
extraordinarily good outcome. We think however that -- so if we assume that RWA growth through the cycle
kind of 4% to 5% ongoing, we should be able to continue to get RWA offsets to that through those data
improvements and other things. Not -- but it won't be Craig, it's unlikely to be 100% offsets going forward.
That's true. But we see it -- essentially RWA growth will be lower than our net lending growth.

Page300of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CRAIG WILLIAMS : Thank you.

JILL CRAIG : Thanks if we take the next call.

OPERATOR: Thank you the next phone question comes from Andrew Lyons, from Goldman Sachs .
Please go ahead.

ANDREW LYONS, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS : Thanks and good morning just a related question to
Craig's one. I just note that within your global institutional business your risk weighted assets from the
global loans part of the business still contributes nearly half of your risk weighted assets and it's been
broadly flat over the last couple of halves. Just wondering if you can give us a bit of a feel around how
you'd expect that RWA growth to actually shift just within the various parts of the institutional business.

And then just on related point, slide 63 you highlight the fall in your credit risk weighted assets to EAD ratio
just outside of potential changes that may or may not come from macroprudential and the FSI.

Can you maybe just talk about the extent to which you see further opportunities just on that front and where
exactly they're likely to come from?

SHAYNE ELLIOTT : Okay in terms of the underlying growth in institutional I think it's fair to say, first of all
our book continues to be heavily weighted towards Australia. We still see exactly those trends I talked
about earlier on, which is relatively low levels of confidence, low levels of leverage, no real borrowing
demand.
Particularly as we come to the end of the mining investment cycle. It's hard to see that there would be a
significant lift in RWA growth in the institutional business in Australia. And the business that tends to get
written elsewhere tends to be extremely high quality and therefore low, from risk weighted intensity.
In terms of the trends around the credit risk weighted assets to the Group exposure at default. Look, we've
been grinding that lower over time. In terms of -- again, putting all that -- so, given what we know today et
cetera, we think there's further room for improvement there. Don't really want -- obviously not going to put a
number on that. Why do we think that?

Because obviously we know our own models and data and systems essentially ourselves and know that
there's opportunities to do better on that. That's partly the investments we've been making in those risk
systems. Plus we also can compare ourselves to the -- to our peer group and know what's achievable. So
we're confident that we can continue to grind that slightly lower over time. But you wouldn't expect to see a
big step down in that.

MIKE SMITH : No. But there's much more we can do. Maybe it's worth just talking about some of the
technologies (inaudible), Nigel.

NIGEL WILLIAMS : So there's a couple of things on that. There's a lot of focus or uninformed focus that it
must be optimisation about the mortgage model. It's not about optimisation of the mortgage model. The
opportunities I think are in our other portfolios. As you build out these models and as you build out the data
that you actually have, there's a lot more pricing for risk.

I think that banks have yet to adjust. We've done a lot of work on actually pricing for risk at different points
across the curve. I think there's still plenty of opportunity in somewhere around secured portfolios and
some of our commercial and corporate portfolios.

JILL CRAIG : One more call on the phone.

OPERATOR: The next phone question is from Brian Johnson from CLSA. Please go ahead.

BRIAN JOHNSON, ANALYST, CLSA: Good morning, gents. I had a few quick questions and I'd like to go
through each one of them individually with the answer if I may? The first one is a question to Mike. Mike, if
you have a look in Australia at the moment, housing very, very profitable, deposits probably not so much.
Surely if you would increase the capital requirement it wouldn't necessarily flow through on the housing.
Wouldn't it make sense to actually re-price everything else up more?

MIKE SMITH : No. I see where you're coming from. I mean, I think -- and this is one of the things that
people don't seem to understand. If you were to allocate more capital against housing it doesn't mean we'd
do less housing business. It's still a profitable business. We'd probably have to do something less
somewhere else -- you know, small business or something. That's the trade-off.

But actually really it hasn't been about -- as Shayne said earlier, it actually hasn't been about housing
where we've had that increase in business. It's actually about the re-pricing of deposits. Deposits have
actually been more of a benefit to us than mortgages.

Page301of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.BRIAN JOHNSON: I understand Mike that they've been a positive move. But you can walk around town
and get a deposit rate well above the cash rate.

MIKE SMITH : Yes.

BRIAN JOHNSON: So it seems to me that if I was to fund, for example, a home loan through the branch
with wholesale funding at the moment I'd probably get a 60% return on equity. The whole point is that
there's a lot of stuff that you could re-price over and above housing if the capital requirement across the
board was to go up.

MIKE SMITH : Yes. I think I need to employ you Brian if you could get that. But I think that you have to look
at it at a portfolio basis. You can't just allocate one piece of wholesale funding off against one asset. So it's
not quite as simple as that.
But I understand where you're coming from. I think that the business mix going forward is appropriate. I
think there -- I mean, the thing that we have is a smaller market share in retail and therefore we see that as
an advantage to us because we can take -- we can increase that.
BRIAN JOHNSON: The second question for Shayne if I may. Shayne, you equity account the minority
interest the Asia partnerships. So what happens is they generate earnings. There's no risk weighted assets
as Brett was saying. But when they generate earnings the investment goes up which creates capital
deduction.
But then you pay out a 70% dividend payout ratio across the Group. So you're paying out earnings. The
capital goes up -- the capital deduction goes up. The capital goes down. Now, in the last year in 2013 I
reckon that made the capital go down by about 14 basis points across the Group. Is there something
wrong in that logic?

SHAYNE ELLIOTT : There's nothing wrong in your logic. There might be something wrong in your maths.
But I don't -- the logic is sound. But I'll work out the --

BRIAN JOHNSON: So going with what Brett said isn't this thing where we put the return on the risk
weighted assets including the APEA investments isn't that really a bit of a nonsense?
SHAYNE ELLIOTT : No. Look, the earnings -- the equity accounted earnings from the partnerships is quite
small in the scheme of things, right? So yes, you're right. Does it flatter return on risk weighted assets?
Yes.

Does it imply the dividend payout ratio might be slightly understated (inaudible)? Yes. But we're talking a
small number here. By the way, even though it's been growing, the marginal growth if you (inaudible) in
dollars is actually completely immaterial.

BRIAN JOHNSON: Okay. Shayne, the next one is during this result could you just update us if there was a
move in the CVA or the [FEA] over the period? Positive or negative? How much was it?

SHAYNE ELLIOTT : It was immaterial. It was almost nothing, yes.

BRIAN JOHNSON: Okay. The next one. Shayne, you guys from memory don't have a GRCL. So when we
actually switch across to this new accounting standard, mechanically what does that mean for your capital
position?
SHAYNE ELLIOTT : Do you -- I'm going to -- I'm looking at my brains trust at the back.

BRIAN JOHNSON: Shayne, you are the brains trust mate.
SHAYNE ELLIOTT : Yes, right. I'm a very good delegator. Is there any -- do you want to -- can you get a
microphone, Shane? Go on, you can answer on the capital -- on the credit.
SHANE BUGGLE , DEPUTY CFO, ANZ BANKING GROUP LIMITED : Thanks. It's Shane Buggle here, the
Deputy CFO. Hi Brian. If we increase -- if we adopt IFRS 9 and we're still working through when we'll do it
-- we may do it not this coming -- this year we're now in but maybe next year -- if we increase the
provisioning it will reduce the capital. So it will reduce our book capital to improve our ROEs. From a
regulatory capital basis it has to -- we'll come back to you on that.

BRIAN JOHNSON: Shane, it chews up capital. If I just ask a final one. Matt Wilson got in and asked about
the iron ore price. I know that you guys hate to talk about individual stocks or exposures but when you
have a look at WICET with basically the coal price where it is, can we just confirm what the approach is
theoretically on large infrastructure projects that are exposed on this where you probably haven't yet

Page302of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.handed out money, but we're probably staring at a loss on the undrawn commitment? Could you just run us
through mechanically what you do in that situation mechanically?

MIKE SMITH : Well we could, Brian, but I think it'll bore everybody else on the phone. The -- we're not
going to talk about that individual client, but in that sector on iron ore we are very comfortable with our
position on there. On coal on the infrastructure assets, at the moment that is a comfortable position.

Some of those infrastructure assets have take or pay agreements worth a majority of investment grade
customers and as bank guarantees for the non-investment grade customers for the first period of their take
or pay commitments. So I think it's too early to go into a very detailed discussion about that.

BRIAN JOHNSON: Okay, thank you very much. Thank you.

JILL CRAIG : Okay, we'll come back to the room. Scott.

SCOTT MANNING, ANALYST, JP MORGAN : Scott Manning from JP Morgan . Firstly just in answering
Brian's question, I suspect the capital impact would be neutral because you'd have more eligible provisions
so the regulatory expected loss gap would be smaller so the deduction would offset it.

UNIDENTIFIED CORPORATE REPRESENTATIVE: We can also get a job (inaudible).

SCOTT MANNING: My actual question is more around the institutional bank where, you know, talking
about de-risking the book, improving returns, but the fact is the net interest margins are still going down
there. So good performance domestically, good deposits for all the rest of it.
So to what extent do you look at the Group margin and Group capital generation versus the ongoing slide
in margins in the institutional bank and is there effectively a line in the sand where this margin in the
institutional bank starts to kind of normalise, given the rollercoaster in ANZ's reported margin around mix of
business in this area?

SHAYNE ELLIOTT : So we think about it at both levels. Obviously we think about it within the divisions.
They kind of have to wash their face and make sure they've got decent financials themselves, but we also
have to look at it in terms of the whole portfolio in the Group then as well, right? So we do both, Scott. I
think -- so the reality, what's really happening in institutional in a sense is an exaggeration or an extreme of
what's happening right across the Group.

Loan -- in particular though you're seeing that loan margins are coming down because of the benign risk
environment. That tends to happen at the big end of town more than anywhere else and how far can that
go, who can say, but we're certainly not at the bottom of -- history would suggest that that can go lower. We
know that, if you go back pre-GFC.

The other thing that's driving margins lower is just the absolute level of interest rates. That's actually been a
significant driver. We kind of -- we all focus on the loan margins, I understand that, but actually an equally
big driver has been the fact that interest rates have just been low. Now it's unlikely, I would suggest, that
they can -- the rate of fall will continue. They may not go up but it's unlikely they're going to continue to fall.

So institutional margins, loan margins, interest rates would suggest that they still -- they can still come
down a little bit and what we're doing is really focusing on diversifying the revenue, growing other forms of
revenue streams like foreign exchange and cash management and those things to offset it. Not because
it's just NIM management, because that's our strategy. It also speaks to what we're trying to do with
customers.

UNIDENTIFIED CORPORATE REPRESENTATIVE: I think risk adjusted margin is the (inaudible).

SHAYNE ELLIOTT : Yes, you can talk about risk adjusted margin, Andrew.

ANDREW GECZY : I think that what you see in the institutional numbers is exactly that. Well lending
margins have been coming down and then we've been filling that gap with additional earnings through our
foreign exchange business, through our transaction banking business, whether it's the cash that goes
through the cash business and the trade business. So that's really what's been happening.

Now hopefully what that's going to happen is it's going to flatten out at least and start -- the rate of decline
will flatten down and that means that if we continue to serve our customers the way we've been doing it, we
should continue that growth in the other parts of the business. So that mix of NI and [OIs] has been
improving and that's what we've been doing, is been changing that mix of what we've been doing with our
customers by growing those other types of earnings that we've got. So that's how it's been playing out.

We expect that the lending margins will certainly slow down in their rate of decline, but there's still a little bit
ways to go, but that growth part is the thing we have to focus upon, in changing that mix.

Page303of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.JILL CRAIG : And the change in your risk adjusted margin's been much less, yes. Richard and then I think
we're almost ready to finish.

RICHARD WILES : Richard Wiles from Morgan Stanley . Mike, there's been some media reports
suggesting that you might look to be selling your stake in AmBank. Previously you've said you can
(inaudible) control there. It's also been a very strongly performing bank. I think profit was up 20% in the last
year and I know it was strong in 2013 as well. So could you give us some comment on your thoughts
regarding AmBank?

MIKE SMITH : Look AmBank has actually performed very well for us. We've been pleased with it. There is
a regulatory issue in terms of us obtaining full control there and that has been something that we, you
know, we've been waiting to see what happens. I think we're still in that waiting mood.
I'm in no hurry about AmBank. I would like to get even more of it and if we can't longer term then we would
have to consider what to do with it because quite clearly, just sitting on that stake in terms of the [capsule]
treatment now is much more difficult. I don't think we've in any particular hurry. Things will happen. We
have to wait and see which way the cookie crumbles.

JILL CRAIG : Okay, I think we're done. So with that, thank you everybody for coming today and we will talk
to you over the coming weeks.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this
web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon
current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those
stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more
specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and
believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the
assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results
contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF
THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE
AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR
INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO
WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE
COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE
BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND
THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER
DECISIONS.]

ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking

CO aanzb : Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited
IN
NS c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin :
C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter

RE austr : Australia | usa : United States | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |

namz : North America | nswals : New South Wales

PUB CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
AN Document FNDW000020141102eaau002xl

Page304of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.