GREAT WALL OF MONEY

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
GREAT WALL OF MONEY

269 words
17 September 2014
Daily Telegraph
DAITEL
Telegraph
54
English
Copyright 2014 News Ltd. All Rights Reserved

China still digging deep for Aussie assets
THE value of Chinese deals in Australia has surged since the beginning of the year with Sino
investors continuing to move on domestic mining ventures.

The value of merger and acquisition activity carried out by Chinese investors surged 42 per cent to
$2.4 billion in the first six months of the year compared to the same period a year earlier, a report by
accounting firm PwC found.
The resources sector accounted for 88 per cent of the total value of the deals, dominated by Chinese
investors moving to increase existing shareholdings in miners.

“The fact these deals are strategic moves by existing shareholders, combined with easing commodity
prices and a persistently high Australian dollar, argues against calling any general turnaround in
Chinese interest in resource sector investment,” PwC’s Deals Asia leader Andrew Parker said.
Guangdong Rising Assets Management’s proposed takeover of Brisbane-based Laos copper and
gold producer PanAust, and Baosteel taking control of Australian iron-ore and coal miner Aquila
Resources, accounted for the bulk of Chinese merger and acquisition activity over the period.
Both deals were worth about $1 billion each. The report covered merger and acquisition activity
rather than direct investment and as such does not include significant spending by Chinese investors
developing local real-estate projects.
Mr Parker said although Chinese deal-making remained concentrated in the resources sector, this
was changing as they sought out value in the agriculture, health and consumer sectors.On Monday
two Chinese investment groups established a $3 billion fund to invest in Australian agriculture.

CO
IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

guramc : Guangdong Rising Assets Management Co., Ltd.
ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document DAITEL0020140916ea9h00060

Page162of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.