Treasury's premium clear out of Penfolds Grange

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Treasury's premium clear out of Penfolds Grange

Julie-anne Sprague
801 words
30 October 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
23
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Veteran liquor retailers are being offered steep discounts on Penfolds Grange for the first time in 35 years
in what they say is a move by Treasury Wine Estates to clear out excess stock of Australia's iconic
premium wine.

The Australian Financial Review spoke to numerous retailers across the country who confirmed they had
been offered discounts of between 10 per cent and 30 per cent in the past few weeks to help move
excess stock of the winemaker's 2009 Penfolds Grange.

"It's a cash discount," said one of the country's largest independent retailers, who asked to remain
anonymous.

Asked if the retailer, who has been in the industry for 35 years, has ever been given a discount on
Penfolds' flagship Grange product he said: "Never".
Treasury Wine Estates managing director Mike Clarke strongly rejected that the winemaker was not
offering cash discounts for its 2009 Grange. But he said the winemaker had increased marketing and
advertising support to retailers.

"I can assure you there has been no discounting of Grange at all," Mr Clarke told The Australian Financial
Review.

"We have provided additional marketing support to help sell through the May release of our Penfolds icon
and luxury wines. This is not pricing support and allegations of Treasury offering 10 per cent and 20 per
cent discount on the 2009 Grange are utterly false."

The increased marketing spending is to help retailers adjust to a decision by Treasury to bring forward by
seven months the release of its 2010 Grange, which is viewed by critics as better than its 2009
stablemate. Rather than release Grange and its Penfolds Bin range in May next year, Treasury released
the wines on October 16, allowing the company to better smooth out earnings and attract consumers
during the festive season and Chinese New Year in February.

But it meant retailers had to adjust to two releases of Grange in the one year. Penfolds is crucial to
Treasury's performance, accounting for 70 per cent of profits. Advertising and marketing incentives
typically cover adverts and in-store displays and merchandise.Documents obtained by this newspaper
show a senior Treasury Wine Estates executive has offered one retailer a 30 per cent "rebate" in the past
fortnight for bottles of 2009 Grange.

The retailer was charged $580 a bottle. But after paying for the bottle, the retailer receives a 30 per cent
"rebate", which he said was a cash deposit in to his bank account that meant the average wholesale price
he was paying for 2009 Grange was now $406 a bottle.

Page35of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Including GST, the cost price for Grange is typically $638 a bottle. Penfolds recommends the wine to
retail for $785 a bottle. Woolworths' Dan Murphy's is selling Grange for $679 a bottle. But some retailers
said the wine had been sold for as low as $500 a bottle in recent weeks.
One retailer, offered a similar deal, said the company structured the discount as a "rebate" in order to
keep invoiced prices for Grange consistent around the country."The discount will never appear on the
invoice," the retailer said. "They protect the invoice price because if I get taken over by Woolworths,
Woolworths looks at my accounts and goes back to Treasury and wants a 30 per cent discount for
everything they have bought. So I send them a bill. It's a convoluted way of hiding a discount." The
Financial Review spoke to retailers in Sydney, Melbourne, Perth and Adelaide. "In the last 25 years that I
have been doing this is the first time they have offered money on Grange," one retailer said. The retailer
said he was being offered "bonus stock" and money for marketing and promotion."They can call it
whatever they like. I call it a discount."Mr Clarke said most of the 2009 Grange and Bin wines released in
May had been sold. But he said the winemaker was no longer trying to sell its entire production in the
one year, instead holding on to stock that it could sell more profitably in future years. "We are not trying to
sell everything in one year; even the current release," Mr Clarke said. "That's the big change. Historically
we sell everything.""They are clever with how they do it," the retailer said. Despite Penfolds offering its
biggest promotion in history in July - discounted wine fridges for consumers that bought any six bottles of
Penfolds Bin series or luxury wines – retailers say excess stock remains. More than 12,000 fridges were
sold. He said the winemaker had additional supplies of its luxury wines from 2008, 2009 and 2010. " I'm
happy to carry that and release it at a later date."

CO
IN

trzwn : Treasury Wine Estates Ltd
i426 : Wine | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge :
Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

NS
RE
PUB Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
AN

Document AFNR000020141029eaau0002z

Page36of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.