Woolworths buy top China liquor outlet

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Woolworths buy top China liquor outlet

Simon Evans, Angus Grigg, Sue Mitchell
508 words
4 December 2014
Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
23
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Retail - Beverages - Market tipped to grow
Woolworths Liquor Group managing director Brad Banducci says Summergate, the large alcoholic
drinks distributor in China acquired by the company for $US25 million ($27 million), was able to
increase sales in the past three months despite a tough market.

The acquisition is one of the first by Woolworths overseas as it lifts its focus from domestic
operations, where it faces slowing sales in its core supermarkets business and heavy losses in its
Masters hardware operations.

Woolworths runs the 189-store Dan Murphy's liquor chain and the BWS chain, with 1230 outlets, in
Australia as part of a liquor division that generates sales of $7.4 billion annually.
Summergate generates annual sales of about $US40 million and Mr Banducci said austerity
measures imposed by Chinese authorities had crimped the market but not Summergate.

"It's managed to actually hold the line, and in the last three months has managed to grow."
Mr Banducci declined to comment on the price. Industry players suggested it may have sold for
about$US25 million.
Summergate is one of China's top drinks distributors and represents a portfolio of about 80 global
brands. It also includes a fine-wine retail business, Pudao, with two stores in Shanghai and
Beijing, along with a small online and direct retail operation.

Summergate has 13 offices and 11 distribution centres and employs more than 400 people. It was
established in 1999 by businessmen Ian Ford and Brendan O'Toole.

Mr Ford, who is chief executive of Summergate, said the Woolworths buyout would accelerate a
rollout of retail stores throughout China, telling Fairfax Media the company was looking to have
about 20 stores in the next three to five years, via its Pudao Wines brand.
"We believe, as do Woolworths, that the market for imported wine into China will continue to grow
rapidly in the years ahead," he said.

He said Summergate's sales had risen 28 per cent this year and was targeting growth above 30 per
cent in 2015.
Mr Ford said imports of wine into China would be flat this year but were expected to grow by 10
per cent to 15 per cent in 2015.

"There has been a big shakeout in the market and consolidation is ongoing. But we strongly believe
that imports of wine and spirits will over the longer term grow a lot faster than GDP, probably three
to four times faster," he said.

Page147of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Banducci said the move was a low-risk way for Woolworths to start building a bigger business
in China using its Langton's wine business as a platform.

Mr Banducci said negotiations had been going on for up to a year and the signing of the free-trade
agreement between China and Australia was an added bonus during the past few weeks as
negotiations were finalised.

"The FTA has made it all the more interesting," he said. It would "absolutely" enhance the deal.

wolwth : Woolworths Limited
iretail : Retail | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i641 : Food Retailing | i6411 : Supermarkets/Grocery Stores
| i654 : Specialty Stores
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric
: BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020141203eac40004r

CO
IN

RE

PUB
AN

Page148of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.