Dull nickel gets all funky

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Dull nickel gets all funky

452 words
22 March 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
Second
8
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

What a difference a few months can make. At the start of December nickel was all but dead and buried,
sunk by a global supply glut, changing technologies and a combination of falling grades and rising costs
in established mining jurisdictions.
But if there was ever a case study on how quickly fortunes can change in the mining game, it is surely
shaping up to be WA nickel.

Nickel prices have been rising since the Indonesian Government surprised the market by sticking to
plans to restrict low-grade exports to pursue a stronger downstream processing industry. That was
followed by Vladimir Putin’s Black Sea adventurism, which threw some uncertainty over Russian nickel
supply into the mix, if serious economic sanctions were to be applied. Add to that this week’s news
China’s Jinchuan Group has hit technical troubles at its Gansu province operations that could prevent
it hitting its 2014 production targets of 150,000 tonnes of nickel — and there are plenty of emerging
issues on the supply side.

Given that, it’s shaping up as an interesting year for WA nickel stocks. Having done the hard yards to
tighten up operating costs last year, most are positioned well to sell into a rising market. This year, all of
the significant producers are up, and there’s even some market interest in exploration.

Rox Resources and Panoramic Resources have both done very well from some exciting recent drilling
results. Rox tucked away a handy $3.3 million placement after its announcement. Western Areas is the
pick of the producers, up 45 per cent this year after a capital raising alleviated balance sheet concerns.
Possibilities are also thrown up by the mooted sale of BHP Billiton’s Nickel West, which some sources
suggest could kick off a wave of corporate activity.

To make Nickel West work, a potential buyer needs clear sight of a seven to 10-year feed for its
Kalgoorlie smelter and Kwinana refinery. That puts existing producers in a stronger position in regard to
ore sales. Western Areas, which has an offtake tender for its high-grade concentrate out to market later
this year, is an obvious beneficiary. It could also put mothballed assets, such as those Norilsk Nickel
wants to sell, and Poseidon Nickel’s Mt Windarra project back into play.

It also raises the possibility that a buyer with a big balance sheet could look elsewhere in the local
industry, in search of a guaranteed feed, with Sirius an obvious target if Mark Creasey could be
persuaded to sell.

If the price goes it all goes, but nickel is far more interesting now than it was a few months ago.

NS

RE
PUB

mnonfr : Non-ferrous Metals | mnickl : Nickel Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals
Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce
: FC&E Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited

Page130of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document TWAU000020140321ea3m00008

Page131of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.