Yancoal seeks $US2.3b as debts mount

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Yancoal seeks $US2.3b as debts mount

Amanda Saunders
928 words
11 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
18
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Yancoal boss Reinhold Schmidt is adamant that a $US2.3 billion debt-for-equity swap is not a new
attempt to privatise the listed Australian coal miner by its major Chinese shareholder Yanzhou Coal.
Yancoal's $1.52 billionASX debut in mid-2012 was the first time a state-owned Chinese firm
operating in Australia had listed on the local exchange.

But the company, which has seven coal mines in Australia, so far appears to have been a
disastrous experiment for China, losing more than $1 billion in 18 months.

Yanzhou has even been forced to guarantee that Yancoal will remain solvent, for as long as it
remains a majority shareholder.
Yancoal's market capitalisation has shrunk to about $165 million, from $1.52 billion on listing. In a
recapitalisation of sorts, Yanzhou will extend a fresh $US1.4 billion loan to the troubled miner and
take up $US1.8 billion of a $US2.3 billion subordinated capital notes offer to repay a loan to itself.
Yancoal will look to the rest of its share register to raise the $US500 million shortfall, which would be
invested into the business.
But the notes will be treated as equity and it is understood some shareholders see the deal as
Yanzhou trying at privatisation by stealth.
Yanzhou, which holds a 78 per cent stake in Yancoal, is China's fourth biggest coal company.
But Mr Schmidt said privatisation was not on the table, and the debt-for-equity swap was not a
means of taking the company private.

Yanzhou called off a privatisation bid for Yancoal in March this year, after being stymied by Noble
Group, which is the company's second-biggest shareholder, with about 13.2 per cent of the register.

It is understood Noble Group is furious about not being sounded out about the recapitalisation, with
management at the Asian commodities trading giant scrambling to get to understand the detail of the
deal on Monday.

But Mr Schmidt told The Australian Financial Review that – "we could not put it to the Noble Group
before announcing it, because that would be inappropriate".

Noble Group executive William Randall sits on Yancoal's board but he was "very clear there was a
Chinese wall established between him as a director and the Noble Group", Mr Schmidt said.
Since Yancoal's listing the Australian coal sector has since taken a dramatic turn for the worse, with
many producers struggling amid a sea of red ink, despite fierce cutting costs for the past two years.

Page117of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Yancoal clocked a $832 million loss for 2013, and lost $192.7 million in the first half of
calendar 2014.

Yanzhou has guaranteed Yancoal will remain solvent, as part of an undertaking to the Foreign
Investment Review Board made in December.

Mr Schmidt said solvency was not an issue, but the recapitalisation would help ensure the "viability of
the business" in a heavily depressed market.

"This [recapitalisation] is about strengthening our balance sheet and dropping our gearing
dramatically."

"It is very difficult in the near term to see any signal that is going to substantially change the current
outlook," he said. The Yancoal boss said take-or-pay contracts, which it is tied to for port and rail in
both NSW and Queensland, had taken their toll on the miner.

Almost all Australian coalminers have take-or-pay commitments, after racing to secure capacity in the
heady boom time of three years ago.

"In Australia, the problem we've got, and why there is not a bigger supply side response, is that every
single company sits with take-or-pay contracts," Mr Schmidt said.

"If they were to put a mine on care-and-maintenance, then many of those contracts are written as
such that it will crystallise a very large payment. "In today's environment it is better to continue
operating than to crystallise that. That is why you haven't had more mines closing down, or even
going on care or maintenance."
Fixed port and rail costs range from about $US14 to $US20 a tonne. The supply overhang in coal will
remain short term, Mr Schmidt said.
Yanzhou has ploughed $5 billion into Yancoal – acquiring Felix Resources and Gloucester Coal to
build its suite of coalmines, and also injected billions through loans.

Yanzhou is understood to see the recapitalisation package as the best option to get money into
Yancoal. The move could also be seen as throwing out a challenge to other shareholders to support
the business.

Yancoal shares had tumbled 27.3 per cent, or 6¢, to 16¢ at the Monday close, after the deal was
announced. If the $US500 million outstanding in the subordinated notes offer gets picked up by
shareholders outside Yanzhou it will be used for existing operations, and future growth.
Yanzhou has said it will not cover any of the notes offer, beyond its $US1.8 billion commitment,
which will be poured straight back into a senior loan of the same value the Chinese giant is owed. If
the notes offer is a success, Yanzhou will also feed up to $US1.4 billion in a fresh line of credit to
Yancoal, to "support cash flow requirements between now and 2018".

In addition, it will fund distributions on the subordinated capital notes over a five year period, after
they are issued.
If the offer proceeds, Bank of China and China Construction Bank will grant an extension on the
repayment of their $US2.6 billion syndicated facility for three years.

yaptyl : Yancoal Australia Limited | yankua : Yankuang (Group) Corp | ynzmn : Yanzhou Coal Mining
Co Ltd
i111 : Coal Mining | i1 : Energy | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i112
: Coal Mining Support Activities
crecap : Recapitalization | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c17 : Funding/Capital | c171 : Share
Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E
Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141110eabb00018

CO

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page118of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.