Deutsche Takes Adelaide Brighton Off Sell List -- Market Talk

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Deutsche Takes Adelaide Brighton Off Sell List -- Market Talk

1,423 words
10 October 2014
10:21
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

23:21 GMT [Dow Jones] Deutsche Bank upgrades building materials supplier Adelaide Brighton
(ABC.AU) to hold from sell, citing recent share price underperformance. But investors should remain
wary as Deutsche continues to have concerns around the potential for more contract losses. The broker
says Adelaide Brighton is trading on a multiple of 13.3 times earnings--broadly in line with its historical
12-month ratio of 12.9 times. "Upside risks include better pricing outcomes for lime and cement and a
faster-than-expected improvement in the mining and engineering sectors in Western Australia,"
Deutsche says.

"Downside risks include weaker pricing outcomes (driven by competition and weaker Australian
construction demand)." ABC last traded at A$3.24, below Deutsche's A$3.34 price target.
(david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)
23:01 GMT [Dow Jones] Australia's coal industry, battered by a prolonged market slump, is preparing to
take another knock after China's finance ministry said it would impose tariffs not seen in a decade on
imports of certain types of coal. "We expect the tariff will add downward pressure to Australian coal
volumes and prices," says Commonwealth Bank of Australia analyst Lachlan Shaw. After years of
slashing costs and axing workers, coal miners only recently started to talk about a possible light at the
end of the tunnel on hopes a supply glut was starting to be absorbed. "With around 25% of Australia's
coal exports going to China, the move will likely add more margin pressure on Australian coal
producers," he says. But Shaw points out these tariffs are "an attempt to save the domestic Chinese
coal industry," which has also been unprofitable. (rhiannon.hoyle@wsj.com; Twitter: @RhiannonHoyle)

18:30 EDT - Passenger traffic at Los Cabos airport, which was damaged by Hurricane Odile, fell 42% in
September with domestic traffic down 29% and international traffic 49% lower. Airport operator Grupo
Aeroportuario del Pacifico, or GAP, says the impact in 4Q will depend on the rate at which the resort
recovers. Thousands of tourists were airlifted out after Odile hit Sept. 14-15, but commercial operations
at the airport didn't resume until Oct. 3. Overall passenger traffic at the group's 12 airports fell 3.3% last
month, but was up 9% in the first nine months of the year. GAP shares have recovered most of the
ground lost since the storm, closing up 0.1% Thursday at 92.16 pesos ($6.86).
(anthony.harrup@wsj.com)

18:27 EDT - Alibaba (BABA) has put $50M into a startup that turns smartphones and tablets into remote
controls with an app. Peel Technologies makes a free app that works on newer Android devices with
infrared. The app works with controls on 3,500 brands of TVs and 600 set-top boxes. Peel Co-founder
and Chief Executive Thiru Arunachalam said although the immediate focus is on TV viewing -- the
company counts Showtime, Sundance, National Geographic and HBO among its customers -- he's
building toward the goal of controlling everything in the home, such as lights, drapes, fans, locks,
cameras and garage door openers. The move is the latest of a series of venture investments by the
Chinese mega-conglomerate Alibaba as it continues to expand beyond ecommerce.
(lizette.chapman@wsj.com)
18:23 EDT - A new crop of startups uses software to mine data in the millions of pictures uploaded
every day on social sharing sites including Instagram, Flickr, Tumblr, and Pinterest. Privacy advocates
say the image-mining industry is unregulated and could lead to predatory marketing tactics.
(elizabeth.dwoskin@wsj.com)

Page259of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.18:17 EDT - The government changed its mind about what it wants from Jesse Litvak, the former
Jefferies bond trader who was convicted in March of securities fraud for misleading clients on the price of
bonds. In a filing, the government said it's withdrawing its request for restitution to be paid to
privately-funded victims of the fraud. The restitution would've been in addition to the two-year prison
sentence and $1.75M fine, both of which Mr. Litvak is appealing. In the filing, the government said there
was little precedent to award restitution in this instance and that certain clients were being made whole
by Jefferies. (julie.steinberg@wsj.com ; @JBSteins)

18:07 EDT - Efforts to rein in legal costs appear to be paying off for big companies, according to new
survey data from HBR Consulting. Last year total corporate legal spending increased by just 2%
compared to 2012 -- slower than the previous year, when it was up 3%, and a downshift from 2011,
when legal spending jumped 5%. Companies are also spending more on in-house legal operations, and
pressing law firms to offer more alternative fee arrangements and use lower-cost legal outsourcing firms
for some tasks. "We are seeing a big focus on efficiency, cost management and trying to do more with
less," said Lauren Chung, a senior director in HBR's law department consulting practice. That's bad news
for law firms who haven't adjusted their business models accordingly. (jennifer.smith@wsj.com)

18:02 EDT - It's been a rough market for IPOs recently, and Thursday MOL Global (MOLG) found itself
caught in the crosshairs. The Malaysian provider of online payment services sold fewer shares than it
originally planned and priced those shares at the low end of its proposed range. Even at the lower price
the stock couldn't hold up in trading, falling 35%. According to Dealogic it's the worst one-day
performance for a US-listed IPO over $50M in nearly 20 years. The prior record holder is Physio-Control
Holding Corp, whose shares fell 73% on their first day of trading in December 1995.
(corrie.driebusch@wsj.com)

17:54 EDT - Puerto Rico is expected to place up to $1.2B in short-term notes with large banks Friday,
according to a person familiar with the commonwealth's financing plans. The tax- and
revenue-anticipation notes mature in June 2015 and carry an interest rate of 7.75%, according to the
Electronic Municipal Market Access website. The placement marks Puerto Rico's first debt sale since
passing a June law that allows public agencies to restructure their finances. (aaron.kuriloff@wsj.com)

17:48 EDT - Apple (AAPL) supplier GT Advanced Technologies (GTAT) is exiting the business of
manufacturing sapphire after a disastrous effort to produce material for smartphone screens, new court
papers say. Orders signed by a bankruptcy judge today allow GTAT to keep secret the details of its
problems with AAPL, which was supposed to use GTAT-made sapphire in its new smartphones. The
iPhone 6 rolled out with Corning's (GLW) Gorilla glass instead, and GTAT filed for Chapter 11 protection
in New Hampshire, giving only a sketchy explanation of its financial situation. At a closed hearing, Judge
Henry Boroff sealed supplemental papers, leaving trade creditors, owed $145M, and bondholders, owed
about $434M, to wonder what went wrong. (peg.brickley@wsj.com)

17:29 EDT - Investors plow record amounts into weekly reporting taxable bond funds and
investment-grade corporate bond funds in the week ending Wednesday, according to fund tracker
Lipper. Taxable bond funds including ETFs saw a $12.7B net inflow, and investment-grade corporate
bond funds including ETFs saw net inflows of $6.9B. Lipper says a "considerable amount" of the flows is
money coming out of Bill Gross' former fund, the Pimco Total Return fund, which reports its number to
Lipper monthly, not weekly. (mike.cherney@wsj.com)

17:29 EDT - The evolution of Latin American economies toward more services is opening opportunities
for hotel development, says Paulo Pena, Wyndham Hotel Group's president and managing director for
Latin America and the Caribbean. Wyndham aims to open 120 hotels in Latin America and the
Caribbean between now and 2022, essentially doubling its presence in the region. Top markets for
growth are Colombia, Brazil, Mexico and Peru -- countries that together account for 70% of the
population and 75% of GDP in Latin America. (amy.guthrie@wsj.com)

To contact the Market Talk Editors,
Kevin Kingsbury, 212 416-2354, kevin.kingsbury@wsj.com
Cynthia Lin, 212 416-4403, Cynthia.lin@wsj.com
John Shipman, 212 416-2181, john.shipman@wsj.com
Patrick Sullivan, 212 416-2326, Patrick.sullivan@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

October 09, 2014 19:21 ET (23:21 GMT)

CO

adebc : Adelaide Brighton Ltd | cemexi : CEMEX SAB de CV

Page260of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS

RE

i2412 : Clay Building Materials | ibuildpr : Building Materials/Products | iindstrls : Industrial Goods | icre :
Real Estate/Construction | i242 : Cement/Ready-mix Concrete
mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk |
neqac : Equities Asset Class News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion
Filter
austr : Australia | adelai : Adelaide | saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania

PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020141009eaa90045m

Search Summary

Text

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or entitys) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
01/09/2014 to 31/12/2014
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
2,847
28 August 2018 23:23

Page261of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.