Election win-win for Abercrombie

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Election win-win for Abercrombie

Colin Kruger
714 words
11 November 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
22
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

CBD

That smile on the face of Victorian Liberal Party money man Andrew Abercrombie might have nothing
to do with his view of the party's chances in the ultra-tight state election.

His substantial stake in Amcom is looking pretty good at the moment, thanks to its proposed deal with
Vocus, which has also forced TPG Telecom to drop into the mix.
Abercrombie picked up the last of his 22.591 million shares in 2008 when the stock was trading
below 25¢. Amcom shares closed at $2.51 on Thursday when TPG revealed its hand.

Of course, it hasn't always been plain sailing for Abercrombie, who made his fortune with finance
services provider FlexiGroup.

In 2011, Fairfax Media had the "impertinence" to allege he was buying shares in Amcom at a time
when he was in confidential discussions with the company to sell his business, Digital River
Networks, to it.

He rejected any inference of wrongdoing and, in September 2011, the Australian Securities and
Investments Commission said it had "decided not to take further steps at this time".

Abercrombie didn't like Digital River in any case. That same year, he sued the directors who had
originally sold him a stake in Digital River, alleging he was misled.
By that stage, Digital River had been sold for $4 million to a telco by the name of Vocus. That's right,
the same Vocus that is performing due diligence on Amcom.

Let's hope Abercrombie is happier with the Digital River assets this time around.

Molyneux moves
The temperature is definitely dropping at ASX-listed Kyrgyz Republic-based coking and thermal coal
explorer, Celsius Coal.
Investment banker-turned mining operative Alexander Molyneux has resigned as chairman "to
pursue other executive and non-executive opportunities," the company says.
Celsius was meant to be a replay of Molyneux's Mongolian coal success, Rio Tinto-owned
SouthGobi, but it sounds like the landlocked Kyrgyzstan, which is wedged between Kazakhstan,
Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and China, has got the better of the Perth explorer.

Page201of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."Alex's contribution to the company has been significant and the board recognises the difficult and
hard work that has been done in order to explore and attempt to develop the company's Kyrgyz coal
assets," the company said.

"It has been a difficult period and the board would like to thank Alex for his commitment and significant
contributions to the company."

The investors will get the final say on how his significant contributions should be recognised.

They are due to approve the issue of $50,000 worth of shares at the annual meeting this month - in
lieu of director's fees for Molyneux - for the period from May 1 to December 31, without the distraction
of Molyneux actually being on the board any longer.

Ticket to ride

Maybe Celsius should have tried exploring a little closer to home.
New Zealand Oil & Gas has welcomed Duncan Saville to its board. Saville associates own an 18.3
per cent stake in the $300 million oil and gas player.

For those whose memories don't stretch back that far, Saville is probably the only person to have
made money from transport ticketing provider ERG - the company that was meant to provide
smart-card ticketing in time for the Sydney Olympics.

His fellow ERG shareholders were forced to hand the business to Saville to stave off insolvency and
were promised a share of any proceeds from its legal action against the NSW government.

No news good news

CBD is not sure what triggered the recent market update by Lynas boss Amanda Lacaze, with no
actual update.

"I am happy to confirm the direction that we provided in our recent quarterly report ... and we are
looking confidently to the future," said Lacaze.

It had the intended effect of sending the stock up more than 10 per cent to an intraday high of 6.2¢ a
share before dropping back a little.
At these prices Lacaze and her chairman Nick Curtis must be tempted to add to the 5.3 million
shares they collectively picked up at 8¢ each as part of the rare earth miner's $83 million capital
raising.

Tip? ckruger@fairfaxmedia.com.au

RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | kirgh : Kyrgyzstan | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
casiaz : Central Asia | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | ussrz : CIS Countries
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020141110eabb0003i

Page202of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.