AGL to buy Macquarie Generation for $1.41 billion

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

AGL to buy Macquarie Generation for $1.41 billion

539 words
26 June 2014
18:58
Mist News
MISTNW
English
(c) 2014 Misr Information Services and Trading. All Rights Reserved.

Gulf Today
SYDNEY: AGL Energy, Australia’s second-largest gas and electricity company, has been given the
all-clear to buy state-owned Macquarie Generation (MacGen) after a tribunal overturned a competition
regulator’s decision to block the deal.

AGL can buy MacGen in New South Wales state for A$1.5 billion ($1.41 billion), provided it sells
electricity generated by MacGen’s two main power stations to smaller utilities, the Australian
Competition Tribunal ruled on Wednesday.
The acquisition “is not likely to result in a significant detriment to the ability of retailers ... to compete
in the retail market for the supply of electricity in NSW,” the tribunal said. Rivalry between AGL and
existing energy suppliers “will produce a vigorous competitive market.”

The ruling comes as state governments plan to privatise an array of assets to raise about A$100
billion to spend on various infrastructure projects, in the face political opposition and debate over
whether such plans are in the public interest.
The ruling is particularly encouraging for the NSW government as it prepares to sell a stake in its
electricity distribution network - dubbed its “poles and wires” business - for A$20 billion if it gets
electoral backing.
“The NSW Government has said it would only proceed with the (MacGen) sale if it was in the best
interests of the community ñ and the Australian Competition Tribunal has today confirmed that view,”
NSW Treasurer Andrew Constance said in a statement.
The sale will “free up additional funds for critical infrastructure across the State,” Constance said.
AGL Managing Director Michael Fraser said his company argued the deal would not hurt competition
and would bring public benefits, and that the tribunal’s decision “vindicates that view.”
AGL said it wanted to buy the power stations to raise the company’s competitiveness with Origin
Energy and Hong Kong-based CLP Holdings’ Energy Australia in the retail power market.
But the purchase was blocked in March by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
(ACCC) which feared the purchase would raise the barriers to entry for smaller suppliers. The
government subsequently cancelled the sale.

AGL took the matter to the tribunal - a quasi-judicial body presided over by Federal Court judges -
which on Wednesday ruled it was “satisfied that the risk identified by the ACCC is unlikely to occur”.
The tribunal said it “does not find that the proposed acquisition will put AGL in a position to exert
significant market power in the (national electricity market) or in NSW ... to spike the spot price or to
cause volatility in the wholesale market.”

The ruling echoed an encounter between AGL and the ACCC in 2003, when AGL successfully
challenged an ACCC ruling against the purchase of one-third of a power station in Victoria state.

Page142of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.On Monday, ACCC Chairman Rod Sims told the Committee for Economic Development for Australia
that energy privatisations could hurt competition because governments typically sold to the largest -
and wealthiest - players.
“Our concern is with the way (energy) generation assets have been sold where, in essence, they
seem to be getting sold to the big three retailers rather than facilitating a more competitive electricity
market,” Sims said in a speech.

CO

IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

agkega : AGL Energy Limited | astcmb : Australian Competition Tribunal | macgen : Macquarie
Generation
i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16101 : Electric Power Generation | ieutil : Electric Utilities | iutil : Utilities
melec : Electricity Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | mcat :
Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E
Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
Misr Information Services and Trading
Document MISTNW0020140626ea6q000gr

Page143of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.