THE GREAT AUSSIE DREAM / THE GREAT FOREIGN DREAM

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
THE GREAT AUSSIE DREAM / THE GREAT FOREIGN DREAM

Andrew Clennell, State Political Editor
495 words
4 February 2014
Daily Telegraph
DAITEL
Telegraph
1
English
Copyright 2014 News Ltd. All Rights Reserved

OVERSEAS buyers of newly built homes in NSW are receiving $5000 grants with the state
government’s decision to allow non-citizens to take part in its New Home Grant Scheme.
As Chinese investors are blamed for driving up Sydney house prices and accused of keeping first
home buyers out of the property market, it has emerged that the government is giving them a helping
hand.

Under the first homeowner scheme, a buyer — and in the case of a couple, at least one of the two —
had to be an Australian citizen and they had to live in the home for at least six months to qualify.

But, under the New Home Owner Scheme introduced in the 2012 state budget, buyers can own
multiple homes in their country of origin and still apply for the grant for the purchase of Australian
properties.
They don’t have to live in it. All they have to do is apply through the foreign investment review board
to buy.
In fact, if an overseas buyer were to buy 20 off-the-plan apartments, they could apply for 20 $5000
grants, Treasurer Mike Baird’s office confirmed yesterday. The grant is paid as a discount on stamp
duty for properties worth up to $650,000 and vacant land worth up to $450,000.

Last year alone, the government gave out 16,474 new homeowners grants worth $82.37 million. By
contrast, after it scrapped concessions for first homeowner grants on existing homes, first homeowner
approvals in November were down 67.3 per cent from two years ago.
In the year to July 2012, there was $5.95 billion worth of overseas investment in new NSW residential
property by overseas investors compared to about $1.74 billion two years earlier, Foreign Investment
Review Board figures reveal.
LJ Hooker’s national head of home loans, Paul O’Regan, said the investment from Chinese and other
Asian buyers in off-the-plan apartments was “significant”.
“We have actually run some trade shows over in China and we had 14 or 15 properties sold just at
the trade show,” he said.

Opposition Leader John Robertson said taxpayers “should not be footing the bill for cash handouts to
overseas investors when young first home buyers are struggling to purchase a home”.

Mr Baird said the scheme was driving construction so he did not have immediate plans to change it
but indicated there might be change in coming months after being contacted over the loophole by The
Daily Telegraph.

Page2of42©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“We are conscious of the pressure on first home buyers that foreign investors could be applying, and
accordingly we are seriously looking at options to ensure that our first home buyers are given every
support to own their own home,” he said.

“Any policy action we take must not jeopardise the recovery in the housing sector that is currently
underway.”Editorial page 22

NS

RE

PUB
AN

ereal : Real Estate Markets | greg : Regional Politics | npag : Page-One Stories | e11 : Economic
Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir :
Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document DAITEL0020140203ea2400025

Page3of42©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.