ANZ CEO Says Bumper Asia Acquisition Looks Unlikely; The Australian Lender Will Continue to Seek Assets in the Region

SE
HD

BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
ED
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
ANZ CEO Says Bumper Asia Acquisition Looks Unlikely; The Australian Lender Will Continue
to Seek Assets in the Region
Enda Curran
652 words
13 January 2014
11:43
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

HONG KONG—When Mike Smith took over as chief executive of Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. in 2007, he mapped out bold ambitions to grow the bank across Asia including through
what he hoped would be a "transformational acquisition."

Now, approaching seven years at the helm of the country's biggest lender, Mr. Smith says the
opportunity for a large buy has likely passed, leaving ANZ to focus on the nuts and bolts of banking
such as trade finance to grow its regional operation.

"We passed that point," Mr. Smith said in an interview. "It would be nice to have what I have always
called a transformational acquisition but I have always said the stars have to align."

The ANZ CEO has been frustrated in his ambitions to capture a large target. The bank's last major
acquisition was in 2009 when it paid US$550 million for some of Royal Bank of Scotland Group
PLC's Asian banking operations.
In September, it was tipped to be interested in buying Hong Kong's Wing Hang Bank Ltd. but
ultimately didn't make an offer. Last year it also withdrew a US$900 million bid for the main
Australian business of U.K. lender Lloyds Banking Group.

"We continue to look but there isn't a lot out there," Mr. Smith said. "I have always been patient.
Something will happen at some stage. I still believe that some of the European bank assets will have
to be sold off," Mr. Smith said.

Some analysts expect that a fresh round of stress tests by the European Central Bank will force some
of Europe's lenders to raise new capital and sell assets in places like Asia, potentially throwing up
opportunities for ANZ.

Since assuming the CEO's role, Mr. Smith, who was once shot in the leg in Argentina while working
for HSBC, has pushed for the bank to hit a target of between 25% and 30% of its earnings from
Asia-Pacific, Europe and the America by 2017. Currently around 20% of the bank's revenue comes
from outside its home markets.

Like Australia's other large lenders, ANZ emerged from the global financial crisis and economic
slowdown relatively unscathed. That strength has allowed the bank to grow its Asian operations
such as transactional banking and trade finance, the type of lending and credit guarantees that
greases the wheels of the region's economy.

But Mr. Smith flagged growing competition in this sector and pointed to an increased presence of
Japanese banks, buoyed by the extra liquidity pumped into the system by the Bank of Japan's
ultra-loose monetary policy.

"They have been very competitive in terms of pricing," Mr. Smith said.

Page49of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."You are having to run to stay in one place because in trade finance everybody is playing the game.
But it is still good business even if it is a lower return.""
The presence of hefty liquidity in the market from Japan is helping to offset the gradual wind down of
the U.S. Federal Reserve's own bond-buying program, which has pumped liquidity into Asia as
investors sought higher yields, sparking fears the move could trigger a sharp slowdown in emerging
Asia.

Transactional banking in Asia remains a key focus too, Mr. Smith said: "That is a strategic no
brainer."

On Australia, where ANZ's profits have been helped by lower bad debts and a round of cost cutting,
Mr. Smith said business confidence is showing signs of stability. He talked down fears of a hard
landing for the nation's economy, pointing to what he said are still historically high prices for key
commodities exports such as iron ore.

"For a country like Australia that is still pretty good news," Mr. Smith said.

CO

IN
NS

RE
IPD
PUB
AN

aanzb : Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited | rbsct : Royal Bank of Scotland Group
PLC | wingb : Wing Hang Bank Ltd
i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | i81402 : Commercial Banking
cacqu : Acquisitions | c174 : Corporate Credit Ratings | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 :
Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c17 : Funding/Capital | c172 :
Corporate Debt Instruments | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters
| nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
asiaz : Asia | apacz : Asia Pacific | austr : Australia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Asian Business News
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document WSJO000020140113ea1d006mx

Page50of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.