$400m project biggest

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
$400m project biggest

Nick Dalton
386 words
22 October 2014
Cairns Post
CAIRPO
Cairns
23
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

SINGAPORE-based Aspial Corporation, headed by billionaire businessman Koh Wee Seng, has
revealed its project in Cairns is the firm’s biggest in Australia.
But the secretive developer has not mentioned buying a second site in Cairns. Agents are remaining
tight-lipped about the other land sale negotiations in the city although Businessweek understands
there are two more to come following the corporation buying a Hartley St site adjoining the Spence St
property from the Cairns Regional Council for $8.05m.

Aspial has acquired six sites in Australia since January with plans for 5200 apartments.

In a briefing to investors, Aspial has bought a number of sites along the eastern seaboard, but has
made few public comments about its intentions.

But the presentation to stockholders included details of the Cairns project. Aspial will build a
1250-apartment mixed-use site with one commercial tower and six residential blocks in Cairns.

The project, which has been estimated to top as high as $400 million, will provide 120,000sq m of floor
space and is scheduled to be launched in early 2015.
Aspial bought the site in February from receivers to H & S Vision for $18.9 million.
Two weeks ago the council revealed it sold the car park site on the corner of Hartley and Kenny
streets to Aspial.

While Aspial has yet to comment, a businessman with knowledge of the proposal who spoke on the
condition of anonymity, said the public company had “deep pockets” and wanted to build something
with a “wow factor” with a budget of $200 million.

“They want to provide an attraction that will complement Aquis,’’ he said. “It will be something different
... not seen in Cairns before.’’ The businessman said it would be modelled on an attraction that was
built in conjunction with the $4.7 billion Marina Bay Sands integrated resort and casino in Singapore.
Tough regulations and competition with Chinese players is driving Singaporean developers to look
abroad.

With several listings on Singapore’s securities exchange this year, and a possible easing of strict
leverage limits, many real estate investment trusts are flush with cash.Aspial said it had chosen
Cairns, Brisbane and Melbourne because property prices have potential upsides; good Asian
demand; limited supply; and considered sites with existing planning permits.

CO
IN

leehwa : Aspial Corporation Limited
i491 : Jewelry/Silverware | icnp : Consumer Goods

Page252of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE
PUB
AN

greg : Regional Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol :
Domestic Politics
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document CAIRPO0020141021eaam00007

Page253of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.