New owner of Gunns' timber assets commits to woodchip exports

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

New owner of Gunns' timber assets commits to woodchip exports

By Stephen Smiley
663 words
29 April 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) News
ABCNEW
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

The new owner of Gunns' timber plantations wants to ramp up woodchip exports.
Sydney-based forestry investment company, New Forests, has bought the plantation assets of the
collapsed timber company.

But the permits to build a pulp mill at Bell Bay are not included in the sale and New Forests doubts they
will ever be sold.
Woodchip exports out of Tasmania are set to ramp up, with the sale of Gunns' timber plantations to a
Sydney-based investment company.

New Forests has bought 176,000 hectares of freehold land, including 100,000 hectares of timber
plantations owned by the collapsed Tasmanian timber company.

It has also bought chip mills at Hampshire in the north-west and Longreach, on the Tamar River.

New Forests already owns softwood plantations in Tasmania, Victoria and South Australia.

Speaking from San Francisco, CEO David Brand told the ABC the aim is to ramp up woodchip exports
and then possibly look at processing the wood domestically.
"We'll harvest trees, woodchip them and send them to Japan, China and potentially India," he said.

"Those markets are quite strong at the moment and then, over time, we'll look at diversifying, seeing
whether there's other options in terms of developing processing within Tasmania."

The price of woodchips has rebounded to $170 per dry tonne after a low two years ago of $145.

Mr Brand expects the price to continue to rise, predicting the woodchip market will expand by 25 per cent
in the next two years.
He says a new pulp mill has been built in China and India has started importing woodchips.

New Forests has not bought the building permits for the proposed Tamar Valley pulp mill and Mr Brand is
sceptical anyone will.

"We've seen no evidence that there's anyone progressing with the pulp mill."
The company has not disclosed the price, but the ABC understands it paid $330 million.
Gunns' 32 staff will continue to be employed by a new management company, which will be set up after
the sale is completed in June.
The sale also secures the jobs of 150 harvesting and haulage contractors.

Talks continue with potential pulp mill buyers

Gunns' receiver KordaMentha is still hoping a buyer can be found for the pulp mill permits.

Page158of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Spokesman Michael Smith says several parties expressed interest in the pulp mill site and permits on a
"standalone basis" and confidential negotiations will continue.

State Parliament was recalled before the March election in an effort to make the permits more attractive
to investors.

Seven companies from Australia, the UK, the US and Asia made up the list of final bidders for Gunns'
assets.

The Tasmanian Premier and Opposition leader want to meet New Forests to discuss the future of timber
processing in the state.
Resources Minister Paul Harris welcomes the sale, but admits he would like to see more value added to
Tasmanian timber.

"There can be, and there are better processes, we will drive that, we will work towards that."

Opposition leader Bryan Green disagrees that a pulp mill may never be built.

"There will be demand for pulp on into the future, that's been forecast, there will be other mills built
around the world, we just hope it's built in Tasmania," he said.

Tasmanian Greens leader Kim Booth is pleased New Forests has not bought the pulp mill permits.

"I think for Tasmanians that'll be a good thing because I understand they're not interested at all in a toxic
pulp mill proposal," he said.

Australian Greens Leader Christine Milne is not surprised the permits remain unsold.

"The reality is the market knows it is valueless," she said.

"There is no social licence for a pulp mill in the Tamar Valley, it is toxic, it always was toxic and so now
we've got a reality check which is the value was only in the plantation estate."

gukil : Gunns Ltd
i47101 : Pulp Mills | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | ipper : Paper/Pulp | i46 : Wood Products
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | tasman : Tasmania | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
pulp

CO
IN
NS
RE
IPD
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCNEW0020140429ea4t0000b

Page159of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.