Corks popping for winemakers

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Corks popping for winemakers

Wine Julie-anne Sprague and Simon Evans
491 words
19 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
14
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Winemakers are ebullient about the spoils to flow from a free trade agreement with China, saying
they can claw back ground lost to Chile and New Zealand in recent years.
China, Australia's third largest export market behind the United States and Britain, has become
increasingly important because it typically delivers better profits.

The Australian Grape and Wine Authority said Australian wine enjoys the highest average price of
any of the 10 largest bottled wine exporters to China.
Under the trade deal, tariffs of between 14 per cent and 20 per cent for wines sold in China will be
removed over four years.
Authority acting chief Andreas Clark said the benefits for wine were big. "China continues to hold
enormous potential for Australian wine exports and after the recent contraction of the Chinese wine
market and the impact of their government austerity measures, particularly on wine at higher price
points, this is a very positive result for Australian wine," Mr Clark said.
Treasury Wine Estates managing director Mike Clarke wrote to Prime Minister Tony Abbott not long
after taking the top job in March, encouraging tax reform and a China trade deal.Trade deal
'excellent news' for winemakers
A Treasury Wine Estates spokesman said the deal would be positive for its brands and its business.
"It's excellent news for us," he said. Treasury shares snapped a five-day losing streak to close up
2.7 per cent at $4.64.

Mitchell Taylor, managing director of the Clare Valley-based Taylors Wines, said the deal was a "very
positive move'' because it put Australia back on a level playing field with Chile and New Zealand. "It's
catch-up time,'' he said.
Mr Taylor said while austerity measures had crimped demand in China in the short term, this laid the
foundation for a strong growth platform.

"While it has come off a bit, what this does is really start building the pathway for the future",' he said.
Figures from Global Trade Atlas show New Zealand wine exports to China swelled from 288,049
litres in 2007, the year before tariffs began to be phased out, to 2.5 million litres in 2013.
Exports of Chilean wines have surged from 10 million litres in 2006, when its wines attracted a
14 per cent tariff, to 79 million litres in 2014, when the tariff was 2 per cent.
Project Wine managing director Paul Zerella said the winery's Chinese shareholders, Wei Li and
Hongwei Hao, are expecting a kick-up in sales from the agreement. "They're looking forward to it and
believe it should help sales in China,'' Mr Zerella said.

Page203of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.He said Chile had made strong advances at the expense of Australia in China and that advantage
will now be pegged back.

"They've gained a significant amount of market share that probably was Australia's area,'' he said.

trzwn : Treasury Wine Estates Ltd
i426 : Wine | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge :
Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods
e512 : Physical Trade | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat :
Economic News
austr : Australia | china : China | chil : Chile | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | lamz : Latin America | samz :
South America
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141118eabj00018

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page204of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.