INDUSTRY SNAPSHOTS; OCEANIA - AUSTRALIA - VANADIUM

HD

WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

INDUSTRY SNAPSHOTS; OCEANIA - AUSTRALIA -
VANADIUM
7,502 words
9 December 2014
Industry Snapshot
ACQIND
English
Copyright 2014. Acquisdata Pty Ltd.

LATEST COMPANY NEWS

News and Commentary

West Melville Completes First Phase of Metallurgical
Test Work on Isortoq Project - 5/12/2014

West Melville Metals Inc. today announced that the first
phase of the metallurgical test work being conducted on
the Isortoq Project by the Commonwealth Scientific and
Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO) in Perth,
Australia has been successfully completed.

For the complete story, see:

(http://www.azomining.com/News.aspx?newsID=10808)

Pro Investor - Yellow Rock Resources appoints
resources veteran Brian Davis as chairman - 2/12/2014

Yellow Rock Resources (ASX:YRR) has formally
appointed resources industry veteran Brian Davis as its
non-executive chairman.

For the complete story, see:

(
http://www.proactiveinvestors.com.au/companies/news/
59330/yellow-rock-resources-appoints-resources-
veteran-brian-davis-as-chairman-59330.html)

Investor Intel - Triton Minerals delivers impressive
project economics at Nicanda Hill Graphite Project -
1/12/2014

In November, Australia’s Triton Minerals (‘Triton’, ASX:
TON) completed its 2014 drilling campaign at Nicanda
Hill last month featuring drill core intercepts have been
in excess of 15% graphitic carbon (GC) the Nicanda Hill
property, part of its Balama North Graphite project in
Mozambique.

For the complete story, see:

(
http://investorintel.com/graphite-graphene-intel/triton-
minerals-delivers-impressive-project-economics-
nicanda-hill-graphite-project/)

Proactives Investor - Triton Minerals testing delivers
99.9% graphite from Nicanda Hill - 28/11/2014

Page256of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Triton Minerals (ASX:TON) shares are expected to open
higher after delivering multiple intervals exceeding
15%TGC along with impressive metallurgical results
from Nicanda Hill, which is located in the Balama North
project in Mozambique.

For the complete story, see:

(
http://www.proactiveinvestors.com.au/companies/news/
59264/triton-minerals-testing-delivers-999-graphite-from-
nicanda-hill-59264.html)

Proactives Investor - Yellow Rock Resources makes
new appointment - 27/11/2014

Yellow Rock Resources (ASX:YRR) has now appointed
Neville Bassett as company secretary with immediate
effect, following the resignation of Simon Chesson.

For the complete story, see:

(
http://www.proactiveinvestors.com/companies/news/584
50/yellow-rock-resources-makes-new-appointment-
58450.html)

# Acquisdata: Up to date business intelligence reports
covering developments in the world’s fastest growing
industries www.acquisdata.com #

Media Releases

TNG - Significant Graphite Concentrate Grades
Achieves At Mount Peake - 4/12/2014

TNG Limited (ASX: TNG) is pleased to advise that it has
upgraded the potential for an economic graphite
resource at its 100%-owned Mount Peake
Vanadium-Titanium-Iron Project in the Northern
Territory, subject to further drilling and test-work, after
receiving highly favorable results from flotation
test-work.

Flotation test-work completed on two composite
samples from recent drilling at the BGC1 Prospect at
Mount Peake have returned graphite concentrate grades
above 90.0%, which is an excellent result.

Diamond drill core samples were taken from the two
targets, BGC1 and G34, which were drilled in
August/September at Mount Peake (Figure 1).

Details of the two graphite prospects were reported in
the Company’s ASX Announcement on 20 August
2014, and whole coordinates are detailed in

Table 1

Drilling details and geological assessment was reported
to the ASX in the Announcement dated 17 September
2014. Assay results are now to hand and
beneficiation/flotation testwork has been completed, with
both sets of results presented below.

The BGC1 target is a very large (1,000m x 600m) and
strong late-time Electromagnetic (EM) conductor, as

Page257of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.outlined by TNG’s 2012 HELITEMsurvey, shown on
Figure 2.

Previous drilling by TNG encountered a thick graphitic
interval (greater than40m) in reverse circulation (RC)
drilling (see ASX Announcement – 21 October 2010),
and preliminary metallurgical test work was encouraging
with the graphite proving amenable to simple flotation.
However, core samples were needed for definitive
metallurgical characterization to assess the potential for
economic grades to be achieved.

At the BGC1 target, the graphite was encountered over
a broad zone from 240 to 286m (see ASX
Announcement – 17 September 2014). Visually, graphite
content is reasonably consistent throughout this 46m
interval of dark grey graphitic and pyritic silicified schist
(Figure 3).

The mineralization correlates well with the position and
depth of the EM Conductor modeled from the HELITEM
survey data (Figure 2). The other hole on Figure 2 is
ARD1, which was drilled in 2004 by Discovery Nickel.
TNG re-logged this hole, observing graphite between
205m and 270m and assayed the core for graphite with
the results presented below.

(
http://clients2.weblink.com.au/clients/tngltd/article.asp?a
sx=TNG&view=6702928)

REED - Annual General Meeting - 1/12/2014

RDR is a specialist resource developer which generates
shareholder value by identifying, securing and value
adding to mining interests with strategic resources
having long-term fundamentals aligned to 21st century
commodity demands.

RDR aspires to co-venture the development of its core
assets with strong partners to reduce operating and
financial risk. RDR seeks to maintain its focus on its
core lithium and titanium assets.

RDR is committed to the expeditious realization of its
non-core assets to strengthen its balance sheet and give
cash flow for funding of its core projects RDR is
committed to re-establishing a key small team of
executives and board members to give it an
appropriate/critical mass and skill/experience base to
drive its endeavors.

(
http://www.reedresources.com/reports/575-agm-
presentation-november-2014.pdf)

TNG - Letter of Intent encompasses off-take, marketing,
distribution and financing for high-purity Mount Peake
iron product - 28/11/2014
TNG signs Letter of Intent with multi-billion dollar global
commodity trading house Gunvor Group confirming the
intention to negotiate binding agreements for the sale
and marketing of Mount Peake’s high-purity iron oxide
product.

 This converts the broad Memorandum of
Understanding announced in June 2014, cementing the

Page258of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.strong relationship developed between the two groups
and focusing specifically on the high purity Iron-oxide
product to be produced at Mount Peake.

 Under the terms of the proposed agreement, and
subject to all regulatory and other approvals Gunvor
Group will:

have the exclusive right to distribute and market TNG’s
Mount Peake product, and also commits not to market
other similar high-purity iron products from other
sources without TNG’s prior approval.

provide market intelligence and market and distribute
the product globally on a commission basis to be
calculated as a percentage of the final sales price. This
structure will align Gunvor’s and TNG’s interests to
maximize the value of the product in the market; and
assist TNG to optimize its iron oxide production to
customer’s needs as well as to maximize its final sales
price and profit for TNG.

 The proposed agreements will also be structured to
assist TNG directly or indirectly in securing future
financing for Mount Peake and to advance the project
towards development.TNG Limited (ASX: TNG) is
pleased to announce a significant development in its
strategic relationship with leasing commodity trading
company Gunvor (“GNV”), with the signing of a Letter of
Intent (LOI) between the companies which crystallises
the MOU announced in June.

This marks another key milestone in TNG’s funding and
development strategy for its flagship Mount Peake
Vanadium-Titanium-Iron Project in the Northern
Territory, formalising a strategic alliance with a major
global commodity trading group, and complements
previously announced LOI’s with Global Pacific Partners
and Korea’s WOOJIN.

(
http://clients2.weblink.com.au/clients/tngltd/article.asp?a
sx=TNG&view=6701962)

# Reportal: a vast archive of corporate documents from
listed companies around the world
www.reportaldata.com #

Latest Research

Laser-induced breakdown spectroscopy (LIBS)
technique for the determination of the chemical
composition of complex inorganic materials

Łukasz Łazarek ; Arkadiusz J. Antończak ; Michał R.
Wójcik ; Paweł E. Kozioł ; Bogusz Stępak ; Krzysztof M.
Abramski

Abstract:

Laser-induced breakdown spectroscopy (LIBS) is a fast,
fully optical method, that needs little or no sample
preparation. In this technique qualitative and quantitative
analysis is based on comparison. The determination of
composition is generally based on the construction of a
calibration curve namely the LIBS signal versus the
concentration of the analyte. Typically, to calibrate the

Page259of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.system, certified reference materials with known
elemental composition are used. Nevertheless, such
samples due to differences in the overall composition
with respect to the used complex inorganic materials
can influence significantly on the accuracy. There are
also some intermediate factors which can cause
imprecision in measurements, such as optical
absorption, surface structure, thermal conductivity etc.
This paper presents the calibration procedure performed
with especially prepared pellets from the tested
materials, which composition was previously defined.
We also proposed methods of post-processing which
allowed for mitigation of the matrix effects and for a
reliable and accurate analysis. This technique was
implemented for determination of trace elements in
industrial copper concentrates standardized by
conventional atomic absorption spectroscopy with a
flame atomizer. A series of copper flotation concentrate
samples was analyzed for contents of three elements,
that is silver, cobalt and vanadium. It has been shown
that the described technique can be used to qualitative
and quantitative analyses of complex inorganic
materials, such as copper flotation concentrate. ©
(2014) COPYRIGHT Society of Photo-Optical
Instrumentation Engineers (SPIE). Downloading of the
abstract is permitted for personal use only.

(
http://proceedings.spiedigitallibrary.org/proceeding.aspx
?articleid=1900400)

The Industry

What is Vanadium?

Vanadium is soft, but adds strength and hardness when
alloyed with other metals such as iron to produce high
strength steel which has structural applications for gas
and oil drilling platforms, pipelines, tools steel, armour
plate, sections of the motor vehicle industry and the
aircraft industry as well as for reinforcing bars in
high-rise building and construction. Non-steel uses
include welding and in alloys used in nuclear
engineering and superconductors. Vanadium chemicals
and catalysts are used in the manufacture of sulphuric
acid and the desulphurisation of sour gas and oil.
Vanadium compounds also have potential to be used in
fuel cells.

Only 29 per cent of the world’s production of vanadium
is derived as primary production from mining and
processing of magnetite ores while about 56 per cent is
recovered from slag as a by-product of steel making and
about 15 per cent is recovered from waste ash and oil
residues.

Australia’s EDR of vanadium amounts to about 2.5
million tonne which make up about 15 per cent of the
world’s resources. Most of Australia’s EDR is hosted in
mafic/ultramafic intrusions with a minor proportion in
sandstone hosted uranium deposits. Considerable
additional resources occur in weathered oil shale
deposits near Julia Creek in north Queensland.

Vanadium was produced at Windimurra mine (Western
Australia) in 2002 and 2003. Vanadium exploration
activity in recent years has been largely directed at

Page260of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.mafic/ultramafic intrusions and to the upgrading of
known resources. Recent resource and exploration
drilling has been undertaken at Speedway Dome, Unaly
Hill, and Victory Bore in Western Australia, Mount Peake
in the Northern Territory and at the Hawkwood deposit in
Queensland.

Vanadium is associated with some mafic/ultramafic
rocks which are described in Archean and Proterozoic
Resource Packages.

Prices for Vanadium

Vanadium prices have fluctuated during the past
decade, with sharp rises and equally sharp declines
over short periods.

Over the last three years (2009 to 2011) prices have
ranged as low as below $US20 per kg to almost as high
as $US35 per kg.

(Source: Geoscience Australia website:
http://www.ga.gov.au)

Leading Companies

Atlantic Limited – (ASX: ATI)

Atlantic is the 100% owner of Midwest Vanadium Pty
Ltd, the Windimurra vanadium project. The Windimurra
project is a world scale vanadium and haematite iron
ore project that is currently in production and is
expected to reach full capacity of 6,300 tonnes per
annum of contained vanadium in 2013.
The Company is also pursuing bauxite development
opportunities in Vietnam.

Atlantic will continue to build upon this foundation to
examine further opportunities to develop a portfolio of
diversified world class resources projects.

Windimurra Vanadium Project

Atlantic acquired 100% of the Windimurra Vanadium
Project in 2010. After achieving first production in
January 2012, Atlantic is now accelerating towards full
production of 6,300 tonnes per annum of contained
vanadium in the first calendar quarter of 2013.

Independent research by CPM shows that the Project
will be a lowest quartile cash cost vanadium producer as
a result of the following:
the attractive transaction metrics negotiated by Atlantic
that fundamentally restructure the capital base of
Midwest Vanadium Pty Ltd (MVPL) and deliver the
benefit of over $500 million of prior capital expenditure
for a net present value of $68 million of retained debt;

consolidation of ownership that will streamline the
management of the Project under the control of one
group;
the acquisition of the crushing and beneficiation plant
that will deliver material long-term cost savings;

identification of the haematite by-product revenue
stream opportunity, thereby releasing significant further

Page261of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.cash credits for the Project, driving costs into the lowest
quartile; and

Renegotiation of key supply contracts.
New selective mining opportunities that have the
potential to release further material cost savings.

Windimurra production is expected to meet about 7% of
world demand, and it is expected global demand growth
will require the equivalent of a "new Windimurra" to
come on stream almost every year. Windimurra will also
have the advantage of being one of the world's low cost
vanadium producers.
Australian vanadium sold to consumers in the US is
subject to a Free Trade Agreement while vanadium
producers from China, South Africa and Russia are
subject to anti-dumping duties of between 3.5% and
100%.

Location

The Windimurra Vanadium Project is located
approximately 600 kilometres north of Perth and 80
kilometres by road from Mount Magnet in Western
Australia.

The Windimurra deposit lies within the eastern flank of
the large (greater than2,000km²) Windimurra intruded
layered gabbro complex, which is part of the regional
Murchison granite-greenstone province.

Development Plan
Following completion of the acquisition of the Project,
MVPL began preparations for the recommencement of
construction at the Project. This is targeted to begin in
early calendar 2011 with a view to achieving first
production in mid 2011.
At completion, MVPL completed the acquisition of the
existing accommodation camp at the Project site,
providing enhanced flexibility to manage the
construction and commissioning the Project in the
months ahead.
MVPL has now engaged PinC Group Pty Ltd (PinC), an
experienced and well resourced project management
and project services group, to work with MVPL
management to oversee all aspects of construction
completion, including developing MVPL's contracting
strategy and monitoring the work of individual
construction contractors following appointment.

PinC recently completed the successful Utah Point
expansion project for the Port Hedland Port Authority
and Atlantic is delighted with the early stage discipline
and processes that PinC bring to the Project.

Key construction contracts are defined into three distinct
work streams:

Structural, mechanical and piping;

Electrical and instrumentation; and

Civil work.

Page262of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.MVPL has made further progress on the implementation
of its strategy to monetise the stockpile of haematite at
Windimurra and the approximately 1 million tonnes per
annum of haematite produced by the Project once it is
operational. In particular, constructive discussions have
been held with the logistic supply chain partners
required to deliver the product into the seaborne world
market.

MVPL is also focused on building the management team
at Windimurra and a dedicated MVPL recruitment
resource has been appointed to oversee this important
component of the Project.

Geological Studies

Mineral Resources

The inherited mineral resource base of the project, was
based on a mineral resource estimate from a 6 kilometre
identified strike length and reported in December 2008.
The total resource was 176.59 million tonnes at 0.46%
V2O5, using a lower cut-off of 0.275% V2O5.

To improve the geological knowledge of the targeted
start-up mining area (a cutback of the exiting pit) an
infill reverse circulation drilling program of 3,400 metres
was undertaken between November 2010 and January
2011. The drilling allowed better definition of grade
distribution within the stacked flow packages; the
identification of enriched grade zones (greater than
0.52% V2O5); definition of the weathering and hence
beneficiation recovery profiles; and the extension of the
known resource base down to a depth of 150 metres
(previously identified to 90 metres).

Based on the drilling results, a revised global mineral
resource estimate was compiled to JORC compliance
standards and was released in March 2011, resulting in
a 19% increase in the mineral resource base of the
project to 209.97 million tonnes at 0.47% V2O5, using a
lower cut-off of 0.275% V2O5.

Mineral Resources – Windimurra Vanadium Project
(lower cut-off of 0.275% V2O5)

December 2008 March 2011 Tonnes (Mt) V2O5%
Tonnes (V) V% Tonnes (Mt) V2O5% Tonnes (V) V%
Measured 46.68 0.48 126,000 0.27 49.90 0.46 124,700
0.25 Indicated 70.73 0.47 183,000 0.26 100.28 0.47
260,700 0.26 Inferred 59.18 0.44 148,000 0.25 59.79
0.48 161,400 0.27 TOTAL 176.59 0.46 457,900 0.26
209.97 0.47 546,800 0.26
Ore Reserves
The inherited ore reserve base of the project, on the
successful completion of the project acquisition by
Atlantic Ltd in September 2010, was based on an ore
reserve estimate from an identified 3.7 kilometres core
of the 6 kilometres resource base reported in December
2008. The total ore reserve was 97.8 million tonnes at
0.46% V2O5, using a lower cut-off of 0.275% V2O5. The
life of mine was 24 years based on 4 million tonnes per
annum feed rates.
A new ore reserve study was undertaken in 2011, using
the improved mineral resource position and also using

Page263of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.the techniques of up to four (4) selective mining grade
bins dependant of weathering profile, with interim
stockpiling and reclaim of the lower grade proportions, to
further optimise the mine schedule and to improve the
head grade. The results of the study confirmed that a
10% increase in head grade was achieved using these
techniques for the first 10 years of the operation, from
the 2008 position of 0.47% V2O5 to 0.51% V2O5. The
pit designs were also extended to a depth of 150 metres
where viable, and were optimally sequenced to ensure
optimal selectively mined grades were supplied to the
plant in priority of grade distributions.
The new ore reserve position resulted in a 30% increase
from that reported in 2008, due to the underlying
improved mineral resource base and the use of the
above selective mining sequencing techniques. The life
of mine was also extended to 28 years based on 4
million tonnes per annum feed rates.
December 2008 Ore Reserves (Global lower cut-off of
0.275% V2O5)

Classification Tonnes (Mt) Grade V2O5 % Tonnes (V)
Grade V % Proven 40.7 0.47 105,800 0.26 Probable
57.1 0.47 148,500 0.26 TOTAL 97.8 0.47 243,300 0.26
May 2011 Ore Reserves (Variable lower cut-off
dependant of weathering state; Oxide= 0.34% V2O5;
Transitional = 0.32% V2O5; Fresh = 0.27% V2O5)

Classification

Tonnes (Mt) Grade V2O5 % Tonnes (V) Grade V %
Proven 49.3 0.46 128,200 0.26 Probable 78.3 0.47
206,000 0.26 TOTAL 127.6 0.47 334,200 0.26

The revised pit design comprises up to 7 stages, over a
strike length of 4.3 kilometres, for a life of mine of 28
years, to a maximum depth of 155 metres.

Exploration
The acquisition of the Windimurra project included a
package of 100% owned mining and exploration
tenements covering a total strike length of 27 kilometres
of prospective ground for titano-vanadium, and
magnetite based iron ore-style mineralization. The
current mineral resource base on which the Windimurra
Vanadium mine and processing facility is being
commissioned is located on the northern 6 kilometre
corridor within this. Of this 6 kilometre strike that has
been drilled, the current open-pit mine design extracts
an inner 4.2 kilometres. This leaves an extensive 21
kilometre strike package unexplored to the south.

A high resolution aero-magnetic response survey was
undertaken over the ground in 2007, with further
detailed fill-in lines undertaken in 2008. The responses
showed that the high magnetic gabbros associated with
the lower layered sequence of Shepherd’s Discordant
Zone, which hosts the titano-vanadium horizon at
Windimurra, extends through the acquired southerly
tenement holdings.

Exploration of the region has had a chequered and
limited history, with several companies undertaking low
level reconnaissance surveys (Hawkstone Minerals and

Page264of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Ferrovanadium Corp in the 1970’s and early 1980’s; an
Alcoa Australia and BHP Minerals Joint Venture in the
mid 1980’s and Precious Metals Australia in 1989). All
exploration and resource development works were
undertaken within the northern 6 kilometre strike length
that now forms the Windimurra Vanadium mine.

Atlantic initiated the first exploration on this greenfields
ground in January 2011, via 5 traverse lines of reverse
circulation drilling, 5 kilometres apart, across the high
magnetic signature. This scout drill program was not
designed nor intended to return a quantifiable mineral
resource, but to be used as a tool in confirming the
overall geological setting and weathering states, and to
return an understanding into the broad V205, Fe and
TiO2 grade distributions within the belt. As such, it was
designed as a preliminary stepping stone in the
development of a future targeted strategy for these
tenements.

The scout program was successful in confirming the
continuous presence of the main vanadium-magneto
horizon as expressed in the Shepherd’s Discordant
Zone (SDZ) at Windimurra, for the strike length of the
southerly tenement holdings. Widths of mineralization
and grades of vanadium bearing units were comparable
to Windimurra for the first 9 kilometres south of the
proposed current life of mine pit design, and then
reduced to approximately half the width by the southern
extent was reached, whilst the vanadium grade was
maintained. A second peripheral vanadium-magneto
horizon was located some 400 metres west of the main
SDZ. This unit had an average of 7 metres and an
identified strike length of 4.7 kilometres, in the southern
section of the tenement holdings.

Atlantic is committed to future systematic further
exploration of this highly prospective southern extension
of the known Windimurra deposit. Future programs will
include follow up exploration and definition of resources
based on the previously identified 0.80% V2O5
outcropping massive magnetite hosted beds that
outcrop, as well as specialized steel market ore
products within the belt.

Competent Person Statement

Mineral Resources and Exploration Activities

The information in this report relating to exploration
activities and mineral resources is based on information
compiled by Colin J S Arthur, who is a Chartered
Geologist, Member of The Australasian Institute of
Mining and Metallurgy and Fellow of the Geology
Society of London. Mr Arthur was, until 20 September
2012, a full-time employee of Midwest Vanadium Pty Ltd
in the capacity of Chief Geologist.

Mr Arthur has over 26 years experience in this style of
mineralization and the type of deposit under
consideration and related mining method and project
evaluation. He has sufficient experience which is
relevant to the style of mineralization and to the activity
which he has undertaken. He is therefore qualified as a
Competent Person as defined in the 2004 Edition of the
‘Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results,
Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves’. Mr Arthur

Page265of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.consents to the inclusion of this report in the form and
context in which it appears.
Ore Reserves
The information in this report that relates to Ore
Reserves is based on information compiled by Quinton
de Klerk, who is a Member of The Australasian Institute
of Mining and Metallurgy. Mr de Klerk is a Director and
Principal of Cube Consulting Pty Ltd (CUBE).

Mr de Klerk has sufficient experience which is relevant
to the activity that he is undertaking to qualify as a
Competent Person as defined in the 2004 Edition of the
'Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results,
Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves'. Mr de Klerk
consents to the inclusion in this report of the matters
based on his information in the form and context in
which it appears.

(http://atlanticltd.com.au/projects/windimurra)

PRODUCTION & SALES REPORT MONTH OF
OCTOBER 2014
Windimurra Operations

Production of vanadium at Windimurra has been
suspended since February following a major fire in the
beneficiation plant.

The damage to the beneficiation plant was extensive
and further detailed structural engineering demonstrated
that the most cost and time effective option for the
rebuild of the area was to demolish the existing structure
and rebuild the plant from its foundations.

Demolition work in the beneficiation area and the front
end engineering and design work for the beneficiation
plant rebuild have been completed.

In early October, Atlantic awarded the design and
construct EPC contract for the plant rebuild to Primero
Group.
Primero Group has extensive knowledge of the
Windimurra project and has previously provided
successful construction services to the Company.
Primero has now mobilised to site, established its
construction infrastructure at Windimurra and
commenced foundation works. In parallel with this site
based work, the detailed final design work is continuing
in Perth.

Fabrication of steel and plate work for the rebuild is
underway at local workshops in and around Perth. This
fabrication work has been sub-contracted to a number of
specialist fabricators to expedite the work and facilitate
the rebuild in the shortest possible time frame.

Orders for other critical components such as pumps and
valves have now been placed, and long lead time items
ordered early in the schedule continue to be delivered
as expected.

Page266of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Atlantic expects that reconstruction of the beneficiation
plant will be completed in an industry leading time frame
of just over one year from the date of the fire.

Insurance
The Company holds comprehensive industrial special
risks insurance that covers both the material damage to
the beneficiation plant as a result of the fire and the
related business interruption. The Company’s insurers
have granted indemnity for the fire and late in October,
Atlantic was advised that a further progress payment
from the insurers of $13 million would be made. This
progress payment has now been received, bringing the
total insurance proceeds received to date to $63 million.

Production and Sales

There was no production or sales of vanadium in
October.
Iron Ore

During the month, the Company continued discussions
with prospective customers for its iron ore products,
with particular emphasis on niche market opportunities
for MVPL’s high titanium furnace protection iron ore
lump product. Due to the current low market prices for
iron ore products, the Company chose to make no iron
ore sales during the month.

Business Review
As previously announced, the Company concluded a
thorough review of its business, encompassing a review
of the mine plan, the crushing, milling and beneficiation
(CMB) circuit and the refinery in July. This review was
based on the Company’s commissioning and operating
experience over the last two years, with particular
emphasis on the CMB circuit. The business review
demonstrated that following implementation of new
process plant flow sheet changes and the rebuild of the
fire damaged beneficiation plant, the Windimurra project
is expected to produce approximately 4,800 –5,200
tonnes per annum of contained vanadium at steady
state. As part of this review, the Company has also
developed a plan to right-size the business to take into
account these steady state production levels.

Notwithstanding that the expected steady state
production levels are lower than was previously
envisaged for the Windimurra project, the business
review demonstrates a long-term sustainable future for
the business.

Discussions with Stakeholders

To fund the proposed capital expenditure and working
capital to implement the proposed process
improvements identified as part of the business review,
the Company will require additional funding. Atlantic is
currently in discussions with its stakeholders regarding
this additional funding as well as an appropriate longer
term capital structure for the business.

Extension of Forbearance

Page267of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Company and its wholly-owned subsidiary MVPL
has now entered into a new forbearance and support
agreement with the holders of a majority of MVPL’s
senior secured notes to extend the existing standstill
arrangements that ended on 14 November 2014 until 15
December 2014.

In conjunction with this new forbearance agreement,
MVPL also agreed to related amendments to the
existing
$29.7 million secured loan facility agreement with
Atlantic’s largest shareholder Droxford International
Limited (Droxford) to extend the maturity date of that
facility until 15 December 2014.

Under the forbearance agreement, the senior secured
note holders have agreed to continue the existing
standstill arrangements in relation to certain events of
default which have occurred under MVPL’s indenture,
including MVPL’s failure to deposit funds in its interest
reserve account and pay the February and August
interest payments on its senior secured notes until 15
December 2014.

The forbearance is subject to, among other things, there
being no further events of default under MVPL’s
indenture or the Droxford facility during the term of the
forbearance agreement. Under the forbearance
agreement, the note holders have also agreed with
MVPL to continue to use their good faith efforts to
negotiate and execute a definitive agreement among
MVPL and the supporting note holders to affect a
solvent restructuring of MVPL.

These arrangements provide further time for the
Company to continue discussions with its stakeholders
regarding approval for the additional funding required to
implement the Company’s new business plan as well as
an appropriate longer term capital structure for the
business. MVPL will shortly commence a related
consent process to implement technical indenture
amendments agreed as part of the new forbearance
agreement, including amendments that will allow the
Company to incur up to an additional $10 million in
permitted indebtedness if a restructuring agreement is
executed among MVPL and the supporting note holders.
This consent process is expected to conclude in
December.

ASX Suspension

Following the fire in the beneficiation plant on 4
February, the Company requested a voluntary
suspension in the trading of its securities. Atlantic
believes that it is appropriate for the suspension in the
trading of the Company’s securities to remain in place
given that the Company is in discussions regarding a
longer term restructure of the business.

(
http://atlanticltd.com.au/upload/documents/InvestorRelat
ions/asx/141119MonthlyProductionandSalesReport.pdf)

Reed Resources Ltd – (ASX: RDR)

Page268of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Reed Resources Ltd (ASX: RDR, OTC: RDRUY) is a
Western Australian minerals project developer. Reed's
projects include:

Mount Marion: High-grade lithium project located 40km
south of Kalgoorlie in JV with Mineral Resources Limited
(ASX: MIN)(RDR 70% - MIN 30%). Reed Resources is
planning to capitalise on growth in the energy storage
market by producing high purity LiOH via a proprietary
process flowsheet from ore sourced from the
Company's jointly owned Mt Marion Lithium deposit.
The downstream process route shows potential to
operate at lowest quartile costs for LiOH.

Barrambie: the Barrambie deposit is one of the world's
highest grade hard rock titanium deposits. Reed is
currently investigating the potential to use a proprietary
acid leach process to produce high purity TiO2, V2O5
and Fe2O3.
Mount Finnerty: Iron ore as well as a nickel option with
Barranco Resources NL.

Reed Resources' American Depositary Receipts
(ADR's) trade under the code RDRUY (CUSIP Number:
758254106). Each Reed Resources ADR is equivalent
to 10 ordinary shares of Reed Resources as traded on
the ASX. The Bank of New York Mellon is the depository
bank.

REED RESOURCES LTD QUARTERLY ACTIVITIES
REPORT – 29 October 2014

QUARTERLY ACTIVITIES REPORT

Mt Marion Lithium Project

 Production of lithium hydroxide catholyte from
semi‐pilot plant in USA continues.

 Long‐run trial confirms potential to deliver
lowest‐quartile operating costs as indicated in the
Pre‐feasibility Study 2012.

 Downstream partner selection commenced under
management of senior lithium industry Executive Mr
Michael Tamlin.

Barrambie Titanium Project

 Successful continuous production of high‐purity
titanium dioxide via a proprietary hydrometallurgical
process.

 Results confirm potential to deliver lowest‐quartile
operating costs as indicated in Scoping Study

(2013).
 Sedgman and Snowden Mining Industry Consultants
commenced a Pre‐feasibility Study.

 Mr D. Michael Spratt, former COO of Minproc,
engaged to manage the study.

Mt Finnerty Project

 EIS Co‐funded diamond drilling approved for
December Q 2014.

Page269of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Lake Johnston Project

 New geophysical target identified beneath historic
nickel sulphide intersection.

 Diamond Drilling commenced in October 2014.

Corporate

 24M shares bought back and cancelled following
Shareholder Approval at EGM.

 Cash and restricted access term deposits $11.7
million.

MT MARION LITHIUM PROJECT

(Reed 70%, Mineral Resources Limited 30%)

During the quarter Reed Industrial Minerals Pty Ltd
(RIM) continued to advance the Mt Marion Lithium
Project (Mt Marion) with the successful continuous
production of lithium hydroxide (LiOH) catholyte from a
semi‐pilot plant in the USA. RIM is owned 70:30 by
Reed Resources Ltd and leading mining services
provider Mineral Resources Limited (MRL). MRL fund
and operate the project through their subsidiary,
Process Minerals International Pty Ltd.

The semi‐pilot plant was commissioned in March 2014
and continues to demonstrate the successful scale up
RIM’s proprietary hydrometallurgical flowsheet including
the purification and electrolysis of lithium chloride
solutions, which can be obtained from either mineral or
brine feedstocks.

The electrolysis process is similar to the Chlor‐Alkali
process used to produce caustic soda (sodium
hydroxide) and hydrochloric acid

(
http://www.reedresources.com/reports/570-quarterly-
activities-report-141029.pdf)

Extracts from Annual Report 2013
Meekatharra Gold Project

(Reed 100%)
The Meekatharra Gold Project (“Project”) is situated in
Western Australia’s prolific Meekatharra – Wydgee
Greenstone Belt which is host to a number of
multimillion ounce deposits, including Mt Magnet (8
Moz) and Tuckabiana (1 Moz).

In 2011 GMK Exploration Pty Ltd (“GMKE”), a wholly
owned subsidiary of Reed, acquired one of the most
fertile contiguous packages of land in this greenstone
belt. It has a strike of 110km, covering approximately
800 square kilometres and has produced in excess of
4.5 Moz of gold during the course of its history.

Strategically located in the centre of the project area is
the Group’s 3 million tonne per annum Bluebird CIL
processing plant. Co-located at Bluebird is support
infrastructure including administration offices,
workshops, laboratories, power station and a 190 room

Page270of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.accommodation village, all of which have an estimated
replacement cost in excess of $100 million.

Strategy

The Project comprises numerous open pit and
underground deposits across four primary project areas
which include Yaloginda, Paddys Flat, Reedys and
Meekatharra North. In line with the Group’s corporate
objectives of minimising risk whilst achieving an
acceptable financial return, the Project was designed to
be executed in three Stages:
a) Stage 1: Recommence Operations – planned as a
low risk development option involving mining of shallow
free milling Yaloginda ore bodies in what was envisaged
to be a 21 month development and production plan;
b) Stage 2: Operational Expansion – planned to exploit
the remaining 618,000 ounces of Reserves and see the
focus expand from open pit to both open pit and higher
grade underground production at Paddy’s Flat to the
north and Reedys to the south in addition to continuing
operations at Yaloginda; and

c) Stage 3: Increase Life of Mine – conversion of
remaining Resource ounces to Reserves through
advanced targeting and exploration techniques and the
identification of new Resources and Reserves with the
ultimate aim of delivering a sustainable 10 year mine
life.

(
http://www.reedresources.com/reports/485-reed-
resources-annual-report-2013.pdf)

TNG Limited – (ASX: TNG)

Western Australia.

TNG’s main focus is the evaluation and development of
its 100%-owned Mount Peake Vanadium-Titanium-Iron
Project, located in the highly prospective Arunta
Geological Province some 80km north-east of Alice
Springs in the Northern Territory. Discovered by TNG in
early 2008, the Mount Peake Project comprises a
current JORC Indicated Resource of 140Mt grading
0.3% V205, 9% Ti02 and 35% Fe, making it one of the
largest of the known vanadium projects in Australia.

Work carried out by TNG to date has enabled the
Company to establish an Exploration Target1 of
500-700Mt grading 0.2-0.4% V205 and 25-35% Fe in
addition to the JORC resource, potentially making the
Mount Peake Vanadium Project one of the largest
vanadium deposits in the world.

A preliminary Scoping Study carried out by Snowden
Mining Industry Consultants in 2009 demonstrated
positive economics based on the Inferred Resource, and
a revised final Scoping Study is due to be released in
early 2011.

This Study is expected to confirm that the current JORC
resource can underpin a robust long-life operation based
on the use of a revolutionary hydrometallurgical process
developed jointly by TNG and Perth-based Metallurgical
consultants (METS) which enables all three products –

Page271of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Vanadium, Titanium and Iron – to be economically
extracted.

The project is strategically located close to existing
infrastructure, including the Alice Springs-Darwin
Railway, Stuart Highway and the new LPG pipeline,
20km to its east.

Vanadium is a “miracle metal” which is used to impart
strength, hardness and water resistance to steel, in the
manufacture of titanium alloys used in jet engines,
airframes and other high-end specialty materials, and in
the chemical industry, notably in batteries, plastic, glass
and pigments.

Steel accounts for over 85% of vanadium demand, with
consumption predicted to increase at similar rates to the
growth of the global steel industry – driven by the rapid
expansion of the Chinese economy and growing per
capita use and intensity of use of steel in the BRIC
economies (Brazil, Russia, India and China).

While its focus is the Mount Peake Project, TNG also
has a broad range of exploration projects in the Northern
Territory ranging from advanced projects with existing
resources, to green fields exploration. Its tenements
include exposure to a wide range of commodities
including gold, lead, zinc, nickel and copper.

These include the 100%-owned Manbarrum
Zinc-Lead-Silver Project, located 70km north-east of
Kununurra. The Manbarrum tenements cover a 52km
strike length of identified zinc-lead-silver mineralisation
of the Mississippi Valley Type (MVT) including a 36
million tonne resource inventory of combined zinc, lead
and silver resources.

TNG’s other assets include a 20% free-carried interest
in the Cawse Extended Project, convertible to a 2% net
smelter return, which is located adjacent to the Cawse
Nickel-Cobalt Operation in Western Australia.

TNG is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange
(Ticker: TNG) and also on several European Bourses
including Frankfurt.

Extracts from TNG Annual Report 2013

Highlights – Year in Review
Mount Peake Vanadium-Titanium-Iron Project (NT)

• Updated Resource completed for Mount Peake Project
following successful drilling program – 120Mt or 74%of
total Resource of 160Mt now classified as

Measured Resource status.

• Internal technical review of July 2012 Mount
PeakePre-Feasibility Study identifies a significant
under-estimation of the value of iron
oxidemineralisation. A corresponding revision to the
financial model lead to:

- 15% increase in life-of-mine (LOM) revenues
fromA$11.8 billion to A$13.6 billion;

Page272of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.- 40% increase in Net Present Value (NPV8%)
fromA$1.884 billion to A$2.646 billion; and

- 22% increase in pre-tax IRR from 31.8% to 38.7%.

Metallurgical optimisation work reduces forecast
OPEXby A$20/tonne or up to A$50M per annum, with
the combination of reduced OPEX and the lower
Australian Dollar exchange rate providing an
enhancement to overall project economics.

Management of Mount Peake DFS transferred in-house
after the Company’s DFS contractor, ArcconMining
Services, appointed a voluntary administrator.

Completion of the DFS has been deferred untilQ1 2014.

Notice of Intent (NOI) submitted to the Northern Territory
Government, marking a key step inthe approvals
process leading towards project development. Final EIS
expected to be completed by Q2 2014. Mining
Agreement progressing with Traditional Owners.

Heads of Agreement signed with Darwin Ports
Corporation to negotiate the use of land and port
facilities at East Arm Wharf and with Rail operator
Genesee and Wyoming to commence a logistical
transport study.

Major Project status awarded by Northern Territory
Government.

Tivan® Hydrometallurgical Process

MOU signed with leading European international
engineering and metallurgical technology group for
discussions regarding commercial development of
IVAN®. Advanced metallurgical test work programming
progress.

The definitive pilot plant with CSIRO will commence
when all results are available.

Patent for TIVAN® registered in Australia, Canada,
China, Europe, Russia, USA, Malaysia, Singapore and
Vietnam.

Other Projects

Very encouraging results were received from diamond
drilling at Mt Hardy Copper-Gold Project in the Northern
Territory, during the year, including several high-grade
copper, base metal and gold intersections.

Drilling intersected broad zones of
polymetallicmineralisation indicating the potential for a
largepolymetallic system at depth. TNG considers that
securing a joint venture partner is the best way to
progress this project, enabling it to continue to focus on
its flagship Mount Peake Project. Discussions have
commenced on potential farm-in joint venture for this
project.
A binding Term Sheet was signed with Legacy Iron
Ore(ASX: LCY) to sell the company’s Manbarrum
Zinc-Lead-Silver Project in the Northern Territory for
$5M, including a $2M cash payment on completion of a

Page273of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.60-day due diligence period and other conditions
precedent.

Farm-in and Joint Venture agreement signed with Rio
Tinto Exploration for the Melville Island bauxite license.

Corporate

$1.5M share placement completed to sophisticated
investors with a further $1.2 million raised through a
well-supported Share Purchase Plan. Directors
considering placement of the shortfall of $2.3M.

$3.2M Research & Development refund claim lodged
under the Federal Government’s R&D tax incentive
scheme for the 2012/2013 financial year.

Strategic expenditure reductions implemented covering
both remuneration, corporate and administrative project
reviews, including a reduction in fees and salaries for
Directors, management and staff and reductions in
supplier contracts.

Further cost savings implemented following the transfer
of management of the Mount Peake DFSin-house and
decision to defer completion untilQ1 2014.

Alternative exploration and development scenarios
under consideration for all projects, with the changes
designed to streamline TNG’s operations in the current
market.
Appointment of experienced miningexecutive Mr
Michael Evans as a Non-Executive Director

(
http://clients2.weblink.com.au/clients/tngltd/article.asp?a
sx=TNG&view=6653626)

MARCH 2014 QUARTER A STANDOUT FOR TNG
WITH MAJOR DEVELOPMENTS ON A NUMBER OF
FRONTS

Long-term strategic agreement signed with major
Korean industrial company, WOOJIN, encompassing
off-take, marketing and assistance with financing.

ƒ

Technical review to assess the merits of locating the
TIVAN processing plant for Mount Peake ore in
Malaysia highlights a significant boost to the project
economics, including:
a reduction in capital costs of A$43 million;

a reduction in operating costs of A$2 per tonne;
an increase in net annual cash flow from A$395 million
to A$420 million; an increase in Net Present Value
(NPV8%) from A$2.6 billion to A$2.8 billion; and

an increase in pre-tax IRR from 38% to 43%.

Projected financial outcomes are further enhanced by
the effect of the falling AUD exchange rate - at an
exchange rate of $0.90, NPV increases to A$3.3 billion
and the IRR to 44.3%.

Page274of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.International consulting firm ENVIRON engaged to act
as advisor for the Mount Peake project in Malaysia.

New drilling programme commenced at Mount Peake
with the aims of testing the aquifer for future mine
development and testing the resource potential of
recently identified magnetic targets. Results from initial
holes show significant widths of magnetite gabbro
similar to that which hosts the Mount Peake resource to
the west.

Definitive Feasibility Study progressing.

TIVAN® HYDROMETALLURGICAL PROCESS

Despatch of Magnetic concentrates to CSIRO for final
downstream Leaching and Solvent Extraction testwork
production in progress to complete the
commercialisation of the TIVAN Process.

Acid regeneration/recycling testwork progressing well in
Europe, with outcomes in-line with or better than
expectations.

OTHER PROJECTS
TNG to drill promising Legune iron ore discovery in NT
following re-structure of Joint Venture arrangement with
Teng Fei Mining.

Expansion of tenure in the highly prospective Roper
River Iron Ore Province following acquisition of two
additional tenements.

CORPORATE

Appointment of international vanadium expert, Paul
Vollant, as General Manager, Business Development.
Mr Vollant has held former roles with Noble Group and
Element Group and has joined the TNG executive team
to establish key trading and marketing platforms for
Mount Peake ore.

Appointment of Michael Evans as Acting Chairman of
the Company following the resignation of Jianrong Xu
as Chairman. Mr Xu will remain as a Non-Executive
Director.

Completion of $700,000 share placement, representing
additional commitments received following the share
placement completed in October 2013.

Major new research reports published by Hardman & Co
and Breakaway Research, with the Breakaway report
providing an indicative value for TNG of $0.28/share,
contingent on successfully attracting an equity partner
to fund and develop Mount Peake.

Cash reserves of $5.45M at Quarter-end.

(
http://www.tngltd.com.au/images/tngltd---
haphoophee.pdf)

csiroa : Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial
Research Organisation | trtngd : Triton Minerals Ltd. |
wstmlv : West Melville Metals Inc | yellrk : Yellow Rock
Resources Limited | rivgol : Padbury Mining Limited

CO

Page275of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining |
ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | igoldm : Gold Ore
Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying
cnatrd : Natural Reserves/Resources Discovery | ciprof :
Industry Profile | c24 : Capacity/Facilities | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | usa : United States | waustr : Western
Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | namz : North America
Acquisdata
Document ACQIND0020141210eac900009

Page276of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.