Are foreign investors making the Australian dream unaffordable?

HD
BY Greg Hoy
WC 1,441 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Are foreign investors making the Australian dream unaffordable?

23 September 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation Transcripts
ABCTRS
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

Debate on foreign investment in Australian homes has grown as prices continue to rise and concerns over
housing affordability continue amid fears of a coming housing bubble in Australia.

LEIGH SALES, PRESENTER: The boom in the nation's housing prices recently has been so extraordinary
that many first-time buyers are wondering if owning their own home is going to be beyond them forever.

TD

There's much discussion about whether cashed-up foreign buyers, along with record low interest rates
and a short supply, are driving the inflated prices.

There are calls from some quarters for higher tax rates or other restrictions on foreign investors so that
Australian buyers aren't disadvantaged.

Greg Hoy reports.

GREG HOY, REPORTER: Super Saturday, a spring auction, sprang into action on the weekend. One
thousand, five hundred Australian homes changed hands.

AUCTIONEER 1: Once, twice, third and final call.
AUCTIONEER 2: Sold.
AUCTIONEER 3: It's sold.
AUCTIONEER 4: It's sold.

AUCTIONEER 1: Going, going...
AUCTIONEER 5: Sold, congratulations.

GREG HOY: Rapid population growth and low interest rates are fuelling strong demand. Tax incentives
are encouraging tremendous investor interest, while foreign investment regulators seem comfortable with
surging overseas demand for Australian homes.

TIM HEAVYSIDE, AUCTIONEER: The pricing is definitely going up at the moment, international money
coming into the country. But I can tell you what: there's also a lot of Australian buyers also competing with
those international buyers.
AUCTIONEER 2: We're selling... Sold.

GREG HOY: While the Treasurer and the Reserve Bank differ on whether a dangerous bubble may be
building with rising house prices, the growth nationally is incredibly uneven. This graph charts rising home
values in Australian capital cities since late 2008. In just six years, Melbourne and Sydney have climbed
around 50 per cent, leaving all other capitals well below.

TIM LAWLESS, HEAD OF RESEARCH, RP DATA: The positive side of that is that those people that own
property across Sydney and Melbourne have seen a very significant increase in the level of wealth. The
downside, of course, is that we're starting to see more risk now in terms of investor concentrations around

Page192of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.the Sydney and Melbourne marketplace and, potentially, the likelihood that values will overshoot the mark
and we may see a correction on the other side of it.

GREG HOY: Speculation is building the Reserve Bank may change the rules to limit the number of buyers
that can borrow more than 80 per cent of the value of a home. Such measures were endorsed yesterday
by the visiting head of the International Monetary Fund, Christine Lagarde, who encouraged the Reserve
Bank to consider taking action to avoid a housing bubble bursting.

CHRISTINE LAGARDE, MANAGING DIRECTOR, INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND: I believe that
the Australian central bank under the strong leadership of its governor will be able to deal with it.

GREG HOY: Tighter borrowing restrictions would make it even harder for first home buyers in Australia
but would have no affect on buyers from overseas.

TIM HEAVYSIDE: What a great day to call an auction.
GREG HOY: Under Foreign Investment Review Board regulations, it is illegal for foreign nationals to
purchase existing Australian homes. There is growing concern the rules are being flagrantly flouted.
TIM HEAVYSIDE: We're not police officers; we're estate agents getting the best price for our vendors.

GREG HOY: The FIRB insists the number of overseas buyers is quite small.

TIM LAWLESS: It works out to be only about 4.5 per cent of all Australian home sales have been to
foreign buyers. But the risk in those numbers: that they're potentially being underreported due to the poor
monitoring of foreign buying into Australia's marketplace.

AUCTIONEER 6: We're on the market, don't have another one like it.
AUCTION BIDDER: Let's say in Hong Kong: I mean normal, you know, starting price for the apartment: I
mean, they say there's poor people (inaudible) they start from HK$4 million already.

GREG HOY: Which is the equivalent of?

AUCTION BIDDER: You just divide it by (inaudible) It's the equivalent: around $600,000.
GREG HOY: For an apartment?
AUCTION BIDDER: An apartment, which I think is only this half size.

GREG HOY: Though he wouldn't give his name, this man bid at three auctions we know of on Saturday.
He says he was helping friends in Australia buy a home - though he agrees there's considerable interest
here from offshore investors in China.

AUCTION BIDDER: They think the Melbourne market is very reasonable price for them and they can
afford.
LEE SALCE, AUCTIONEER: Where they buy, usually the market goes up considerably: anywhere
between 10 to 15, even to 20 per cent above market.

GREG HOY: Where's the money coming from?
LEE SALCE: Predominantly from China.

(To bidders) 801 and a quarter.

I'd say that, percentage wise, if we were to sell 10 properties to offshore people, I'd say 70 per cent would
be owner/occupiers and 30 per cent would be investors still living overseas.

(To bidders) Yes? No? Maybe?

GREG HOY: Auctioneer Lee Salce says some homes snapped up by foreign buyers then sit empty.

LEE SALCE: And the buyer buys and they tell us they're moving in. And then we drive by three or four or
five months later and there's no one in the home. We can't control that.
(To bidders) It's sold. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for your attendance. I wish you all a
very fine weekend.

Page193of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.KELLY O'DWYER, FEDERAL LIBERAL MP: There needs to be a national register that means that I can
answer the question: how much of our residential retail market is actually owned by foreign investors? At
the moment today, I can't give you that response.

GREG HOY: Federal Liberal MP Kelly O'Dwyer chairs a parliamentary committee examining recent trends
in foreign ownership and regulations that are meant to restrict it.
KELLY O'DWYER: The evidence, though, is in that the Foreign Investment Review Board has not been
doing its job properly. The Foreign Investment Review Board has not had one prosecution since 2006.
They say that that is to do with the fact that people are being far more compliant. I think that defies
credibility.
GREG HOY: The chairman of the Foreign Investment Review Board wasn't available for interview but has
previously stated that, with the resources given to it by Government, the FIRB simply cannot police the
600,000 or so sale transactions each year. But ominously for the FIRB, that defence is simply
unacceptable to some.

KELLY O'DWYER: I do think it is an excuse. It's a bit of a cop-out for the Foreign Investment Review
Board to say that it is all a matter of resources. I think it is also a matter of leadership and a matter of
attitude.

GREG HOY: While foreign ownership of existing homes is banned, it's perfectly legal for foreign investors
to buy new dwellings in Australia.
This policy has encouraged an explosion of apartment towers in Melbourne and Sydney: 50,000
apartments in Melbourne alone with far more in the pipeline. Every one of these towers in central
Melbourne, for example, is being developed by offshore companies for offshore investors. Not everyone is
convinced it's a good thing.

BOB BIRRELL, PROF., URBAN RESEARCH, MONASH UNI.: There is a bubble in the production of small
apartments in inner city areas and I don't think there's any doubt that there will be a bust in that subsection
of the housing market.

GREG HOY: To address that fear and ease growing concerns about housing afford ability, there is a
strong expectation regulations will have to change.

TIM LAWLESS: In the US, for example, is the fact that foreign buyers do get taxed a lot more heavily than
do local buyers. And I think that will be one of the key findings. So one of the key recommendations
coming down from the current inquiry that's underway from the Foreign Investment Review Board is that
there will be a higher tax associated with foreign buying and there will be stricter rules around the
enforcement and monitoring of foreign buying activity across Australia.

AUCTIONEER 7: What's it worth? Start me where you like.

AUCTIONEER 8: At $400,000 now. First call.

AUCTIONEER 9: At $750,000...

AUCTIONEER 10: One million, one hundred and forty-five, madam.
AUCTIONEER 7: Sold.
AUCTIONEER 9: Sold.
AUCTIONEER 11: Sold.

LEIGH SALES: Greg Hoy reporting.

IN
NS

RE

ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
e1121 : Home Sales/Housing Affordability | efdi : Foreign Direct Investment | ecat : Economic News | gpol
: Domestic Politics | gsell : Buying/Selling a Home | ntra : Transcripts | e11 : Economic
Performance/Indicators | e51 : Trade/External Payments | e511 : Capital Movements/Invisible Trade |
ereal : Real Estate Markets | gcat : Political/General News | gpersf : Personal Finance | gpir :
Politics/International Relations | greest : Real Estate/Property | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales

Page194of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IPD housing
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCTRS0020140923ea9n000bg

Page195of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.