Mining magnate’s beef over exports

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

WestReg
Mining magnate’s beef over exports

Stories by Brad Thompson
639 words
29 May 2014
The Countryman
CTM
First
6
English
(c) 2014 West Australian Newspapers Limited.

Australia has been left behind in the race to feed China and politicians and industry leaders need to
work together to catch up, mining billionaire Andrew Forrest has warned.

Mr Forrest made the claim last week as he cast his eye over Harvey Beef for the first time since
buying WA’s biggest beef processor and exporter for about $45 million.

He said Australia was in danger of repeating the mistakes made in the iron ore industry that allowed
Brazil and others to strip away billions in export sales.
Mr Forrest, who made his fortune exporting iron ore to China and has a vast network of contacts
there, said it was almost impossible to find Australian meat and produce on supermarket shelves in
the world’s biggest market.

“We pride ourselves on producing some of the best food in the world and that pride is justified,” he
said.

“But are we competing well enough? No.
“I’m afraid we are not the ones feeding China. It is all the other big agricultural nations. Our politicians
and industry leaders need to take a very cold shower because if we take our clients for granted, they
will go somewhere else.
“They did it in the iron ore industry because of union instability and because we were so focused on
competing with one another.”

Mr Forrest has written to politicians and industry leaders urging them to co-operate to grow agriculture
or Australia will miss the boat.

“Our farming industry is struggling and we don’t have to,” he said.

“We can change the agricultural sector of this country completely if we buy in together, if we get our
foreign policies right, treat our clients as friends and promote ourselves properly.”
Mr Forrest has formed the Australia-Sino 100 Year Agricultural Partnership to boost trade with China
and invited peak industry bodies and State and Federal government ministers to join.
The partnership has the backing of the Business Council of Australia and Chinese Premier Li
Keqiang, who met Mr Forrest to discuss the initiative.

Mr Forrest also spent an hour last week discussing the partnership and trade opportunities with the
head of China’s WH Group, the world’s biggest meat protein supplier.

Page106of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The WH Group inspected Harvey Beef shortly before Mr Forrest’s Minderoo Group sealed a deal to
return the iconic WA business to local hands for the first time in almost a decade. The purchase,
Minderoo’s push to open up live cattle exports to China, and Mr Forrest’s passionate comments on
investment in the agriculture boom, have sent a wave of confidence through WA’s farming community.

Mr Forrest has about 720,000ha of pastoral land in the Pilbara, including Minderoo Station, and has
regularly supplied cattle to Harvey Beef.

Minderoo has a plan for more big investments in agriculture. It also sees operational advantages in a
combination of live exports and domestic processing.

Mr Forrest said Minderoo would continue to “put capital behind our beliefs”.

“We (Australia) have got to stop slapping ourselves on the back and look over the boundary fence and
see how tough farmers have been doing it,” he said.

“If farmers hadn’t been doing it tough for the past 20 years, we could believe the rhetoric, but it is
bulldust. We are not the food bowl of Asia. If you go into almost any supermarket in China, you see
Uruguay, you see Brazil, you see Argentina, all these other countries providing meat and produce.
Where is Australia? It is not there.”

In the spirit of co-operation, Mr Forrest visited the Fremantle headquarters of Craig Mostyn Group last
week to thank chief executive David Lock for his gracious comments about Minderoo’s investment in
Harvey Beef.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

c312 : External Markets | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types |
nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz
: Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document CTM0000020140528ea5t0000o

Page107of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.