natural It's only

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Features
natural It's only

1,054 words
26 July 2014
Gloucestershire Echo
GLOECH
1; National
24,25
English
© 2014 Gloucestershire Echo

LITTLE did Gary Kenna know when he rode his BMX up the aisles of the Typhoo factory in Birmingham
that one day he would have a tea company of his own.

Fast forward a few decades and Only Natural Products is one of the fastest-growing beverage
businesses in the UK, turning out 120 million tea bags a year and exporting them as far as Australia, the
USA and Japan.

Gary works with specialist tea buyers to source the ingredients for his company's Higher Living, Dr
Stuart's and Kromland Farm brands, all of which are blended to his own recipes and packaged by
stateof-the-art machines in Quedgeley.

The Birmingham-born father-of-four, who came to Gloucester as a 10-year-old when his father got a job
with the city's Brooke Bond factory, says tea was always in the background as he grew up.

"Both my dad and mum worked in the tea industry," says Gary. "When I was a nipper I remember riding
my BMX along the aisles of the Typhoo factory in Birmingham, where my dad was the factory manager."

Gary trained as an engineer after leaving Chosen Hill School and went to work for Brooke Bond,
Twinnings and Dowty's, before getting involved with tea packaging.
His move into owning a tea company came 15 years ago when he joined forces with Keith Garden to
buy the Dr Stuart brand, which offers a range of herbal blends to aid various body functions and
promote wellbeing.

Since then Only Natural Products has gone from strength to strength, with the pair developing their
Higher Living range offering organic teas and Kromland Farm collection of rooibos infusions.

The operation moved to its Quedgeley base just over three years ago after Gary and Keith invested more
than £1.5 million into the latest tea packaging equipment.
"We started the business at the time when herbal teas were just starting to come through in the UK,"
explains Gary.

"Since then, the market has seen a tremendous growth, largely because people are now more interested
in what they're putting into their bodies, while traditional 'black' teas have been in decline.
"We called our company Only Natural Products because right from the start we banned any kinds of
artificial flavourings.

"The teas we source are of a quality that's good enough for medicinal use. "I think people are more
trusting of small niche companies, like ours, than the bigger companies."

At the heart of Only Natural Products' operation are its tea bags and bio-degradable teepees, made in
line with the latest technologies.

Page236of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."The strings for our teabags are sewn in rather than stapled, as aluminium is hardly what you'd want in a
health product," explains Gary. "Our teepees are made from corn starch so that they break down over
time.

"We now use them for 17 of our products. "Our customers are health conscious and environmentally
conscious, which is why these sorts of things are important. "We use cardboard boxes that's FSC (Forest
Stewardship Council) -certified and recycle all our cardboard and polythene.

We have reduced our packaging by tamper-sealing our boxes rather than using cellophane wrappers."
Only Natural Products' teas are primarily sold in Holland and Barrett and Whole Foods Market in the UK,
as well as being sent all over the world.

"Some 65 per cent of what we manufacture is exported, with 20 per cent going to Australia, which is our
biggest market. In total we export to 57 countries," says Gary.

The irony that South Africa is another big customer is not lost on him, however. "We import single estate
rooibos tea grown at Kromland Farm, flavour and package it and then export it back to South Africa," he
explains.
"At one time we sold green tea in China too. "At the moment our focus is on America.

"I think that anything that's premium, British and quirky goes down well abroad. We've long had a
reputation for good tea in the UK."
Gary is also working with Waterwells Business Park-based Pulsin' to create new tea-flavoured Beond
bars.

Only Natural Products has been raising its profile locally, sponsoring the tea tent at the recent Gloucester
Quays Food Festival and entering the Taste of Gloucestershire Food and Farming Awards.

"In the beginning our turnover from the Dr Stuart's range was about £200,000 a year; we're now up to
£5.7 million and last year our growth was about 150 per cent, which is fantastic considering we're a
small team," says Gary.
"We're incredibly proud of what we have achieved. At the same time we're an ethical company and
giving back is important to us."Bottlegreen is sponsoring this year's Best Eating Out Establisment award
Since 1989 Bottlegreen Drinks Co.

has been creating and producing Britain's favourite natural soft drinks in its Cotswold mill, using a
bespoke filtration process and original recipes unique only to them.

Bottlegreen has always believed in creating the finest and most natural soft drinks possible and blending
wonderfully sublime flavours into the most exquisite drinks is their one driving passion.
Combining a unique process and equipment, which is similar to that used in wine making, and with the
use of fresh Cotswold spring water, Bottlegreen has been able to create a wide range of
perfectly-balanced and refreshing soft drinks for over 25 years. Bottlegreen is undoubtedly most famous
for its elderflower products, but also produces a range of delicious cordials, tonics and sparkling pressés
in a variety of flavours including strawberry, lime and spiced berry.

Throughout Bottlegreen's growth in products and flavours it has continued to be market leaders in terms
of style and taste.

All Bottlegreen products have all been carefully created using only the finest, natural ingredients and are
free from artificial colours, sweeteners and flavourings.

Bottlegreen still uses its original recipe and uses a consistent dilution ratio across its wide range of
cordials to ensure the perfect taste every time.

Enter the awards at http://www.digitalthisis.co.uk/gloucestershire/taste/. The closing date is August 15.
SUE BRADLEY discovers how a Quedgeley-based tea company has been brewing up a storm Gary
Kenna from Only Natural Products

IN

i42392 : Tea Products | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer
Goods | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks

Page237of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

uk : United Kingdom | austr : Australia | birmi : Birmingham (UK) | jap : Japan | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | eland
: England | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe

PUB Northcliffe Newspapers Group Limited
AN

Document GLOECH0020140726ea7q0006l

Page238of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.