AUSTRALIA'S rural sector might not want to rush into

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

LET
AUSTRALIA'S rural sector might not want to rush into

414 words
18 September 2014
The Land
FTLAND
20
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

AUSTRALIA'S rural sector might not want to rush into a free trade agreement (FTA) with China, but
with the rest of the world eyeing the Asian consumer powerhouse we could soon find China is busy
doing a lot more business with our competitors.

It has been nearly a decade since negotiations began and we've heard plenty about the benefits of
getting into China from New Zealand's booming dairy trade.

Our dairy trade for the previous financial year almost doubled to $440 million without an FTA, so
the potential is massive and a good deal for dairy would help our processing sector as well.
However, with China investing in its own dairy herd, including importing as many as 79,000 head
from Australia last year, is it going to risk undermining that investment by allowing in more Australian
products on lower tarriffs?
And if it does, what could be the trade-off? Relaxed policies around Chinese investment on our
shores?
With comparatively low tariffs on Chinese goods already, we've entered negotiations with one less
bargaining chip than many other countries.

Agriculture should benefit from a signed deal, but there will be trade-offs along the way.

With the Black Sea region now supplying much of our traditional Middle Eastern grain markets, it's
important we increase the volumes going into Asia.
However, gains in other commodities, like the opening of gas exports into China, will increase our
processing costs.

So cost of production will remain a ball and chain on our competitiveness.

Therefore, once a deal is signed we need to have relationships and potential supply chains
established.

We also need a FTA which allows us to do more than just pour bulk commodities into the hull of a
ship.

We need to sell our products at a price premium.
Northern Australian beef, for example, could be sold as a premium, healthy grass-fed product, even
if its main market was Chinese hot pots.

In fact, branded beef could go a long way to reducing the price pressure the cattle market has
experienced throughout the past couple years.

Page52of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.And given our size or lack thereof compared with many other countries as a producer of most
products, branding and well-managed supply chain relationships will be key to turning a dollar in
China.

But without a good deal, progress will be slow.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

mcattl : Beef/Dairy Cattle Markets | e512 : Physical Trade | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat :
Economic News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m141 : Agricultural Commodity Markets | mcat :
Commodity/Financial Market News | mlvstk : Livestock/Meat Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FTLAND0020140917ea9i0002q

Page53of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.