6000 homes to be built at Parramatta

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
6000 homes to be built at Parramatta

Toby Johnstone, Stephen Nicholls, Eryk Bagshaw
600 words
29 August 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
6
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Urban renewal - $2.1b development

The state government has announced plans to build 6000 new homes in North Parramatta as part of
a $2.1 billion urban renewal project.

The project will be built on a 146-hectare parcel of government-owned land between the Parramatta
River and O'Connell Street.
Over the next 15 to 20 years, apartment blocks as high as 30 storeys will be built on the site, which
is home to a cluster of heritage buildings.

NSW Premier and Minister for Western Sydney Mike Baird said: "The Parramatta North precinct is
home to some of the state's - and indeed Australia's - most important heritage locations and assets,
including Australia's first farm and first water mill, Parramatta Female Factory and the Old Kings
School."
Mr Baird declared North Parramatta a "state significant site", which will allow "fast-tracking the
delivery of thousands of new homes and jobs, providing a major economic boost for western
Sydney".

It is understood that the government will sell off building sites to private developers who will have to
operate within the parameters of a development control plan.

Mr Baird said that heritage experts will guide the government to "ensure that the most significant
buildings are preserved" and assist in finding "appropriate adaptive reuse for these buildings".

The facilities at Cumberland Hospital will eventually be vacated but it has not been announced when
this will occur. The development will also include improvements to local parklands.

The Labor candidate for Ryde, Jerome Laxale, was disappointed with the lack of consultation. "I
know nothing about the housing plan, nor what impact it will have on roads or other essential
services in Ryde," he said.

"Being on the border, surely we should have been consulted on a plan of this scale. Being closer to
Ryde's CBD than Parramatta's, I believe that most of these residents will use our schools, roads and
community infrastructure."
Bronwyn Evans, who leads a group concerned about the impact of the WestConnex motorway on
traffic around Wentworth Point, is also concerned about traffic congestion around Parramatta due to
the influx of new residents.

"The government needs to adopt a much more holistic planning approach rather than just a
knee-jerk plan, 'Let's do some houses'," she said.

Page226of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."There's no infrastructure in the whole Homebush-Parramatta area so it's a really big deal.

"They think the WestConnex is going to solve everything and it's just not."
When asked about the potential impact on property prices, the chief executive of Starr Partners,
Douglas Driscoll, said despite the huge number of homes in the pipeline, the project was unlikely to
depress property prices.

"With big projects like this there is the risk that it will dilute prices," he said. "But the demand for
Parramatta is so high that I think prices will remain in line with growth in the area."

Mr Driscoll said that 70 to 80 per cent of the sales made by Starr Partners North Parramatta office
were to investors. And the fact that the 6000 residences in the pipeline are new homes means they
can be purchased by offshore buyers.

"A very large percentage of those properties will be bought by overseas investors, primarily from
mainland China," Mr Driscoll said.
A building boom is under way in Parramatta with $8 billion worth of residential and commercial
development in the pipeline. Further down the Parramatta River, developer Starryland Australia is
building 774 apartments for its Promenade development.

i5010022 : Residential Building Construction | i501 : Building Construction | iconst : Construction |
icre : Real Estate/Construction
gplan : Urban Planning/Development | greg : Regional Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir :
Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140828ea8t00033

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page227of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.