Airline In-Flight Services News

Airline & Travel News

SE
HD Airline In-Flight Services News
WC 1,017 words
PD
7 April 2014
SN
Air Guide for the Frequent Flyer
SC
AIRGOC
VOL ISSN 1544-3760
LA
CY
LP

English
Copyright 2014 Pyramid Media Group, Inc./AirguideOnline.com. All Rights reserved.

New York (AirGuide - Airline In-Flight Services News) Sun, Apr 6, 2014

Delta pushes digital content in magazine overhaul

TD

Delta is remaking its in-flight magazine, "Sky," to increase digital content and provide helpful articles that
can become a source for travelers planning their trips. "Wouldn't it be great if a reader in Paris could call
up a dining feature from a few months prior on her phone?" says Jayne Haugen Olson, editor-in-chief. The
magazine is crafting a system that would include videos that dovetail with print articles and let readers pull
up all the stories published on particular locations. Thu, Apr 3, 2014

Emirates new Airbus A380s honor soccer stars

A380s number 46 and 47 delivered as Cristiano Ronaldo and PelŽ take the airline's most popular aircraft
to new heights. The two new A380s Ð coded EEU and EET Ð are already in active service, having
completed their first flights on Emirates' Bangkok and Melbourne routes respectively. Emirates' 46th and
47th A380 aircraft arrived in Dubai in the early hours of Friday, the same day the airline released its new
digital campaign featuring a light-hearted moment between PelŽ and Ronaldo in the Onboard Lounge of
an Emirates' A380. Both players are now Global Ambassadors for Emirates, an Official FIFA Worldwide
Partner, with the announcement that Cristiano Ronaldo was joining the airline's ambassadorial ranks
made at a press conference in Madrid on Friday. Available to First and Business Class passengers
travelling on the upper deck of the aircraft, the A380 Onboard Lounge provides a relaxed social
environment to exchange travel tales and talk business over a drink at 43,000 feet. Mon, Mar 31, 2014
Qantas unveils new Hong Kong Lounge
Qantas has opened the doors to its new QantasHong Kong Lounge, offering customers a new standard
of luxury when travelling through the city. Qantas International CEO, Simon Hickey, said the new
multi-million dollar lounge delivers on Qantas' ongoing commitment to creating the best travel
experiences for its customers. "The new Hong Kong Lounge is testament to our continued investment in
the lounge and inflight experiences right across our network," said Mr Hickey. "The Hong Kong Lounge is
stylish and contemporary, designed to reflect the colour, vibrancy and luxury of Hong Kong. It's the
perfect environment for our customers to relax and work before their flight. "All of our flights from Hong
Kong to Australia are overnight, so we know customers will enjoy being able to dine in the lounge before
they fly so they can maximise their sleep onboard." The Hong Kong Lounge builds on the success of the
Qantas Singapore Lounge, with renowned Consulting Chef Neil Perry designed menus based on his
Rockpool and Spice Temple restaurants with regionally inspired flavours and ingredients. Customers can
enjoy a range of dining experiences from the Spice Temple BBQ Bar to yum cha trolleys, an extensive
buffet or the locally influenced plate of the day. Spice Temple inspired cocktails will be prepared alongside
a world-class wine selection and barista service, to be enjoyed at the bar area with panoramic views
across the airport overlooking Qantas gates. Thu, Apr 3, 2014

Qantas unveils new lounge in Broome

Qantas has today unveiled its new Regional Lounge at Broome Airport to help meet the growing demand
for premium air travel to and from the region. Qantas Domestic Chief Executive Officer Lyell Strambi said
the expansion of the lounge had improved facilities for members and guests and provided a fresh new
customer experience. "With thousands of Qantas passengers moving through the terminal each week, we
have seen first-hand the significant growth in leisure and regional business travel to Broome" said Mr

Page171of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Strambi. "The extension of the Lounge will help cater for the increased traffic and give passengers more
room to relax and work prior to their flight. "Featuring new work and rest areas, the new Broome lounge
will offer complimentary light refreshments, magazines and newspapers, high speed Wi-Fi and Foxtel.
"The showpiece of the lounge however is the fantastic view of the tarmac. Qantas customers can now
enjoy watching aircraft landing and taking off from the airport. "The lounge also features artwork from local
indigenous artists Caroline Nuidoo and Roseanne Patrick." Mr Strambi said despite pressures on the
airline group, Qantas would continue to invest in its customer proposition. Mon, Mar 31, 2014

SAS launches services between Stavanger and Houston

SAS is launching services between Stavanger and Houston on August 20. This fulfils the wishes of
leading players in the oil industry for better connections between Norway, and the rest of Scandinavia,
and Houston, Texas. "The route we have established is a tailored product for a defined market with
particular travel needs," says Rickard Gustafson, President and CEO of SAS. The route will be operated
by a business version of the Boeing 737-700 and will have an SAS Long Haul Business Class concept on
board, with just 44 comfortable business seats, along with a modern inflight entertainment system and
full-service meals and service. "The favorable timetable provides excellent connections throughout
Scandinavia in both directions, while Houston is a hub for places to the south and west such as Mexico,
Los Angeles, Dallas and Phoenix with the Star Alliance," says Rickard Gustafson. SAS has entered into a
"wet lease" agreement with the company PrivatAir, which has this special version of the Boeing 737-700.
The route will launch on August 20, just ahead of the major oil exhibition in Stavanger, Offshore Northern
Seas (ONS). Tickets for route, which will operate daily except Saturdays, go on sale on April 29. Mon, Mar
31, 2014 1544-3760

Editorial eMail: edit@AirGuideOnline.com

Subscribe to get our free AirGuide Airline & Travel Newsletter by eMail

For Advertising and Marketing: advert@AirGuideOnline.com

For Custom Content and Content Solutions: content@AirGuideOnline.com

For Air Transport & Travel Business Analysis contact our Director of Content Aram Gesar eMail:
bizintel@AirGuideOnline.com

ISSN 1544-3760 - Copyright © 2014 AirGuide / Pyramid Media Group, Inc.

IN
NS
RE

i75 : Airlines | iairtr : Air Transport | itsp : Transportation/Shipping
gtour : Travel | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle
hkong : Hong Kong | houst : Houston | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | bric : BRIC Countries | china : China | chinaz : Greater China
| devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz :
North America | usa : United States | uss : Southern U.S. | ustx : Texas

PUB Pyramid Media Group
AN Document AIRGOC0020140430ea470000j

Page172of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.