Fosun dips into oil and gas with A$474 m capture

CLM
SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Acquisitions
Business
Fosun dips into oil and gas with A$474 m capture

Toh Han Shih hanshih.toh@scmp.com
462 words
5 August 2014
South China Morning Post
SCMP
1
3
English
(c) 2014 South China Morning Post Publishers Limited, Hong Kong. All rights reserved.

Hong Kong-listed investment firm enters into a conditional agreement to acquire Australia’s Roc
Oil after ending a merger bid by Horizon
Fosun International entered into a conditional agreement yesterday to fully acquire Roc Oil, an
Australian-listed oil and gas company, for A$474 million (HK$3.42 billion).

The Hong Kong-listed, Shanghai-based investment firm fended off a proposed merger between
Roc and Horizon Oil, another Australian company, Fosun and Roc said.

Fosun agreed to pay 69 Australian cents cash for each Roc share, which is a 10 per cent
premium to the stock’s close on Friday and implies a market capitalisation of A$474 million.

The offer will remain open for at least one month, requires the approval of the Australian
government and is conditional on the end of the merger agreement between Roc and Horizon,
Fosun said.
Fosun’s “proposal to purchase all of Roc’s shares for cash is superior when considered against
the alternative merger of equals with Horizon and offers a significant premium to share price
performance”, Roc chairman Mike Harding said.
Fosun’s acquisition came after Roc announced on July 10 and June 25 that it had two
unsolicited, confidential proposals from unnamed parties to fully acquire the Australian firm.
In April, Roc announced it had entered into a tentative agreement to merge with Horizon, which
would create a combined company with a market capitalisation of A$800 million.

On June 16, Roc said in a letter to shareholders that its biggest shareholder, Australian fund
management firm Allan Gray, called an extraordinary general meeting to frustrate Roc’s merger
with Horizon.

Roc asked its shareholders to vote against Allan Gray’s proposal at the meeting on July 11,
saying the blocking of the merger was “clearly not in the best interests of the shareholders”.

Allay Gray proposed a motion at the meeting to change Roc’s constitution, in a bid to prevent the
merger. The motion failed, having gained 53.24 per cent of the votes – short of the 75 per cent
needed to pass.
Roc has about 180 employees in Australia, China and Malaysia. The firm’s net profit fell to
US$45.2 million last year from US$61 million in 2012.
Fosun said the reason for the company going into the proposed transaction was to allow “the
group to enter the upstream oil and gas industry and acquire oil and gas assets”.

Page407of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The acquisition would be Fosun’s first direct investment in the oil and gas industry and sixth
overseas deal since May.

Its recent investments were in Portuguese insurance firms and German fashion retailer Tom
Tailor.

fosuni : Fosun International Limited | rocoil : Roc Oil Company Ltd
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs :
Business/Consumer Services
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | ncolu : Columns | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
South China Morning Post Publishers Limited
Document SCMP000020140804ea850004f

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page408of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.