ATO targets work expenses, rental properties and more

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

ATO targets work expenses, rental properties and more

by SmartCompany
1,121 words
28 August 2014
Smart Company
SMACOM
English
© Copyright 2014 Private Media Partners Pty. Ltd. All Right Reserved.

The Australian Tax Office regularly flags tax compliance issues it has under the microscope.

But don't think if an issue is not on that list, the ATO is not looking at it. The ATO's administration of the
tax system doesn't work that way.

Take work-related tax deductions, a big ticket item in the deduction stakes.

Tax deductions claimed for work-related expenses are a "tax 101" item. The vast majority of taxpayers
claim them – in fact, in 2011-12, some 8.5 million individual taxpayers claimed some work-related
expenses. The claims have steadily increased over recent years. In 2009-10, they totalled $17.1 billion,
while in 2011-12, they were $19.3 billion, a $2 billion increase over two years. Those expenses
represent a significant cost to the revenue so it is not surprising the ATO has a particular focus on them
as part of its compliance activities. And there are specific rules surrounding claiming such expenses.

This year, the ATO says it is using extensive data analysis to identify areas requiring attention across
all work-related expense claims, regardless of occupation. However, the ATO says it is paying
particular attention to work-related expense claims relating to:

overnight travel;

transporting bulky tools and equipment – the recent Ford AAT case on this issue  involving a train
guard transporting equipment essential to his work from his home to work highlighted the kinds of
issues involved in making such claims. The taxpayer lost the case essentially because his employer
provided a secure locker at his work place for the equipment, so he did not need to transport it to and
from work;

the work-related use of computers, phones or other electronic devices.

Last year, the ATO paid particular attention to high work-related expenses claims made by: (i) building
and construction labourers, construction supervisors and project managers; and (ii) sales and
marketing managers.

Specific rules in the tax law specify the written evidence that an individual must obtain to substantiate
deductible work-related expenses.

The ATO stresses that taxpayers claiming work-related expense deductions need to satisfy several
basic requirements:

they must have spent the money;

the expense must be related to their job;

they must have a record to prove it.

If that seems like "stating the bleeding obvious", ask yourself why the ATO feels it necessary to remind
taxpayers about it.
Rental property deductions

Page397of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The current hot property market also has the ATO's attention. The ATO says it is increasing its focus
on rental property deductions. It says common errors made by rental property owners include:

claiming rental deductions for properties not genuinely available for rent;

incorrectly claiming deductions for properties only available for rent part of the year such as a holiday
home;

incorrectly claiming structural improvement costs as repairs when they are capital works deductions,
such as re-modelling a bathroom or building a pergola; and
overstating deduction claims for the interest on loans taken out to purchase, renovate or maintain a
rental property.

Story continues on page 2. Please click below.

Data-matching programs

In its drive to enforce tax compliance, the ATO's use of data-matching programs is ever-expanding, as I
have mentioned before.

Offshore bank accounts

Most recently, the ATO has announced it will request and collect account details of bank customers
from various financial institutions (see below) to identify Australian resident taxpayers with offshore
bank accounts which may evidence undeclared income and/or gains for the years ended 30 June 2012
to 2015. The financial institutions concerned include:
Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited
Bank of China (Australia) Limited
Bank of China Limited

Credit Suisse AG

Deutsche Bank Aktiengessellschaft

HSBC Bank Australia Limited

Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited

Investec Bank (Australia) Limited

Macquarie Bank Limited

Rabobank Australia Limited

Rabobank Nederland

UBS AG

Citibank, N.A.

Citigroup Pty Limited

The program is designed to help the ATO identify Australian resident taxpayers who may be outside
the tax system and increase transparency of the worldwide dealings of Australian resident taxpayers.
The program will also assist the ATO to build an understanding of taxpayer behaviour in international
dealings, develop compliance profiles and improve fraud detection models. The ATO estimates that
approximately 50,000 offshore records will be obtained under the program.

Taxable government grants and payments

In another data-matching program, the ATO will also acquire details of entities receiving taxable grants
and payments from various Federal, State and Territory and Local Government departments, agencies
and authorities. The program is designed to enable the ATO to:

identify and test the correct taxation reporting by recipients of taxable Government grants and
payments from agencies across the Federal, State and Local levels of government; and

Page398of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.identify areas that require improved educational and compliance strategies to encourage voluntary
compliance for recipients of Government payments and grants.

Records matched under the program will exceed 5,000 individuals throughout Australia.

Music royalty payments

The ATO will acquire details of entities collecting and distributing music royalty payments for the 2011,
2012 and 2013 financial years from the following sources:

Australasian Performing Right Association (APRA) and APRA New Zealand Limited;

Australasian Mechanical Copyright Owners Society (AMCOS) and AMCOS New Zealand Limited.

Among other things, the ATO aims to detect instances of potential non-compliance, especially with
omitted income and alienation of personal services income. The ATO also aims to develop a profile of
the industry, including any risks and trends of non-compliance with taxation and superannuation
obligations, and tailor educational strategies specifically for participants in the music industry. It is
estimated that records for more than 15,000 entities will be obtained, of which most will be individuals.

Building sector – phoenix operators

And just to finish off, the security regulator ASIC says its surveillance program aimed at weeding out
illegal phoenix operators has been widened to look at the use of false statutory declarations in the
building and construction sector. The campaign follows feedback from small businesses, industry
bodies and other government agencies about the use of false statutory declarations in the sector to
falsely claim payments for work.
"There is concern that some company officers of larger companies have falsely declared that they
have paid small businesses contracted to work on commercial and residential projects when this is
not the case", ASIC Commissioner Greg Tanzer said.

Thomson Reuters Australian Tax Handbook 2014 – Tax Return Edition provides information on
claiming all kinds of tax deductions, including the rules relating to claiming rental properties and
work-related expenses.

Terry Hayes is the editor-in-chief of tax news reporting at Thomson Reuters, a leading Australian
provider of tax, accounting and legal information solutions.

CO
RE
PUB
AN

autaxo : Australian Taxation Office
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Private Media Partners Pty Ltd.
Document SMACOM0020140828ea8s0000e

Page399of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.