AGL Energy calls in back-up for MacGen bid funding

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Market Wrap - Street Talk
AGL Energy calls in back-up for MacGen bid funding

Edited by Sarah Thompson, Anthony Macdonald and Gretchen Friemann
325 words
20 January 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
12
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

AGL Energy has drafted in Deutsche Bank and Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch to help fund its
Macquarie Generation bid, with the two banks and Citigroup likely to handle a large rights issue
should AGL's offer be successful.

AGL is one of three bidders expected to lodge a binding offer for NSW's largest power generation
company on February 5.

The $8.5 billion utilities giant has been working on its bid with Citi and Lazard for the past
12-months, but sources said it had recently called in Deutsche and BAML to ensure more sell-side
support for the deal and likely share offer.
Citi and Deutsche handled AGL's last equity raising in May 2012, when the company tapped
shareholders for $900 million to pay for its purchase of Victoria's Loy Yang A power station.

On that occasion, AGL waited for the competition regulator to clear the deal before pushing the
button on the equity offer. It faces the same level of competition scrutiny this time around.

The ACCC has been considering AGL's MacGen bid since late last year and is due to report its
findings on January 30. If AGL bought MacGen's two power stations, Bayswater and Liddell, more
than 70 per cent of NSW's generation capacity would be owned by majors AGL, Origin Energy and
EnergyAustralia.

NSW Treasurer Mike Baird said he would consider offers for one or both of MacGen's power plants,
and wants a sale around the $2 billion book value. Goldman Sachs is running the auction.
AGL is up against UBS-advised ERM Power, which is considering a large equity offer of its own,
and Marubeni who is working with Credit Suisse. Macquarie Capital and Morgan Stanley had been
advising China's Shenhua, but the bidder recently pulled out.

agkega : AGL Energy Limited | macgen : Macquarie Generation
i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16101 : Electric Power Generation | ieutil : Electric Utilities | iutil :
Utilities
c183 : Privatizations/Nationalization | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c18 : Ownership Changes |
cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140119ea1k00006

Page194of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.