INTERVIEW-Australian nickel processor eyes Indonesian ore piles

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

INTERVIEW-Australian nickel processor eyes Indonesian ore piles

637 words
18 March 2014
18:03
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2014 Reuters Limited

* Indonesia's ore ban driving nickel prices higher

* Direct Nickel chief says stockpiles of ore are growing

* Says local miners like Antam hungry for new way to export

By James Regan

PERTH, March 18 (Reuters) - At a small plant on the outskirts of Perth, metallurgists have been turning
raw ore shipped from top Indonesian nickel miner PT Aneka Tambang (Antam) into a concentrate to
meet the country's new export guidelines.

After a year of tests, Australia's Direct Nickel says it has now entered into a joint venture with Antam for
a feasibility study on building a full-scale plant on Indonesia's Halmahera island using its new nitric
acid-based technology.

The agreement comes as Antam struggles to meet Indonesia's tough new export rules, which prevent
the company from shipping raw mineral ore to Chinese nickel pig iron producers and instead demand
it processes the ore before export.
"We could not have asked for a better time to start planning our first commercial plant in Indonesia,"
said Direct Nickel Chief Executive Russell Debney.

Antam has warned its nickel ore production could fall by as much as 87 percent this year as sales to
China dry up due to the ban.

"What they want now is cheaper alternatives to enable them to apply to the government for
concessions to keep exporting," Debney said. "We are looking at building a 20,000 tonnes per year
plant, possibly in two 10,000 tonne components."

The catch will be the cost.

Direct Nickel needs $500-$700 million to build the first full-sized plant, although Debney said it is
looking jointly with Antam for investment funding and notes that a conventional smelter could cost four
or five times as much.

POOR RECORD

Nickel mining has a poor record of delivering on promises, with cost blowouts and delays commonplace
among companies introducing untried technologies, leaving investors wary.

It took 14 years and a change in ownership to Glencore Xstrata before Australia's Murrin Murrin mine,
employing pioneering high-pressure ore leaching technology to extract nickel, was able to meet
production targets.

In New Caledonia, Vale is still struggling to get to grips with the technology at its Goro mine. Last year's
production of 16,300 tonnes of nickel was the best yet after three years, but still far from a 58,000
tonnes per year target.

Page243of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Back in Australia, the Avebury nickel mine owned by the Hong Kong-listed offshore arm of China
Minmetals Corp was opened August 2008 at a cost of $880 million only to be shut down in December
2008.

Direct Nickel's technology is based on leaching ores with nitric acid, which is then recycled into the
plant and used again, reducing replacement and environmental costs.

This would allow nickel to be extracted for as little as $2-$3 per pound ($4,410-$6,615 a tonne), half
that of some established producers, according to Debney.

Designed to force miners in Indonesia to add more value to mineral exports, the export ban has
slashed shipments, pushing nickel prices up some 15 percent since taking effect on Jan. 12.

On Tuesday, London Metal Exchange nickel was quoted at $16,165 a tonne, already exceeding
Goldman Sachs' forecast 2014 price of $14,800.

Unlike other minerals, such as copper and bauxite, which are readily sourced worldwide, steelmakers in
China rely largely on rich Indonesian nickel ores to make pig iron. This in turn is used to manufacture
low-cost stainless steel.

Debney said many of Indonesia's miners have until now enjoyed good cash flows from simply shipping
out ores, which are now being stockipled rather than sold.

"There are growing numbers of stranded resources," he said.

(Editing by Richard Pullin)

RF
CO
IN

NS

RE

IPD
IPC
PUB
AN

Released: 2014-3-18T09:03:11.000Z
ankat : Aneka Tambang Tbk PT
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2114 : Copper Ore/Nickel Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources |
imet : Mining/Quarrying | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining
c312 : External Markets | mnonfr : Non-ferrous Metals | mnickl : Nickel Markets | nitv : Interviews | c31 :
Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mcat
: Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E
Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
indon : Indonesia | austr : Australia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz
: Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Business
SERVICE:AUF
Thomson Reuters (Markets) LLC
Document LBA0000020140318ea3i0089q

Page244of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.