On the go: Friday, October 17, 2014

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

news
On the go: Friday, October 17, 2014

ASHLEY FRITSCH
3,419 words
16 October 2014
Bendigo Advertiser
FBENDG
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

**** Refresh your browser for the latest updates ****

Got any feedback, suggestions, news tips or weather snaps? Comment below, find us on social media
or email ashley.fritsch@fairfaxmedia.com.au - Oh and we love cute animal pics!

9am: And that's all we have time for today - enjoy your Friday! And here's another kitty to help you
enjoy your day...

8.57am WAY WE WERE: The only information supplied with this picture was that it was taken in 1910.
If you can supply any more details, email addynews@fairfaxmedia.com.au

8.54am WHAT'S ON: Check out these community events happening about town today:

Warm-water exercises

The Bendigo Arthritis Club Inc holds a 45-minute exercise class run by Arthritis Victoria-trained
volunteer leaders. From 9am to 10am and 10am to 11am. Sessions only run during school terms.
Venue: Scope Pool, Bennett Street, Bendigo. Contact: Joy on 5446 7530.

Multiples playgroup
Join a group of parents of preschool twins, triplets (or more) for a regular play date, every Friday
during school terms from 9.30am to 11.30am. Please bring your own nut-free snacks for your children.
Coffee and tea provided at the play space. Great indoor and outdoor facilities for the kids to play. All
welcome. Venue: Holy Trinity Church, 14 Keck Street, Flora Hill. Contact: Vanessa on 0416 277 372.

Bingo

Eyes down from 1pm and also 7.30pm. We've supported local organisations since the 1970s. There is
a canteen that offers affordable food, ample parking and Bendigo's best prize money. The day starts
off quiet, then in the evening the place lights up - every pink ticket is $200. Venue: Community Bingo
Centre. Contact: 5443 9793 after 5pm on Mondays.

Having an event? Send details, at least one week before the event, to
addynews@fairfaxmedia.com.au

8.53am TODAY IN HISTORY: On this day in...

1777 - American rebels capture 5000 British soldiers at the Second Battle of Saratoga.

1855 - Englishman Henry Bessemer patents his process for making steel.

1902 - The first Cadillac motor car is made in Detroit.

1906 - German professor Arthur Korn transmits first picture by telegraph.

1918 - Republic of Yugoslavia is formally established.

Page41of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.1979 - Mother Teresa wins the Nobel Peace Prize for caring for the world's "unwanted, unloved".

1995 - A bomb explodes on a commuter train in Paris, injuring at least 29 people; Frenchwoman
Jeanne Calment is declared the oldest living person, with a proven age of 120 years and 238 days.

2013 - The worst bushfires since the 1960s hit NSW, mostly the Blue Mountains, where more than 200
properties are destroyed. During the crisis one life is lost - a man who suffered a heart attack while
protecting his home at Lake Munmorah.

8.52am BIRTHDAYS: If it's your birthday today, HAPPY BIRTHDAY! You share today with:

Arthur Miller, US playwright (1915-2005)

Les Murray, Australian poet (1938-)

Rhys Muldoon, Australian actor (1965-)

Ziggy Marley, Jamaican singer (1968-)

Ernie Els, South African golfer (1969-)

Wyclef Jean, Haitian-born rapper and producer (1969-)

Eminem, US rapper (1972-)

8.51am TODAY IS: Wear something gaudy day.

8.50am: Scroll down - quiz answers are at the bottom...

8.48am SPORT: Bendigo Spirit champion Kristi Harrower will play on for another basketball season.
The 39-year-old told the club last night she was keen to return to help the Spirit defend their Women's
National Basketball League championship. Read more here.

8.47am NEWS: A suspected burglar has plunged to his death after trying to break into an abandoned
retirement village in Melbourne's north, The Age is reporting here.

8.44am PHOTOS: Thought your house was weird? Check out these pics of the world's most unusual
homes here.

8.39am: Apple has unveiled thinner iPad Air 2, iPad Mini 3 and new iMacs - will you get one? Find out
details here.

8.36am QUIZ: Had your morning coffee yet? See how you go with these five:

1. The edelweiss is a native flower to which mountains?

2. The kiwi fruit is also known as which gooseberry?

3. What did Jodhpur in India give its name to?

4. Lebanon is situated at the eastern end of which sea?

5. A warning of which computer bug was given prior to the start of the year 2000?

8.30am GIVEAWAY: We'll keep running with dinosaurs today with this fantastic book, Gigantosaurus
by Jonny Duddle, up for grabs!

All you have to do to enter is email your name and contact number to
ashley.fritsch@fairfaxmedia.com.au

Please note, you must be able to collect your prize from the Addy office in Queen Street, Bendigo.

8.16am EMERGENCY SERVICES: CFA, SES, Ambulance Victoria and regional police had nothing to
report from overnight.

8.15am: How's this for a skyline snap? Addy photographer Jim Aldersey captured the sun setting over
Bendigo yesterday:

8.05am: The front page of today's Addy is also all about the new transport and land use report, so how
about we take a look at the back page instead... It features sports editor Adam Bourke's report on

Page42of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.England netball captain Jade Clarke's ambition to win against the Diamonds in Bendigo on Sunday.
Read more here.

7.54am NEWS: Do you think Bendigo could benefit from a 16-station train network, with stations as far
as Huntly, Marong and Kangaroo Flat South? It's one of the suggestions in the Stage 4 of the
Integrated Transport and Land Use Strategy report: Read more here.

7.40am STARS: See what today's horoscope says is in store for you here.

7.35am TRAINS: V/Line is reporting no delays on the Bendigo line this morning. Have you caught the
train from Epsom yet? V/Line says, on average, 10 people are taking the train to Melbourne from the
the new station. Read more here.

7.25am NEWS: A new three-metre statue honouring Saint Mary MacKillop will be unveiled at Sacred
Heart Cathedral today. Read more here.
7.20am NEWS OVERNIGHT: Higher density living, more apartment blocks, and a bustling public
transport system are the future of Bendigo, a new report reveals. It proposes a fourfold increase in the
amount of people living in the city centre, the implementation of a 16-station suburban rail network and
five "activity centres" in Bendigo's outer suburbs. Find out more here.

7.10am WEATHER: OK, so now it's chilly - currently about 6 degrees, but an hour ago it was only 2,
brrrr! At least we're in for a sunny day with a top of 20 degrees. And, even better, the sun will be out
over the weekend with 25 degrees forecast for Saturday, and 29 degrees Sunday! For more weather,
click here.

7am: Good morning Bendigo! Need a national news snapshot first thing? Well, we have you covered.

For all those TV buffs out there, the furore stirred up by Network Ten's ill-advised and sexist questions
on Wednesday night's Family Feud is just the latest chapter in the rich history of infamous,
embarrassing and just plain dumb moments produced by game shows over the past 60 or so years.

There seems something uniquely calculated about the genre to produce these talked-about incidents
in super-abundance.

Click here for our pick of some of the classics of the genre from more than 60 years.
6.55am: WARRNAMBOOL: A consortium hoping to buy dozens of south-west dairy farms aims to
operate "on a scale not considered in Australia before," a spokesman says.
Linear Capital managing director Troy Harper said the consortium, which has links to Chinese
investors, aimed to be a major new player in the regional dairy industry and be "vertically integated"
with its own dairy processing plants and training facility.

Mr Harper said Warrnambool, Colac and Mount Gambier were among locations being considered for
processing plants. Read more.

6.50am: DUBBO: New NSW Deputy Premier Troy Grant has vowed to continue fighting for the Dubbo
electorate despite a significant increase in his workload now that he has been elected as leader of the
NSW National party.

Mr Grant could also retain his current portfolios of Hospitality, Gaming and Racing, and the Arts or take
on a new role but said he would continue to give his all for those who gave him his start in politics.
"I'm more than confident that I have demonstrated I can represent the people of Dubbo while handling
other duties," Mr Grant said. Read more.
6.45am: ILLAWARRA: The NSW government is considering a new residential development on the
shores of Lake Illawarra.

When the government scrapped the Lake Illawarra Authority last year, it outlined plans to take control
of 32 hectares of waterfront land at Warrawong, along King Street and Northcliffe Drive.
The prime development site, known as Kully Bay, was transferred in May and was the only land
retained by the government.

A long list of other, more costly, former LIA lands was to be transferred to Wollongong City Council,
even though councillors have said they will not accept these assets unless the government guarantees
future lake funding. More here.

Page43of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.6.40am: TASMANIA: Beekeepers have tapped into a new market of live bee exports to countries
where pests have destroyed hives.

Earlier this year Tasmanian beekeepers, including Australian Honey Products at Sheffield, sent 14
palettes of bees - 9.8 tonnes of live insects - to Canada.

Tasmania's season finished in February before Canada's season started, and many of the bees
exported from Tasmania would have died anyway.

Each palette shipped this year had 500 1.4-kilogram packets, each with drones, workers and a queen.
Read more.

6.35am: GRIFFITH: A family has been left shaken and distraught after their house was destroyed by
fire.

Fire crews were called to the two-bedroom home on Cutler Avenue at around 3am Tuesday, but upon
arrival the house was fully alight and could not be saved.

The owners said three generations of their family had lived at the house. More here.

6.30am: PORT MACQUARIE: The body of Sydney man William Lam has been recovered in Wallis
Lake.
Mr Lam's body was located near Regatta Island two kilometres from where he disappeared.

The 32-year-old from Berala got into difficulty when he entered the water at Wallis Lakes to retrieve his
child's shoes just before 2pm Wednesday.

Emergency services were alerted when he failed to surface. Read more.

6.25am: NEWCASTLE: Her Australian speaking tour included how to train a service submissive and
how nice guys learn to spank strong women.

But when former dominatrix Kali Williams spoke in Newcastle, there was neither whips nor leather.
Drawing on her experience working with bondage, discipline, dominance, submission and sadism, she
discussed professional communication in the male-dominated tech industry.

Communication, negotiations, gender and power dynamics happen everywhere, not not just in the
dungeons I have worked in, Ms Williams said, in a keynote address at Newcastle's DiG " Design
Innovation, Green Tech " festival. Read more.

6.20am: BLUE MOUNTAINS: It is one year since a devastating bushfire that claimed almost 200
properties in the lower Blue Mountains region in New South Wales.

It is unknown what sparked the blaze, which tore through Springwood and Winmalee on October 17,
destroying 193 homes and partially damaging about 200 more. Photos and video here.

6.15am: BUNBURY: Dylan Thomas may have been through an ordeal which has horrified a lot of
people " but he's keen to commemorate the experience so it can never be forgotten.

Dylan is hoping his mates will chip in for a spider tattoo which will cover his chest similar to
Spiderman's famous suit.

He may be joking about whether he'll develop "superpowers" but on the weekend he was experiencing
a "searing sensation" as a spider that had made its way into his abdomen through an old appendix
scar, crawled underneath his skin, all the way up to his sternum. Read more.

6.10am: MURRAY BRIDGE: Jockey Caitlin Forrest has died after a four-horse fall at the Murray Bridge
Racecourse.

The 19-year-old crashed to the turf and was collected by the pack of horses behind her when riding in
the race before the Murray Bridge Gold Cup.

Forrest was semi-conscious and responsive when airlifted to hospital, but her condition deteriorated
and she died from her injuries

Her boyfriend, Scott Westover, paid tribute to the former Strathalbyn High School student on Facebook.

"Today has been the worst day of my life. I lost the love of my life Caitlin Forrest," his post read. "I
know there will be an angel up there watching me everyday and riding with me." Full story here.

Page44of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.6.05am: NOWRA: A paramedic on the Ambulance Helicopter that rescued the pilot of a crashed plane
west of Nowra has told of the man's miraculous escape.

Paramedic David Zids was part of the rescue team that located the 22-year-old at the wreckage of a
1970s Cessna 206 in bushland near Touga in the Morton National Park around 1pm.

The man was treated at the scene and was airlifted to Wollongong Hospital with minor injuries
including a cut above his eye. More here.

6.00am: REGIONAL: Let's start your day with a spin around Fairfax newspaper front pages today.
Click here.

" A University of Sydney academic involved in the national curriculum review, Barry Spurr, has
reportedly described Prime Minister Tony Abbott an "abo-lover" in an exchange of emails.

"Abo Lover Abbott and [Australian of the Year] Adam Goodes are Siamese Twins and will have to be
surgically separated," Professor Spurr wrote in an email published on the New Matilda website.

The university said an investigation into the report was underway.
In a series of different email exchanges, he used the terms "Mussies, Chinky-Poos, bogans and
fatsoes," labelled Archbishop Desmond Tutu a "witch doctor," and Nelson Mandela a "Darkie,"
according to the website.

Professor Spurr was employed by the independent review into the national curriculum, commissioned
by the federal government, as a specialist consultant to review the English curriculum. Read more.

" Medibank Private managing director George Savvides has said Australians overpay for common
surgeries such as hip replacements and caesarean sections, as the health insurer ramps up its
campaign to put a lid on private hospital costs before its $4 billion-plus float. Read more.

" Public servants want isolation units set up in Canberra to quarantine government officials returning
from Ebola-stricken regions of Africa.

The demand comes as the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade confirmed its top doctor had
visited Australian diplomatic posts in African nations hit by the epidemic to "discuss key issues arising
from the outbreak."

The departmental staffers accuse their bosses of "dereliction of duty and failing to show respect to
employees and the Australian public" by not being upfront about plans to cope if an Australian official
contracts the disease. More here.

" A bump in the take-up of smoking among women in the early 1980s is now being echoed in lung
cancer rates, which are rising for women while falling for men.

The state's first comprehensive report on lung cancer, released by the Cancer Institute of NSW on
Friday, shows that it is the number one killer among cancers. Only 18 of every 100 people diagnosed
survive beyond five years.

Chief Cancer Officer and Cancer Institute chief executive David Currow said tobacco consumption had
dramatically decreased since the 1970s, when 70 per cent of the adult population smoked. Details
here.

" A day of Caulfield Cup carnage has seen two horses scratched and another two facing vet
inspections on Friday.

Racing Victoria veterinary stewards will examine two of the main hopes in Gai Waterhouse's The Offer
and star Japanese stayer Bande ahead of Saturday's $3 million race.

Gris Caro and last year's second placegetter Dandino were scratched on Thursday, with Dandino's
racing career now in jeopardy. Read more.

" Dan Lee watched his two daughters grow from curly-haired little girls to young women in the time
Canberra's famous lake went from a trickle of water to a large expanse.

The changes have been captured in three precious family portraits of the trio, each snapped by Mr
Lee's wife Nancye, over 50 years.

Page45of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.They have made a point of posing for the same photograph every 25 years to document their changing
faces and also the transformation of Lake Burley Griffin. Read more.

" The Texas hospital where two nurses were infected with the Ebola virus said it followed federal
guidelines to protect against the spread of the deadly pathogen, as Dallas County officials called an
emergency meeting to consider asking Governor Rick Perry to declare a local emergency.

The move comes after two registered nurses, Nina Pham and Amber Vinson, were diagnosed with
Ebola infections after treating Liberian Thomas Eric Duncan, who died October 8 at Texas Health
Presbyterian Hospital.
Controversy continued to swirl over why Ms Vinson flew on commercial flights to Cleveland and back
to Dallas while she was among dozens of healthcare workers who had been asked to monitor and
report potential Ebola infection signs and symptoms. More here.

" Australian Speaker Bronwyn Bishop has lost her bid for the presidency of an international democracy
group, with a string of recent political scandals contributing to the defeat.

The Speaker was in the running to lead the Inter-Parliamentary Union, an organisation of parliaments
that promotes democracy.

Ms Bishop came second to Bangladesh's Saber Chowdhury in the second and final round of voting at
the IPU's assembly in Geneva. There were also candidates from Indonesia and the Maldives "
meaning Australia was competing against a trio of Muslim states. More here.

" Apple has unveiled a thinner iPad with a faster processor and better camera as it tries to drive
excitement for tablets amid slowing demand.

The iPad Air 2, at 6.1mm "thin", also adds many of the features previously available on iPhones.

That includes the ability to take burst shots and slow-motion video and the inclusion of a fingerprint ID
sensor for use instead of a passcode. More here.

" Investors rushed into the safe haven of US bonds overnight on a wave of disappointing economic
data only to exit it just as fast, causing a massive intra-day swing in the yield on 10-year US treasuries,
which at one point dived as much as 14 per cent.

Overnight, US 10-year treasury yields dropped from a high of 2.17 per cent to a low of 1.86 per cent in
just over an hour, only to recover back to 2.15 per cent late in the trading session as investors took
profit and sold off bonds. Bond yields move inversely to prices.

"It was out and out carnage on the bond market," said National Australia Bank global co-head of FX
strategy Ray Attrill. Details here.

" Mystery surrounds the whereabouts of 176 people, including three women, who were on a people
trafficker's boat that left Bangladesh.
There are fears traffickers intend to sell those on board to fishing trawlers or factories as slave labour
in Malaysia and Indonesia.

Bangladesh officials are travelling to southern Thailand to interview 134 suspected victims who say
they were on the boat with the 176 others. Read more.

" Did you see this?

It is a decision 10-year-old Lucy Pierpont is confident about, but has her mother Kate very nervous -
the World's Greatest Shave.

Lucy has been closely affected by cancer. Last year a member of her family was diagnosed, her uncle
also died from the disease in 2011.

"I was in Broken Hill and we were talking about my uncle and I decided it would be a nice thing to
shave my head for my uncle. I thought it would be the right thing to do," Lucy said.

She started researching and found even more people who had been affected.

"I also found out that one of my friend's grandmas had cancer as well and my aunty also had cancer."

Page46of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Without any hesitation, the Dubbo girl told her mum she wanted to participate in the World's Greatest
Shave. Read more.
QUIZ ANSWERS: 1. Alps 2. Chinese 3. Riding trousers (breeches/britches) 4. Mediterranean 5.
Millenium bug.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gout : Outbreaks/Epidemics | gcat : Political/General News | ghea : Health
austr : Australia | tasman : Tasmania | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FBENDG0020141017eaag0000d

Page47of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.