Origin Buys Karoon's Australian Gas Assets

CLM
HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Top Stories
Origin Buys Karoon's Australian Gas Assets

By Ross Kelly
755 words
2 June 2014
10:59
Dow Jones Top Global Market Stories
DJTGMS
English
Copyright © 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

SYDNEY-- Origin Energy Ltd. will invest up to US$800 million in one of Australia's most promising
natural gas frontiers, betting that rising Asian demand for the cleaner-burning fuel will outpace new
supply from regions such as North America.
Origin said Monday that it had agreed to buy a 40% stake in fields in the Browse Basin from Karoon
Gas Australia Ltd., and planned to fund the deal through a 1 billion Australian dollar (US$926 million)
share sale. The fields include Poseidon, a potentially large natural-gas deposit discovered five years
ago.

Located offshore northwestern Australia, Browse Basin is estimated to contain 30 trillion cubic feet of
natural gas--more than enough to meet U.S. demand for a year. Origin joins the ranks of Royal Dutch
Shell PLC, France's Total SA, Japan's Inpex Corp and Australia's Woodside Petroleum Ltd., all of which
have big investments in the basin.

Yet Origin is also stepping in as others are moving out.

Australia is on course to overtake Qatar as the world's biggest supplier of liquefied natural gas, the
chilled form of the gas used for shipping, within a few years. Already, seven LNG facilities are under
construction in the country.

But rising construction costs in Australia and ample natural gas supplies--and investments in LNG
facilities--in other countries such as the U.S. and Russia have prompted some companies to reconsider
investments.

Global players including Chevron Corp. and BHP Billiton Ltd. have recently pulled out of Browse Basin,
while Shell and partner Woodside last year shelved construction of an onshore LNG plant after deciding
production costs were too high. Shell and Woodside are investigating whether to build a floating LNG
plant--potentially a cheaper option but one that relies on untested technology.

Labor shortages and a strong Australian dollar have both contributed to the rising cost of gas
production. Like many Australian developments, Origin's venture with ConocoPhillips in Queensland
state has run several billion dollars over budget.

Meanwhile, companies in North America are increasingly looking to export shale gas to Asia. Clouding
the outlook further, China signed a landmark US$400 billion agreement to buy pipeline gas from
Russia in deal that will make it harder for smaller companies like Origin to secure customers in China.

Origin Chief Executive Grant King said Monday that a decision to bring the gas to market, either via a
new LNG project or by pipeline to an existing terminal, wouldn't be made until 2017 at the earliest.
Options include piping the gas to Conoco's existing LNG plant at Darwin, which already has Japanese
customers, or developing the resource outright using a floating LNG vessel, he said.

"Various options exist to monetize the gas through LNG export opportunities linked to growing demand
in the Asian region," he said in a statement.

Page97of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Tim Shroeders, a Melbourne-based portfolio manager at Pengana Capital, said Origin would "need a
few things to go well in terms of LNG price, demand to be robust in Asia, and new technology like
floating LNG to work to make it economically viable."

"If time is on your side and all the ducks line up in a row you could make a bit of money," he said.
Conoco and PetroChina are also shareholders in Poseidon. Mr. King said the Chinese company's
involvement may help it find buyers in China. He added that Origin paid less for its permits when
compared with other recent deals stuck in the Browse Basin.
Under the deal, Origin will make an initial payment of US$600 million to Karoon. Further payments will
be due as the project reaches certain milestones. According to analysts at Macquarie Group, the upfront
payment suggested a price of US$2.67 per barrel of oil equivalent, which is well below the roughly
US$4.35 paid by Japan's Mitsubishi and Mitsui to buy part of Woodside's Browse stake in 2012.

Still, Macquarie said the price wasn't bad for the relatively small Karoon, which faced a big gap in its
funding capabilities and now wants to focus on oil prospects in Brazil.
Shares in Origin dropped 3.6% in Sydney as investors braced for an equity-raising that will dilute the
value of their existing holdings. Karoon's shares jumped more than 40%.

Write to Ross Kelly at ross.kelly@wsj.com Write to Ross Kelly at ross.kelly@wsj.com

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

karoon : Karoon Gas Australia Ltd | boral : Origin Energy Ltd
imulti : Multiutilities | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300014 : Natural Gas Extraction | i1 : Energy | iutil :
Utilities | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i162 : Gas Utilities
cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c182 : Asset Transactions | mnatgs :
Natural Gas Markets | mcroil : Crude Oil Markets | c18 : Ownership Changes | m14 : Commodity
Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types |
nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | pacisz : Pacific Islands | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document DJTGMS1120140602ea6200001

Page98of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.