CHINESE JOIN BID FOR $1B CASINO

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
CHINESE JOIN BID FOR $1B CASINO

Anthony Marx
334 words
24 June 2014
The Courier-Mail
COUMAI
CourierMail
3
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

GAMING giant Echo Entertainment has strengthened its bid to build a new $1 billion-plus casino
and entertainment complex in Brisbane by teaming up with two Asian rivals.
Echo announced yesterday that it had formed a joint venture with Hong Kong-based investment and
development firms Chow Tai Fook Enterprises Limited and Far East Consortium (Australia) Pty
Limited.

Both Asian groups were among the four companies, including Echo and its archrival Crown, which
were shortlisted by the State Government in May to develop the planned Queen’s Wharf project in
the CBD.

One analyst said yesterday the move by Echo to create the “Destination Brisbane Consortium’’
would make its proposal more appealing and, if successful, help spark more interest among Asian
gamblers.

Under the deal, Echo will contribute half of the capital and act as the gaming operator. Its partners
will each kick in a quarter of the development cost and tackle the residential and retail components.
Echo, which runs the Treasury Brisbane and Jupiters Gold Coast, said the Queensland market was
“a priority”.

“We are excited by the Newman Government’s vision to revitalise Brisbane by redeveloping a
significant precinct in the central business district. An integrated development presents a once in a
lifetime opportunity for transformational change across the city and southeast Queensland,’’ Echo
chief executive Matt Bekier said yesterday.

Privately-owned Chow Tai Fook has significant interests in property, hospitality and retail
businesses, including the world’s largest jewellery store chain, with more than 2000 points of sale in
greater China.
Far East Consortium is a property developer with major commercial and residential projects in China,
Hong Kong, Malaysia, Singapore and the United Kingdom.
Echo said the alliance would give it “the opportunity to leverage CTF’s Chinese and Asian VIP client
base,’’ while FEC had strong skills in hotel operations, car parking, residential development, retail
and tourism. Both Asian groups had a “robust financial capability to fund the project’’.business p26

CO
IN

NS

chotai : Chow Tai Fook Group | ekoee : Echo Entertainment Group Ltd.
i97912 : Gambling Industries | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality | i491 : Jewelry/Silverware | icnp :
Consumer Goods
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News

Page38of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | china : China | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document COUMAI0020140623ea6o0003v

Page39of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.