Interim 2015 CSR Ltd Earnings Presentation - Final

HD Interim 2015 CSR Ltd Earnings Presentation - Final
WC 9,440 words
PD 4 November 2014
SN CQ FD Disclosure
SC FNDW
LA English
CY © 2014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.
LP

Presentation

TD

ROB SINDEL , MANAGING DIRECTOR, CSR LIMITED : Well good morning everyone, it's 10 o'clock so
we'll get started. Thank for you joining us here this morning for the CSR results presentation for the half
year ending September 30, 2014. And thanks to James, is he in the room? Thanks to James for hosting us
from Morgan Stanley .

Just quickly on the agenda presentation should take about 25 or 30 minutes to leave plenty of time for
questions. I will provide a brief introduction of our performance during the last six months before handing
over to Greg Barnes who'll take you through some detail of the numbers. And then I'll come back and give
you some colour around each of the business units and provide some comments on the market and our
outlook for the full year.
Next slide, thanks Andre. Looking first at an overview of the Group results, as you can see there's been a
strong lift in earnings and we're very pleased at that. It was driven by three key factors. The first one was
the benefit of the restructurings we've implemented over the last few years. Secondly we're seeing the
growth in volumes driven by the increase in residential construction activity, and we've also benefited from
higher aluminium prices and property earnings.
The steady build up in demand is occurring as we predicted, both in multi-residential and more recently in
detached housing. Which in our view will continue to deliver solid performance over the next few years. The
market remains, sorry in terms of pricing the market remains competitive as always, but as we've seen in
previous cycles, pricing and margins tend to follow volumes in the cycle.

In summary we've seen a significant improvement in all of our business units and this strong lift in earnings
and cash flow, has enabled us to increase the dividend by 70%. In terms of our strategy, we're making
good progress on the objectives we set ourselves. As we highlighted earlier in the year, this is I five key
areas.
Firstly we are reinvesting our existing operations to improve productivity and efficiency, while maintaining
our unwavering focus on safety performance. You'll see on the slide the continuing 25% improvement
year-on-year. In Gyprock we are protecting our market leading position with the launch of our optimised
core technology in August. Our new ceiling board is stronger and easier to use, it's 15% lighter and will be
rolled out to other Gyprock products over the coming year.
We are also expanding into new adjacencies such as polyester insulation through the acquisition of
Martini. This is a good example of the steps we are taking to shift Bradford from being primarily a glass wall
business into a broader energy solutions provide. Finally our integration of Martini, sorry our integration of
AFS acquired in April is progressing well and is meeting the demands to faster and less labour intensive
building solutions, particularly in the multi-residential market. We see load bearing walling solutions as an
exciting growth market, similar to what we've achieved with Hebel in external cladding and internal walling
applications.

Enough from me at the start, I'll pass over to Greg, who'll take you through the detail in numbers.

GREG BARNES , CFO, CSR LIMITED : Well thanks Rob and good morning everyone. Slide seven
summarises our profit and loss for the period and you can get a sense I think by looking at it, as to why
we're quite pleased with results for the period. Revenue was up 15% for the six months to just over a
billion dollars. We saw higher volume and improved pricing in most of our categories across building

Page169of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.products and aluminium revenues were actually up 14% on high sales volumes as well as improved pricing
in Aussie dollar terms.
EBIT for the period was AUD114.1 million, I'm going to get into that in more detail on the next slide. As I
flagged at year end our effective tax rate was set to increase, and it did during the period to 29.2%. This
mainly reflects higher or lower R&D claims and a lower tax free portion of our property profits during the
period. We expect our effective tax rate will settle a little bit in the second half and moderate slightly to 28%
for the full year.
So as a result of all those factors, our impact was up 72% to AUD70 million during the period. This is
actually the best first half performance the CSR since the divestment of Sucrogen. As advised at year end,
we've now changed how we account for the discount unwind associated with our asbestos liabilities, we
now report that as a significant item and this change was made in the results presentation and in the
accounts to both actual results and to comparatives when you're looking at those.
As a result our impact post significant items was AUD68.4 million and that was up 48% for the variant
year-on-year. If you look at slide eight, you can see that EBIT was actually up across the board. Our
building products division was up 22% with earnings growth across all businesses, earnings benefit from
higher sales volumes, good operational performance and limited overhead expansion.

Importantly our underlying EBIT margins expanded by around 1% year-on-year. This excludes the impact
of recent acquisitions as well as any increased P&L investment in long term growth initiatives. We're very
encouraged by the progress in Viridian, the EBIT improvement was AUD11 million for the period, and
returned a profitability for the half. That's slightly ahead of what we expected.

As Rob will show in a moment, one of the things we're particularly pleased about is we're seeing top line
growth in both volume and in price. We're confident we're on the right track to return this business to a
sustainable long term footing. In aluminium EBIT was up 71% on the prior year, this is largely due to an 8%
increase in Aussie dollar prices, and particularly higher ingot premiums.
Property recorded an EBIT of AUD20.4 million, we completed two transactions this period. One was the
sale of a multi-residential development site at Pyrmont and the second was the disposal of some excess
property at our Viridian industrial site at Ingleburn in Western Sydney.

If we go to slide nine, you can see that operating cash flow has been up 98% year-on-year before
non-trading items. This reflects two things, the growth in underlying earnings is flowing through to cash,
and the improvement in working capital despite the higher revenues. We're particularly pleased with our
debtors collections during the period, with over dues actually at their lowest level in five years.

Adjusted for outflows associated with significant items in asbestos, the statutory operating cash was
actually up 294% year-on-year. We spent AUD 28.8 million in capital expenditure in the past six months,
excluding property developments and acquisitions. This represents 74% of depreciation and includes
things like investment in warehouse automation at our Gyprock Yarraville facility.

We expect capital spend to be slightly higher in the second half and full year spend will be around AUD70
million. Net property cash flows, and I'm talking cash as opposed to earnings, were AUD29 million on
the back of the Chirnside Park developments and the sale of the Pyrmont during the period. All in all
improved earnings in operating cash resulted in a net cash position of AUD5.7 million. This includes the
funding of AUD37 million of acquisitions associated with AFS and I think at this stage we'd expect to see
further improvement in the second half.

In terms of our asbestos provision, slide 10 reconciles the movement in the provision over the last six
months. In combination with the graph below you can see that claim related costs were AUD13.9 million
this period and that's down 9% on the same period last year. After adjusting for the discount unwind, the
provision reduced to AUD361.2 million, and that's the lowest level this liability, we've seen in this liability in
nine years. The provision includes a prudential margin of AUD68.3 million or 23% above the central
estimates from our two experts.

Our message remains very consistent with what we've said in recent presentations. We're encouraged by
the progress in the US, the US liability is down in US dollar terms, is down 31% from its peak two and a half
years ago. In Australia it remains on its gradual downward trajectory having peaked around six years ago.
Looking ahead we expect net cash payments for the year associated with asbestos around AUD32 million
for the full year.

Just finally before I wrap up, I wanted to highlight the improvement in returns over the last few years. Slide
11 shows the return on funds employed for the Group, and our key operating divisions since the
divestment Sucrogen. So we need to be mindful of the asset write downs in Viridian over the period when
interpreting this chart. But the chart does highlight the improvement across the Group in this period.

Page170of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.We're particularly encouraged by the consistent improvement in building products as well as the Group,
both of which are now around our pre-tax cost to capital. There is further scope for improvement as
construction markets recover and Viridian moves into profitability in the years ahead. So look that's from
me for now, I'm going to hand back to Rob, thanks for listening and I'll come back with questions, for
questions at the end. Thank you.

ROB SINDEL : Thanks Greg. Okay in terms of the individual business units, construction markets and
outlook, I'll just turn to that first slide Andre, thank you. So slide 13 shows the trend in each of the key
market segments in which we operate. The residential data that we're showing here is for the six months
to March 2014. As you know we lagged those by two quarters, so that two quarter lag will translate into
demand for our product during the September half year we're representing here today.

So the 12% increase in detached housing and the continued strong activity in multi-res is reflected in our
revenue growth during the period. The non residential market has remained flat, so has commercial
market, and this is consistent with what we're seeing for demand in those product segments that have a
higher proportion of exposure to commercial market. Interestingly we're seeing a similar trend in A&A ,
and our view is that we expect both of these markets to improve, particularly as consumer confidence
improves.

The New Zealand market remains strong and we're actually only now just starting to see the benefit of the
rebuild in Christchurch, because our products are very late in that cycle. A lot of the work that's been going
on there has been civil construction and heavy side.

So in terms of the revenues for each of the building products divisions, you can see the ramp up in
revenues we saw in the final quarter that I talked to at the full year results, have continued with light weight
systems revenue up over 21%. If you exclude the acquisition of AFS and Martini, revenue was up 12%
with volume growth in excess of 10% in most of our product categories.

In bricks and roofing we achieved 10% increase in revenue from volume and prior margin product mix, with
bricks delivering first in the construction cycle, it's good to see steadying increases in these volumes.
Viridian also delivered a 4% increase in revenue, the first one I think we've delivered in three or four years.
Following the benefit of pricing initiatives and higher volumes on a much more stable business platform as
Greg said, and more on Viridian in a moment.

In terms of earnings, we're pleased with the improvement in both the EBIT and EBIT margin, you can see
on the chart, on slide 15. Where the green bars show the improvement in volume, while price increases
and factory performance are broadly offsetting inflation. We are seeing improvement in our margins as the
building cycle continues to grow. We're looking at the normalised margin, and I mean by stripping out the
investment in AFS or the acquisition of AFS and Martini. There's also a number of one-off costs
associated with the gross inequities as part of our strategy. Our margins are actually 10.9% compared to
the 10% in the previous quarter, in the previous period.
So regarding the bricks JB which I'm sure everyone is as interested in as I am. We believe we put in a very
strong case to the ACCC and the merits of the transaction both to the industry and consumers are
compelling. We'll continue to engage with the ACCC in the lead up to the final decision on December 18,
2014.

So turning now to Viridian, we continue as Greg said to track slightly ahead of plan, achieving a positive
EBIT for the first half of the year. The chart on slide 16 gives you more detail of where the improvements
have been delivered. While the restructuring program has delivered the bulk of the AUD8 million earnings
improvement, we have also seen higher pricing and a significant turnaround in the performance of our New
Zealand joint venture, which has contributed to the overall result.

I'll just take the opportunity to reiterate what a terrific job the Viridian management team led by Peter
Moeller who's here today of turning around this business. I think there were a lot of people who didn't
realise what was achievable and it's very pleasing to see that come through. The difficult part is now
obviously we move to focus on revenue growth, and to really drive acceptable returns in this business.

So looking now at aluminium. Premiums continue to be the big story here, and we've also benefited from
higher aluminium prices, with the price in September reaching 18 month highs. Improvements in pricing
combined with a weaker Australian dollar is flowing through to earnings. While the Australian dollar was
relatively stable in the first few months of the financial year. The Aussie dollar fell by 6% during, sorry
AUD0.06 during September as confidence in the US recovery gathered pace.

Sales volumes very pleasingly were up 5% following continual operation improvements at Tomago and this
helped drive the EBIT to AUD41.4 million, up 71%. Now there's many issues impacting aluminium pricing
and premium, but generally the market fundamentals are improving, due to global demand, production
curtailments and supply deficits outside China. This has led to a reduction in inventory, global inventories,

Page171of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.with a tighter physical market maintaining higher premiums, and in our view this is likely to continue in the
short term.

Very pleasingly Mark White and the team are 90% hedged for the remainder of the year, so failing a major
operational issue at Tomago earnings are pretty much locked in. In terms of our property portfolio, the
result as Greg said of AUD20.4 million reflects good demand in the market for both residential and
industrial sites, and obviously that's flowed through to pricing as well as demand for our sites.
In the last six months we completed two significant transactions. In Victoria the residential land market
continues to strengthen, so we're seeing good demand for stage two and three at Chirnside Park. The
photo on the slide actually shows you the completed homes in stage one, and once completed, Chirnside
Park will have 533 new homes.
Just turning to our pipeline on slide 19, it remains solid with the Chirnside Park development and a couple
of other things underpinning earnings for the next two to three years. As always we are confident in our
ability to deliver consistent earnings over the medium term, aren't we Andrew? Before turning to the outlook
for the remainder of the year, I wanted to remind everyone of the pipeline of activity in the residential
housing market.

So the pipeline shown on the chart is in the blue shading, and this is an ABS statistic, which includes
dwellings improved or under construction but not yet completed. The coloured lines on the chart show the
lag between approvals and completions, which continue to push out with the longer lead times, particularly
from high rise apartments. We're also seeing the lag time increase in the detached market, and I think
some of these thoughts were endorsed by the comments, particularly from Westpac , about the funding
that's going into new residential construction, that is yet to actually hit the pipeline. So this growing
pipeline gives us confidence that the market will remain stronger for longer.

Finally on to our outlook for the remainder of the year. In building products, we're expecting to see similar
growth rates in the second half as we have seen in the first half. Longer term steady growth in housing
activity will lead to an increased demand for CSR products. The Viridian turnaround in earnings is tracking
slightly ahead of our stated objectives, to exist the year with an EBIT positive run rate. While in aluminium
we have improved our hedge position and we're also benefitting from higher ingot premiums.
In property we are working on another transaction which we expect to settle in the second half of the
year. For the Group the current analyst forecast range of AUD111 million to AUD134 million for net profit
after tax, sorry that's the current range. At this stage we expect to be towards the upper end of this range,
assuming no major deterioration in the markets in which we operate. I will conclude there and open it up for
questions, thanks for coming along this morning. And Simon? We need the microphone to pick it up on the
call.

Questions and Answers

SIMON THACKRAY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP : Simon Thackray from Citi, thanks Rob. I'll jump in ahead of
Emily because she always asks about prices. So can we talk about pricing in the building products
portfolio, with a little bit of granularity across the portfolio, to see what's done well and what hasn't done
quite so well?

ROB SINDEL : You've actually got to look at it on a state basis and a product basis and a mixed basis, so
there's all sorts of things happening. We announced our price increases that take effect in February or
March this year, in November last year. So the market really hadn't built to the position it is now.
If you look at -- there's a move back from commercial to residential and the big builders in residential are
taking more market share. Not surprisingly some of their pricing environment is -- well they've taken a price
increase in terms of the mix effect, that takes a while to flow through because the commercial market has
been softer.
In plasterboard, probably the one I'm a little disappointed with, but all sorts of stuff's happening there.
You've had new international players come into the market, you've had capacity built in Victoria and
Queensland. We're still getting price increases in plasterboard, but that's the one which I think has
under-performed.

On the other side of it you've seen significant price increases in bricks, you've seen price increases in
insulation and, as I alluded to, we've increased prices in glass, both at the price level, but also the team has
introduced surcharges which has helped drive price. So to read it straight through, I think the other point I'd
just make quickly is that, volume comes first and price tends to come second.

Because what you do is you drop off the lower margin customers and they're the ones that come through.
So we're relatively pleased at the position at the moment. We knew there'd be some comments about the

Page172of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.EBIT margin so that's why we pulled out that expenditure that we've put into the business for growth
initiatives.

SIMON THACKRAY: Right, so net debt, going ahead, you'd probably expect price contraction to improve.
As you say, that's the way the lower margin --

ROB SINDEL : Yeah, there hasn't been a lot of price contraction. I think you can say that there'd be --
assuming volumes are maintained at this (inaudible), you'd probably in a better pricing environment.
SIMON THACKRAY: Then just one for you Greg. In terms of the property cash flow at Chirnside and
Pyrmont, is there a full year guidance for the property cash flow, one, and then the second part of the
question is, what are you going to do with this balance sheet?
GREG BARNES : The first question around property, look we've got further cash flows to come in during
the period. So I won't give you a specific numbers but it's going to be not too far from what we've seen in
the first half and I think you can see net cash overall should improve second half. It's usually our stronger
working capital period for building prices, it tends to unwind more in the second half.

In terms of balance sheet, look we've obviously gone back in a slightly net cash position and, as I've said in
the past, we intend to use that for growth. I think the key objective for this business, long term, is to
continue to innovate and continue to invest in this business, so that we're better aligned with how we think
Australia is going to build in the future. So we will be using that, first and foremost, for growth by way of
acquisition, organic and licensing technology, and bringing it into Australia where it makes sense.

Our dividend policy, as you know, is 60% to 80% of NPAT, pre-significant items, and we've got a bit of
flexibility there as well period-to-period, depending on our cash position. So I think we're in a good position
that way. Go for it Emily.

EMILY SMITH, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK : Thanks very much. Emily Smith from Deutsche Bank . I
just had a question on that, on the building products EBIT margin. You mentioned 10.9% ex the --

ROB SINDEL : Yep.
EMILY SMITH: -- reinvestment. I'm just wondering for how long will this reinvestment occur? So when you
look at your guidance for the second half, saying that the growth is going to be pretty similar to the first half
growth, is that including or excluding the re-investment in the first half?

ROB SINDEL : Oh look I think the reinvestment will continue but you're not talking big numbers, in terms of
you're talking single digit millions, but it actually detracts from the margin because --

EMILY SMITH: Sure.
ROB SINDEL : -- we're taking the P&L hit. But what I'm saying in terms of growth, I think you'll see a similar
reflection of volumes in the second half and a reflection of pricing in the second half, because the next
round of pricing doesn't actually kick in til February or March next year.

EMILY SMITH: Yeah and so have you announced any price increases yet? It is November but do you
announce them sort of later in November for next year?

ROB SINDEL : We do Gyprock in late November.

EMILY SMITH: Yep.

ROB SINDEL : And we do other ones in December and a few in January.

EMILY SMITH: Okay, so would you expect those price increases to be ahead of inflation or -- given you
sort of said that, pricing's sort of better when volumes are improving, and you've obviously got the tail wind
at the moment.

ROB SINDEL : I just don't want to flag --

EMILY SMITH: Yep, sure.

ROB SINDEL : -- how big they'll be at this stage. I think it's -- you know we'll make our own assessment
internally and we'll let the market know all at the one stage.

EMILY SMITH: Mm hm and maybe just back on that margin growing from 10% to 10.9% on an underlying
basis. Is that all -- is that improvement because of volume or because of price? Is that leverage or is that

Page173of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.sort of -- or are price increases just covering cost increases? I'm just trying to understand if there's leverage
in it?

ROB SINDEL : Yeah sure.

GREG BARNES : Look it's by and large -- I mean we obviously got some price increases through, and I
think Rob's sort of expressed his view on that, and it's by and large leverage the volume, is how I'd interpret
it.

EMILY SMITH: Great, so the price increases were just cost recovery really.

Greg Barnes : Pretty much.

EMILY SMITH: Yeah, okay.

GREG BARNES : I think that's a fair assessment.

EMILY SMITH: (Inaudible), thanks very much.

ROB SINDEL : Hi Andrew, how are you?

ANDREW JOHNSTON, ANALYST, CLSA: Thanks. Andrew Johnston, CLSA. Just a question around the
bricks and pavers JV that's in front of the ACCC.

ROB SINDEL : Yep.

ANDREW JOHNSTON: Have you -- maybe you can't talk about it, but if you could that'd be useful -- have
you considered, or started discussing with them, alternatives to the proposal that's been put up? Maybe
something around where -- a JV around the manufacturing but leaving separate the marketing.

ROB SINDEL : I'll let Greg take that, he's spent 18 months of his life on this deal so --

GREG BARNES : I was in my 20s when we started.

Look it's understandable there's going to be a lot of interest in the joint venture and what would happen if it
weren't approved. It's just not appropriate for us to speculate on that. I think we're in an ACCC process with
a competitor, I think just me providing sort of any market commentary around what we might do, either with
Boral or on our own or otherwise, is just not the right time. Suffice to say we've got various options
available to us and I just reinforce that we think the merits around the transaction, as proposed, are very
strong.

I might just pick up one point in relation to that comment, when you're referencing specifically a
manufacturing joint venture. One of the attractions of this transaction is on the overhead side and the fact
that both businesses stand alone are a little subscale. So one of the things that is attractive around the joint
venture is the ability to do more than just take costs out on the manufacturing side of things. And we've got
more leverage, through a joint venture, to stay competitive with alternative cladding materials. So that's
why it's our preferred transaction.

ANDREW JOHNSTON: Just a question on the aluminium price premium. Do I take it, from your comment,
that you expect to say -- or factored into your numbers is a figure around the 420 mark for that?

ROB SINDEL : I think the answer to that is yes. I mean we lock in three months forward. So what are we
now Mark? 320 -- ah 420 some --

MARK WHITE, GENERAL MANAGER, CSR ALUMINIUM: 420.

ROB SINDEL : -- 420. We can't see any reason why that would drop in the fourth quarter. But that's our
internal view.

GREG BARNES : We could go to 600.

ANDREW JOHNSTON: You very well could, you could go to 200.

ROB SINDEL : I don't know, well when it was 200 we wouldn't have thought it could go to 400 (inaudible),
yeah. The shortage in the market is bigger than people realise. The shortage in the physical supply is more
significant than people realise.

JASON STEED, ANALYST, JP MORGAN : Morning Rob, morning Greg. Jason Steed, JP Morgan . A
couple of questions, first on energy costs, and Greg you mentioned the full year, probably about a AUD10
million impact, so there's a full year 2014 AUD10 million impact this year --

Page174of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.GREG BARNES : Mm hm.

JASON STEED: -- of gas.

GREG BARNES : Mm hm.

JASON STEED: And obviously a lot of press on very low gas prices in certain parts of the country.

GREG BARNES : There are.

JASON STEED: Are you seeing the benefit of that, one. And then the second question, MacGen contract
nothing noted today, was the aluminium price very high, approximately very strong. Is that off the table in
terms of negotiation or are you talking to AGL at the moment about that?

ROB SINDEL : Why don't you take the gas one and I'll take --

GREG BARNES : I'll take gas, you take MacGen.

ROB SINDEL : Yeah.

GREG BARNES : Yeah so look in terms of gas, we're in a contracted position. So in terms of outlook for
gas, I think there's various views out there at the moment. But being in a contracted position, as most
manufacturers would be, you know we're obviously receiving gas at the price we've contracted. So some of
the spot prices you're seeing at the moment are a reflection of short term over supply as LNG's capacity
comes on, LNG train capacity comes on. So it'd be fair to say we're not really benefitting from that.

Longer term, if you accept some of the forecasts, you would see our gas costs increase from low AUD30
million into the AUD50 million odd range, low AUD50 million range. And the timing around that is difficult
to estimate, it's probably 2017, 2018. There's a bit of speculation that that might drift, but it's somewhere in
that 2017, 2018 calendar period that it starts to tighten up. And the challenge for us is to get, both more
energy efficient in our operations, and ensure that we're in a position to pass on those costs as best as
we possibly can. Alright, so that's a --

JASON STEED: Greg one of your competitors in bricks often talks about the fact that they've done a lot
more than you have, and than Boral has --

GREG BARNES : Mm hm.

JASON STEED: -- in terms of reducing their reliance on gas and making investments. Is that -- what's your
view? I mean is there much that you've got that you can still do landfill gas, whatever it might be?

GREG BARNES : Look I --

ROB SINDEL : I might take that.

GREG BARNES : Yep.
ROB SINDEL : Because I'm a bit closer to it. In terms of -- it depends where your factory is quite frankly.
So if you look at Oxley where we have a low cost position, we use coal fines and it's a very cheap
alternative. Unless you're sitting close to a facility that's either wood chip or methane gas from waste, then
it's (inaudible) -- it's not that big a difference in our view. We've got a team working on it, so we get it, we
understand it. I think we wouldn't talk it up as much -- it's a bigger issue for the competitor who I think
you're talking about obviously.

The bigger issue -- the issue for us is that, as gas prices go up, most of our businesses that use gas aren't
necessarily trade exposed to a great extent, except for glass in Victoria, so we suspect the price will go up
and compensate. The issue we had more concern about 12 months ago was, would there be enough gas.
It looks like the market's going to clear, it looks like the LNG trains aren't going to come on as quickly. New
South Wales has still got a particular problem that they need to resolve, and hopefully the election will help
do that. In terms of --

GREG BARNES : MacGen.

ROB SINDEL : Yep, in terms of MacGen, AGL's only owned this thing for six weeks. They had an
obligation under the contract, under the sale contract, to engage with Tomago and have a discussion about
the current contract. I can rest assured that has -- those conversations have started. I read comments at
their AGM a couple of weeks ago, which said we didn't value Liddell as part of this transaction but it would
make sense that Liddell and Tomago come together and find a solution. So I'm quietly confident that
something will come out of that, but realistically AGL really couldn't speak to us until probably three or four

Page175of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.weeks ago. They're just doing the implementation of the -- they're just doing the integration of the business.
So we've had a couple of discussions and they will continue.

JASON STEED: Just to clarify Rob, so just on that point, your contractual clause relating to re-negotiation
is on (inaudible) bankruptcy, is on -- because it just looks -- if you look at the forward (inaudible) for
aluminium, you'll be making a lot of money at Tomago.

ROB SINDEL : Yep.

JASON STEED: I'd just be interested in how you actually position yourselves in that (inaudible).

ROB SINDEL : Well I think if you strip out the premium, the dynamics change very quickly. So coming back
to Andrew's point about, what will the premium be, none of us know. If you strip out the premium then it's a
very different situation for Australian aluminium smelting. So look I think it's a conversation that's around,
what's the market price for electricity, what does Tomago do for the entire NEM, what's happening to
electricity demand across Australia, not just New South Wales, and I'm sure there'll be a sensible
resolution.

JASON STEED: Thanks Rob.

ANDREW PEROS, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE : Good morning. Andrew Peros, Credit Suisse . Just a
quick one on the Viridian business, obviously quite pleasing to see that break even ahead of schedule. I'm
wondering if you could comment about the performance of the upstream business, as well as the
downstream business. Does that imply that both are profitable or maybe one is doing better than the other?
Then maybe just taking that one step further, in terms of the performance to New Zealand, maybe
comment about what's actually happening in that market. Have you been able to pull back some of that
market share off one of your key competitors there?

ROB SINDEL : Okay, if you look at -- it's actually four businesses that Peter has actually split the
organisation into. So we talk about flight manufacture, we talk about home comfort, we talk about
commercial and design and we talk about stock and trade. So we run a P&L for each of those businesses.
Without breaking it down, the issue that -- the negative -- assume three out of four are negative -- are
positive.
The one that's negative is what we call commercial and design and that's a couple of things. That was
over investment, that was footprint and all of those things that Peter and the team are now addressing. So I
don't want to strip out how profitable one is against the other. But you can imagine the volume that came
out of Ingleburn going into Dandenong, the cost reduction that that's driven, the fact that the Australian
dollar has come down, that the upstream business is profitable.

The second part was New Zealand particularly. I wouldn't say Peter that we'd necessarily picked up market
share. But I think we've very much stabilised our position after, what was actually, a lot more complex
integration of three businesses into two. You know Metro has obviously been a beneficiary of our issues
around integration. We've got a good management team over there and I think they're making some really
good progress and the opportunities before us are very positive.

ANDREW PEROS: Okay thanks. And just finally, obviously now that (inaudible) and can you just maybe
comment on what the opportunity is in terms of where you see mid-cycle level for this business.

GREG BARNES : Mm hm.

ROB SINDEL : Yeah, no you go on.

GREG BARNES : Yeah look I mean obviously we value this business on the basis --

ROB SINDEL : We should ask Peter. Mid-cycle?

GREG BARNES : This is not a budget discussion.
Look we've said, I think consistently, we can see our way back into EBITs north of AUD20 million over the
three to five year time horizon. When we restructured the business we said around five years, I still think
that's consistent. We naturally are assuming that we can cover our cost of capital in this business and,
hence, maintaining its carrying value. So I -- and I think we're well on track to do that. We're working slightly
ahead of our expectations when we model this business each year. So I still think that's the right sort of
guidance.

ROB SINDEL : I think the pleasing point is we -- and we've delivered on expectations, the revenue growth
issue is the next one and we can see a good plan around that. We've also seen some good, I think,

Page176of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.reactions in the market to our taking back that leadership role and really sort of settling the industry and
leading the industry and acting like market leaders. And that goes a long way to driving overall profitability.

MICHAEL WARD , ANALYST, CBA: Rob, Michael Ward from CBA. Just on aluminium I noticed the
volume's ticked up over 100,000 for the half.

ROB SINDEL : Yep.

MICHAEL WARD : I don't think we've probably seen that for a while. Just wondering what drove that
improvement and is that sustainable?

ROB SINDEL : We've never seen it before.

MICHAEL WARD : Oh okay, there you go.

ROB SINDEL : And I think there's a couple of things that have really driven the performance at Tomago.
The change of -- you know, never waste a good crisis I think I said 12 months ago, where the questions
around aluminium in Australia and globally were being asked. We actually did a reasonably significant
restructuring of the workforce, the terms and conditions and how we approach that business.

We actually changed management and brought in somebody from outside the aluminium industry, still with
a smelting background, to be the CEO up there. And they've had an enormous impact in driving
productivity and efficiency, which has actually now got us on that path of growth, again in terms of volume.
So we've set some stretching targets to go forward and we think that'll continue into the second half.

MICHAEL WARD : So that level's sustainable or there's further improvement over and above that level?

ROB SINDEL : I think it's sustainable and I think there's further improvement.

MICHAEL WARD : Okay. Just a second question on asbestos I guess. The rate of improvement in the US
is significantly better than it is in Australia.

ROB SINDEL : Mm hm.

MICHAEL WARD : Can you attempt to put that into plain English for me, as to why that's the case?

ROB SINDEL : The second part's the challenge. So just to clarify the question, why it's improving
(inaudible).

MICHAEL WARD : Improving quicker in the US than it is in Australia.

ROB SINDEL : Look the US has historically been a more litigious market and the reason we've been able
to improve our position there is twofold. One is, we've been able to narrow, through good evidence, where
we're exposed and where we're not. And where CSR material was applied and where it wasn't. And the
second is, without US assets and without major transactions going on and, I guess, the public concerns
you might have around people bringing litigation to Australia, we're just in a slightly stronger position in
terms of negotiation.

It means we can just hold our ground on what we think are reasonable settlement values. So what we've
done, in short, is really try and realign settlement values in the US to the experience in Australia, and we've
been successful in doing that for the last couple of years and that's the reason for the big difference. That's
about as plain as I can be. (Inaudible).

JAMES RUTLEDGE, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY : Thanks, James Rutledge from Morgan Stanley .
Just firstly the guidance on property, you go into higher earnings, I think, for the full year on PCP, is that
right? Just trying to understand that in the context of the guidance, given that you're already tracking AUD3
million above what you did for the last full year.

ROB SINDEL : Yep.
JAMES RUTLEDGE: And then just secondly, on the lightweight acquisitions, the AUD35 million of
revenues there, just wondering if that was additive or diluted to the margins after building products.
ROB SINDEL : Okay, I'll take the guidance on property. Normally our guidance has traditionally been
AUD15 million to AUD20 million, and these transactions are often, you know, any -- if we call them out --
there's stuff going on all the time but if we call them out they're someone between AUD5 million and
AUD15 million. So when we say we've done AUD2 million in the first half, they were reasonably close
together, about the AUD10 million mark.

Page177of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.You can assume that we've called out a transaction in the second half, that it's the same sort of order of
magnitude. What we don't do is tell people what the transaction is and negotiate up to a deadline against
the person on the other side, so that's why we're a little bit cagey about those. But that's the sort of order of
magnitude.
So what will we do next year? We might do AUD2 million, we might do AUD1 million, we might do AUD3
million, but our guidance of the AUD15 million to AUD20 million through the cycle has been about right.
GREG BARNES : Second question around acquisition.

ROB SINDEL : Sorry. In terms of have they been dilutive or accretive, the EBIT margins are pretty similar
quite frankly. The AFS one was a little bit higher in terms of, I think, the guidance we gave originally, but
we've put some more investment in there. I think Martini was probably a little bit less than the 10%, but
you're talking the same order of magnitude.

It's surprising how many of these businesses run at EBIT margins of around that 10%. Then not
surprisingly, when they're a long way below that, you're not returning cost to capital. When you're above
that, you get import competition. You get additional capacity added to the market.

GREG BARNES : Andrew?

ANDREW SCOTT, ANALYST, CIMB: Rob, Andrew Scott, CIMB. Just you know you have spoken about it a
fair bit already, but this is not an exact science, but a number of things in the mix there in terms of internal
improvements, underlying market helping it out a bit and then currency. I wonder if you could just give us a
snapshot of which of those is more important in the period just gone and where you think we are with
those?

I guess particularly does the 5% or 6% drop in the currency help or do we need to see a lot more for that to
come through? What do you see on you the residential versus commercial (inaudible) and how are we
thinking about that going forward? How much is left in the tank just from the internal side of things as well?

GREG BARNES : Philip. Look, the main driver is -- if you have a look at our results slide, the main driver
around Viridian's performance this time around has been restructuring, all right. So we got some modest
positive price increases on the way through and we've seen some modest volume improvement, but by and
large, the earnings growth came from restructuring.

Look, it's difficult to answer this question around currency. Naturally as currency falls over time and
moderates at a level, that should help and go into the equation around what we can achieve from a pricing
perspective, but the reality is these supply chains are on stream and here to stay. So I wouldn't just draw a
straight line between the currency and our revenues.

What does assist us, I think, over time is, having moved from Ingleburn and consolidated on to Dandenong,
you now have a plant that is largely full at any point in the cycle, right. That does start to put a premium, I
think, on the value of that capacity, the domestic capacity over time, but I wouldn't suggest at the moment
we're seeing that. I think that is something that will take a couple of years to play out.
ROB SINDEL : The second part on residential versus commercial, obviously our residential, our home
comfort business is getting the most benefit out of the uplift in housing. The comments I made before about
commercial and design is the one that's struggling, not surprisingly both the footprint but the commercial
volumes coming through have been relatively subdued compared to where they were 2 or 3 years ago.
Would you add anything else to that, Peter?

PETER MOELLER , EXECUTIVE GENERAL MANAGER, CSR BUILDING PRODUCTS: No.

ANDREW SCOTT: Okay.

(Technical difficulty)

ROB SINDEL : We might go to the phones.

OPERATOR: The first question from the phone comes from Matthew McNee from Goldman Sachs . Please
go ahead.

MATTHEW MCNEE, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS : Thanks, guys. Look, most of my questions on price
and margin and building products have been answered.

But just one question, Rob, just on your new plasterboard product, from what I understand, you've
launched that with a very little price premium or very similar pricing to your standard board, raining on

Page178of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Boral 's parade a little bit there. So what's the thinking behind that and did it cost you a lot to -- you've had a
more expensive board to produce. Is it going to be lower margin going forward or higher margin?

ROB SINDEL : Okay, in terms of our strategy around the launch of that, you've got to -- understanding the
dynamics of -- we already have a price premium with the Gyprock product and we also have a price
premium on top of that for the ceiling board. Our view is that this is best in a ceiling application where the
weight differential makes the biggest difference. So ceiling board already has the differential.

The market research that we saw was that the contractors said, we already pay a price premium for
Gyprock. We already pay a price premium for ceiling board. We would like the additional benefits of
Optimised Core and we'd like you to give those to us to maintain that premium and that market leading
position. We listened to those customers.

In terms of the cost to manufacture, it's actually very similar, so in terms of margin squeeze, there isn't a
great deal of problem. Our ceiling board represents, I think, about 10% to 15% of our overall sales.

So we're very happy with the strategy we've pursued. It's very much around listening to the customers and
giving them what they want, as we did when we launched CD which was the original technology that
launched ceiling boards in Australia.

MATTHEW MCNEE: Just on the Boral product, have you seen that in the market yet? Is that out there yet
or not?

ROB SINDEL : I've heard it's, yes, cropped up in a couple of locations. I don't know whether they did a
national launch like we did. I think they were doing a progressive launch, so I've heard some different
stories.

I think it's worth looking at what happened in the US with this product. It's got an application. It's got a good
story around where there is long distances that need to be travelled, because that's where the majority of
the savings are, not necessarily onsite.

MATTHEW MCNEE: Yes. No worries. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Thank you. The next question comes from David Leitch with UBS . Please go ahead.

DAVID LEITCH, ANALYST, UBS : Hi. Congratulations on a great result.

Look, there's so little available statistics from our Third World Statistics Bureau these days, Rob, I just
wondered if you could give a little more specific commentary on volume performance. There's a bar chart
there that shows, in building products, the combination of price and volume contributing an unspecified
amount of improvement in profits and I just wondered if you could maybe comment on how much brick and
tile volumes are up and how much plasterboard volumes are up in percentage terms year-on-year.

ROB SINDEL : Look, I'll try and give you some colour without stripping out the specifics. What we said, I
think it was on slide 13, was to say -- we called out the multi-res increase and we called out the residential
-- the detached increase. So the 12% volume increase we're seeing in detached, you can assume all of
that is flowing through to our volumes.

Obviously each of the product categories, it depends on the state. Where we're stronger in roofing in
Victoria and weaker in South Australia, we won't get the same benefit. But the 12% to 15%--

DAVID LEITCH: So just on that, would any products have shown 10% year-on-year volume increases?

ROB SINDEL : Yes, and I think I said on one of the slides that we're seeing at least 10% volume increase
across the majority of our products.

DAVID LEITCH: Sorry, I missed that, yes.

ROB SINDEL : That's okay. Some are stronger than that. Some are -- you can imagine the heaval volume
is stronger because of its primary exposure to multi-residential.

So it's somewhere between that 10% and that 20% increase. The 15% that we've seen, we also had -- we
never talk about it, but we also had a relatively quiet month in August because of the rain along the East
Coast of Australia. You can imagine that some of that catch-up has occurred in September and October.

DAVID LEITCH: Tiles would be up in double digits as well?

Page179of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.ROB SINDEL : It's probably the one that I think there's still some question marks over maintenance of
market share versus metal. I think metal continues to make inroads into New South Wales and Victoria. It's
up, but it's not up as much as the residential housing starts.

DAVID LEITCH: Insulation has also seen reasonable increase?

ROB SINDEL : Yes, very strong increases. I think we've got a stable business. We've got a good
management team.

Anthony's sitting in front of me, so I'd better say some nice things. But I think they've grown well above
what the market has done.

They've also driven new product development. They've introduced Soundscreen. You'll have seen the
advertising on TV with the Optimo product.

I think they've been able to position themselves as the market leader, which has been very positive for
volumes.

DAVID LEITCH: Finally on volumes, just glass, I wonder if you could comment on what the overall glass
market volume growth would be and then what, if you like, domestic production growth would be?

ROB SINDEL : It'd be fair to say in terms of the demand for glass, noting that it does -- there's probably a
very slow substitution of glass from finished windows. But if you just talk about glass, the share between
domestic and imported glass really wouldn't have moved around too much year to year at all. The volume
growth was positive in Viridian but modest and not nearly the numbers that we were seeing elsewhere,
which is understandable when you think about an industry that's been going through a fair amount of
restructuring, not just Viridian.

DAVID LEITCH: So low single digits more the guide there?

ROB SINDEL : Yes, I think total demand for finished windows will have grown stronger than what the
volumes -- the 4% to 5% we've talked about, because you think about that growth in multi-residential, the
amount of finished windows that are going into multi-residential, they will have come in as a finished
product. It's almost impossible for us to track that, but we know based on our market -- the work we do in
the market, the real challenge for the team is to say what we can come up with a solution, a
multi-residential solution that competes with the imported product, not just on price but on value.

DAVID LEITCH: Thanks, Rob. That's very helpful. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Thank you. There are no further questions from the phone.

ROB SINDEL : Any final ones from the floor? Maybe one more.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Sorry, Rob, can I just pick you up on that last comment? You're talking
about you think that Viridian can actually produce a product that will compete against the imported stuff for
high-rise? Because that's been a long-term trend for--

ROB SINDEL : I think that's one of the challenges. I mean, I throw it out there as a challenge. I know it's
one that Peter has people working on.

It's to say don't just assume the market is gone forever. What solution can we come up with that is different
than the standard application?
I'm not talking about facade products for these type of buildings. I'm talking about specifically around
multi-residential applications which are being built everywhere.

If you look at most of the American apartments, a lot of it is imported product. I suspect there's a solution
that we could come up with that maybe makes inroads into that.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Yes, that sounds a lot more positive than, say, 2 or 3 years ago where I
think the message we were getting was that it's almost impossible to attack that market (inaudible).

ROB SINDEL : Yes, it's amazing what you can achieve when you get good people in place that know what
they're talking about.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Great. Thanks.

ROB SINDEL : Right, I think that's it. Thanks very much for your attendance this morning and join us for a
coffee and a chat. Thank you.

Page180of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this
web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon
current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those
stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more
specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and
believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the
assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results
contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF
THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE
AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR
INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO
WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE
COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE
BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND
THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER
DECISIONS.]

i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services

CO csrr : CSR Ltd
IN
NS c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin :
C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter

RE usa : United States | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr :

Australia | namz : North America

PUB CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
AN Document FNDW000020141107eab4002s1

Page181of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.