CATHOLIC CHURCH HOLDS PROJECT’S FUTURE IN ITS HANDS GOD HELP US Catholic Church holds project’s future in its hands

HD

BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CATHOLIC CHURCH HOLDS PROJECT’S FUTURE IN ITS HANDS GOD HELP US Catholic
Church holds project’s future in its hands
MARA PATTISON-SOWDEN Industry
428 words
30 August 2014
The Observer (Gladstone)
APNOBG
Main
1
English
Copyright 2014 APN Newspapers Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

THE future of a key Gladstone project appears to be in the hands of God.

The Catholic Church of Australia’s insurance fund could be a major key to the success of the city’s
steel project and thousands of local jobs.

The church’s shareholding looks like determining the outcome of the shareholders’ vote next week.
A majority negative vote would almost certainly lead to the liquidation of the company, which would
result in a total loss to all shareholders.
But shareholders have nothing to lose by voting the company out of administration, according to
those behind the scenes.

A number of shareholders are yet to vote, and have until 11am on Tuesday, September 2 to lodge
their vote with the administrator.

Hundreds of small investors in Gladstone and Australia have supported the rescue group, which has
become Gladstone Steel Pty Ltd, to save the project.
But before it can move forward the original company has to come out of administration, which
requires the approval of the existing Boulder Steel shareholders.

GSPL projected 1800 full-time jobs and 5500 related jobs in Gladstone Steel, which would also
provide a profitable outlook for existing Boulder Steel shareholders via the gifting of equivalent
equity in GSPL.

Former rescue group co-ordinator, GSPL director Paul Sundstrom said they had stopped
contributions to the project for the time being because of “unexpected uncertainty” the group was
faced with to achieve the vote.

“We don’t want any more money from these existing shareholders; we’re just asking for their
permission to keep going and doing what we’re already doing,” he said.

“It’s a chance for the shareholders to get something back rather than seeing nothing after what
they’ve put in.”
Mr Sundstrom said if the shareholders voted the company out of administration, it would allow
Otsana and Gladstone Steel’s agreements to swing into play.
Gladstone Steel has already secured about 70% of the initial five million tons per annum capacity
for the project from a Chinese steel processor and a processor in the Philippines, as well as getting
the critical environmental impact statement re-started.

The work to save the project was being done by a dedicated team of 10 volunteers.

Page70of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Catholic Church did not return The Observer’s calls before deadline.

mara.sowden@

gladstoneobserver.com.au

NS
RE

IPD
PUB
AN

grel : Religion | gcat : Political/General News | gcom : Society/Community/Work
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | namz : North America
Community - People
APN Newspapers Pty Ltd
Document APNOBG0020140829ea8u001up

Page71of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.