;

12:00

HD ;
WC 3,491 words
PD 2 December 2014
ET
SN New Zealand Exchange Company Announcements
SC NZXCOM
LA English
CY Copyright (c) 2014 New Zealand Exchange Ltd ( )
LP

ADDRESS: DGL: DGL - 2014 Annual Meeting Addresses

Annual Meeting of Shareholders

TD

2pm, Tuesday 2 December 2014

1.Welcome and Introductions
Ladies and Gentlemen, On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to welcome you here today to the ninth
Annual Meeting of Delegat Group Limited since listing in April 2006. My name is Jim Delegat and I have
the privilege of chairing your Board of Directors. There is a quorum present and given the time is now
2p.m. - I declare the meeting open for business.

(Slide 1)
Let me first introduce you to my fellow Board Members, Rose Delegat, Jane Freeman (Chair of
Remuneration and Nominations Committee), Alan Jackson (Chair of Audit & Compliance Committee), Bob
Wilton and Graeme Lord (Managing Director). Also on the dais is Murray Annabell, the Group's Chief
Financial Officer, who will act as our minute secretary. Delegat is a growth company with the strategy to
build global super premium wine company. This strategy necessities the need for strong management
and succession planning.Accordingly throughout the year appointments have been made to enable the
strategy. The appointment of Graeme Lord to the position of Managing Director. The appointment of
myself to the newly created position of Executive Chairman. Bob Wilton who has been closely associated
with the group for some 28 years has accepted the invitation to remain on the board as a director. We
take this opportunity to acknowledge Bobs contribution over the many years of his involvement. Thank you
Bob. Having acknowledged these appointments I now also welcome our auditors, Ernst & Young and the
Group's legal counsel, Jones Young to the meeting.

2.Proxies I can advise the meeting that Directors and others hold proxies and postal votes for 78,561,533
shares, representing 77.7% of the share capital of the Company.

3.Apologies To open, are there any apologies? Thank you - those apologies will be recorded in the
minutes.

4.Notice of Meeting The notice of meeting has been sent to all shareholders together with the Annual
Report, and I propose that, together with the agenda they be taken as read.

5.Minutes of Previous Meeting The minutes of the eighth Annual Meeting held on 5 December 2013 have
been approved by the Directors, and Murray Annabell is holding a copy for inspection should any
shareholder wish to see them.

(Slide 2) 6.Procedure Firstly, I will address the Annual Report incorporating the Directors Report, Financial
Statements and unqualified Audit Report covering the year to 30 June 2014 and give a brief overview for
the balance of the year before handing the meeting to the Managing Director who will provide a more
fulsome report of operations and achievements and the prospects of the Group.

Page51of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Following Mr Lord's remarks I will open the floor for discussion on the Annual Report and Chairman's and
Managing Director's presentation before moving on to the formal business of the resolutions.

Chairman's Address Slide 3 - Executive Chairman's address

As Executive Chairman my focus is on providing strategic direction and monitoring performance to ensure
successful delivery of Board approved business plans. I invest a significant amount of my time on capital
projects and growth initiatives.
During the year Graeme Lord was appointed Managing Director. Graeme originally joined the Group 15
years ago and for the past 6 years has served as General Manager, Global Sales and Marketing. As
Managing Director, Graeme Lord leads the company with responsibility for developing growth plans,
building a high performing organisation and executing business plans.

In my address I will report on high level performance, our key investment projects and funding. Graeme
will cover 2014 performance in more detail and the Group's future growth plans.
Your company is one New Zealand's great growth stories. Over the last 6 years we have grown Operating
Net Profit After Tax more than threefold to $31.4 million and we have grown Shareholders Funds (Net
Assets) by more than $100 million to $249 million.

Slide 4 - A Year of Record Performance
On behalf of the Board of Directors of Delegat Group Limited, I am pleased to report a year of record
performance on our journey to build a leading Super Premium wine company.
Delegat achieved Sales Revenue of $222.5 million on record global case sales of 2,031,000 in the 2014
year.
The North America region became the Group's largest by sales volume for the first time. This milestone is
the culmination of years of brand development effort in the United States and Canada, markets that will
remain the engine of growth for your company over the next 5 years.
A record Operating Net Profit After Tax of $31.4 million was generated compared to $26.3 million last
year. The strong growth in operating profit was primarily due to improved Gross Margin which arose from
the Group achieving economies of scale in grape growing and winemaking. The Group also achieved a
record reported Net Profit After Tax of $42.6 million in accordance with the New Zealand equivalents to
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).
The Group achieved a record harvest of 35,127 tonnes in the 2014 vintage. The New Zealand harvest
was 34,123 tonnes, which was 18% higher than the prior year's vintage. The Australian harvest for
Barossa Valley Estate amounted to 1,004 tonnes in the first vintage since acquisition in June 2013. The
2014 vintage delivered excellent quality in all regions and has provided the Group with appropriate
inventories to achieve our sales growth plans.
Your Board, being cognisant of both dividends to reward shareholders and the need for reinvestment for a
growth company, declared a fully imputed dividend of 11 cents per share which was paid to shareholders
on 10 October 2014.

Slide 5 - Investing for Growth
The record results achieved in 2014 are testament to the strength of the Group's business model.
Delegat Group is well positioned to pursue its strategic goal of building a leading global Super Premium
wine company.
Your company has embarked upon a significant capital expenditure programme to deliver upon its growth
strategy and provide earnings growth into the years ahead. In 2014 the Group invested $32 million in
capital expenditure.
The Group plans to invest a further $86 million in capital expenditure in the current year to support future
sales growth and to achieve sustainable competitive advantage in terms of both quality and supply.

The capital expenditure plan includes building a Hawke's Bay winery, expansion of the Marlborough
winery, and new vineyard development in Marlborough, Hawke's Bay and the Barossa Valley.

Slide 6 - Hawke's Bay Winery

Page52of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Group's new Hawke's Bay winery will have a long term capacity of 10,000 tonnes. This state of the art
facility will be purpose built for the production of Super Premium Merlot, Pinot Gris and Sparkling wine.
Phase 1 will be completed in time for the 2016 vintage.

Slide 7 - Marlborough Winery Expansion

The Marlborough winery is being expanded to a capacity of 28,000 tonnes for the 2015 vintage. Work is
well underway and with building works complete and the tanks required for the 2015 vintage are being
installed.

Slide 8 - New Zealand Vineyard Development
The Group planted 78 hectares of new vineyard in Marlborough and Hawkes Bay in 2014 and owns
additional land that will enable the planting of another 272 hectares in 2015 and beyond.
The Group has now secured viticultural land in the prime areas of New Zealand's leading wine regions
that will enable supply of the 2019 Oyster Bay sales projection of 2,834,000 million cases and allow for
further growth beyond this period.

Slide 9 - Barossa Valley Vineyard Development
The Group has 51 hectares of new vineyards in Barossa Valley in 2014 and owns additional land that will
enable the planting of another 93 hectares in 2015 and beyond. This land acquisition, together with an
expanding grower programme, has the Group well positioned to achieve sustainable long term growth of
the Barossa Valley Estate brand.

Slide 10 - Funding Growth
The Group intends to fund its growth plan through retained earnings and bank debt. In the year under
review Net Debt increased by 14% to $154 million. Your Board is pleased to announce that today it has
approved five year syndicated bank debt facilities that will fund the Group's growth plan. The Group's long
term bankers Westpac are the lead bank in the syndicated facilities with new banking relationships being
established with both the Bank of New Zealand and ASB. The syndicated facility is for $250 million in the
current financial year increasing to $350 million thereafter.

Slide 11 - Executive Chairman Concluding Remarks
The record results achieved in the year under review are testament to the strength of the Group's
business model. 2014 was a year of record performance on our journey to build a leading Super Premium
wine company. I am delighted to advise that at the recent Deloitte Top 200 Company Awards, the
Company was the winner of the 'Best Growth Strategy" award. I personally am as excited about your
company's performance, strategy and growth plans as I have ever been. On behalf of the Board I would
like to take this opportunity to acknowledge our Delegat Great Wine People around the world. Our
multinational team has once again worked powerfully together to achieve extraordinary results.
I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Board for their contribution to the Group's ongoing
success.

Managing Director's Address Slide 12 - Managing Director's address

Good afternoon Ladies and Gentleman, it is a privilege to meet with you today to discuss the performance
and growth plans of your company.
In this address I will report on 2014 performance, the development of our global business and the
Group's future growth plans.
Slide 13 - New Zealand Wine Industry Growth
The New Zealand wine industry remains an international success story; it is recognised as a leading
producer of elegant, cool climate wines. New Zealand wine exports grew 9% to a record $1.33 billion. A
significant portion of industry growth came from North America, with the United States and Canada
growing 12% and 9% respectively.

The 2014 New Zealand industry harvest was a record 445,000 tonnes which was 29% ahead of the prior
year. This record industry harvest was primarily driven by an excellent growing season which resulted in
higher than normal yields for Marlborough Sauvignon Blanc. Quality orientated growers and companies,
including Delegat, were careful to manage vineyards to moderate yields in order to deliver high quality.
The inventory from the 2014 vintage will support growth in industry exports over the coming year.

Page53of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Slide 14 - Global Sales Performance
The Group achieved record global sales of 2,031,000 cases in the year, which is 4% higher than the
previous year. The Group's sales are well diversified by market with 38% in North America, 33% in the
Australia, New Zealand and Asia Pacific region, and 29% in Europe including the United Kingdom.
Adverse foreign exchange rates resulted in case price realisation of $110, compared with the $114
achieved in 2013. This was despite in-market case price realisations being maintained in each of the major
markets.
The Group has continued to invest in the development of its own in-market distribution channels to drive
long-term growth. The Group's Sales and Marketing team now comprises 158 people, of whom 139 are
based offshore in Australia, the United Kingdom, the United States, Canada, Singapore, Hong Kong,
Ireland and Japan.

The Australia, New Zealand and Asia Pacific region is a combination of established and emerging
markets. Overall sales in the region declined by 1% to 668,000 cases. This result was ahead of the
621,000 forecast in last year's Annual Report as sales in Australia were more resilient than expected,
despite challenging trading and economic conditions during the year.
Australia and New Zealand are established markets for the Group and the Oyster Bay brand continues to
achieve standout market performance as a Super Premium category leader across all varietals. The
Group achieved record sales volumes in other markets in the region, including Hong Kong and
Singapore. During the year, distributors were appointed in Japan, Cambodia and Thailand; this positions
the Group well for growth in these markets. In the United Kingdom, Ireland and Europe region, sales
volumes were 3% ahead of forecast at 594,000 cases after price increases were implemented in the
second half of 2013.

In the United Kingdom, Oyster Bay has maintained its Super Premium category leadership position. Oyster
Bay Sauvignon Blanc, Chardonnay and Merlot are the top selling wines above 8 in their respective
categories. Oyster Bay Pinot Noir is the top selling Pinot Noir above 9. During the year, Oyster Bay
became the number one selling sparkling wine brand above 10 by value with considerable further growth
potential.
The Group continued to achieve strong growth in North America, increasing sales volumes by 15% to
769,000 cases.
In the United States, the Oyster Bay brand continued its strong growth as consumers are increasingly
embracing elegant, cool climate wine styles. The Group's success is underpinned by its well-established
in-market sales team working effectively with state distributors. Oyster Bay is the leading Sauvignon Blanc
over US$10 in key markets including New York, Miami and Southern California. Strong sales growth was
achieved with Oyster Bay Sauvignon Blanc, arising from both increased distribution and greater rate of
sale per point of distribution. Oyster Bay Chardonnay and Pinot Noir are earlier in their respective growth
curves and represent significant long-term expansion opportunities.

In Canada, sales continue to grow in all provinces. Oyster Bay Chardonnay is the top selling Chardonnay
above $15 in Canada. Pinot Grigio has quickly become a category leader over $15 in both British
Columbia and Alberta.

Slide 15 - Major Awards and Accolades
The Group's wines continue to receive major awards and accolades from the world's leading wine
commentators and competitions.

Our very first vintage of Barossa Valley Estate Grenache Shiraz Mourvdre (2012) was awarded a Blue
Gold Medal at the Sydney International Wine Competition.
Oyster Bay Hawke's Bay Merlot 2013 was awarded Top 100 and a Blue Gold Medal at the Sydney
International Wine Competition.
Oyster Bay Pinot Noir 2013 was awarded a Gold Medal and 91 points at the San Francisco
InternationalWine Competition 2014.
Oyster Bay Sparkling Cuvee Rose was awarded 90/100 Points by Canada'a most acclaimed wine writer,
Natalie MacLean.
Oyster Bay Sauvignon Blanc was awarded Premium White Wine of the Year for the eighth time at the
Australian Liquor Industry Awards 2014.

Page54of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Slide 16 - Focus
As outlined at last year's Annual Meeting the Group's strategic goal is to build a leading global Super
Premium wine company. The Group will build global brands from world leading regions, concentrating on
the wine styles for which those regions are internationally renowned.
To pursue its strategic goal, the Group is focused on establishing Oyster Bay and Barossa Valley Estate
as two of the world's great Super Premium wine brands.

Slide 17 - Oyster Bay
For the third year running, Oyster Bay was named 'One of the World's Most Admired Wine Brands' by
Drinks International magazine and, in addition, received the 'Hot Brand' award for the fourth consecutive
year from New York's Impact Magazine.

Oyster Bay is an established leader within the Super Premium Sauvignon Blanc, Chardonnay, Pinot Noir
and Merlot categories. There are significant global growth opportunities with these varietals, together with
Pinot Gris and sparkling wine.
In the major markets of the world, the Group continues its focus on developing consumer awareness and
brand connection across the Oyster Bay range of cool climate varietals.

Slide 18 - Barossa Valley Estate
A significant focus in the year in review has been on the development of the Barossa Valley Estate brand
and range of Super Premium wines. The launch of Barossa Valley Estate to key markets around the world,
subsequent to year-end, marks a significant milestone on our journey to build one of the world's leading
Super Premium wine companies.
Barossa Valley Estate evocatively represents one of the world's most celebrated wine regions. Its powerful
identity and standout range of elegant red wines are made to appeal to aspirational wine lovers seeking a
modern expression of the wines that made the Barossa great: Shiraz, Cabernet Sauvignon and Grenache
Shiraz Mourvdre.

We will have the opportunity to experience the Barossa Valley Estate range of wines following the
conclusion of the meeting.

Slide 19 - Sales Growth 2014 to 2019
Delegat Group plans to grow sales by 52% to 3,094,000 cases over the next five years. The planned
growth will be primarily driven through sales growth in North America and development of the Barossa
Valley Estate brand.

In the Australia, New Zealand and Asia Pacific region, sales volume is projected to grow by 44% to
964,000 cases by 2019. Growth in Asia and from Barossa Valley Estate underpins projected growth in the
region. Since year-end the Group has established an in-market sales subsidiary in Japan. The Delegat
Japan team will work alongside the appointed distributor to establish and grow the Group's brands in the
market. In the 2015 year, the Group will also establish an in-market sales operation in China.

Sales volume in the United Kingdom, Ireland and Europe region is expected to grow by 18% to 703,000
cases over the next five years. The resumption of growth in the sales plan for the region is driven by
targeted distribution growth and the development of new markets in continental Europe.
North America is the largest Super Premium wine market in the world and will be the key growth region for
the Group over the next five years, with strong growth projected to continue in both the United States and
Canada. The Group plans to increase sales volume in the region by 86% to 1,427,000 cases by 2019.
Achieving this plan will provide in-market distribution scale benefits and sustainable earnings growth.

Slide 20 - Forecast 2015
The Board is confident that the investment in growth will deliver strong returns for Shareholders and
expects to achieve sales growth of 9% to achieve record sales of 2,205,000 cases in the 2015 year.
Based on prevailing currency exchange rates, the Group is on track to achieve a forecast Operating NPAT
of $34 million which is in line with consensus and 8% higher than last year.

Slide 21 - Summary

Page55of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.We have built the foundations for a leading global Super Premium wine business. Delegat Group plans
to grow sales by 52% to cases over the next five years.
To achieve this we must build one of the highest performing organisations in the global wine industry. This
is a challenge that our teams throughout our company accept with relish. Our people aim high, work hard,
focus on attention to detail and support each other in high performing teams. I wish to personally thank
each of our Great Wine People for their commitment to our business and the results they have
collectively achieved. Thank you.

Slide 22 - Thank you

Thank you, Graeme for a very comprehensive presentation.

Shareholder's Questions and Discussion Are there any questions in respect of the Annual Report, my
Chairman's presentation or the Managing Director's presentation? Thank you - I will record that the 2014
Annual Report has been received and considered. Now we will proceed to the Ordinary Business on the
Agenda. The Resolutions numbered Agenda Items 2 & 3 are both ordinary resolutions.

Election of Directors At this time it is appropriate to hand the meeting to Bob Wilton to carry out this part of
the process. Thank you, Bob. Agenda item 2 Re-election of Jim Delegat In accordance with the rotation
provision of the constitution Jim Delegat retires from office and being eligible offers himself for re-election.
Jim will now briefly address the meeting.

Re-election of Dr. Alan Jackson as Director In accordance with the rotation provision of the constitution Dr.
Alan Jackson retires from office and being eligible offers himself for re-election. Alan will now briefly
address the meeting.
Agenda item B: General Business I now look to the final item on the agenda: General Business. Are
there any items of General Business? Is there any discussion? Thank you.
At the conclusion of the meeting the Board invites you all to stay for canaps and to taste a selection of
your company's fine products, including the Barossa Valley Estate range. It is also a time to mix and
mingle with your fellow shareholders, board members and senior management.
I will declare the meeting closed and thank you for the interest you have shown in the company.

IN

i426 : Wine | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge :
Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods

NS npress : Press Releases | ncat : Content Types
RE austr : Australia | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :

Australia/Oceania | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz :
Western Europe

PUB New Zealand Exchange Limited
AN Document NZXCOM0020141202eac20005l

Page56of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.