Padbury receives interest to revive Oakajee project

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
VOL
LA
CY
LP

TD

News Stories; Other News
Padbury receives interest to revive Oakajee project

Marnie Hobson
390 words
24 June 2014
Platts SBB Steel Markets Daily
STEELDLY
ISSN: 1935-7354, Volume 8, Issue 122
English
© 2014 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

Iron ore mining minnow Padbury Mining said Tuesday it had received strong interest from Chinese,
Middle East and South Korean companies about reviving plans to develop the $6 billion Oakajee port
and rail project in Western Australia's Mid West region.

In April Padbury said it had secured the funding needed to develop Oakajee's port with capacity to
export 35 million-45 million mt/year and a connecting 570 km of rail network, from a group of private
equity investors. But a week later the deal was scrapped.

Since the termination of the deal, investment interest in Padbury has come from China, the Middle East
and South Korea and Padbury expects to visit China and South Korea in early July to progress
discussions further, the company said in a statement. The Chinese interest is from a company
originally involved in the creation of the intellectual property which Padbury holds for Oakajee and
through an existing Mid West investor, Padbury said, without providing any names.

The Middle East investor is looking for "long term returns and its key interest is in infrastructure projects
such as port and rail," the company said.

Oakajee was originally meant to be built by Japan's Mitsubishi Corp., but the project was suspended in
late 2012 due to the then uncertain economic environment
Padbury is developing the Peak Hill iron ore project in the Mid West region, which could potentially
produce as much as 10 million mt/year of iron ore. However, its development is dependent on the
Oakajee port and rail project being built. Padbury said Tuesday both the Western Australian Premier
Colin Barnett and Chinese officials were still keen to see the Mid West region developed to tap the
area's 21 billion of iron ore resources.
China, in particular, is interested in the region as it is attempting to increase magnetite concentrate
production from 8 million-9 million mt/year to 50 million mt/year to use in more sophisticated and
higher-value steelmaking, which consumes less energy and causes less pollution, Padbury said.

"Padbury will continue to pursue development of Oakajee, and to progress its strategy which will involve
continued engagement with international firms that have expressed an interest in developing the
project," the company said.

Marnie Hobson

CO
IN

RE

rivgol : Padbury Mining Limited
i5020017 : Harbor Construction | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals
| i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i502 : Heavy Construction | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | iconst :
Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction | imet : Mining/Quarrying
china : China | skorea : South Korea | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

Page230of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IPD
PUB
AN

Mining
The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Document STEELDLY20140708ea6o0000z

Page231of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.