More vacancies than ever before

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
More vacancies than ever before

Brisbane Mercedes Ruehl
578 words
6 February 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
40
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Dire straits. This is one way to sum up the state of Brisbane's office sector.
The Property Council of Australia's Office Market Report confirmed what other property industry
figures earlier this month revealed: the number of Brisbane offices lying empty is the highest ever
recorded.

Vacancy in the CBD has shot up to 14.2 per cent, while the city's fringe buildings have recorded a
vacancy of 12.7 per cent, the most since 2002.
"The results emphasise the urgent need for a focus on the health of Brisbane's commercial markets
from all levels of government," Queensland executive director of the Property Council of Australia
Kathy MacDermott said. "The release of the Queensland government's long-term office strategy and
clarity about their future office requirements is also essential for the industry's ability to plan and
mitigate for future demand."

Net absorption for 2013 in Brisbane was the world on record at about negative 100,000 square
metres.

One bright spot was the tourism hubs of the Gold and Sunshine Coasts, which were two of the six
markets across Australia to experience a decline in vacancies. "Queensland's economy is rebalancing
from one driven by resource/energy-focused engineering investment, to one driven by a much broader
range of industries, not all of which will be major direct generators of office-based employment,"
CBRE's head of research, Stephen McNabb, said.Fire sales of space

CBRE director David Prosser said Brisbane's available sublease space had been a big contributor to
higher vacancy. "A large proportion of sublease tenancies available are whole floors, which do not split
easily. Given the active enquiry is weighted more heavily towards smaller space users at the current
time, demand for sublease space is weak," Mr Prosser said. This is leading to "fire sales" of space,
well below market rents.

At the premium 111 Eagle Street tower, one of the newest, biggest office buildings in Brisbane, Arrow
Energy has just offered more than 14,000 back to the market. In the same building, global corporate
advisory firm EY is giving back two floors and Xstrata Coal is also offering 1.5 floors. This is while
three floors are yet to be let.

"Brisbane is going to get worse and it is going to get even worse because of the additional supply
coming up,"Jones Lang LaSalle's head of tenant representation, Steve Urwin, said, adding that
demand was also worsening. "Sentiment globally is poor; there have been concerns about emerging
markets. That affects markets like Brisbane as it is a resources-based economy. And the main feeders
for resources are China and other emerging markets."

As with other cities, incentives in Brisbane are shooting up, particularly with some projects being built
speculatively such as the 180 Ann St office development.

Page101of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."Face rents are static but incentives will continue to rise. The average is about the low 30s but there
are more instances approaching 40 per cent," Mr Urwin said.

Colliers International's Mark McCann, however, is predicting an improvement for Brisbane in terms of
leasing activity. "Double-digit vacancy is set to continue in the Brisbane CBD in 2014, but we are
expecting the volume of lease transactions to vastly improve this year when compared with the 2013
numbers – renewed business sentiment, lease expiry profile and improving economic conditions will
all contribute to improved market conditions in the CBD."

CO
IN

RE

PUB
AN

prpcna : Property Council of Australia
i8500021 : Office Real Estate | ireest : Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icireal :
Commercial/Industrial Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140205ea2600012

Page102of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.