08:07

HD HK Bourse: Announcement From Hengli Commercial Properties (Group) Ltd.
WC 8,309 words
PD 12 August 2014
ET
SN Dow Jones Institutional News
SC DJDN
LA
English
CY Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
TD

Following is the related link:

http://www.hkexnews.hk/listedco/listconews/sehk/2014/0812/LTN20140812007.pdf
CONNECTED AND MAJOR TRANSACTION IN RELATION TO FORMATION OF JOINT VENTURE FOR
REAL PROPERTY PROJECTS IN AUSTRALIA AND CONNECTED AND DISCLOSEABLE
TRANSACTION INVOLVING FORMATION OF JOINT VENTURE FOR THE JEWEL PROJECT AND
DISCLOSEABLE TRANSACTION INVOLVING SUBSCRIPTION OF 55% INTEREST IN THE JEWEL
PROJECT CO AND MAJOR TRANSACTION AS REGARDS THE GRANT OF OPTIONS CONCERNING
THE JEWEL PROJECT FORMATION OF A JOINT VENTURE FOR REAL PROPERTY PROJECTS IN
AUSTRALIA On 11 August 2014, the Company and Wanda HK entered into the Master
Australia JV Agreement pursuant to which the Company and Wanda HK will form a
joint venture by using Wanda Australia as the holding vehicle, and through the
SP Entities, to undertake acquisition and development of Real Property
Projects in Australia. Pursuant to the terms of the Master Australia JV
Agreement, the total capital commitments to be made by the Company and Wanda
HK to all the SP Entities shall not exceed, HK$7,500 million and HK$5,000
million, respectively, which were determined after arms length negotiations
between the Company and Wanda HK, with reference to, among other things, the
current real property market in Australia and expected acquisition and
development costs for suitable Real Property Projects. The total capital
commitment to be made by the Company and Wanda HK under the Master Australia
JV Agreement represent their pro rata equity interest of 60% and 40%
respectively in Wanda Australia. The Company will finance its capital
commitment by (i) the Companys internal resources; (ii) debt financing; and/or
(iii) equity financing. 1 SUBSCRIPTION AND SHAREHOLDERS AGREEMENT IN RELATION
TO THE JEWEL PROJECT CO The Board is pleased to announce that on 11 August
2014, DWCP, Wanda Australia Commercial, an direct wholly owned subsidiary of
Wanda Australia entered into the Subscription and Shareholders Agreement with
Li and Jewel Project Co pursuant to which (i) Wanda Australia Commercial has
conditionally agreed to subscribe for 550,000 new shares in Jewel Project Co
representing 55% of the enlarged issued shares in Jewel Project Co after the
Subscription at a subscription price of A$5,182,167 (equivalent to
approximately HK$37,570,711) subject to adjustment with reference to the
balance sheet of Jewel Project Co as at 31 July 2014; and (ii) rights and
obligations of members of Jewel Project Co are regulated. The Jewel Project Co
will, on completion of the Subscription, be owned by Wanda Australia
Commercial and Li as to 55% and 45% respectively. It is intended that the
Jewel Project Co will develop the Jewel Property into a mixed-use development
consisting of residential units, commercial space, hotel units and parking
spaces. Wanda Australia Commercial shall provide initial capital contribution

Page1of13©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.by way of a shareholder loan in the sum of A$88,458,049 (equivalent to
approximately HK$641,320,855) to Jewel Project Co, subject to adjustment and
shall arrange for the debt financing of the development of the Jewel Property.
GRANT OF OPTIONS Under the Subscription and Shareholders Agreement, as an
exit mechanism in default scenarios to deal with the shareholders respective
interests in Jewel Project Co, (i) in consideration of the sum of HK$1 paid by
Li to Wanda Australia Commercial, Wanda Australia Commercial grants to Li an
unconditional Put Option and an unconditional and irrevocable Call Option and
(ii) in consideration of the sum of HK$1 paid by Wanda Australia Commercial to
Li, Li grants to Wanda Australia Commercial an unconditional Put Option and
an unconditional and irrevocable Call Option. The non-defaulting may elect to
exercise the relevant Put Option or Call Option and decides whether it is to
be transacted at the fair market price as provided by the defaulting party or
as determined by the auditors of Jewel Project Co. FORMATION OF A JOINT
VENTURE IN RELATION TO WANDA AUSTRALIA COMMERCIALS INTEREST IN THE JEWEL
PROJECT CO On 11 August 2014, the Company and Wanda HK entered into the Jewel
JV Agreement in relation to Wanda Australia Commercials interest in the Jewel
Project Co, pursuant to which such interest will be indirectly held through
Wanda Australia. Pursuant to the terms of the Jewel JV Agreement, the total
capital commitments to be made by the Company and Wanda HK to the Jewel
Project Co shall not exceed, HK$1,262 million and HK$841 million,
respectively, 2

11 Aug 2014 18:08 ET HK Bourse: Announcement From Hengli Commercial Properties (Group) Ltd. -2-

which were determined after arms length negotiations between the Company and
Wanda HK, with reference to the estimated Wanda Australia Commercials capital
commitment to the
Jewel Project Co of A$290 million (equivalent to approximately HK$2,103
million), inclusive of the subscription price of the 55% interests in Jewel
Project Co, the initial capital contribution and project funding not covered
by bank loans. The total capital commitment to be made by the Company and
Wanda HK under the Jewel JV Agreement represent their pro rata indirect equity
interest of 60% and 40% respectively in Wanda Australia Commercial. The
Company will finance its capital commitment by (1) the Companys internal
resources; (ii) debt financing; and/or (iii) equity financing. Wanda HK shall
be responsible for any additional project funding of Jewel Project Co, by
provision of loan or arranging of bank borrowing. LISTING RULES IMPLICATIONS
Since Wanda HK is a controlling shareholder of the Company, it is therefore a
connected person of the Company. The formation of joint ventures pursuant to
the Master Australia JV Agreement and the Jewel JV Agreement would therefore
constitute connected transactions of the Company under the Listing Rules.
Since the applicable percentage ratios as defined in Rule 14A.06 of the
Listing Rules in respect of the joint ventures under the Master Australia JV
Agreement (taking into account the funding requirements of the parties under
the Master Australia JV Agreement) exceed 25% and the capital commitment of
the Company exceeds HK$10,000,000, and the applicable percentage ratios as
defined in Rule 14A.06 of the Listing Rules in respect of the joint venture
under the Jewel JV Agreement (taking into account the funding requirements of
the parties under the Jewel JV Agreement) exceed 5% but less than 25%, they
both are subject to reporting and announcement requirements and the approval
of Independent Shareholders under Chapter 14A of the Listing Rules. The
formation of joint ventures under the Master Australia JV Agreement will
constitute major transactions of the Company under Chapter 14 of the Listing
Rules whereas the formation of the joint venture under the Jewel JV Agreement
will constitute a discloseable transaction of the Company under Chapter 14 of
the Listing Rules. As to the joint venture under the Subscription and
Shareholders Agreement, since the applicable percentage ratios as defined in
Rule 14.07 of the Listing Rules exceed 5% but less than 25%, it is also a
discloseable transaction of the Company under Chapter 14 of the Listing Rules.
In relation to the guarantee for the prompt performance and payment by Wanda

Page2of13©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Australia Commercial under the Subscription and Shareholders Agreement
provided by DWCP to Li, given it is provided on normal commercial terms where
no security over the assets of the Group is granted, pursuant to Rule 14A.90
of the Listing Rules, such financial assistance is exempted from the
reporting, announcement and independent shareholders approval requirements
under Chapter 14A of the Listing Rules. 3 Pursuant to Rule 14.76(1) of the
Listing Rules, the grant of the Options constitutes a possible major
transaction of the Company subject to notification, announcement and
shareholders approval requirements under Chapter 14 of the Listing Rules.
Under Rule 14.44 of the Listing Rules, Shareholders approval for grant of the
Options may be obtained by way of written Shareholders approval in lieu of
holding a general meeting if (a) no Shareholder is required to abstain from
voting if the Company were to convene a general meeting to obtain such
Shareholders approval; and (b) written Shareholders approval has been obtained
from a Shareholder or a closely allied group of Shareholders who together
hold more than 50% in nominal value of the issued share capital of the Company
having the right to attend and vote at that general meeting to approve such
transactions. The Directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge,
information and belief after having made all reasonable enquiries, Li and the
Jewel Project Co are independent third parties and not connected with any
connected persons of the Company and therefore no Shareholder would be
required to abstain from voting on the resolution approving the grant of the
Options were the Company to convene a general meeting for that. Therefore, the
Company proposes, under Rule 14.44, to make use of a written Shareholders
approval in respect of the grant of the Options. As at the date of this
announcement, Wanda Overseas, the controlling shareholder of the Company holds
4,697,346,488 Shares, representing approximately 65.04% of the issued share
capital of the Company. It is proposed that Wanda Overseas will issue a
written certificate to the Company to approve the grant of the Options.
DESPATCH OF CIRCULAR The SGM will be held for the purpose of considering and,
if thought fit, approving the Master Australia JV Agreement and the Jewel JV
Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereunder. Wanda Overseas and its
associates are required to abstain from voting on the resolutions at the SGM.
As additional time is required to prepare and finalise certain information to
be included in the circular, the circular containing, inter alia, (a) further
information on the Master Australia JV Agreement and the Jewel JV Agreement
and the transactions contemplated thereunder, and the grant of the Options;
(b) a letter of advice containing the recommendations from the Independent
Board Committee to the Independent Shareholders in relation to the Master
Australia JV Agreement and the Jewel JV Agreement; (c) a letter of advice from
the Independent Financial Advisors to the Independent Board Committee and the
Independent Shareholders in relation to the Master Australia JV Agreement and
the Jewel JV Agreement; (d) a valuation report in respect of the Jewel
Property; and (e) a notice convening the SGM, will be despatched to the
Shareholders on or before 31 October 2014. 4

11 Aug 2014 18:08 ET HK Bourse: Announcement From Hengli Commercial Properties (Group) Ltd. -3-

FORMATION OF A JOINT VENTURE FOR REAL PROPERTY PROJECTS IN AUSTRALIA In order
to facilitate possible future cooperation between the Company and Wanda HK in
acquisitions and development of Real Property Projects in Australia, the
Company and Wanda HK on 11 August 2014 entered into the Master Australia JV
Agreement pursuant to which the Company and Wanda HK will use Wanda Australia
as the holding vehicle for such purpose and, through the SP Entities, which
are subsidiaries of Wanda Australia, jointly undertake acquisition and
development of Real Property Projects in Australia. Wanda Australia is and
will remain owned as to 60% by the Company and 40% by Wanda HK (excluding the
interest held though the Company). Further details of the Master Australia JV
Agreement are set out below. 1.
Scope of business Wanda Australia will be
the holding company of all the joint ventures between the Company and Wanda HK
for all Real Property Projects in Australia. Accordingly, the Companys and

Page3of13©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Wanda HKs interest in each individual Real Property Project will be pro rata
to their shareholdings in Wanda Australia. No change of the aforesaid business
scope will be allowed except with the unanimous consent of both the Company
and Wanda HK. 2.
Acquisition and development of Real Property Projects The
Company and Wanda HK shall consult in good faith in identifying potential Real
Property Projects for acquisition and development and on the terms of the
relevant acquisition and development plan. Wanda Australia will set up a new
SP Entity to undertake the acquisition and development of each Real Property
Project. When a new SP Entity is established, the Company and Wanda HK shall
enter into further Project Level JV Agreement with respect to such SP Entity
and the relevant Real Property Project on terms similar to the
Jewel JV Agreement. In particular, the Project Level JV Agreement will set out
the capital commitment of the Company and Wanda HK for the relevant Real
Property Project and the type of intended development. The Company will comply
with the relevant requirements under the Listing Rules in respect of all
acquisitions by the SP Entities as and when required. 5 3.
Funding It is
provided under the Master Australia JV Agreement that the aggregate of all
acquisition costs and development costs of the Real Property Projects
undertaken by all SP Entities and funded by the Company and Wanda HK shall not
exceed HK$12,500 million and will be contributed by the Company and Wanda HK
pro rata to their shareholdings in Wanda Australia. Accordingly, the maximum
amount of the capital commitment of the Company under the Master Australia JV
Agreement will be HK$7,500 million and the remaining HK$5,000 million will be
provided by Wanda HK. The capital commitment of parties to the Master
Australia JV Agreement may be in the form of equity, loan or otherwise and any
guarantee or indemnity. The Company will finance its capital commitment under
the Master Australia JV Agreement by (i) the Companys internal resources;
(ii) debt financing; and/or (iii) equity financing. The aggregate capital
commitment of HK$12,500 million is determined with reference to, among other
things, the current real property market in Australia and the expected
acquisition and development costs for suitable Real Property Projects. In the
event both the Master Australia JV Agreement and the Jewel JV Agreement are
approved by the Independent Shareholders, the remaining capital commitment of
both the Company and Wanda HK to be contributed under the Master Australia JV
Agreement, after taking into account the capital commitment as provided under
the Jewel JV Agreement, will be HK$10,397 million. 4.
Board composition The
Company is entitled to appoint all directors to the board of Wanda Australia
and relevant SP Entities. Subject to the Master Australia JV Agreement and the
Project Level JV Agreement with respect to each individual SP Entity, the
board of directors of Wanda Australia and each SP Entity shall have the power
and authority to decide on matters relating to their affairs and business. 5.
Conditions precedent The Master Australia JV Agreement shall be conditional
upon the Company having obtained the Independent Shareholders approval of the
Master Australia JV Agreement on or before 30 November, 2014. 6

11 Aug 2014 18:08 ET HK Bourse: Announcement From Hengli Commercial Properties (Group) Ltd. -4-

6.
Reserved matters The following matters shall require the consent of both
the Company and Wanda HK: (i) any amendment to the articles of association of
Wanda Australia; (ii) any change to the rights attaching to any class of
shares in Wanda Australia which are not set out in the articles of association
of Wanda Australia; (iii) the consolidation, sub-division, conversion or
cancellation of any share capital of Wanda Australia; (iv) the issue or
allotment of any share capital of Wanda Australia or the creation of any
option or right to subscribe or acquire, or convert any security into, any
share capital of Wanda Australia; (v) any reduction of the share capital of
Wanda Australia; (vi) the purchase or redemption of any share capital of Wanda
Australia; (vii) any application for the listing of any shares or other
securities of Wanda Australia on any stock exchange or for permission for
dealings in any shares or other securities of Wanda Australia in any
securities market; (viii) any resolution to wind up Wanda Australia; (ix) the

Page4of13©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Disposal of

filing of a petition for winding up by Wanda Australia or the making of any
arrangement with creditors of Wanda Australia generally or any application for
the appointment of a receiver in respect of Wanda Australia; (x) the
repayment of capital or assets to members of Wanda Australia; and (xi) any
material change in the nature or scope of the business. 7.
shares Neither shareholder of Wanda Australia may dispose of its interest in
Wanda Australia without the consent of the other. 7 8.
Events of default If
an event of default (for example, any disposal of any interest of Wanda
Australia in breach of the Master Australia JV Agreement, any material or
persistent breach of the provisions of the Master Australia JV Agreement or
any change of control or insolvency of the Company or Wanda HK, breach of or
failure to perform the obligations under the Project Level JV Agreement by the
Company or Wanda HK) occurs, the innocent joint venture partner of Wanda
Australia will have the right to buy out the interest of the defaulting joint
venture partner in Wanda Australia at a price equal to the fair value of such
interest. The Company will comply with the relevant requirements under the
Listing Rules if any asset acquisition by Wanda Australia and the provision of
shareholders loan constitute notifiable and/or connected transactions for the
Company. SUBSCRIPTION AND SHAREHOLDERS AGREEMENT IN RELATION TO
JEWEL PROJECT CO The Board is pleased to announce that on 11 August 2014,
DWCP, Wanda Australia Commercial, an direct wholly owned subsidiary of Wanda
Australia, entered into the Subscription and Shareholders Agreement with Li
and Jewel Project Co pursuant to which (i) Wanda Australia Commercial has
conditionally agreed to subscribe for 55% of the enlarged issued shares in
Jewel Project Co and (ii) rights and obligations of members of Jewel Project
Co are regulated. The Jewel Project Co will, on completion of the
Subscription, be owned by Wanda Australia Commercial and Li as to 55% and 45%
respectively. It is intended that the Jewel Project Co will develop the Jewel
Property into a mixed-use development consisting of residential units,
commercial space, hotel units and parking spaces. To the best of the Directors
knowledge, information and belief having made all reasonable enquiries, Li
and Jewel Project Co are third parties independent of the Company and are not
connected with the Company or its connected persons. 8

11 Aug 2014 18:08 ET HK Bourse: Announcement From Hengli Commercial Properties (Group) Ltd. -5-

(ii)

:

:

11 August 2014 and

:

(i)

(equivalent

to

Wanda Australia Commercial (iv)

Wanda Australia Commercial shall subscribe for 550,000 new

Li and
Jewel Project Co Subscription

Principal terms of the Subscription and Shareholders Agreement and further
details about the
Jewel Property Date of the Subscription
Shareholders Agreement Parties to the Subscription
Shareholders
DWCP Agreement
(iii)
shares in Jewel Project Co, representing 55% of the enlarged issued shares in
Jewel Project Co after the Subscription Subscription price
A$5,182,167
approximately HK$37,570,711), subject to
adjustment with reference to the asset value of Jewel Project Co as at 31 July
2014 Shareholder loan
the settlement date of the Subscription provide an initial capital
contribution by way of a shareholder loan in the sum of A$88,458,049
(equivalent to approximately HK$641,320,855) to Jewel Project Co The above
initial capital contribution will be applied as follows: (i) Firstly, repay
the Land Mortgagee in full in relation to all amounts due and payable to it by
Jewel Project Co (the mortgage principal was
(equivalent
affiliate of Li A$6,273,910 (equivalent to approximately HK$45,485,848) in
relation to all amounts due and payable to it by Jewel Project Co 9
(iii) Thirdly, repay Li A$23,726,090 (equivalent to approximately HK$172,014,153) as part repayment of
their shareholder loan to Jewel Project Co (iv) Fourthly, the balance will be working capital and only used
for the development of the Jewel Property Wanda Australia Commercials initial capital contribution shall
be adjusted by reference to the loan amounts provided by Li and their associated entitles provided to

to approximately HK$159,500,000) (ii) Secondly, repay an

:

Wanda Australia Commercial shall on

:

A$22,000,000

Page5of13©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Jewel Project Co as of the settlement date. Within 10 business days after the settlement date of the
Subscription, Wanda Australia Commercial shall make an additional shareholder loan to the Jewel Project
Co calculated by the following formula: LxF-W L = the aggregate loans made by Li and their associated
entities provided to Jewel Project Co as of the settlement date F= 55%/45% W= the amount of initial
capital contribution which Wanda Australia Commercial has paid. Conditions : Wanda Australia
Commercial obtaining Foreign Investment Review Board approval on or before the date that is 60 days
plus an extension period of 45 days (in case first application is not approved) from the date of the
Subscription and Shareholders Agreement (FIRB Condition) Settlement date : The date which is the later
date of either: (i) 70 days after the date of the Subscription and Shareholders Agreement; (ii) 10 business
days after the date when the FIRB Condition has been satisfied; or 10

11 Aug 2014 18:09 ET HK Bourse: Announcement From Hengli Commercial Properties (Group) Ltd. -6-

(iii) such other date that is unanimously agreed between Li and Wanda Australia Commercial Board
composition : Li shall have the right to appoint 1 director and Wanda Australia Commercial shall have the
right to appoint 2 directors to the board of directors of Jewel Project Co Reserved matters : Jewel Project
Co shall not, without the unanimous written consent of all directors, take any of the following acts: (i)
declare or pay any dividend; (ii) approval of a shareholder loan; (iii) approval of amounts borrowed by
Jewel Project Co if the terms are not in accordance with market conditions; (iv) pass any resolution for its
winding up (unless it shall have become insolvent); (v) approval of the construction cost budget and
approval of the revised construction cost budget submitted by the general manger of Jewel Project Co, if
any; (vi) approval of the outstanding construction costs if the construction cost occurred is in excess of
105% of the approved construction cost budget; (vii) approval of the residential sales budget and approval
of the revised residential sales budget submitted by the general manger of Jewel Project Co, if any; 11

(viii) approval of fees and charges terms in hotel management agreement for the hotel built on the land
with Wanda Australia Commercial or a Wanda Australia Commercials related company that are
inconsistent with fees and charges terms offered by other unrelated hotel management companies that
provide a level of service, quality of management and brand recognition as Wanda Australia Commercial
or Wanda Australia Commercials related company; (ix) approval of pricing terms in sale contract of the
caretaking and letting rights in the Jewel Property to Wanda Australia Commercial or Wanda Australia
Commercials related company that are less than the fair market value obtainable on the sale of such rights
to an unrelated party; (x) approval of the appointment of General Construction Contractor of the Project;
(xi) dispose of the hotel component or the whole Jewel Property; (xii) issue or allot any new shares in
Jewel Project Co; (xiii) removal of Lis nominee director from the board of directors of Jewel Project Co;
and (xiv) call in, accelerate or otherwise demand the repayment of the loan owing to Jewel Project Co by
Eastern Success Group Pty Ltd. Restriction on transfer : No shareholder shall transfer, assign, dispose of
or of shares otherwise part with their shares in Jewel Project Co for a period expiring on the date that is 12
months after the date of the Subscription and Shareholders Agreement without the written consent of all
other shareholders. 12

11 Aug 2014 18:09 ET HK Bourse: Announcement From Hengli Commercial Properties (Group) Ltd. -7-
If a shareholder wishes to transfer all or any of its shares in Jewel Project Co, it must first offer the shares
to the remaining shareholders. The Company will comply with the relevant requirements under the Listing
Rules if such transaction constitute notifiable and/or connected transactions for the Company. Project
funding : Li has provided shareholders loan for the initial funding for the project, such as acquisition of the
site. It is intended that the part of the initial capital funding by Wanda Australia Commercial will be applied
for the repayment of part of loans due to Li and his affiliates as provided in items (ii) and (iii) in the
Shareholder loan section above. After such repayment, Wanda Australia Commercials initial capital
funding will be adjusted so that the shareholders loans provided by both parties will be pro-rata to their
respective interests in Jewel Project Co. The development of Jewel Property will then be funded by
borrowings by Jewel Project Co. Wanda Australia Commercial will be responsible for arranging the
borrowings which will either be via bank loan or an additional shareholder loan from Wanda Australia
Commercial. The above was agreed between the parties after arms length negotiations and on normal
commercial terms. The Directors confirmed that the capital commitment was determined with reference to,
amongst other things, (i) the advantageous location of the site in the waterfront along the Gold Coast; (ii)
the availability of a development permit and (iii) the preliminary negotiation with banks. 13 Guarantee :
DWCP guarantees: (i) the prompt performance by Wanda Australia Commercial of its obligations under
the Subscription and Shareholders Agreement; and (ii) prompt payment of all costs, loss and damage
recoverable by Li from Wanda Australia Commercial under the Subscription and Shareholders Agreement.
As a separate and additional liability, DWCP indemnifies Li against any loss or damage suffered by Li as a
result of Wanda Australia Commercial failing to perform or observe any term or condition as required
under the Subscription and Shareholders Agreement. JEWEL PROJECT The Jewel Property of a total
site area of approximately of approximately 11,355 square meters is located on Old Burleigh Road facing
the beach of the Gold Coast in Queensland, Australia. According to the existing development permit dated
3 September 2012, the site can be developed into a mixed use development comprising three (3) high rise

Page6of13©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.buildings containing a resort hotel, apartments, cafe, convenience shop, office (recording studio),
restaurant, shop, take-away food premises and vehicle hire office. The site has a potential development of
total gross floor ratio area of approximately 90,456 square meters and a total gross building area of
approximately 147,000 square meters. 14

11 Aug 2014 18:09 ET HK Bourse: Announcement From Hengli Commercial Properties (Group) Ltd. -8-

JEWEL PROJECT CO Jewel Project Cos principal business activities are
development and management of the Jewel Property. According to its management
accounts, as at 30 June 2014 (being the latest annual accounts date), the net
liabilities value of Jewel Project Co was A$671,059 (equivalent to
approximately HK$4,865,178), With an agreed valuation of the Jewel Property at
A$120 million (equivalent to approximately HK$870,000,000), the net asset
value of Jewel Project Co was A$4,239,955 (equivalent to approximately
HK$30,739,674). According to its management accounts, the net loss before and
after tax for the financial years 2013 and 2014 of Jewel Project Co are as
follows:- Year 2014

Year 2013 Profit Before Taxation

(equivalent to approximately

A$168,442

A$827,623 (equivalent to

approximately HK$1,221,205)

HK$6,000,267) Profit After Taxation

A$134,735 (equivalent to

(equivalent to

A$90,222

approximately HK$654,110)

approximately
HK$976,829) The Board believes that given the unique location of the Jewel
Property and its unobstructed waterfront views along the Surfers Paradise of
Gold Coast, the Company is confident that it can maximize the development
value of the Jewel Property and generate attractive returns on this
investment. The Directors consider that the terms of the Subscription and
Shareholders Agreement, including the Subscription price, and the provision of
shareholder loan by Wanda Australia Commercial, are fair and reasonable, on
normal commercial terms in the ordinary and usual course of business of the
Group and in the interests of the Shareholders as a whole. The Company and
Wanda HK will undertake the development of the Jewel Property by way of a
joint venture pursuant to the Jewel JV Agreement. The subscription price
payable by Wanda Australia Commercial and the initial funding by way of
shareholder loan from Wanda Australia Commercial under the Subscription and
Shareholders Agreement will be funded out of the capital to be contributed by
the Company and Wanda HK under the Jewel JV Agreement. Having regard to
preliminary discussion with banks and the estimated construction costs, the
Company and Wanda HK have considered that the total capital commitment of
Wanda Australia Commercial can be reasonably set at A$290,000,000 (equivalent
to HK$2,103,000,000). In the event the capital commitment falls short of the
actual funding requirements, Wanda HK will provide the necessary funding for
Jewel Project Co. 15 GRANT OF OPTIONS Under the Subscription and Shareholders
Agreement, as an exit mechanism in default scenarios, (i) in consideration of
the sum of HK$1 paid by Li to Wanda Australia Commercial, Wanda Australia
Commercial grants to Li an unconditional Put Option and an unconditional and
irrevocable Call Option; and (ii) in consideration of the sum of HK$1 paid by
Wanda Australia Commercial to Li, Li grants to Wanda Australia Commercial an
unconditional Put Option and an unconditional and irrevocable Call Option in
respect of their interests in Jewel Project Co. The party to the Subscription
and Shareholders Agreement not committing an event of default under the
Subscription and Shareholders Agreement may exercise an Option against the
party committing an event of default. The non-defaulting may elect to exercise
the relevant Put Option or Call Option and decides whether it is to be
transacted at the fair market price as provided by the defaulting party or as
determined by the auditors of Jewel Project Co. FORMATION OF A JOINT VENTURE
IN RELATION TO WANDA AUSTRALIA COMMERCIALS INTEREST IN THE JEWEL PROJECT CO
The Company and Wanda HK have on 11 August 2014 entered into the Jewel JV
Agreement in relation to Wanda Australia Commercials interest in the Jewel
Project Co, pursuant to which such interest will be indirectly held through
Wanda Australia, further details of which are set out below. 1.
Parties to
the joint venture (i) The Company; and (ii) Wanda HK. 2.
Principal terms of
the Jewel JV Agreement The principal terms of the Jewel JV Agreement are as
follows:- (a) Objective The Company and Wanda HK agree to enter into the Jewel
JV Agreement to regulate their relationship with each other, and in respect

Page7of13©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.of the affairs and their dealings with the Jewel Project Co, and to
participate in the development of the Jewel Project in the form of a joint
venture in accordance with the terms of the Jewel JV Agreement.
16

11 Aug 2014 18:09 ET HK Bourse: Announcement From Hengli Commercial Properties (Group) Ltd. -9-

(b) Board composition The Company is entitled to appoint all the directors of
the Wanda Australia Commercial and all directors of Wanda Australia
Commercial are to be appointed to the board of directors of
Jewel Project Co subject to the terms of the Subscription and Shareholders
Agreement. (c) Capital commitment The total capital commitments (whether
equity, loan or otherwise and any guarantee or indemnity) to be provided by
the Company and Wanda HK under the Jewel JV Agreement shall not exceed
HK$2,103 million, of which HK$1,262 million will be provided by the Company
and HK$841 million will be provided by Wanda HK. The total capital commitment
was determined after arms length negotiations between the Company and Wanda
HK, with reference to Wanda Australia Commercials capital commitment to the
Jewel Project Co of A$290 million (equivalent to approximately HK$2,103
million), inclusive of the subscription price of the 55% interests in Jewel
Project Co, the initial capital contribution and project funding not covered
by bank loans. The respective capital commitment of the Company and Wanda HK
under the Jewel JV Agreement is proportional to their respective interest in
Wanda Australia Commercial. Nevertheless, Wanda HK shall be responsible for
any additional project funding of Jewel Project Co, over A$290 million by
provision of loan or arranging of bank borrowing. The capital commitment of
the Company in relation to the formation of the joint venture under the Jewel
JV Agreement is expected to be funded by (i) the Companys internal resources;
(ii) debt financing; and/or (iii) equity financing. (d) Conditions precedent
The Jewel JV Agreement shall be conditional upon the Company having obtained
the Independent Shareholders approval of the Jewel JV Agreement on or before
the Settlement date of the Subscription and Shareholders Agreement.
17 The
Company and Wanda HK have agreed that in the event that the Jewel JV Agreement
is not approved by the Independent Shareholders at the SGM, the Company shall
be entitled to sell, in which case Wanda HK shall be obliged to purchase, the
Companys interest in the Jewel Property, either by procuring Wanda Australia
to transfer to Wanda HK its entire equity interest in the Wanda Australia
Commercial or, at the election of the Company, by transferring the Companys
direct 60% shareholdings in Wanda Australia, in both cases at the nominal
consideration of HK$1.00, with all the associated costs, expenses and tax
payable to be solely borne by Wanda HK. REASONS FOR AND BENEFITS OF THE JOINT
VENTURES The Company is an investment holding company whose subsidiaries are
principally engaged in property development, property leasing, property
management and investment holding activities. As stated in the composite offer
and response document issued jointly by Wanda Overseas and the Company on 2
July 2013, Wanda Overseas may consider diversifying the business of the Group
with an objective to broaden the Groups income sources as suitable investment
or business opportunities arise. The Board is of the view that DWCP, the
controlling shareholder of Wanda HK, is a prominent property developer and has
a proven track record of property development. By partnering with Wanda HK,
the Company can leverage on the expertise and business networks of Wanda HK
and its controlling shareholder. The Board also believes that the reputation
and scale of DWCP will place the Group in a favourable position in negotiating
with third parties on acquisitions and co-operations. With its beautiful
beaches, amazing views and subtropical climate and nightlife, the Gold Coast
is one of Australias most beloved vacation holiday spots. Accordingly, there
is significant demand for hotel facilities as well as premium apartments and
accommodation from local as well as foreign buyers. Such opportunities are in
line with the Groups strategy of seeking to diversify its sources of income.
Therefore, by establishing a joint venture platform through Wanda Australia,
the Board believes that it will provide a more responsive structure for the
Group to capture such windows of opportunities as they arise in Australia.

Page8of13©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Wanda Australia will also enable the Group to better co-ordinate its
resources and with its joint venture partner, Wanda HK, in capitalizing on
such suitable opportunities, against the backdrop of an accumulated HK$12,500
million limit in total acquisition and development costs.

18

11 Aug 2014 18:10 ET HK Bourse: Announcement From Hengli Commercial Properties (Group) Ltd. -10-

If both the
Jewel JV Agreement and the Master Australia JV Agreement are approved by the
Independent Shareholders, the remaining capital commitment of both the Company
and Wanda HK to be contributed under the Master Australia JV Agreement for
acquisition and development of Real Property Projects in Australia will be
HK$10,397 million. With respect to the Jewel Property and the joint venture
for its development under the Australia JV Agreement, given the demand of new
hotel facilities and new residential development in the Surfers Paradise, the
Board believes that the Jewel Property joint venture provides an excellent
investment opportunity. The Directors are also of the view that the formation
of the Jewel Property joint venture will offer an opportunity for the Group to
broaden its income sources by expanding into the Australia market. The
Directors consider that the cooperation with Wanda HK is beneficial to the
Company and the Shareholders as a whole as the joint venture could leverage
the expertise and financial resources of both the Company and Wanda HK in
developing the Jewel Property. The Board (other than (a) Mr. Ding Benxi, Mr.
Qi Jie, Mr. Qu Dejun and Mr. Liu Chaohui, who are materially interested in the
joint venture under the Jewel JV Agreement and the Master Australia JV
Agreement and have abstained from voting at the board meeting held to consider
the transactions, and (b) the independent non-executive Directors) considers
the Jewel JV Agreement and the Master Australia JV Agreement to be on normal
commercial terms and is of the view that its terms are fair and reasonable and
that the Companys entry into the Jewel JV Agreement and the Master Australia
JV Agreement is in the interest of the Company and the Shareholders as a
whole. The independent non-executive Directors will express their view on
whether the formation of the joint venture under the Jewel JV Agreement and
the Master Australia JV Agreement is on normal commercial terms, whether the
terms of the Jewel JV Agreement and the Master Australia JV Agreement are fair
and reasonable and whether the Companys entry into the Jewel JV Agreement and
the Master Australia JV Agreement is in the interest of the Company and its
Shareholders as a whole after their consideration of the advice of the
Independent Financial Advisor. LISTING RULES IMPLICATIONS Since Wanda HK is a
controlling shareholder of the Company, it is therefore a connected person of
the Company. The formation of joint ventures pursuant to the Master Australia
JV Agreement and the Jewel JV Agreement would therefore constitute connected
transactions of the Company under the Listing Rules. Since the applicable
percentage ratios as defined in Rule 14A.06 of the Listing Rules in respect of
the joint ventures under the Master Australia JV Agreement (taking into
account
19 the funding requirements of the parties under the Master Australia
JV Agreement) exceed 25% and the capital commitment of the Company exceeds
HK$10,000,000, and the applicable percentage ratios as defined in Rule 14A.06
of the Listing Rules in respect of the joint venture under the Jewel JV
Agreement (taking into account the funding requirements of the parties under
the Jewel JV Agreement) exceed 5% but less than 25%, they both are subject to
reporting and announcement requirements and the approval of Independent
Shareholders under Chapter 14A of the Listing Rules. The formation of joint
ventures under the Master Australia JV Agreement will constitute major
transactions of the Company under Chapter 14 of the Listing Rules whereas the
formation of the joint venture under the Jewel JV Agreement will constitute a
discloseable transaction of the Company under Chapter 14 of the Listing Rules.
As to the joint venture under the Subscription and Shareholders Agreement,
since the applicable percentage ratios as defined in Rule 14.07 of the Listing
Rules exceed 5% but less than 25%, it is a discloseable transaction of the
Company under Chapter 14 of the Listing Rules. In relation to the guarantee

Page9of13©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.for the prompt performance and payment by Wanda Australia Commercial under
the Subscription and Shareholders Agreement provided by DWCP to Li, given it
is provided on normal commercial terms where no security over the assets of
the Group is granted, pursuant to Rule 14A.90 of the Listing Rules, such
financial assistance is exempted from the reporting, announcement and
independent shareholders approval requirements under Chapter 14A of the
Listing Rules. Pursuant to Rule 14.76(1) of the Listing Rules, the grant of
the Options constitutes a possible major transaction of the Company subject to
notification, announcement and shareholders approval requirements under
Chapter 14 of the Listing Rules. Under Rule 14.44 of the Listing Rules,
Shareholders approval for grant of the Options may be obtained by way of
written Shareholders approval in lieu of holding a general meeting if (a) no
Shareholder is required to abstain from voting if the Company were to convene
a general meeting to obtain such Shareholders approval; and (b) written
Shareholder s approval has been obtained from a Shareholder or a closely
allied group of Shareholders who together hold more than 50% in nominal value
of the issued share capital of the Company having the right to attend and vote
at that general meeting to approve such transactions. The Directors confirm
that, to the best of their knowledge, information and belief after having made
all reasonable enquiries, Li are independent third parties and not connected
with the Company or its connected persons and therefore no Shareholder

20

11 Aug 2014 18:10 ET HK Bourse: Announcement From Hengli Commercial Properties (Group) Ltd. -11-

would be required to abstain from voting on the resolution approving the
grant of the Options were the Company to convene a general meeting for that.
Therefore, the Company proposes, under Rule 14.44, to make use of a written
Shareholders approval in respect of the grant of the Options. As at the date
of this announcement, Wanda Overseas, the controlling shareholder of the
Company holds 4,697,346,488 Shares, representing approximately 65.04% of the
issued share capital of the Company. It is proposed that Wanda Overseas will
issue a written certificate to the Company to approve the grant of the
Options. POTENTIAL PROJECTS In addition to the
Jewel Property, the Company and Wanda HK are considering other potential
property development. Such development projects may or may not proceed and may
or may be included under the Master Australia JV Agreement. In considering
whether Wanda Australia and its subsidiaries will undertake a project, the
Company will take into account constraints such as completion timetable and
confidentiality requirements. DESPATCH OF CIRCULAR The SGM will be held for
the purpose of considering and, if thought fit, approving the Master Australia
JV Agreement and the Jewel JV Agreement and the transactions contemplated
thereunder. Wanda Overseas and its associates are required to abstain from
voting on the resolutions at the SGM. As additional time is required to
prepare and finalise certain information to be included in the circular, the
circular containing, inter alia, (a) further information on the Master
Australia JV Agreement and the Jewel JV Agreement and the transactions
contemplated thereunder, and the grant of the Options; (b) a letter of advice
containing the recommendations from the Independent Board Committee to the
Independent Shareholders in relation to the Master Australia JV Agreement and
the Jewel JV Agreement; (c) a letter of advice from the Independent Financial
Advisors to the Independent Board Committee and the Independent Shareholders
in relation to the Master Australia JV Agreement and the Jewel JV Agreement;
(d) a valuation report in respect of the Jewel Property; and (e) a notice
convening the SGM, will be despatched to the Shareholders on or before 31
October 2014. An Independent Board Committee comprising all the independent
non-executive Directors, namely Mr. Liu Jipeng and Mr. Xue Yunkui, has been
established to advise the Independent Shareholders as to whether the terms of
the Master Australia JV Agreement and the Jewel JV Agreement are fair and
reasonable and in the interests of the Company and the Shareholders as a whole
and to advise the Independent
account the recommendations of the Independent Financial Advisors. None of the

21 Shareholders on how to vote, taking into

Page10of13©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.members of the Independent Board Committee has a material interest in the
transactions contemplated under the Master Australia JV Agreement and the
Jewel JV Agreement. An Independent Financial Advisor will be appointed by the
Company to advise the Independent Board Committee and the Independent
Shareholders in respect of the Master Australia JV Agreement and the Jewel JV
Agreement. INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY The Company is incorporated in
Bermuda with limited liability and is listed on the Stock Exchange. It is an
investment holding company whose subsidiaries are principally engaged in
property development, property leasing, property management and investment
holding activities. INFORMATION ABOUT DWCP AND WANDA HK Wanda HK is an
investment holding company incorporated in Hong Kong with limited liability
and is wholly-owned by DWCP. DWCP is a company established in the PRC engaged
in property development, property letting, property management and investment
holding activities. As at the date of this announcement, Wanda Overseas, a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Wanda HK, holds approximately 65.04% of the issued
Share capital of the Company. DEFINITIONS In this announcement, the following
terms have the meanings set out below, unless the context requires otherwise:
associate(s)
Rules Board
an option for a party to purchase the other partys shares in Jewel Project
Co subject to the terms in the Subscription and Shareholders Agreement Company
Wanda Commercial Properties (Group) Co., Limited ( ), a
company incorporated in Bermuda with limited liability, and the Shares of
which are listed on the main board of the Stock Exchange

has the meaning ascribed to it under the Listing

the board of Directors Call Option

22

11 Aug 2014 18:10 ET HK Bourse: Announcement From Hengli Commercial Properties (Group) Ltd. -12-

(Dalian

Wanda Commercial

Put Option and Call Option PRC

the Company and its subsidiaries

comprising all the independent non-executive Directors, namely

has the meaning ascribed thereto in the Listing Rules
has the meaning ascribed thereto in the Listing Rules

the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the PRC
the independent board committee of the Board Committee

connected person(s)
controlling
Shareholder Directors
the directors of the Company DWCP
Properties Co., Ltd.*), a company established in the PRC with limited
a licensed corporation to carry out Type 6
liability Independent Financial
corporate finance) regulated activities
(advising on Adviser
under the Securities and Futures Ordinance (Chapter 571 of the Laws of Hong
Kong) and to be appointed as the independent financial adviser to the
Independent Board Committee and the Independent Shareholders in respect of the
Master Australia JV Agreement and the
Jewel JV Agreement Group
Hong Kong
Independent Board
Mr. Liu Jipeng and Mr. Xue Yunkui, established to advise the Independent
Shareholders in respect of the Jewel JV Agreement and the Master Australia JV
Agreement Independent
all Shareholders other than Wanda Overseas
and its Shareholders
the agreement
dated 11 August 2014 entered into between the Company and Wanda HK in relation
to the development of the Jewel Property
Pty Ltd CAN 138 279 759, an Australian limited
(Gold Coast) Development
Australia Commercial and 45% by Li
for holding and development of
the Jewel Property Jewel Property
Burleigh Road, Surfers Paradise, Queensland, Australia Land Mortgagee
FCCD (Australia) Nominee Pty Ltd CAN 134 182 657 Li
Li and Ms. Fengliu Wu Listing Rules
Securities on the Stock Exchange Master Australia JV
August 2014 entered into Agreement
HK in relation to the joint venture through Wanda Australia Options
China which, for the purpose of this announcement, excludes Hong Kong, Taiwan
and the Macau Special Administrative Region of the PRC Project Level JV

Mr. Riyu
the Rules Governing the Listing of
the agreement dated 11

liability company directly owned as to 55% by

23 Jewel Project Co

Ridong

between the Company and Wanda

the Peoples Republic of

associates Jewel JV Agreement

Wanda

the property located at 38-44 Old

Page11of13©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.the joint venture agreement to be entered into between Agreement

the Company and Wanda HK when a new SP Entity is established on terms
similar to the Jewel JV Agreement Put Option
to sell to the other party the first partys shares in Jewel Project Co
subject to the terms of the Subscription and Shareholders Agreement Real
Property
the acquisition and development of real properties Projects
SGM
a special general meeting of the Company to be convened
for the purpose of approving the Jewel JV Agreement and the Master Australia
JV Agreement

an option for a party

24

11 Aug 2014 18:10 ET HK Bourse: Announcement From Hengli Commercial Properties (Group) Ltd. -13-

any

holders of the Shares SP Entity

ordinary share(s) of HK$0.10 each in the share capital of
Share(s)
the Company Shareholder(s)
special purpose entity which is formed by Wanda Australia for the purpose of
holding, acquiring and developing the Real Property Projects and shall include
the
Jewel Project Co in relation to the Jewel Property Stock Exchange
The Stock
the subscription for 550,000
Exchange of Hong Kong Limited Subscription
new shares in Jewel Project Co by Wanda Australia Commercial pursuant to the
Subscription and Shareholders Agreement Subscription and
the subscription
and shareholders agreement dated 11 Shareholders
between Li, DWCP, Wanda Agreement
Project Co Wanda Australia
Limited , a company with limited liability established under the laws of Hong
Kong, in which the Company and Wanda HK respectively hold 60% and 40% interest
Wanda Australia
Commercial
established in Australia Wanda HK
Kong) Co. Limited, a company incorporated in Hong Kong with limited liability,
a controlling Shareholder of the Company Wanda Overseas
Properties Overseas Limited, a company incorporated in the British Virgin
Australian dollars, the
Islands with limited liability A$
lawful currency of Australia from time to time
25 HK$

Wanda Commercial Properties (Hong
Wanda Commercial

Australia Commercial and Jewel
Wanda Australia Real Estate Investment Co.,

Wanda Australia Commercial Properties Co., Ltd, a

direct wholly owned subsidiary of Wanda Australia and

August 2014 entered into

Hong Kong dollars, the lawful currency of Hong Kong from time to time %

per cent.
Source: Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing
(END) Dow Jones Newswires

August 11, 2014 18:10 ET (22:10 GMT)

IN

NS

RE

i5010022 : Residential Building Construction | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | i8500031 : Residential
Property Dealing/Owning | ireest : Real Estate | i501 : Building Construction | iconst : Construction | icre :
Real Estate/Construction | irreal : Residential Real Estate
ereal : Real Estate Markets | c152 : Earnings Projections | c18 : Ownership Changes | c184 : Joint
Ventures | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | c15 : Performance |
cactio : Corporate Actions | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
hkong : Hong Kong | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz :
Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern
Asia

PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN Document DJDN000020140811ea8b003pv

Search Summary

All of these words

surfers paradise

Page12of13©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.At least one of these
words
None of these words
This exact phrase
Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

Jewel
01/01/2014 to 31/12/2015
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
229
26 September 2017 22:27

Page13of13©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.