SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PrimeSpace
Chinese $900m to polish Gold Coast’s Jewel project

ROSANNE BARRETT, DEVELOPMENT
590 words
2 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
26
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

The Wanda Group is entering the market for the first time

CHINESE hotel and development giant the Wanda Group will underwrite construction of the $900
million triple-tower Jewel project on the Gold Coast in its first foray into the Australian development
market.

The Chinese-backed international group has announced it met the requirements of the Foreign
Investment Review Board to invest in the gleaming Surfers Paradise luxury hotel and apartment
proposal.

In a release to the Hong Kong Stock Exchange this week, Wanda Commercial Properties said the
Jewel project would go to market early next year with an expected completion date of 2018, the year
the Gold Coast will host the Commonwealth Games.
“The board believes that given the unique location of the Jewel property and its unobstructed
waterfront views along Surfers Paradise of the Gold Coast, the company is confident it can maximise
the development value of the Jewel property and generate attractive returns on this investment,” the
circular said.

Wanda is the 55 per cent shareholder in a partnership with Chinese-backed Ridong Group for the
Jewel project, which had stalled after being launched to fanfare in 2011.
The Australian revealed that Wanda had been in discussions to buy into Jewel in July and held
meetings with Trade Minister Andrew Robb, Queensland Premier Campbell Newman and Gold Coast
Mayor Tom Tate.
Jewel is set to feature three towers — the premium, luxury and classic — housing a Wanda-branded
five-star 188-room hotel, cinemas, karaoke and 470 apartments within the oceanfront site.

Wanda, China’s biggest developer, will be responsible for any additional project funding over the
$290m stake from its Hong Kong-listed arm, Wanda Commercial Properties.

“Having regard to preliminary discussions with banks and the estimated construction costs, the
company and Wanda HK have considered the total capital commitment of Wanda Australia
Commercial can be reasonably set at $290m”, the circular said.

“In the event the capital commitment falls short of the actual funding requirements, Wanda HK will
provide the necessary funding for Jewel Project Co, which will not be subject to any cap amount.” The
joint venture requires shareholder approval by November 30. The company said it expected 60 per

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.cent of the project’s total cost, or $540m, would be funded by bank loans and 40 per cent ($360m)
would come from shareholders of the joint venture Jewel Project Co.

Modified planning approvals are expected to be finalised by the end of this year ahead of construction
and pre-sales starting in the first quarter of 2015.

Wanda Commercial Properties also reasserted its commitment to provide $HK12.5bn ($1.85bn) to fund
further real estate projects in Australia through its Master Australia joint venture with Wanda HK.

“The company aims to obtain additional credit facility which may be used for the development of the
Jewel Project and other real property projects in Australia to be taken up by Wanda Australia
Commercial, if any, by the end of 2014,” it said.

“The aggregate capital commitment of $HK12,500m is determined with reference to, among other
things, the current real property market in Australia and the expected acquisition and development
costs for suitable real property projects.” The Dalian Wanda Group has a string of shopping centres,
five-star hotels, department stores and karaoke centres across China.In the past year it has embarked
on an international drive, buying British Sunseeker yachts and American AMC cinemas, and investing
in property in London and Spain.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

c184 : Joint Ventures | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | hkong : Hong Kong | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141001eaa200027

Search Summary

All of these words
At least one of these
words
None of these words
This exact phrase
Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

surfers paradise

Jewel
01/01/2014 to 31/12/2015
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
229
26 September 2017 22:27

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.