8/24/2017

Factiva

Chanticleer
Santos deals with debt monkey
TONY BOYD
1453 words
10 November 2015
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
48
English
Copyright 2015. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.
Santos shareholders have paid a heavy price to get the debt monkey off the  company 's back.

The  company 's earnings will now be spread over 1.6  billion  shares instead of one  billion . That is an extraordinary
dilution of existing  equity  interests to cover the mistakes of the past.

But directors of the  company  led by executive chairman Peter Coates took the view that it was fair to shareholders to
raise $3  billion  in  equity  to slash the  company 's $8.8  billion  debt pile rather than sell off a similar amount of
assets.

One relatively small asset has been sold, a 35 per cent interest in the Kipper Field for $500  million . That asset pales
into insignificance when compared with the value of other assets that might have been sold, particularly the 13.5 per
cent interest in the PNG LNG...

The  company  raised another $500  million  with the  sale  of 7 per cent  stake  in the  company  to little-known
Chinese  private  equity  group Hony. It will participate in the rights issue and therefore has a "blended" entry price of
$5.91 a share.

...

Experts in the debt capital markets reckon the  company  took the easy option when it turned to investment banks,
UBS , Deutsche and Citi, for an underwritten rights issue of $2.5  billion .

At least one respected source said that the  company  could have filled the $700  million  short-term hole in its
cashflows with a debt issue. That would have avoided the need to issue new  equity  and dilute  equity  holders.

But this strategy carried considerable risks given the possibility that the  oil  price could fall further. Trying to use more
debt to squeeze through until next year when more cash starts flowing from the GLNG project in Gladstone was
obviously viewed...

Risk aversion around the Santos board table is understandable given the  company  had a dearth of it when the  oil
price started to fall last year.

...commodity. The combination of an explosion in production of unconventional gas in the United States and OPEC 's
unwillingness to be the swing producer led to a halving of the  oil  price.

Santos now includes plenty of  oil  price sensitivity analysis in its presentations to the market. In fact, it warned on
Monday that a $US5 fall in the  oil  price would mean non-cash impairments at Santos of about $1.2  billion  before
tax.

... alternative to the capital raising strategy was to sell a portion of the crown jewels, which is the PNG LNG project. A
look though of the Woodside bid for  Oil  Search says this was worth at least $6.5  billion .

...

https://global.factiva.com/hp/printsavews.aspx?pp=Print&hc=All

1/3

8/24/2017

Factiva

There is talk in the market that Santos had a $4.5  billion  non-binding offer for a chunk of its PNG LNG  stake  from a
large Japanese group.

The  sale  of that asset would have avoided a rights issue and placement to Hony. But would shareholders have been
better or worse off?

While the  sale  of a big chunk of PNG LNG would have limited the growth options it would still have left a  company
with about $2  billion  in earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.

Applying a 4.5 times earnings multiple suggests an enterprise value of $9  billion  to $10  billion  on 1  billion  in
shares. That looks a lot better than the same amount of earnings on an enterprise value of $14  billion  with 1.6
billion  shares on issue.

The truly conservative would argue that the  company  still has too much debt even after the capital raising,
placement and Kipper  sale .

...

Investors coming into stock now are probably coming in at or near the bottom of the  oil  price commodity cycle.
Industry players have forecasts for the  oil  price of up to $US90 a barrel over the next three years while the more
bearish investment banks are tipping up to $US75 a barrel.

... the first simple corporate bond to be listed on the ASX is a landmark transaction because it brings alternative fixed
income products into the reach of retail investors. Simple corporate  bonds , which were made possible as a result of
legislation passed last year, can be issued with reference to previously disclosed material. A single prospectus can be
used for up to three years. Also, the legislation removed the deemed civil liability that applies to  company  directors
and clarified the reasonable steps required to satisfy the due diligence in respect of directors' criminal liability.

Simple corporate  bonds  were one of the many recommendations put forward in Mark Johnson 's report on Australia
as a financial centre.

Australian Unity aimed to raise a minimum amount of $200  million . Thanks to oversubscriptions it raised $225
million . The deal was done at 280 basis points over the bank bill swap rate.

It is not surprising that National Australia Bank was the joint arranger and book runner for the unsubordinated and
unsecured  bonds .

...

Australian Unity plans to use about $114  million  of the funds raised in the bond issue to pay the NSW government
for Home Care Service of NSW.

...

... capital of about 17.8 per cent. KPMG argues that this is holding back the productive capacity of the sector. The
mutuals sector has total capital of $7.6  billion . If it were to operate with a capital adequacy ratio of 13.5 per cent it
could lend an extra $25  billion  in home loans.

...

Those with a glass half full approach to life will look favourably on the back door listing of Israeli waste water
processing  company  Emefcy Ltd.

The Israeli  company , which will be backed into the former Perth based industrial services  company  Savcor Group ,
is seeking to raise between $13  million  and $16  million .

Emefcy's chief executive Eytan Levy last week provided a first hand demonstration of the  company 's technology to a
trade mission led by assistant innovation minister Wyatt Roy and Gen Y entrepreneur Marita Cheng. The  company
has two patent protected technologies. The first and most promising is a spiral aerobic biofilm reactor (SABRE) which
has half the operating costs of other plants and reduces the  energy  costs in converting waste water by 90 per cent.

...

Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited

https://global.factiva.com/hp/printsavews.aspx?pp=Print&hc=All

2/3

8/24/2017

Document AFNR000020151109ebba0000c

Factiva

Search Summary
Text

((chin* or hong kong)) and ( ( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment or
park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or entitys) and (transaction* or purchase* or sale or
sold or buy) ) or ( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead or coal or oil)
and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and
(operations or mining or firm or company)) or ( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or
sale or equity or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or board) and (million*
or billion* or B or M)) ) not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street or Forex
or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex) and re=austr
04/11/2015 to 10/11/2015
All Sources
All Authors

Date
Source
Author
Company All Companies
Subject
Industry
Region
Language English
Results
Found
Timestamp 24 August 2017 14:06

All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions

243

© 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

 

https://global.factiva.com/hp/printsavews.aspx?pp=Print&hc=All

3/3

