8/24/2017

Factiva

NewsChinese rescue Santos

Simon Evans, Angela Macdonald- Smith, Sarah Thompson and Anthony Macdonald
1142 words
10 November 2015
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
1
English
Copyright 2015. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.
$3.5  billion  capital raising ends debt crisis - Capital expands 70pc - Experienced new CEO

Santos has been accused of trying to make itself takeover-proof again by effectively selling a blocking  stake  to a
Chinese  private  equity firm  seven years after the South Australian group ditched a 15 per cent shareholder cap.

In a move designed to reduce the pressure from $9  billion  of debt, the  oil  and gas producer will raise $2.5  billion
from existing shareholders, sell a 35 per cent  stake  in a gas field off Victoria for $520  million  and has agreed to sell
$500  million  in shares to  Chinese  private  equity firm  Hony Capital .

Santos executive chairman Peter Coates said the debt problem that hit the  company  when  energy  prices tumbled
had been fixed and the group is now in a position "not just to survive, but to thrive".

...

He appointed a new chief executive, Kevin Gallagher , who has led engineering  firm  Clough since 2011 and was
once considered a candidate to become CEO of Woodside Petroleum, where he worked for 13 years. Mr Gallagher
will move to Santos from early...

The  company  has been under attack from short sellers and hedge funds as it buckled under $8.8  billion  of debt,
which was raised in part to build a giant LNG processing plant in Queensland to supply gas to Asia.

In an ominous move, Santos flagged write-downs of as much as $3.4  billion  on its assets, including the flagship
Gladstone LNG project in Queensland, which has just been finished at a cost of $US18.5  billion  ($26  billion ) and
shipped its first LNG a few weeks ago. There may also be write-downs on its Cooper Basin gas fields in the north of
South Australia and  coal  seam gas assets in NSW's Gunnedah Basin.

...managers are conducting a detailed review of those assets in line with the global slump in values and will finalise
the actual impairment values in the next few weeks. The  company 's 158,000 shareholders, in a  company  where
retail holders make up 45 per cent of the register, will suffer further pain because the board has signalled lower
dividend payout ratios generally, of a minimum of...

This compares with a final dividend of 15¢ in the second half of 2014. The  company 's issued capital will expand by
about 70 per cent because of the share sales, placing pressure on investment returns.

Hony has powerful backers including  China 's state-owned Legend Holdings and Singapore sovereign wealth fund
Temasek and made its first big international investment in mid-2014 by buying restaurant chain Pizza Express for
£900  million  ($1.9  billion ) in the UK. It will invest $700  million  into Santos because it will also take up its share of
the rights issue. The average price across its investment is $5.71 a share. It has signed... ...to lift its total holding in
Santos above 9.9 per cent for three months. From then on it can move above 10 per cent, potentially giving it a
blocking  stake .

Hony owned 1.4 per cent of Santos prior to the placement and rights issue. It was an underbidder in the  sale  process
for Melbourne-based vitamins group Swisse, which was bought by  Hong Kong 's Biostime International in mid-
September for a whopping $1.67  billion .

https://global.factiva.com/hp/printsavews.aspx?pp=Print&hc=All

1/2

8/24/2017

Factiva

... rejected it and on Monday; Scepter was accused of bargain-hunting by Santos management. Scepter declined to
comment but sources close to the Middle Eastern group said the share  sale  to Hony was designed to prevent
Scepter or anyone else from taking the  company  over.

... 2008 to have a 15 shareholder cap removed which had been put in place in 1979 by the South Australian
Government to stop corporate raider Alan Bond from taking the  company  over, and getting control of vital  oil  and
gas assets.

Mr Coates rejected the notion that the Hony  stake  would prevent offers. "Suggestion that Hony's investment is a
blocking  stake  is just not correct," he said. He noted that Scepter's proposal needed 75 per cent of shareholders to
support it.

Bernstein analyst Neil Beveridge said the capital raising would be enough to restore balance sheet strength "but it
appears more about achieving  company  continuity and independence than maximising shareholder value".

Mr Coates, says given the  company 's circumstances, it was a smart move for Santos to go outside the  company
for its next chief executive. "A fresh set of eyes was the right approach," he said.

...

... halt on Monday morning. Chief financial officer Andrew Seaton , who six months ago was adamant a capital raising
was not required, says net debt would drop to $6.2  billion , after factoring in the drop in value of the dollar against its
US counterpart, with 90 per cent of the  company 's debt US-dollar denominated.

The $2.5  billion  fully underwritten accelerated, pro-rata, renounceable entitlement offer was first reported by The
Australian Financial Review's Street Talk column. The 1-for-1.7 entitlement offer is... ...and the offer is at a 34.9 per
cent discount to the last closing price. Santos shares were at $15.51 on September 4, 2014. The $500  million sale
to Hony Capital is at a 15 per cent premium to Santos' closing price on Friday of $5.91. Hony is taking up 73.53
million  new shares at a price of $6.80 each.

Mr Coates said there will be no further asset sales. Mr Coates says a whole-of- company  review started in August,
which coincided with the departure of David Knox after seven years as chief executive, tested the appetite of buyers.
It changed the  company 's thinking.

Deutsche Bank and Lazard were brought in to advise on the best options for the  company  in August when Mr
Coates became executive chairman as Mr Knox was elbowed aside.

Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited

Document AFNR000020151109ebba0000d

Search Summary
Text

((chin* or hong kong)) and ( ( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment or
park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or entitys) and (transaction* or purchase* or sale or
sold or buy) ) or ( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead or coal or oil)
and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and
(operations or mining or firm or company)) or ( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or
sale or equity or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or board) and (million*
or billion* or B or M)) ) not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street or Forex
or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex) and re=austr
04/11/2015 to 10/11/2015
All Sources
All Authors

Date
Source
Author
Company All Companies
Subject
Industry
Region
Language English
Results
Found
Timestamp 24 August 2017 14:06

All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions

243

https://global.factiva.com/hp/printsavews.aspx?pp=Print&hc=All

2/2

© 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

 

