8/24/2017

Factiva

Companies and Markets
Santos saved - but from what?
Matthew Stevens
1397 words
10 November 2015
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
34
English
Copyright 2015. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Project Solo has certainly delivered on what was implicitly its primary mission. With its balance sheet buttressed
and a new  Chinese  investor delivered to takeover-frustrating relevance, Santos has done as much as humanly
possible to sustain its place as South Australia's independent  oil  and gas  company .

Chairman Peter Coates says that the three-step recapitalisation designed by a strategic review called Project Solo
means Santos is ready to thrive, not just survive. Given his standing as one of the great warhorses of Australian
commerce, let's hope he is right.

... accurately anticipated package Coates delivered on Monday morning will earn as many brickbats as bouquets,
not least because the cornerstone of the balance sheet recapitalisation is a $2.5  billion  rights issue.

From the moment the  oil  price collapsed rapidly from August last year, Santos has been under pressure to
entertain a rights issue to deal with the potential that it would reach peak debt of $9  billion  just as  oil  prices
tanked.

...

Remarkably, given the $3.5  billion  worth of initiatives confirmed on Monday, much of that messaging still holds.
Santos has been rescued, but it was never actually in trouble. This was all about market optics and the
company 's need to break a cycle of negativity that had made shorting its share price such a profitable game.

Nonetheless, the incongruity of Seaton's position is stark. It is hard to see how his position at the  company  can
be sustainable.

.... Only this time around the detail was all aimed at illuminating the good sense of a deeply discounted right issues
whose look-through valuation was informed by a $700  million  placement of 7 per cent of Santos to a  Chinese
private  equity  in the form of Hony Capital .

...has been solved by a rights issue that you once said was unnecessary and dilutive? And, for good measure, the
deal involves construction of a near 10 per cent  stake  in the  company  to Hony, at a discount to last week's
closing share price and at an even bigger discount to the metrics of the $7.1  billion  indicative, non-binding,
conditional approach made two weeks ago by Scepter Partners.

...investor that will trade in and out of Santos over time as the share price is rebased by the cash flows from the
South Australian's share of the $US20  billion  ($28  billion ), two train LNG project in Gladstone.

So, sure, Hony will be left at 8.4 per cent of Santos as a result the opening $500  million  placement. And sure, the
investment agreement leaves Hony free to push beyond a 9.9 per cent shareholding cap after three months, and
leaves it locked in at... ...a year unless Santos agrees to let them sell. And sure, Santos has a register that is 64
per cent owned by retail shareholders, which means only that a  stake  of 10 per cent or more becomes a pretty
powerful weapon when it comes to hitting the 75 per cent support level needed for the approval of the sort of...

But, no, no, no, this is not a blocking  stake  or anything like it. Bollocks.

https://global.factiva.com/hp/printsavews.aspx?pp=Print&hc=All

1/5

8/24/2017
...

Factiva

Coates, Seaton and everyone else from Santos who briefed on Project Solo and its conclusions on Monday,
reckon that this a new dawn for the  company . They might be right. But that dawn is going to be clouded by the
introduction of a new dividend policy and by the very real potential of a new round of very big non-cash
impairments because of the change outlook for  oil  prices.

... progressive dividend policy. It will instead attempt to distribute no less than 40 per cent of after-tax profit. This is
a very reasonable shift given the outlook for  oil  prices is lower for much, much longer than could have been
imagined before OPEC bit back at US share producers.

The change price deck for  oil  will shape how big the next round of impairments will be. Like many in the industry,
Santos had banked on  oil  prices running at above $US90 over the long haul. The forward curve says this is
unrealistic. According to the data released on Monday, a $US15 a barrel down shift in the long-term pricing
assumptions made by Santos would generate a pre-tax impairment of $3.5  billion .

...

The second point to make here is that Santos rejected a whole lot of asset  sale  options because the offers
received were based around an  oil  price of $US60 or less. Apparently that made them easy to reject because
they did not reflect anything like the long-term value that the Project Solo team had...

...

Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited

Document AFNR000020151109ebba0000x

https://global.factiva.com/hp/printsavews.aspx?pp=Print&hc=All

2/5

8/24/2017

Factiva

Features - Rear Window
Santos '15pc premium' fails to stack up
Joe Aston
302 words
10 November 2015
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
48
English
Copyright 2015. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Well didn't the board of Santos plate up a double-decker excrement sandwich for investors on Monday morning?!

As part of a suite of capital management initiatives (total = $3.5  billion ) aimed at shoring up the  oil  and gas
major's debt-laden balance sheet, the  company  has gone for a "private placement at a 15 per cent premium to
last close (of $5.91)" to  Chinese  private  equity firm  Hony Capital .

...

Because Hony then gets to participate in the concurrent  equity  raising, priced at $3.85 (a whopping 35 per cent
discount to $5.91) - indeed Hony has "provided binding commitments to take up its full pro-rata entitlement under
the Entitlement Offer", which means another 43.5  million  shares.

So Hony is actually getting a total of 117  million  shares for $665  million  - at an average price of $5.71 - even
though the Santos board is already sitting on an indicative offer from consortium Scepter of $6.88 per share...

...more, given Hony has "agreed not to divest to any unrelated party any of its shares in Santos acquired" through
this deal, the board has given away a blocking  stake  at a discount to the  company 's trading price and at a hefty
discount to an existing offer from another shareholder.

Does that sound to you like a 15 per cent premium? It's amazing the shareholder value a  company  will surrender
to shore up the balance sheet. Especially given they could've shored up the balance sheet at more like $10 to $14
this time last year....

Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited

Document AFNR000020151109ebba00027

https://global.factiva.com/hp/printsavews.aspx?pp=Print&hc=All

3/5

8/24/2017

Factiva

NewsChinese rescue Santos

Simon Evans, Angela Macdonald- Smith, Sarah Thompson and Anthony Macdonald
1142 words
10 November 2015
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
1
English
Copyright 2015. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.
$3.5  billion  capital raising ends debt crisis - Capital expands 70pc - Experienced new CEO

Santos has been accused of trying to make itself takeover-proof again by effectively selling a blocking  stake  to a
Chinese  private  equity firm  seven years after the South Australian group ditched a 15 per cent shareholder cap.

In a move designed to reduce the pressure from $9  billion  of debt, the  oil  and gas producer will raise $2.5  billion
from existing shareholders, sell a 35 per cent  stake  in a gas field off Victoria for $520  million  and has agreed to sell
$500  million  in shares to  Chinese  private  equity firm  Hony Capital .

Santos executive chairman Peter Coates said the debt problem that hit the  company  when  energy  prices tumbled
had been fixed and the group is now in a position "not just to survive, but to thrive".

...

He appointed a new chief executive, Kevin Gallagher , who has led engineering  firm  Clough since 2011 and was
once considered a candidate to become CEO of Woodside Petroleum, where he worked for 13 years. Mr Gallagher
will move to Santos from early...

The  company  has been under attack from short sellers and hedge funds as it buckled under $8.8  billion  of debt,
which was raised in part to build a giant LNG processing plant in Queensland to supply gas to Asia.

In an ominous move, Santos flagged write-downs of as much as $3.4  billion  on its assets, including the flagship
Gladstone LNG project in Queensland, which has just been finished at a cost of $US18.5  billion  ($26  billion ) and
shipped its first LNG a few weeks ago. There may also be write-downs on its Cooper Basin gas fields in the north of
South Australia and  coal  seam gas assets in NSW's Gunnedah Basin.

...managers are conducting a detailed review of those assets in line with the global slump in values and will finalise
the actual impairment values in the next few weeks. The  company 's 158,000 shareholders, in a  company  where
retail holders make up 45 per cent of the register, will suffer further pain because the board has signalled lower
dividend payout ratios generally, of a minimum of...

This compares with a final dividend of 15¢ in the second half of 2014. The  company 's issued capital will expand by
about 70 per cent because of the share sales, placing pressure on investment returns.

Hony has powerful backers including  China 's state-owned Legend Holdings and Singapore sovereign wealth fund
Temasek and made its first big international investment in mid-2014 by buying restaurant chain Pizza Express for
£900  million  ($1.9  billion ) in the UK. It will invest $700  million  into Santos because it will also take up its share of
the rights issue. The average price across its investment is $5.71 a share. It has signed... ...to lift its total holding in
Santos above 9.9 per cent for three months. From then on it can move above 10 per cent, potentially giving it a
blocking  stake .

Hony owned 1.4 per cent of Santos prior to the placement and rights issue. It was an underbidder in the  sale  process
for Melbourne-based vitamins group Swisse, which was bought by  Hong Kong 's Biostime International in mid-
September for a whopping $1.67  billion .

... rejected it and on Monday; Scepter was accused of bargain-hunting by Santos management. Scepter declined to
comment but sources close to the Middle Eastern group said the share  sale  to Hony was designed to prevent

https://global.factiva.com/hp/printsavews.aspx?pp=Print&hc=All

4/5

8/24/2017

Factiva

Scepter or anyone else from taking the  company  over.

... 2008 to have a 15 shareholder cap removed which had been put in place in 1979 by the South Australian
Government to stop corporate raider Alan Bond from taking the  company  over, and getting control of vital  oil  and
gas assets.

Mr Coates rejected the notion that the Hony  stake  would prevent offers. "Suggestion that Hony's investment is a
blocking  stake  is just not correct," he said. He noted that Scepter's proposal needed 75 per cent of shareholders to
support it.

Bernstein analyst Neil Beveridge said the capital raising would be enough to restore balance sheet strength "but it
appears more about achieving  company  continuity and independence than maximising shareholder value".

Mr Coates, says given the  company 's circumstances, it was a smart move for Santos to go outside the  company
for its next chief executive. "A fresh set of eyes was the right approach," he said.

...

... halt on Monday morning. Chief financial officer Andrew Seaton , who six months ago was adamant a capital raising
was not required, says net debt would drop to $6.2  billion , after factoring in the drop in value of the dollar against its
US counterpart, with 90 per cent of the  company 's debt US-dollar denominated.

The $2.5  billion  fully underwritten accelerated, pro-rata, renounceable entitlement offer was first reported by The
Australian Financial Review's Street Talk column. The 1-for-1.7 entitlement offer is... ...and the offer is at a 34.9 per
cent discount to the last closing price. Santos shares were at $15.51 on September 4, 2014. The $500  million sale
to Hony Capital is at a 15 per cent premium to Santos' closing price on Friday of $5.91. Hony is taking up 73.53
million  new shares at a price of $6.80 each.

Mr Coates said there will be no further asset sales. Mr Coates says a whole-of- company  review started in August,
which coincided with the departure of David Knox after seven years as chief executive, tested the appetite of buyers.
It changed the  company 's thinking.

Deutsche Bank and Lazard were brought in to advise on the best options for the  company  in August when Mr
Coates became executive chairman as Mr Knox was elbowed aside.

Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited

Document AFNR000020151109ebba0000d

Search Summary
Text

((chin* or hong kong)) and ( ( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment or
park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or entitys) and (transaction* or purchase* or sale or
sold or buy) ) or ( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead or coal or oil)
and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and
(operations or mining or firm or company)) or ( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or
sale or equity or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or board) and (million*
or billion* or B or M)) ) not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street or Forex
or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex) and re=austr
04/11/2015 to 10/11/2015
All Sources
All Authors

Date
Source
Author
Company All Companies
Subject
Industry
Region
Language English
Results
Found
Timestamp 24 August 2017 14:06

All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions

243

https://global.factiva.com/hp/printsavews.aspx?pp=Print&hc=All

5/5

© 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

 

