Front Page
Bale out
JACINTA ROSE
273 words
4 June 2015
Stock Journal
FSTOCJ
1
English
Copyright 2015 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.
and ALISHA FOGDEN
BALAKLAVA hay exporter Balco Australia has become the latest local company to welcome foreign
investment, entering a joint venture with Chinese feed importer Shanghai Yanhua Hi-Tech in an effort to
expand its market opportunities.
The company has been Balco's major customer in China for the past seven years. When Stock Journal
broke the story late last week, Balco chief executive officer Rob Lawson said the venture would not involve
the establishment of a new entity, instead Shanghai Yanhua Hi-Tech would become a partner in the existing
company.
He also said the move "was something we needed to do" to allow Balco to grow in China, as the world's most
populous nation expanded its dairy herd.

"Balco, in conjunction with Shanghai Yanhua Hi-Tech, is the major market shareholder out of Australia into
China," he said.

...
Media reports have put the stake at $12 million a figure Mr Lawson would not confirm.

...

Document FSTOCJ0020150603eb640001u

Search Summary

Text

Date

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (project) and (casino resort or island or
hotel or apartment or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company
or board or assets) and (transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron
or lead or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or
stake or equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or
firm or company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or
equity or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group
or firm or board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall
Street or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
03/06/2015 to 09/06/2015

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
99
1 August 2017 0:21

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.