PrimeSpace
Dahua grabs another major development
SAMANTHA HUTCHINSON, ACQUISITIONS
279 words
16 July 2015
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
26
English
© 2015 News Limited. All rights reserved.
EXCLUSIVE Chinese developer Dahua has made a major play in Australia’s property market, amassing a
five-site portfolio and striking up partnerships with the likes of Woolworths and Dacland in the past two years.
The Shanghai-based group, which is among the 50 biggest developers in China, has operated more quietly
than many of its mainland rivals in building up residential holdings across prime sites in Melbourne and
Sydney.
The Australian understands that Dahua has now added Sydney’s landmark Central Workshops site in
Waterloo to its portfolio.
The site was bought from Sydney Water after being offered by Stonebridge for about $80 million.
The latest purchase adds another 450 unit sites to a total land bank comprising 1269 residential lots and
570 apartments, with some to be developed in conjunction with Woolworths and the John Dwyer-headed
residential developer Dacland. Established in China in 1988 and headed by Forbes-listed tycoon Jin
Huiming, Dahua grabbed widespread attention earlier this year with a $3 billion plan to transform Sydney’s
Fish Markets into...
While it is reported to be a weighing an exit from that project, the Chinese developer’s growth hints at its
appetite for Australian property, including long-dated land subdivisions, where mainland groups have less of
a presence. The group has also targeted the luxury projects that have become the domain of Chinese
developers.Dahua’s sites include the Sapphire development in Sydney’s Bondi with 28 luxury townhouses
and a $50m development at 8-12 Garden Street in South Yarra with...

Document AUSTLN0020150715eb7g0002t

Search Summary

Text

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (project) and (casino resort or island or
hotel or apartment or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company
or board or assets) and (transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron
or lead or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or
stake or equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or
firm or company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or
equity or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group
or firm or board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall
Street or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

15/07/2015 to 21/07/2015
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
210
17 August 2017 1:06

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.