SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Charsfield Hotel earns $28m

Su-Lin Tan
231 words
22 June 2015
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
31
English
Copyright 2015. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Renzella Group has sold 478 St Kilda Road, Melbourne, which houses the heritage-listed Hotel
Charsfield, to Beijing-based China's Ever Bright Group for $28 million.
The site, between Fawkner and Albert Park, has a town planning submission to construct a
60-metre residential tower with retail and office spaces in the first two levels. The 4-star Hotel
Charsfield, a mansion that represents early St Kilda Road Victorian architecture, will be maintained
on the site while all other buildings will be demolished.

Architects Rothe Lowman recommended the construction of the new tower, with an incurvation, four
metres behind the mansion. It will include an outdoor barbecue area and will have views of the
Melbourne CBD skyline and Albert Park as well as a rooftop communal gym for residents.
Renzella Group is a property development and management group headed up by Michael
Renzella, who purchased and restored the Hotel Charsfield in 1988. The company owns various
projects in the Melbourne CBD and inner south-east Melbourne.
Ever Bright is based in Melbourne and Beijing. It is developing boutique project Lucia Apartments in
South Yarra with LYZ Property Group, formerly HengMao Real Estate Development, and is
involved in a controversial townhouse and apartment project on the Stonington mansion site in
Malvern.
Neither the Renzella Group nor Every Bright Group was able to comment.

IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020150621eb6m0001n

Search Summary

Page 1 of 2 © 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

Text

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (project) and (casino resort or island or
hotel or apartment or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company
or board or assets) and (transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron
or lead or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or
stake or equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or
firm or company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or
equity or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group
or firm or board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall
Street or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
17/06/2015 to 23/06/2015
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
166
8 August 2017 22:20

Page 2 of 2 © 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

