news
$214M CHINESE BOOST FOR ALTONA MINE
BRAD THOMPSON
526 words
28 June 2015
North West Star
FNWEST
English
Copyright 2015 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.
CHINESE investment has sealed the deal for almost 300 jobs in the North West at one of the largest
undeveloped copper projects in Australia.
Major Chinese construction firm Sichuan Railway Investment Group will contribute US$214 million cash to
transition Altona Mining's Cloncurry Project into production.
Altona Mining Ltd has signed off a binding framework agreement for SRIG to hold a 60 per cent stake and
fund the project to production.
Altona will contribute the Cloncurry Project and pile in US$38 million to hold the remaining 40 per cent for the
joint venture to develop a mine at Little Eva, situated within the Cloncurry Project.

A definitive feasibility study announced by Altona last year for the Little Eva development anticipated the
construction of a 7 million tonne-a-year open-pit mine and flotation plant capable of producing 39,000 tonnes
a year of copper and 17,000 ounces of gold.
Altona Mining managing director Alistair Cowden said:

"Once the project is in production it will sustain about 280 new direct jobs and Altona's 40 per cent interest
will equate to 17,000 tonnes of copper equivalent production.

...
"The contribution to be made by SRIG is based on an agreed value for the project of US$105 million which
clearly exceeds that implied by the company's share price.
"On completion of the transaction, the project will be fully funded to production without recourse to equity or
debt markets. The joint venture will have US$252 million in cash plus the Cloncurry Project which is valued
at US$105 million by the proposed transaction.
Dr Cowden said the company preferred to source local workers for the open-pit mining project.

...
SRIG is based in Chengdu in south-western China and is 100 per cent owned by the Sichuan provincial
government. The group's principal businesses are in the road, bridge and rail construction and management
sectors and had total assets of US$26.8 billion in 2014.
There was speculation that Chinese-owned MMG would acquire Altona's Cloncurry Project to make its
nearby Dugald River project more economically viable because of its existing infrastructure base. The deal
would've likely shored up Dugald River, one of the world's largest and highest-grade known undeveloped
deposits of zinc, lead and silver.

...

Document FNWEST0020150629eb6s00008

Search Summary
Page 1 of 2 © 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

Text

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (project) and (casino resort or island or
hotel or apartment or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company
or board or assets) and (transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron
or lead or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or
stake or equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or
firm or company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or
equity or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group
or firm or board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall
Street or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
24/06/2015 to 30/06/2015
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
161
15 August 2017 0:46

Page 2 of 2 © 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

