SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Conference centre sells for $12m to Chinese

Kathryn Welling
232 words
7 March 2015
Manly Daily
MANLYD
Manly
3
English
© 2015 News Limited. All rights reserved

A PRIVATE Chinese property group has bought the former Westpac conference centre in Ingleside
paying around $12 million for the site.

The purpose-built training centre at 30 Ingleside Rd is just north of the Wilga/Wilson land which
Pittwater Council is considering rezoning for housing.

The expansive 3.5ha property located on the northern end of the suburb was built by Ampol and later
acquired by Westpac Banking Corporation.

There are six conference rooms, 56 resort-style accommodation rooms, restaurant, kitchen and
various recreational facilities including a tennis court and sports fields.

The centre had been on the market for months. The deal was transacted by Raymond Tran and Gus
Moors of Colliers International, who experienced interest from a variety of investors from local
business owners to larger property groups.

Mr Tran said the centre was secluded and peaceful but still within Sydney metropolitan area.

“Inevitably, the attraction towards the high yield and a solid loyal customer base, in a desirable
location was the decision for the acquisition,” Mr Tran said.

“The purchasers remarked on it feeling more like a conference retreat, rather than a training centre,”
said Mr Tran.

The new owners will continue to operate the property as a conference centre and will retain the
existing team.Read our feature on Chinese investors buying northern beaches property p36-37

wstpac : Westpac Banking Corporation Limited
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
c315 : Conferences/Exhibitions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
nswals : New South Wales | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.

CO
IN
NS
RE

PUB

Page 1 of 2 © 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

AN

Document MANLYD0020150306eb370001o

Page 2 of 2 © 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

