Dow Jones

Factiva

Exclusive
Monday, Real Estate edition
Randolf Santos
1167 words
7 June 2015
SNL Financial Extra
SNLFE
English
Copyright 2015. SNL Financial LC

JAPAN

* Mitsui Fudosan Co. Ltd. said its  acquisition  of the BBC's Media Village  site  in White City, London, is the
largest city development in London by a Japanese  company .

The  transaction  marks Mitsui Fudosan's pioneer master-planned renovation  project  in the U.K., as part of its
estimated ¥550  billion  Innovation 2017 midterm business plan from fiscal 2015 to fiscal 2017.

* Meanwhile, Mitsui Fudosan President Masanobu Komoda shared his insights on the recent trend on  property
redevelopment projects in Tokyo's business districts, the Nikkei Asian Review reported, citing Komoda in an
interview with the publication.

Komoda noted that the housing demand in central Tokyo is "holding steady" and that he expects the real  estate
market's conditions to continue at least until the 2020 Olympic Games.

Other topics discussed in the interview include the renovation of old buildings,  commercial  and  residential
real  estate  trends in Japan and the  property acquisition  market.

* Japan  Hotel  REIT Investment Corp. is one of several J-REITs that are ramping up their fundraising efforts
through the issuance of new shares, amid an outlook of improvement in the real  estate  market, the Nikkei Asian
Review reported.

The  company  intends to raise up to ¥12  billion  for the  acquisition  of a  property  in Okinawa Prefecture.

* Real  estate  loans, excluding those granted to individuals, amounted to ¥3.82 trillion during the first quarter of
2015, Bloomberg News reported, citing central bank data.

Although the Bank of Japan's record lending is fueling the resurgence of the real  estate  investment sector, the
bank is paying "careful attention" to the industry's future developments to avoid an overheated market, according
to the news agency, citing a bank...

...

* Novion  Property Group  said June 5 that Federation Centres reached a deal for the  sale  of its 50% interest in
Karingal Hub in Melbourne to co-owner ISPT for A$115  million .

The agreement is in relation to the Australian Competition & Consumer Commission's approval of Novion and
Federation's proposed A$22  billion  merger, subject to the divestment of Federation's 50% interest in Karingal
Hub or Novion's 100% interest in Bayside Shopping Centre, which is also in Melbourne.

* Stockland CEO Mark Steinert advised that A$10  billion  in new investment will go to Sunshine Coast in
Queensland, if locals are open to change and the governments provide planning certainty, The Australian
Financial Review reported, citing...

...

The  company 's A$5  billion  Caloundra South  project  on the coastline makes it the biggest investor and
private real  estate  owner in the area, according to the publication.

* Sunland  Group  Ltd. submitted an application for the development of a A$600  million  Mariner's Cove
residential project  on Queensland's  Gold  Coast, the AFR reported.

The  project  involves the construction of two 44-floor buildings, which feature 370 apartments and a 69-suite
boutique  hotel .

* Shanghai-based Greenland Holdings  Group  reportedly paid an estimated A$170  million  to  purchase  two
sites in Sydney through an off-market  transaction  with Iris Capital, the AFR reported.

The  Chinese company  acquired the former Mercure  Hotel site  in Kings Cross and The Crown  Hotel  in
Parramatta, boosting its pipeline of  apartment  development in Sydney.

Outside of the city, Greenland is also involved in a joint venture for the Queen's Wharf casino  project  in
Brisbane, the report said.

...

* High  property  prices are forcing  residential property  seekers into purchasing and renting investment
properties instead of becoming an owner-occupier, turning the country into a "nation of landlords," the AFR
reported, citing Digital Financial Analytics. The number of investors owning more than five  assets  also rose
35% to 272,000 from 175,000 in the past 12 months.

HONG KONG ,  CHINA  AND TAIWAN

* Swire Properties Ltd.  sold  a luxury unit at its Opus  Hong Kong project  at the Mid-Levels area for around
HK$498  million , The ( Hong Kong ) Standard reported.

The unnamed buyer paid HK$95,971 per sellable square foot for the  property , making it the most expensive
apartment  in Asia, according to the publication.

* MTR Corp. Ltd. awarded the tender for the LOHAS  Park  Package Seven  Property  Development to Wheelock
and Co. Ltd. subsidiary Ventures Smart Ltd.

The awarded tender follows MTR's acceptance of seven bids for the  project . The  company  also said it will
contribute HK$4.98  billion  to maintain its ownership of the shopping mall component of the development.

* Sunac  China  Holdings Ltd. said it recorded a sales amount of 24.28  billion Chinese  yuan as at the end of
May. The value corresponded to around 1,076,000 square meters of  sold  area.

* Lawmakers in Taiwan passed a real  estate  gains tax of around 45% to restrain speculative deals in the
property  market, Bloomberg reported.

...

* BlackRock Real  Estate  is looking to strike a deal worth as much as S$4  billion  for the  sale  of its Asia
Square Tower 1 in the city-state's central business district, The Australian reported.

*  Chinese billionaire  and Alibaba  Group  co-founder Sun Tongyu acquired the penthouse unit at Le Nouvel
Ardmore at Ardmore Road for a "record-breaking" S$51  million , the South  China  Morning Post reported.

* Local homebuyers are expected to ask developers for "harder" bargains as the Urban Redevelopment
Authority is expected to begin the weekly publication of net  property  prices, starting June 12, Bloomberg
reported.

... and other incentives that reveal the actual worth of properties, giving homebuyers more opportunities for

bargaining, according to the news agency, citing Donald Han, managing director at real  estate  broker
Chesterton Singapore Pte.

...

* SM Prime Holdings Inc. President Hans Sy told reporters at an event that the  company  expects to increase its
budget for its SM Seaside development in Cebu, Philippines, to 30  billion  Philippine pesos from 20  billion
pesos, The Philippine Star reported, due to a high demand and interest in the  project .

...

Best of SNL: Real  Estate , editors' picks: Our real  estate  editors' picks for the best stories of the week ending
June 5.

Best of SNL: Real  Estate , most read: The 10 most read real  estate  articles for the week ending June 5.

The Week in Asian Real  Estate : Weekly news through June 5: Analyst actions, cross-border deals and
diversification strategies feature in this week's Asian real  estate  wrap.

The Daily Dose Asia-Pacific, Real  Estate  edition is updated by 6:30 a. m .  Hong Kong  time. Some external
links may require a subscription. Articles and links are correct as of publication time.

SNL Financial LC

Document SNLFE00020150731eb6700ac6

Search Summary
Text

((chin* or hong kong)) and ( ( (residential or site or commercial) and (project) and (casino resort or island or
hotel or apartment or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or assets) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) ) or ( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or
energy or alumina or iron or lead or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake
or equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or company)) or ( (dairy or cheese
or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or
company or business or group or firm or board) and (million* or billion* or B or M)) ) not (terrorism or war or
navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex) and
re=austr
03/06/2015 to 09/06/2015
All Sources
All Authors

Date
Source
Author
Company All Companies
Subject
Industry
Region
Language English
Results
Found
Timestamp 1 August 2017 0:21

All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions

99

© 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

 

