Property
Chinese $170m Sydney apartment deal
Residential Mercedes Ruehl
448 words
6 June 2015
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
39
English
Copyright 2015. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.
Chinese state-owned conglomerate Greenland Holdings Group has bolstered its pipeline of apartment
projects in Sydney, buying the former Mercure Hotel site in the heart of Kings Cross and the Crown Hotel in
Parramatta in a deal sources say is valued at close to $170 million.
The Shanghai-based group, which is building the massive Greenland Centre apartment tower at Bathurst
Street in the CBD, bought the two sites from savvy pub group and residential developer Iris Capital in an
offmarket deal.
The transaction will add more than 300 units to Greenland's already expansive development pipeline in
Australia since it entered the market several years ago.

...
Greenland, one of China's biggest builders, has been seeking new development opportunities in Australia for
months. It has not limited its expansion to Sydney. It has a joint venture bid with...

... developing the $700 million Greenland Tower, which will be one of the tallest in the CBD, comprising 478
apartments. It also converting the adjoining heritage building into a hotel, known as the Greenland Primus
Hotel. The $200 million Lucent project in North Sydney, at 225 Pacific Highway, will have 211 units.
Greenland also forged into Melbourne in 2013, buying two sites and involving more than 1000 apartments.

...Greenland has not had as much success in Sydney's inner western suburb of Leichhardt. The local council
last year rejected an initial proposal by Greenland at the former Kolotex site.
The Mercure Hotel project, which incorporates the Crest Hotel and late-trading Goldfish bar, will be known
as the Hourglass. Iris, which has earned a strong reputation in the market for its residential-above-hotel
developments, bought it in 2012 from Australand Property Group for $65 million.

... near the famous Coca-Cola sign, will have some of the best views in Sydney. A $55 million planning
proposal designed by architects Durbach Block Jaggers for an hourglass shaped apartment tower with 139
units was submitted earlier this year. The Crown Hotel, in a burgeoning arts precinct on Parramatta's Church
Street, has a planning proposal for just under 200 units.
Iris made a name for itself in Sydney spotting opportunities in both the pub and residential sectors. It entered
the hotel industry in 1995 and also owns the Bourbon bar and restaurant in Kings Cross, the Clovelly Hotel
and the Cock & Bull in Bondi Junction.

Document AFNR000020150605eb660000t

Search Summary

Text

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (project) and (casino resort or island or
hotel or apartment or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company
or board or assets) and (transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron
or lead or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or
stake or equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or
firm or company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or
equity or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group
or firm or board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall
Street or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
03/06/2015 to 09/06/2015
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
99
1 August 2017 0:21

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.