8/27/2017

Factiva

SE  Opinion
HD  Lot of China relations baggage in Darwin port deal
BY  Laura Tingle - LauraTingle is the AFR’s political editor
WC  1035 words
PD  13 November 2015
SN  The Australian Financial Review
SC  AFNR
ED  First
PG  39
LA  English
CY  Copyright 2015. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.
LP  Canberra observed

A deal to lease Darwin's port to a PLA-linked company shows all the contradictions in our ties with China.

TD  Malcolm Turnbull broke with tradition on Thursday when he carried his own bags onto the RAAF jet that will take

him to Indonesia, Berlin and the now annual leaders' summit season.

He may have carried his own bags, but compared with the prime ministers who have represented us in foreign
parts in recent years, he left for his major overseas trip with very little baggage.

He hasn't threatened to shirtfront anyone, or become personal besties with the Japanese PM, or provoked the
Chinese, or professed a lack of interest in foreign policy.

He leaves a domestic political debate smug, as always, in its insularity from foreign policy and dominated by a
brawl over a tax policy we haven't seen yet, the republic, and continuing navel-gazing over the coup that brought
Turnbull to power.

In the Parliament, the legislative brawls have been over multinational tax avoidance, citizenship, and foreign
ownership of agricultural land: all in a way arguments about insularity and protecting ourselves from outsiders.

Yet all this only makes all the more ironic the increasingly loud rumbling over a story that goes to the heart of our
most challenging foreign policy dilemma, and the increasing internal contradictions in Australia's policies
towards China. The story concerns the Port of Darwin, the Chinese People's Liberation Army, the development
of Northern Australia, and how it seems that, sometimes, the various arms of government don't seem to speak
to each other.

There has been a growing (if belated) alarm over the announcement last month that Chinese energy and
infrastructure group Landbridge had won a 99-year lease on the Port of Darwin from the Northern Territory
government.

This week, the alarm bells have been ringing everywhere from the analysts at the Australian Strategic Policy
Institute to Veteran Liberal Senator and troublemaker Bill Heffernan.

The concerns about Landbridge stem from the fact it is a state-owned enterprise, yet its bid for the port appears
to have slipped through the net of the Foreign Investment Review Board. What's more, it is not just any state-
owned enterprise but one with strong links to the People's Liberation Army. Yet it has been given control over an
asset of considerable strategic significance, particularly given the decision just a few years ago to offer Darwin
as a major staging post for US military equipment and personnel.

Geoff Wade is a visiting fellow at the Crawford School of Public Policy, Australian National University. He wrote
on ASPI's Strategist blog this week that "as if to underline the party-state links of the company, in August last
year, with the support of the People's Liberation Army, Landbridge established a people's armed militia within the
company" under the leadership of He Zhaoqing". He, an ex-PLA officer, is the secretary of the branch committee
of the Communist Party which oversees Landbridge's operations.

https://global.factiva.com/hp/printsavews.aspx?pp=Print&hc=Publication

1/2

8/27/2017

Factiva

"In short, Landbridge is a commercial front intimately tied to state-owned operations, the party and the PLA",
Wade wrote.

Wade posted an English translation of a page from the Landbridge's Chinese-language website.

"The Landbridge Group, as a large-scale civilian enterprise has, through 20 years of unstinting effort,
established its four major commercial planks of petrochemicals, port logistics, real estate and tourism and
international trade", the website says. "It has actively supported the army through culture and supported the
army through science and technology. It has resolved difficulties and served as a logistic backup for military units
engaged in maritime training, and for the military units based in Rizhao."

How this group gained control of the strategically important port, even amid Coalition paranoia about Chinese
foreign investment in other sectors notably agriculture, is not clear.

It was not required to go through the formal Foreign Investment Review Board process, apparently because it
had been ticked off on an earlier deal. Northern Territory Chief Minister Adam Giles said while the port sale did
not go through the FIRB process, the board was consulted.

Andrew Robb told the AFR this week that there had been a rigorous nine-month consultation process involving
Defence and FIRB.

"There was strong support from all of those agencies. It's simply just not true to say there are people, described
as unnamed, who are concerned".

But The Australian Financial Review is aware, through several sources, of considerable alarm in the Defence
establishment. Government sources have also suggested that Defence was just "too slow off the mark". Others
say the government was simply not aware of the links between Landbridge and the PLA.

The Liberal's Bill Heffernan told the joint party room this week the deal should have been properly considered by
FIRB. Yet it seems likely it is too late to do anything about it.

Andrew Robb said this week criticism of the purchase was misplaced, saying it would create "billions of dollars
of opportunity". Then again, he was just wrapping up a Northern Australian Investment Forum, promoting top
end investment opportunities to foreign buyers.

He was pictured with the chairman of Landbridge, Ye Cheng, on the front page of The Financial Review on
Monday, along with Resources Minister Josh Frydenberg.

The news is that Landbridge also wants to buy railways in Northern Australia.

Geoff Wade argues the port purchase will be a key link in China's 'maritime silk road' which is part of a plan to
realise "regional economic domination and subsequent client dependency".

"This in turn will facilitate contention for regional and then global primacy with the United States. The PLA sees
one of its key roles as being to protect these economic initiatives offshore. The Darwin deal is thus, among other
things, a key element in the PRC's efforts to weaken the Australian alliance with the US. For these reasons there
must be great security concerns about the Darwin deal."

But in terms of our domestic political debate, it seems it is little more than excess baggage.

NS  gpol : Domestic Politics | nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International

Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter

RE  china : China | auscap : Australian Capital Territory | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :

Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

PUB  Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited

AN  Document AFNR000020151112ebbd0000o

https://global.factiva.com/hp/printsavews.aspx?pp=Print&hc=Publication

2/2

© 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

 

