8/27/2017

Factiva

SE  News
HD  Darwin trails by '150 years'
BY  Mark Ludlow
WC  611 words
PD  12 November 2015
SN  The Australian Financial Review
SC  AFNR
ED  First
PG  9
LA  English
CY  Copyright 2015. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.
LP  Northern Territory Chief Minister Adam Giles says a new luxury six-star hotel in Darwin is one of the many

missing pieces in the infrastructure puzzle needed to drag the northern capital up to the standard of the southern
capital cities.

Mr Giles, who helped host the Northern Australia Infrastructure Summit earlier this week to lure global investors
to the Top End, said the territory had a lot of catching up to do when it came to providing modern infrastructure.
"No one likes me saying this, but we're 150 years behind the rest of the country in terms of infrastructure. We're
playing catch-up," Mr Giles said in an interview with The Australian Financial Review.

TD  "I think many pieces of the puzzle in the Northern Territory is taking the next step in terms of development - the

rail lines, the port, roads and bridges.

"There are still many areas of the Northern Territory which are cut off in the rainy season. So a bridge building
program is just as important as a hotel program."

The Territory government has offered up 9000 square metres of undeveloped Crown land next to the new
Darwin Waterfront and Convention Centre for the new hotel. But it is also open to developers proposing ideas on
private land parcels in the city.

It is understood there is strong interest from local and international investors, including a prominent Chinese
developer.

While people have talked about the untapped potential of the Northern Territory and northern Australia for
decades, it is only recently the money has started to flow to facilitate change.

The Northern Territory government last month sold the Port of Darwin in a 99-year-lease to Chinese-owned
company Landbridge, while the federal government this week announced $5 billion in concessional loans to help
encourage private investors to pour money into economic infrastructure in the region.

Mr Giles said he was trying to change the mentality that Territorians just asked the federal government when
they needed more money.

"We don't just stand with our hands out asking the feds for more money. We are leading by trying to change the
process," he said.

On Tuesday the Northern Territory will announce the winning consortium for a gas pipeline to connect the
Territory to eastern markets via either South Australia or Queensland.

It's another sign of the Northern Territory government wanting to engage the private sector to promote economic
activity to take advantage of its abundant natural assets.

While there has been new property development in Darwin in recent years, it has mostly been undertaken by
local families, including the Halikos Group and John "Foxy" Robinson, which has built new apartment blocks
which have been snapped up by workers on Inpex's $34 billion Itchys liquefied natural gas project.

https://global.factiva.com/hp/printsavews.aspx?pp=Print&hc=Publication

1/2

8/27/2017

Factiva

The property market in Darwin - which at one stage was leading the nation - has come off the boil, falling 3.7 per
cent in the past year, according to CoreLogic RP Data's head of research Tim Lawless.

The value of units in Darwin has fallen 13 per cent in the past year, but the median housing price in Darwin
($540,000) is still above Brisbane ($460,000) and Perth ($500,000). Gross rental yield for houses (5.3 per cent)
and units (6.1 per cent) is still one of the strongest in the nation.

But Darwin has long struggled to provide top quality accommodation for tourists or business. A recent survey
found only 8 per cent of the city's hotel stock was considered high-end.

Expressions of interest for the hotel site closes in mid-December.

NS  gpol : Domestic Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations

RE  austr : Australia | nterry : Northern Territory | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

PUB  Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited

AN  Document AFNR000020151111ebbc0001j

© 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

 

https://global.factiva.com/hp/printsavews.aspx?pp=Print&hc=Publication

2/2

