News
Swisse seals $1.67b payday
Sarah Thompson, Simon Evans and Jake Mitchell
510 words
18 September 2015
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
3
English
Copyright 2015. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.
Vitamins group Swisse Wellness has been sold for a whopping $1.67 billion to Hong Kong-listed company
Biostime, which outbid several rivals including Chinese private equity firmHony Capital and Chinese drug
manufacturer Shanghai Pharma.
The sale price represents an extraordinary turnaround in the fortunes of the business that has a heavy
marketing budget with a cavalcade of high-profile sports stars, actors and chefs fronting its ads including
Nicole Kidman, former Australian Test cricket captain Ricky Ponting, fast bowler Mitchell Johnson, tennis
player Lleyton Hewitt and Master Chef co-host George Calombaris.
The sale also delivers a substantial pay day for the founding Ring family and chief executive Radek Sali and
his management team. Mr Sali and his management team, along with the Ring family will retain about 15 per
cent to 20 per cent of the company after the transaction. The buyer was revealed first by The Australian
Financial Review's Street Talk column on Thursday afternoon. The Ring family was the major shareholder.

...specialist in infant formula and nutritional products for babies and wants to expand its reach into vitamins. It
was founded in 1999 and has more than 200 sales offices across China.
The Swisse sale process has occurred at a time when demand for vitamins from China has been booming.

... price in just 13 months and hit a new record on Thursday on the ASX of $136.80, up 5 per cent on the day.
Vitamins and sports nutrition firm Vitaco made its debut on the ASX on Wednesday and has gained 17 per
cent in two days after a $232 million capital raising at an issue price of $2.10.
The Australian firms have ridden a wave of demand from Chinese consumers who have been buying up the
trusted Australian brands for their "clean and green" image after a series of health scares in China involving
locally-manufactured products including baby formula, berries and milk powder.
The buy-up of Australian vitamins has come from both online shoppers in China through web sites such as
Tmall and Alibaba, along with brisk trade from Chinese tourists and entrepreneurs in Australian chemist
warehouses and supermarkets which have often left shelves sporting "out of stock" signs because of the
unprecedented demand.
Swisse, which is chaired by former Foster's Group chief executive Trevor O'Hoy, has been investing heavily
in brand-building and marketing but hit some strife in 2012 and 2013 after an aggressive foray into the United
States which didn't deliver the expected investment returns and drained its...

The Goldman Sachs Special Situations fund came in to bolster the Swisse balance sheet in August, 2013
with a $70 million injection and will also be a big beneficiary of the booming sale price.

Document AFNR000020150917eb9i0000k

Search Summary

Text

((chin* or hong kong)) and (

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or assets) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )

or

( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))

or

( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))

)

not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

and re=austr
16/09/2015 to 22/09/2015
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
234
27 August 2017 18:21

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.