EARLY GENERAL NEWS
Flood potential for Chinese investment
MATTHEW CAWOOD
520 words
4 June 2015
Farm Weekly
FFARMW
24
English
Copyright 2015 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.
ASIAN investment in Australian agribusiness is currently a trickle with strong potential for turning into a flood,
in the view of David Thorn, National Australia Bank's head of Insitutional Banking in Asia.

Mr Thorn likens the current level of Asian interest in Australian agriculture to the early inquiry Asian investors
made into the local minerals sector at the start of the resources boom.

...
His optimism is based on the recent deal, of which NAB was an instigator, between big Australian dairy
farming families the Moxeys and the Perichs, Freedom Foods and Chinese dairy giant New Hope.
The two family operations get a source of funds to expand their collective output to 75 million litres of milk a
year. Freedom Foods gets its own dairy source on which to develop value-added products for China, and
New Hope Dairy Holdings is the link company: it injects fresh equity into the Australian partnership, and
offers a distribution network in China.

...
"Some of the agribusinesses that NAB looks after are only after $5-$10 million. There are plenty of sources
of capital for them here domestically.

...

Document FFARMW0020150603eb640000m

Search Summary

Text

Date

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (project) and (casino resort or island or
hotel or apartment or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company
or board or assets) and (transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron
or lead or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or
stake or equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or
firm or company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or
equity or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group
or firm or board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall
Street or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
03/06/2015 to 09/06/2015

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
99
1 August 2017 0:21

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.