SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Melbourne business park sold

Nick Lenaghan
272 words
10 February 2015
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
38
English
Copyright 2015. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Banco Group, in a joint venture with Smorgon family interests, has sold a substantial Melbourne
suburban business park to a locally based developer, backed by Chinese investors, for close to
$70 million.

The Greenwood Business Park sits on a 33,720-square-metre plot of land at 301 Burwood
Highway, in Burwood. It has almost 20,000 sq m of office space, with the majority of it taken up by
major tenants Telstra Corp and Deakin University.

Telstra re-leased its space late last year for another four years. Currently the property delivers
about $6.5 million in rent and has a permit for another large office building.

It is also a prime site for residential and retail development in Melbourne's east.

The purchaser is a syndicate of Chinese investors, including Ryan Ouyang, a locally based
developer originally from Hunan province in China.

Mr Ouyang heads Ouson Group, a development, construction and investment firm which has
completed a series of residential projects in Melbourne's south-east.

On the sell side, private property player Banco Group, headed by brothers Mario and Antonio
LoGiudice, has a diversified development and investment platform.

The Burwood business park was held in a joint venture with interests connected to the Smorgon
family.

Last year interests associated with the Banco Group sold a two-hectare Melbourne city fringe
car-park site in Southbank for a record $145 million, to listed Malaysian conglomerate PJ
Development Holdings.

The Burwood deal was handled by Melbourne Acquisitions' Steven Messina and Dominic Gibson.
Property lawyer Eu Ming Lim of Thomson Geer acted for the buyer.

CO
IN
NS

tcoma : Telstra Corporation Ltd
ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i7902 : Telecommunication Services
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News

Page 1 of 2 © 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020150209eb2a0002b

Page 2 of 2 © 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

