8/27/2017

Factiva

SE  Business
HD  DATA ROOM
BY  EDITED BY: Bridget Carter, Gretchen Friemann
WC  1145 words
PD  13 November 2015
SN  The Australian
SC  AUSTLN
ED  Australian
PG  20
LA  English
CY  © 2015 News Limited. All rights reserved.
LP  AMG enters contest for Hastings Affiliated Managers Group has emerged as another group circling Westpac’s

infrastructure investor Hastings Funds Management, joining US-based pension fund TIAA-CREF in an upcoming
contest for the business.

The New York-listed global asset manager, based in Massachusetts, owns stakes in a number of boutique asset
managers, hedge funds and specialised private equity firms that were last year worth $US7.7 billion ($10.8bn).

TD  AMG was an underbidder to Nikko Asset Management when it paid $129m for Suncorp’s Tyndall Investments

fund management business, and it will be interesting to see if it emerges as part of a bidding consortium for
Hastings, given it is not known to buy businesses in their entirety.

Berkshire Capital has been hired by Westpac to potentially sell the infrastructure fund manager. It is now
understood the sales process is in progress, although it is believed to extend to only a handful of international
parties.

Apparently about five or six parties have been in talks.

One thought behind this is that some investors within the Hastings funds have expressed concern about a
potential sale given their commitment to Hastings is linked to the credibility of parent Westpac.

It is understood while a party such as TIAA-CREF would be to their satisfaction, the nervousness extends to
whether the business ends up in the hands of a less  credible owner.

Hastings, which could be worth $500m, controls more than $7bn of assets, including stakes in Sydney’s
desalination plant and Port of Newcastle.

It is among the four bidding consortiums competing for the NSW state government’s transmission network,
TransGrid, joining forces with the listed Spark Infrastructure, Abu Dhabi Investment Authority and other parties in
the consortium.

Binding bids are due on November 23 for the highly prized government-owned asset, which could sell for as
much as $9bn.

The Foreign Investment  Review Board may tighten restrictions even further for offshore groups in the contest.
These groups have been told they must own no more than half the asset to gain approval, according to one
source.

Macquarie’s infrastructure arm and the Chinese government-owned State Grid is the partnership many believe
is most likely to be affected by FIRB’s concerns.

Meanwhile, there are suggestions services groups Transfield and Downer EDI could be close to some of the
consortiums, in the hope of winning  contracting work out of the deal.

One bet is the team close to Transfield includes Australian Super, Borealis and the Canada Pension Plan
Investment Board.

https://global.factiva.com/hp/printsavews.aspx?pp=Print&hc=Publication

1/3

8/27/2017

Factiva

The fourth group bidding for TransGrid is IFM and the Queensland Investment Corporation.

Mirvac back in the race The seemingly endless struggle to resolve the fate of one of the largest landlords in the
country, the Morgan Stanley-backed Investa Property Group, looks set for another dramatic twist as Mirvac
prepares to storm back in to the race for the property giant’s management platform.

Earlier this week, Mirvac executives flew to China to meet representatives of CIC, the country’s sovereign wealth
fund, in an effort to win control of a portion of the Investa empire.

The Chinese heavyweight paid Morgan Stanley $2.45 billion earlier this year for the directly-owned skyscrapers
within Investa.

The deal, which trounced the market’s price expectations and set a new benchmark yield in the office sector,
was meant to form the first phase of the bank’s exit from the business.

Instead internecine frictions within Investa are intensifying and the $8.9bn empire continues the prospect of a
bitter breakup. The problems centre on the conflicting objectives of the group’s two funds, the listed Investa
Office Fund and the unlisted Investa Commercial Property Fund.

Both wanted to internalise and spearhead a move to take over the entire management platform.

Yet while IOF’s efforts on this front have proved fruitless, its stablemate has met with far greater success. Not
only has it won more Investa assets from Morgan Stanley it has also persuaded the bank to accept close to $80
million less than what it might have secured for the management rights.

In September, Mirvac offered $400m odd for platform and twin stakes in IOF and ICPF.

That bid was trampled when ICPF demanded the ability to pursue an internalisation.

However, the unlisted fund, which holds stakes in some of the country’s top buildings including Deutsche Bank
Place in Sydney, now faces a new challenge.

IOF has refused to sign up to the move and looks increasingly likely to pursue an internalisation. The vehicle, in
which CBRE ranks as one of the biggest shareholders, is still in the midst of a strategic  review.

The two funds failure to reach an agreement has strengthened the hand of CIC, since its portfolio forms the third
leg of the Investa office management platform.

Earlier this week, ICPF and Investa executives also jetted out to China in the hope they could win CIC’s support
for the internalisation — a move that would isolate IOF. But CIC has yet to decide and with two out of the three
constituents of the platform wavering, ICPF’s deal looks shaky. The uncertainty has allowed Mirvac to muscle
back in to the race and some in the sector predict the listed trust will eventually prevail.

BrisConnect shortfall It now appears the pricing for  BrisConnections is not as high as expected. Apparently
there are suggestions Transurban’s bidding price is around $1.5 billion — far less than the $2bn the vendors  -
expected.

Sydney infrastructure manager CP2, meanwhile, which is supposedly the frontrunner in the contest, is
understood to be offering a price only slightly higher.

The exact date for second round bids in the Fort Street and Macquarie-advised contest still  remains unclear,
although it will be some time at the end of this month or early next.

BrisConnections is the owner of the 6.7km toll road AirportlinkM7, which connects Brisbane to the city’s airport.

It is up for sale by receiver PPB Advisory.

Meanwhile, there has been  little news out on Pacific Hydro, despite the sales process expected to conclude by
Christmas.

Brookfield’s top executives have signalled that the global  investor is not in the frame for the asset, despite
speculation it was one of the strongest contenders to win.

https://global.factiva.com/hp/printsavews.aspx?pp=Print&hc=Publication

2/3

8/27/2017

Factiva

That would leave Morrison & Co and Morgan Stanley Infrastructure as the parties most likely to win the
Australian component of the business, with some suggesting bidder Pacific Equity Partners is less enthusiastic
to gain control of the assets.

There have been mixed reports as to whether Morgan Stanley is also intending to buy the Latin  assets of the
renewable energy business, which is owned by IFM and expected to sell for more than $2bn.The process will be
run by Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Credit Suisse.

CO  hasfml : Hastings Funds Management Limited | namclm : Nikko Asset Management Company Limited | tinsan : Teachers
Insurance and Annuity Association - College Retirement Equities Fund | wstpac : Westpac Banking Corporation Limited |
ccred : Citigroup Inc. | niksec : Citigroup Japan Holdings Corp. | tiaabd : TIAA Board of Overseers

IN  i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i831 : Financial Investments | iinv : Investing/Securities | ifinal : Financial

Services | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | i8150211 : Unit Trusts/Mutual Funds | i82 : Insurance | i82002 :
Life Insurance | i83107 : Portfolio/Fund/Asset Management | ibnk : Banking/Credit

NS  ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | reqris : Suggested Reading Investing/Securities | redit : Selection of Top

Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News

RE  austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales

PUB  News Ltd.

AN  Document AUSTLN0020151112ebbd0000d

© 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

 

https://global.factiva.com/hp/printsavews.aspx?pp=Print&hc=Publication

3/3

