8/27/2017

Factiva

SE  WORLD
HD  Australia’s port lease to China makes waves ; Policy experts and opposition MPs have raised concerns over the Landbridge

Group deal
WC  557 words
PD  20 November 2015
SN  TODAY (Singapore)
SC  TDAYSG
ED  APM
PG  38
LA  English
CY  (c) 2015. MediaCorp Press Ltd.
LP  CANBERRA — Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull yesterday defended the lease of a commercial and

military port in northern Australia to a Chinese firm said to have close ties to the Chinese military.

The Landbridge Group, owned by Chinese billionaire Ye Cheng, was announced in October as the winning
bidder to operate Darwin’s port, in a deal worth A$506 million (S$514 million).

TD  “The concerns about defence issues or related issues were fully dealt with by our security agencies,” Mr Turnbull

told reporters in Manila on the sidelines of a regional summit.

He stressed that the port facilities being leased, specifically East Arm and Fort Hill wharfs, are commercial in
nature, while noting that, if deemed necessary, the government can legally take control of such infrastructure for
defence purposes.

Landbridge Group is a large company involved in ports and logistics, real estate, international trade and
petrochemicals.

According to a statement issued Wednesday by Darwin Port Corp, the Shandong-based company will help to
boost Australia’s trade with Asia by developing the port’s infrastructure and utilising its extensive networks in the
region.

The United States was reportedly taken by surprise by the deal, with the Australian Financial Review reporting
that President Barack Obama chided Mr Turnbull in Manila for not being consulted about the deal and requested
that Australia “let us know next time”.

Both leaders were attending the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Summit in the Philippines.

Since 2011, Darwin has become an important staging post for rotational deployments of US Marines in the
region, as part of Mr Obama’s “pivot to Asia” foreign policy.

Mr Turnbull sought to dismiss rumours of a rift with Mr Obama, telling reporters that the deal had not been secret
and in no way impacted either the operation of the Australian military or US vessels moving through the port.

“It was announced publicly early last year. It was very, very well known. The fact that Chinese investors were
interested in investing in infrastructure in Australia is also hardly a secret,” he told reporters.

The Australian Strategic Policy Institute, however, has raised serious concerns about Landbridge Group, which it
called in a recent paper a “front” for China’s People’s Liberation Army.

Although it is officially listed as a private company, chairman Mr Ye is a delegate on the advisory body to China’s
rubber-stamp Parliament, a high-profile but largely ceremonial position handed to Communist Party backers.

Australia’s main opposition Labor Party last week wrote to Treasurer Scott Morrison asking why further attention
was not applied to the deal under the Foreign Investment Review Board, which scrutinises purchases by state-
owned enterprises.

https://global.factiva.com/hp/printsavews.aspx?pp=Print&hc=Publication

1/2

8/27/2017

Factiva

“It is unclear whether a full Foreign Investment Review Board process was undertaken to assess the impact of
the lease arrangement”, said Mr Bill Shorten, leader of the Labor Party.

Australia’s Parliament, however, may hold an urgent inquiry into the lease of Darwin’s port to Landbridge,
according to the Australian media.

The Australian newspaper said the Upper House inquiry would examine consultations between the Northern
Territory, of which Darwin is the capital, and the federal government, including the Defence Department, as well
as the port’s strategic importance. AGENCIES

NS  gpol : Domestic Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations

RE  austr : Australia | china : China | phlns : Philippines | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :

BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz
: Eastern Asia | seasiaz : Southeast Asia

IPD  Foreign Affairs

PUB  MediaCorp Press Ltd

AN  Document TDAYSG0020151119ebbk0003j

© 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

 

https://global.factiva.com/hp/printsavews.aspx?pp=Print&hc=Publication

2/2

