8/27/2017

Factiva

SE  Chanticleer
HD  NT's blueprint for infrastructure
BY  TONY BOYD
WC  1376 words
PD  18 November 2015
SN  The Australian Financial Review
SC  AFNR
ED  First
PG  48
LA  English
CY  Copyright 2015. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.
LP  The Northern Territory's $1 billion gas pipeline to bring natural gas to the eastern states provides a blueprint for

constructing infrastructure that is entirely funded by the private sector.

At a time when governments in Western Australia and Queensland are struggling under the weight of their
debts, NT Chief Minister Adam Giles has shown a pathway to open up the states gas resources without
troubling taxpayers.

TD  The competitive bidding process for the North East Gas Interconnector (NEGI) resulted in four companies vying

for the right to build a pipeline to connect to the east coast gas network.

Chinese-owned energy and water utility company Jemena, which is headed by Paul Adams, won the bid to build
the 622-kilometre northern route between Tennant Creek and Mt Isa.

There were plenty of bouquets and brickbats for Giles when the decision was announced. Central Petroleum's
Richard Cottee and the Australian Industry Group attacked the decision not to go with the much more expensive
southern route option. Cottee will be a beneficiary of the northern route but he laments the fact that federal and
state governments did not step in to subsidise the southern route and significantly boost the supply of gas to the
east coast.

What Cottee and the AI Group have ignored is two things. First, molecules of gas can be moved anywhere in the
network. The important things is being in the network. Second, if Giles had put his hand out for other state
governments to step in and fund a pipeline nothing would have happened.

Instead, Giles took the brave step of seeing if the private sector could, with the initial support of government-
contracted gas supply, finance and build the pipeline without government funding. Giles was prepared to provide
debt guarantees.

A process that started in December 2014 has drawn to a conclusion in less than 12 months with a solution that
is cost effective and can be built relatively quickly.

Standing behind the entire process was a decision made several years ago by Giles to call in expert external
advice on the management of government finances and the involvement of the private sector.

Giles formed an economic advisory council comprising two people who were respected in their fields - Doug
McTaggart, the former chief executive of the Queensland Investment Corporation and Ian Smith, a partner in the
firm Bespoke Approach. McTaggart and Smith advised Giles to sell the government owned general insurer, the
TIO and the Darwin Port Corporation. Also, they advised the government to seek advice on how to finance a
pipeline connecting the territory to the east coast gas network.

The TIO sale was handled by Flagstaff Partners and the pipeline advice came from Port Jackson Partners.

The private sector funding of the NT pipeline is also a symbol of the co-operation between states, particularly
Queensland and South Australia.

https://global.factiva.com/hp/printsavews.aspx?pp=Print&hc=Publication

1/3

8/27/2017

O'Dwyer's slow reveal

Factiva

When the Minister for Small Business and Assistant Treasurer, Kelly O'Dwyer, lifted the veil of secrecy
surrounding the government's plans for crowd-sourced equity funding it sent shockwaves through the tech
sector.

Lawyers, venture capitalists and crowd sourced equity funding experts were horrified with what they heard. They
were left with the impression that more than a year of consultations had been for nought.

O'Dwyer said the government's approach would be "focused on Australian public companies with annual
turnover and gross assets of less than $5 million so that the benefits are targeted."

This revelation caused concern because Australian public companies carry with them a range of obligations that
are both costly and bureaucratic.

Public companies must be audited twice a year, which can cost $20,000 to $30,000. If they are listed they are
subject to continuous disclosure obligations and a range of other reporting requirements. Chanticleer
understands O'Dwyer only told half the story. It is believed that the crowd-sourced equity funding model being
released with the innovation statement in December will include an exemption from all the usual requirements
imposed on public companies.

That is an important concession that should assuage those who read O'Dwyer's speech on Monday and
assumed that Treasury officials had not been listening during the consultation period.

The special exemption for public companies will be made instead of allowing the use of proprietary limited
companies because the legislation says these companies cannot have more than 50 shareholders.

During her speech she said that the maximum funds that an issuer may raise in any 12 month period will be
capped at $5 million. That is five times higher than the cap imposed in the United States.

That will be welcomed by many in the industry. However, the $5 million cap on gross assets and revenue could
still cause angst among those who think equity crowd funding should be available to larger companies.

Theoretically, larger companies would pose less risk to investors.

Critical issues that need to be resolved and which will have a critical bearing on the success or otherwise of
crowd sourced equity funding are licensing arrangements.

If an Australian Financial Services Licence is required it will make the system more costly and forced new
companies into the arms of intermediaries. A smarter system would be to use a bulletin board approach that
matches investors with companies raising cash.

Woolworths chairman Gordon Cairns is moving quickly to rebuild the company's board of directors. His
appointment of Holly Kramer, the former Telstra marketing executive and former CEO of Best & Less, is a good
start.

At Best & Less, Kramer inherited a company with a five-year track record of declining sales and profits. She
hired the best buyers as the starting point of her turnaround strategy. She has since taken directorships at Nine
Entertainment Co and financial services group, AMP.

Cairns has resisted the pressure to appoint former chief executive Roger Corbett to the board. But bringing him
in as a consultant is a reasonable second best option.

Corbett's eight-year directorship of one of the world's largest retailers, Walmart, has kept him well informed
about global retail trends.

Companies in strife tend to be a magnet for trouble. That appears to be happening at Woolworths. Its shares hit
a 12-month low on Tuesday.

One of the many problems causing vexation among the company's senior executive team is the SAP software
which was installed over the past few years as part of the $100 million Project Galaxy. SAP is a German
company that makes software which is widely used by multi-nationals and locally listed companies. It is said to
offer an industrial strength foundation for managing finance, inventory, human resources and logistics.

https://global.factiva.com/hp/printsavews.aspx?pp=Print&hc=Publication

2/3

8/27/2017

Factiva

It is not a very flexible product. In fact, many companies have changed the way they run their businesses in
order to make the software work as smoothly as possible.

BHP Billiton runs on SAP systems. This is said to be the abiding legacy of former chief executive Marius
Kloppers. Although some would argue that his greatest legacy was the global introduction of the spot pricing of
iron ore.

At Woolworths, the SAP implementation was designed to make it cheaper and easier to source products across
the group.

But glitches in the system meant that shelves were left empty in 2014. Suppliers to BigW were frustrated by the
inability of Woolies customers to purchase their goods. Woolworths admitted to the problems during its last two
financial results. While many in the market believed the software problems had been resolved that is not the
case.

Woolworths executives do not want to discuss the issues because they don't want to be seen blaming SAP for
the company's problems.

It is noble for the company to stand back from blame shifting. But shareholders deserve to know the truth if a
software implementation of this magnitude has been bungled.

Chanticleer understands that the after the system was rolled out to BigW it caused severe problems for the
supermarkets and still is. For example, adding a new product to the shelves takes about two hours because the
request is first routed through the entire database of BigW products.

Twitter: @TonyBoydAFR

tony.boyd@afr.com.au

CO  ctrpet : Central Petroleum Limited

IN  i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1 : Energy | iexplo : Natural Gas/Oil Exploration

NS  c183 : Privatizations/Nationalization | gpol : Domestic Politics | nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial

News | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International
Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter

RE  austr : Australia | nterry : Northern Territory | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

PUB  Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited

AN  Document AFNR000020151117ebbi00004

© 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

 

https://global.factiva.com/hp/printsavews.aspx?pp=Print&hc=Publication

3/3

