8/3/2017

Factiva

SE  Business
HD  DATAROOM
WC  1098 words
PD  20 April 2015
SN  The Australian
SC  AUSTLN
ED  Australian
PG  20
LA  English
CY  © 2015 News Limited. All rights reserved.
LP  Newcrest’s Tefler mine up for grabs The starting gun has been fired for the  sale  of Newcrest’s Telfer  gold  and

copper  mine in Western Australia, with flyer documents sent out to potential buyers this month.

Tefler is among at least $1  billion  of resources assets currently up for  sale  nationally.

TD  Adviser Bank of America Merrill Lynch is said to have reached out to a wide range of potential bidders, such as
Australia’s Newmont  Mining , Northern Star and Regis Resources, along with South Africa’s  Gold  Fields and
China ’s Zijin Group.

One source said a smaller operator could scale down the country’s second-largest goldmine to boost profitability.

Newcrest has not previously offered any insight into the value of the Telfer  gold  and  copper  mine, which is one of
Australia’s largest.

However, there is a suggestion it could sell for between $400  million  and $500m. The moves by miners to divest
projects come as part of a global trend for major resources companies to reposition portfolios to shore up cash
positions as commodity prices tumble.

First-round bids have already been submitted for a Credit Suisse-run process to sell Barrick  Gold ’s mines.

It is understood that Zijin, Newcrest,  Gold  Fields and Regis are also likely to be among the groups that have
submitted bids for Barrick’s NSW Cowal mine, which may sell for $500m.

Operational issues at Barrick’s Pogera mine in PNG could make a  sale  of that asset more challenging.

There are also questions around whether prospective acquirers would buy into what is thought to be a very
aggressive business plan by Barrick for the project.

The  company  is banking on expansions that some argue are low grade. Anglo American’s  sale  process for its
Queensland  coal  assets, also being run through BAML, is expect to be launched in May.

The London-based miner is selling the Callide coalmine in Queensland, along with stakes in the Dawson and
Foxleigh mines in the state. Its mothballed Dartbrook mine in NSW is also on offer. La Mancha’s Australian  gold
assets are also for  sale  through Rothschild, with Evolution  Mining  said to be an interested buyer.

Suitors circle Bradken It appears that the  mining  services  company  Bradken has not only been on the radar of
Pacific  Equity  Partners and Koch Industries, which recently made an unsuccessful $2.50 per share takeover
attempt, but quite a number of other parties.

Apparently, the business has been of interest to British engineering firms Amec Foster Wheeler and Atkins, while
another US-based suitor has been looking at the  company .

Champ Private  Equity  gave some thought to an  acquisition  in November before turning its attention elsewhere.

https://global.factiva.com/hp/printsavews.aspx?pp=Print&hc=All

1/3

8/3/2017

Factiva

Attempts have also been made by Macquarie Capital to find a partner with which it can launch a rival offer.

Bradken’s shares on Friday closed at $2.24. PEP and Koch’s attempt to buy Bradken is a clear example of a
broader theme in parts of the market where a number of deals are just not getting across the line.

This is despite Mergermarket figures showing merger and  acquisition  activity lifted 72 per cent for the first three
months of the year to $24.7  billion , on the previous corresponding quarter.

Guangdong Rising Assets Management’s attempts to take over Australian  gold  and  copper  miner PanAust for
$1.1bn have so far gone nowhere.

GRAM already held a 22 per cent  stake  in the  company  before it recently launched a bid for PanAust, which has
been rejected by the  company ’s board.

Other suitors are thought to be interested in the business, but would not make a bid while GRAM is in pursuit,
sources say.

One theory is that GRAM would creep up the register and count on more shareholders being prepared to sell, as the
stock became less liquid.

But if shareholders held on, then GRAM may lose interest, paving the way for other potential suitors to launch a
higher offer.

Meanwhile, there is an impasse in another deal: the merger proposal made by  Iron  Mountain in December to
Recall for $7 per share, which was rejected at the time.

Security logistics firms US-based Brinks and the Linfox-owned Armaguard have been mentioned as groups that
could be encouraged to make an offer for Recall, although some believe  Iron  Mountain is the most logical
candidate for a  purchase .

Recall shares are now trading at $7.74.

MYOB roadshow Following the domestic leg of MYOB’s roadshow last week for its listing as a  company  worth at
least $1.9  billion , the verdict from fund managers is that the accounting software provider is a solid business that
will draw strong demand for its initial public offering.

Retail investors are said to have retreated because of the wide pricing range of $3 to $4, leaving a lack of clarity as
to what they will pay for the business.

The question remains whether there will be challenges three years down the track with the shift in the market
towards cloud-based software.

MYOB has desktop, hybrid and cloud versions of its software, which makes it more complicated for downloading
than others that provide solely cloud-based software, such as rival Xero.

While MYOB has made a lot of progress in embracing the cloud, it still has some way to go.

Some believe MYOB has similarities to the credit ratings agency Veda, which last year staged a strong market
debut, and is likely to be priced at either the mid to high point of the range due to the lack of similar businesses.

Swiss bid for Select Global asset manager Adveq is  believed to be among the parties that lodged first round bids for
Select Harvest, along with others that had been predicted to enter the contest, such as Laguna Bay Pastoral
Company , US-based agricultural asset manager Westchester and funds out of Europe.

The almond grower’s managing director Paul Thompson announced last month that the  company  was launching a
process through advisory  firm  PPB, seeking expressions of interest from long-term investors to fund 5000 acres of
orchard expansion.

https://global.factiva.com/hp/printsavews.aspx?pp=Print&hc=All

2/3

8/3/2017

Factiva

Select Harvest, which is Australia’s largest vertically integrated nut and health food  company , is understood to be
looking for an  equity  injection of $250m.

The latest process is happening at a time almond prices are soaring — currently about $10 per kilo, well above the
average price of $6.Switzerland-based Adveq, with Laguna Bay Pastoral  Company , last year paid $211m for Olam
Australia, which accounts for about half of the country’s almond production.

CO  jowell : Regis Resources Limited | newmoh : Newcrest Mining Ltd

IN  i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2114 : Copper Ore/Nickel Ore Mining | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources

| imet : Mining/Quarrying

NS  ccat : Corporate/Industrial News

RE  austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

PUB  News Ltd.

AN  Document AUSTLN0020150419eb4k0000t

Search Summary
Text

((chin* or hong kong)) and ( ( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment or park or
estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or assets) and (transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy)
) or ( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead or coal or oil) and (bonds or
acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or
firm or company)) or ( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity or stake or
merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or board) and (million* or billion* or B or M)) ) not
(terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street or Forex or Stock Exchange or
rst=asxtex) and re=austr
15/04/2015 to 21/04/2015
All Sources
All Authors

Date
Source
Author
Company All Companies
Subject
Industry
Region
Language English
Results
Found
Timestamp 3 August 2017 19:09

All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions

160

© 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

 

https://global.factiva.com/hp/printsavews.aspx?pp=Print&hc=All

3/3

