8/3/2017

Factiva

SE  Property
HD  Changing face of Parramatta lures tenants
BY  Samantha Hutchinson
WC  585 words
PD  9 April 2015
SN  The Australian Financial Review
SC  AFNR
ED  First
PG  40
LA  English
CY  Copyright 2015. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.
LP  A swag of office towers in Parramatta will be replaced with high-rise apartments as Australia's biggest wave of

residential  development spreads to Sydney's second CBD.

Parramatta agents are bracing for an rise in  commercial  demand and rents, with more than 10 high-profile stock
withdrawals expected to suck almost 40,000 square metres of office space from the market in the next two years.

TD  Examples include  Chinese  developer Chiwayland, who is likely to strip 6500 square metres from the market

through its conversion at 14-20 Parkes Street into luxury apartments.

The Cumberland Newspapers headquarters at 142-154 Macquarie Street is expected to make way for around 1000
apartments, after a  sale  to developer Landmark East and Dyldam. This will take another 5280 square metres from
the market. Likewise, the potential conversion of a modern office tower at 460 Church Street, with tenants including
Access Homeloans and Moore Stephens Accountants could take another 7555 square metres from the market.

The withdrawals come at the same time as Parramatta Council is building 130,000 square metres of  commercial
space at its new town centre and  commercial  hub, Parramatta Square.

But even as construction progresses and there is talk that Stage 2 is imminent, agents argue that vacancy rates at
6.3 per cent are unlikely to budge.

Parramatta's total office stock count has been reduced by 22,404 square metres since the beginning of 2013,
according to data from Knight Frank, of which more than 58 per cent has come from change of use. At the same
time, office construction construction in the area has been weak since 2012.

"Even if new developments like Parramatta Square add more stock to the market, it can only add vacancy rates in
line with the rest of the country ... it's not like we'll suddenly find a blow-out to double digit [rates]," Knight Frank
agent Wally Scales said.

More tenants known as " commercial  refugees" are moving into Parramatta from areas such as Burwood, Ashfield,
Hurstville and Epping, where business parks and high-rise towers are being snapped up by  residential  developers
to convert into apartments.

A Westpac division based in Epping will have to look for a new 8000-square-metre space after CBUS  Property
paid around $85 million in October 2014 for the Langston Place  site , with plans for apartments. Unilever will also
into new headquarters measuring more than 5700 square metres after  Chinese  developer Polly  Group  bought
Goodman's business  park  at 20-28 Cambridge Street in Epping.

In Hurstville, Pacific Brands and the NSW Department of Environment and Heritage Department have been forced
back to the market by a string of sales, including Cromwell  Property 's office block at 43 Bridge Street,  sold  for $37
million last year.

https://global.factiva.com/hp/printsavews.aspx?pp=Print&hc=All

1/2

8/3/2017

Factiva

In Burwood, development sales have pushed tenants including Telstra, Transport NSW and the Australian Taxation
Office back to market to look for new tenancies.

Government departments and offices are decentralising to more affordable areas, and Western Sydney is attracting
training and education centres and colleges.

Development at Parramatta Square is under way at 169 Macquarie Street, and it has a 26,000-square-metre
precommitment from the University of Western Sydney.

Mr Scales says new  commercial  space will be sucked up as soon as it is released. "You've got government offices
and tenants including banks and education groups trying to decentralise from the CBD, and they see improvements
in Parramatta," he said.

IN  ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction

NS  c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat :

Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter

RE  austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales

PUB  Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited

AN  Document AFNR000020150408eb490002d

Search Summary
Text

((chin* or hong kong)) and ( ( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment or park or
estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or assets) and (transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy)
) or ( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead or coal or oil) and (bonds or
acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or
firm or company)) or ( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity or stake or
merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or board) and (million* or billion* or B or M)) ) not
(terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street or Forex or Stock Exchange or
rst=asxtex) and re=austr
08/04/2015 to 14/04/2015
All Sources
All Authors

Date
Source
Author
Company All Companies
Subject
Industry
Region
Language English
Results
Found
Timestamp 3 August 2017 13:37

All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions

226

© 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

 

https://global.factiva.com/hp/printsavews.aspx?pp=Print&hc=All

2/2

