10/3/2017

Chinese investors target Sydney’s inner south, Adina Hotel sold

THE AUSTRALIAN

Chinese investors target Sydney’s inner south, Adina Hotel sold

GREG BROWN THE AUSTRALIAN 12:00AM May 14, 2015

Chinese investors are targeting Sydney’s inner south, with an Adina Hotel bought for nearly $40 million while a
residential development site has been snapped up for nearly $50m.

In Mascot, a cashed-up Chinese individual has bought the Adina Hotel, which was developed and is operated by
Toga  Hotels.

The hotel, which was recently completed, has 123 serviced apartments across seven storeys.

It is close to Sydney Airport and accommodates business travellers.

Capital Corporation sold the property, but the company and the agent on the deal, Knight Frank’s Dominic Ong,
declined to comment.

Capital Corporation bought the Bourke Street site, which was then a seven-storey office building, in 2011 for $29m.
The group subdivided the property into two lots, developing a hotel next to the office building.

Capital Corporation made its first profit on the site after selling the office building in February for $35m to
technology company CR Kennedy, which will house its headquarters on the site.

At that time, Capital Corporation director Steve Grant said the group would use the funds from the sale to look for
future development opportunities. The company is in the process of developing a project with more than 600 homes
in Sydney’s north-western Rouse Hill.

Also in Sydney’s inner south, a private Chinese development group has bought a 260 apartment site in Roseberry.

The 8403sq m site, at 12-24 Rothchild Avenue, has three street frontages with a development concept scheme
completed by JPR Architects. The private owner of the property bought it in 1997 for just $4.5m, and could earn
about $44m from the sale.

Values in Sydney’s south are being boosted as the area is transformed from an industrial precinct to a trendy
residential neighbourhood.

Nearby, Mirvac Group is the lead developer in Sydney’s $8 billion Green Square precinct, one of Sydney’s biggest
urban regeneration projects. There are 10,000 apartments and 60,000sq m of retail space to be built in the precinct
over the next four years. 

The company sold 238 apartments on its Green Square development in the March quarter, with another 224
apartments to come to the market this quarter.

The NSW government is running an expressions of interest campaign to sell its stake in Green Square through JLL,
with expectations of reaping more than $100m. Other companies are racing to meet demand for apartments in the
area. Iwan Sunito’s Crown Group this year bought a business park in Waterloo for $40m and is said to be planning a
$2bn development in the precinct, while Hong Kong-backed Anson City Developments recently bought a site in
Kensington for $40m.

Elsewhere, in Sydney’s north shore, Chinese developer Bridgehill has held talks to sell its site at 52 Alfred Street for
about $110m to a new buyer, thought to be offshore syndicator known as Bullion Development Corporation, but the
deal is believed to have stagnated.

Also on the north shore, two Chinese developers, Longton Group and Chiwayland, have received approval to build a
220 apartment project, The Uptown.

The project will be built opposite Roseville College.

The six-building development will have an end value of $200m.

http://www.theaustralian.com.au/business/property/chinese-investors-target-sydneys-inner-south-adina-hotel-sold/news-story/c4927d89ac6d8639… 1/3

10/3/2017
FROM THE HOMEPAGE

Chinese investors target Sydney’s inner south, Adina Hotel sold

‘Most people voting Yes’ in SSM poll

J

JOE KELLY
Left-wing activist group GetUp claims most people in the SSM survey are backing change, as the first update is revealed.

Pizza Hut penalties call canned

J

EWIN HANNAN
A decision that would have forced Pizza Hut to pay weekend rates scrapped after an embarrassing Fair Work error.

Massacre latest in long line

J

REMY VARGA
Recent US history is littered with mass shootings claiming huge death tolls.

Everyman played true to roots

J

JOHN JURGENSEN, ANNE STEELE
Tom Petty, whose fans often thanked him for being the soundtrack to their lives, used plain-spoken lyrics about life to
create hits.

Straw that broke Toyota’s back

J

PHILIP KING
It’s a story from the annals of most carmakers, but not Toyota. Toyota doesn’t close factories, Toyota keeps going.

Camilla’s ‘revenge’ seduction

J

DAVID SANDERSON
Camilla only slept with Charles in the 1970s to get back at her boyfriend, who was sleeping with the prince’s sister, it’s
been revealed.

Killing ‘harder than I thought’

J

PAIGE TAYLOR
A 26-year-old supermarket night shift supervisor is alleged to have told a co-worker that she killed Aaron Pajich, a court
has heard.

A big tick for Turnbull’s tenure

J

PETER VAN ONSELEN
The high response rate to the SSM postal survey will go a long way to quashing predictions the issue would sink the PM.

A NOTE ABOUT RELEVANT ADVERTISING: We collect information about the content (including ads) you use across this site and use it to make both advertising and content more
relevant to you on our network and other sites. This is also known as Online Behavioural Advertising. You can find out more about our policy and your choices, including how
to opt-out here

LOG IN

SUBSCRIBE

V W a

L Back to top

http://www.theaustralian.com.au/business/property/chinese-investors-target-sydneys-inner-south-adina-hotel-sold/news-story/c4927d89ac6d8639… 2/3

10/3/2017

NewsFlash

Chinese investors target Sydney’s inner south, Adina Hotel sold

The Australian app

Terms of Use

Contact Us

Editorial Code of conduct

Help

Contact Us info

Photo Sales

News Archive

Standards of Practice

Subscription terms

Group Subscription Terms

Accessibility

Privacy Policy

Relevant Ads Opt-out

Cookie Policy

Copyright The Australian. All times AEST (GMT +10:00)

About Us

About The Australian

Advertise with us

Our journalists

Subscribe

The Australian Plus member benefits

Sign up to Newsletters

Manage Your Newsletters

http://www.theaustralian.com.au/business/property/chinese-investors-target-sydneys-inner-south-adina-hotel-sold/news-story/c4927d89ac6d8639… 3/3

