8/19/2017

Factiva

SE  news
HD  Chinese buy St Joey"s
BY  Liz Tickner
WC  656 words
PD  30 September 2015
SN  Magnet
SC  FEDENM
LA  English
CY  Copyright 2015 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. www.edenmagnet.com.au [http://www.edenmagnet.com.au]. Not

available for re-distribution.

LP  The former St Joseph's Catholic School  site  in Eden has been  sold  to a  Chinese  university for $2 million.

Tian Fu College - an independent institute within  China 's South Western University of Finance and Economics -
has bought the prime slice of Eden real  estate  and has big plans for its transformation.

TD  According to the college's business plan, the existing school buildings will be renovated while a  hotel  and self-

contained accommodation will be built to the rear of the 9777sqm  site , which has Calle Calle and Chandos
street frontages.

The college will offer students year-round study tours to Eden.

Under its business model, it will also offer  hotel  accommodation, time-share holidays for retirees and functions,
as well as off-shoots such as wedding photography and golf.

Eden Realty licensee Glenn Brunette said it was the most significant  sale  since the tuna cannery and BHP sites
were  sold  in early 2000.

Mr Brunette said the deal - which is now unconditional with settlement expected In November - complied with
Foreign Investment Review  Board  guidelines for a  commercial property .

The  sale  was a "tremendous vote of confidence in Eden," he said.

Tian Fu College representatives have made two visits to Eden this year, the most recent about three weeks ago,
he said.

They also met with Bega Valley Shire Council, he said.

The college's business plan states that renovation of the current school buildings will start immediately after
acquisition to make it a centre for visiting Tian Fu students.

Staged construction of  hotel  and self-contained accommodation on the  property  will be completed within two
years, it said.

Tian Fu College, based in Sichuan province, has more than 26,000 students and 1700 lecturers. It also has real
estate  interests in Melbourne and western Sydney.

The planned redevelopment of the St Joseph's  site  by  China 's Tian Fu College was a winning trifecta for
Eden, along with the port redevelopment and Imlay Street upgrade, Eden Realty licensee Glenn Brunette said.

"It's a tremendous vote of confidence in Eden," Mr Brunette told the Magnet.

"Nothing like this had happened in Eden for 30 years," he said, adding that in that time the town's population had
slumped from almost 5000 to 3500.

Mr Brunette predicted that the college's ambitious plans for the  site  would result in a jobs boost for Eden.

https://global-factiva-com.virtual.anu.edu.au/hp/printsavews.aspx?pp=Print&hc=All

1/2

8/19/2017

Factiva

Jobs would be generated in the initial redevelopment and construction phases, and would then flow on through
to ancillary positions such as cleaners and gardeners.

The college's business plan said it would be "looking to recruit all kinds of experts from the local area" including
managers, lecturers and other employees.

St Joseph's Catholic School closed its doors in 2012 and the  property  was offered for  sale .

The former school was bought by a Melbourne-based  property  developer in May 2013 who then relisted it for
sale  earlier this year after he decided to pursue off-shore investment opportunities.

Mr Brunette said that while there had been a lot of interest in the  site , in the end it was the  Chinese  who were
prepared to sign on the dotted line and turn their plans into reality.

According to Tian Fu College's business plan, the Eden  site  would be one of a "comprehensive, systematic
chain of centres in Australia", pointing to its strategic coastal location half-way between Sydney and Melbourne.

"Our centres are all going to be located in fabulous tourism destinations," the plan said.

All services would be open to the Australian as well as international market, it said.

Other business opportunities for the Eden  site  may include a health retreat and organic farming courses for
both students and the public, it said.

Tian Fu College was set up in 2002 and has partnerships with universities, including in the US and UK.

IN  i5010028 : School Construction | i501 : Building Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction

NS  guni : University/College | gcat : Political/General News | gedu : Education

RE  austr : Australia | china : China | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies |
easiaz : Eastern Asia

PUB  Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited

AN  Document FEDENM0020151001eb9u00007

Search Summary
Text

((chin* or hong kong)) and ( ( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment or
park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or assets) and (transaction* or purchase* or sale or
sold or buy) ) or ( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead or coal or oil)
and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and
(operations or mining or firm or company)) or ( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or
sale or equity or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or board) and (million*
or billion* or B or M)) ) not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street or Forex
or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex) and re=austr
30/09/2015 to 06/10/2015
All Sources
All Authors

Date
Source
Author
Company All Companies
Subject
Industry
Region
Language English
Results
Found
Timestamp 19 August 2017 18:18

All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions

281

© 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

 

https://global-factiva-com.virtual.anu.edu.au/hp/printsavews.aspx?pp=Print&hc=All

2/2

