SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Bega to supply milk to China in $100m deal

SUE NEALES Rural reporter
533 words
20 September 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
28
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

AUSTRALIA’S specialist Bega Cheese company will become a milk processor, trader and exporter
in a single move with the announcement yesterday of a pioneering $100 million milk sales deal with
China.

Chairman Barry Irvin and chief executive Aidan Coleman yesterday signed a supply and distribution
agreement with the Chongqing General Trading Group, the largest food and supermarket retailer in
the Chongqing region of southwest China.

The five-year deal will see the listed cheese company, which also owns the Tatura milk powder and
infant formula brand, export 20 million litres of long-life UHT Bega branded milk annually to CGTG’s
300 supermarkets in southwest China.

In Chongqing for the formal signing yesterday, Mr Coleman signalled the move was the first step in
Bega both extending its range of Bega-branded dairy products beyond cheese and moving towards
large-scale UHT export milk production in the future.

CGTG commands a 50 per cent share of all food and general merchandise sales to the region’s 32
million people.

Chairman Dr He said demand in Chongqing for high quality protein — especially milk and dairy
products produced in Australia with a reputation for being high-quality, healthy and safe — was
soaring.

“China’s consumption of milk and dairy products is increasing rapidly; CGTG is excited to work with
Bega to satisfy that need and to have an Australian icon on our shelves,” Dr He said.

The deal is likely to require Bega Cheese to build a new UHT milk processing plant, most likely in
Victoria’s Gippsland region, as it processes no fresh milk itself.

It is understood that Bega will have its new UHT milk cartons bound for Chongqing — the deal
starts immediately — supplied under contract by another processor for the first six months, as it
locks in supply contracts for another 20 million litres annually from its farmer suppliers.

It appears Bega has sold its Australian-produced and processed Bega UHT milk to CGTG for the
price of just $1 a litre, much lower than the $10 a litre being paid in China for Norco’s fresh milk
airfreighted from Australia.

But the UHT long-life milk treatment will allow Bega to ship rather than fly its milk to China, as well
as representing a foot-in-the-door deal to build goodwill between partners.

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Bega-CGTG agreement was brokered by boutique Australian food importer O’Fresh China,
headed by Shanghai-based former ALP Queensland minister for natural resources and water Craig
Wallace.

Mr Wallace and his business partner, Lee Bermingham, yesterday predicted China’s growing middle
class would continue to look to Australia as a source of quality food for many years to come.

Mr Bermingham, who handled most of the negotiations at the Australian end, said more Australian
companies wanting to export should consider partnering with Chinese domestic players such as
CGTG.

“China’s system of permits and import requirements is very different to that of Australia,” Mr
Bermingham said.

“Couple this with regional marketing and distribution needs, and negotiating successful sales in
China can be daunting.“It requires patience and hard work,” he added.

becoop : Bega Cheese Ltd
i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 :
Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy Products | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | china : China | chongp : Chongqing | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140919ea9k0006b

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.