SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Towers attract offshore players to Sydney CBD

BEN WILMOT
363 words
8 February 2016
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
20
English
© 2016 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Sites: Chinese developers and local players with offshore backing are tipped to chase the next round
of towers being offered in Sydney’s central business district and inner city with over $200 million of
property in play.

The largest offer is in Sussex Street, where a 19-level office tower overlooking Darling Harbour has
been listed for sale by Deutsche Asset Management.

The tower, which financial services group ING shifts out of next year, is likely to be converted into a
residential development, and could sell for over $130m.

CBRE’s Richard Butler, Josh Cullen, Mark Hansen and Sharon Yang are selling the 140 Sussex Street
property, which also includes a historic warehouse occupied by Kingsley’s Steakhouse alongside the
11,742sq m A-grade office tower.

“We expect sophisticated developers, onshore and offshore, private and publicly listed, to show strong
interest in the site, with a view to unlock its potential with a mixed use or residential development,” Mr
Butler said.
The site can accommodate a top-class development with up to 208 apartments over 35 levels. AMP
Capital’s recent sale of 71 Macquarie Street, at Circular Quay, to Chinese group Macrolink and local
developer Landream for $158.5m has set a steep benchmark.
Chinese groups are now seeking to develop the sites they have acquired over the past year.
In Sydney’s inner city suburb of Rosebery, private Chinese developer Maville has lodged plans for a
$93m apartment project on a site it bought last year for $48m.
The industrial site at 12-24 Rothschild Avenue is to be transformed into about 260 high-end
apartments after being sold by Sussman & Company in a deal last year brokered by Michael Crombie
and James Bellew of Colliers International.Maville is best known for its plans to convert a 333 Kent St
site into a 24-storey residential tower with serviced apartments. The company also picked up last
year an industrial building at 219 Botany Road, Waterloo, in a $29.5m deal brokered by Brian McInally
and Trent Gallagher of Colliers International , and has also been identified for a residential play.

NS

RE

c182 : Physical Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020160207ec280002r

Search Summary

Text

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

((chin* or hong kong)) and ( ( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or
island or hotel or apartment or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or
company or board or entitys) and (transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) ) or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company)) or ( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or
sale or equity or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or
group or firm or board) and (million* or billion* or B or M)) ) not (terrorism or war or
navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street or Forex or Stock
Exchange or rst=asxtex) and re=austr
05/02/2016 to 11/02/2016
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
197
18 September 2017 19:09

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.