9/18/2017

Factiva

Home

Search

Alerts

Newsletters

News Pages

Companies/Markets

Display Options

+ Related Dow Jones Intelligent Indexing™

Listen to Article

 | 

Share

HD  Chinese real estate investment in Australia has dropped compared to last year
WC  232 words
PD  20 October 2016
SN  Jpost.com (The Jerusalem Post online edition)
SC  JPSTEN
LA  English
CY  © 2016, Jpost.com (The Jerusalem Post online edition), All rights Reserved - Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.
LP  CHINESE investment in Australian commercial real estate was down considerably on last year, although a

new report reveals it has started to pick up again.

The latest Knight Frank Chinese Outbound Real Estate Investment Report tipped more investment to come
throughout the rest of the year.

TD  It said the investment in Australia was driven by Chinese economic and policy factors.

Knight Frank head of research and consulting Australia, Matt Whitby, said the volume of Chinese investment
in Australia was down because there had not been many mega portfolio deals during the first half of the year.

The report found there was still a strong appetite from Chinese investors for commercial properties in Sydney
and Melbourne which was in part driven by rental growth and strong demand.

The report said Chinese and other Asian investors continued to be drawn mainly to office markets in those
capital cities.

Fewer buying opportunities, coupled with the positive rental outlook, have already attracted large Chinese
private developers such as Poly Group and Shanghai Shenglong to the office market, it said.

Recent sales to Chinese buyers include 15 Help Street, Chatswood which sold for $43.8 million to One Pro
Investment Group; 20 Bridge Street, Pymble which sold for $78 million to YuHu; and 210 George Street,
Sydney which sold for $160 million to Poly Group.

RE  austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries |
chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

IPD  Financial Services

PUB  The Jerusalem Post

AN  Document JPSTEN0020161020ecak001xi

UI Ver:98.6.0 Mod:13:30 ID:FWEB12

© 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.  Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Policy

 

https://global-factiva-com.virtual.anu.edu.au/ga/default.aspx

1/1

