9/19/2017

Factiva

Home

Search

Alerts

Newsletters

News Pages

Companies/Markets

Display Options

+ Related Dow Jones Intelligent Indexing™

Listen to Article

 | 

Translate Article | 

Share

HD  BOYUAN HOLDINGS LIMITED; Acquisition of Major Development Site- Bringelly
WC  311 words
PD  23 December 2016
SN  ASX ComNews (Text version of ASX Company Announcements) (Australia)
SC  ASXTEX
LA  English
CY  2016 Copyright The Australian Securities Exchange Limited
LP 

TD               

23 December, 2016 
ASX announcement 
Company Announcements Office - ASX Limited 

ACQUISITION OF MAJOR DEVELOPMENT SITE 
BOYUAN AQUIRES BRINGELLY SITE FOR $70 MILLION 
Property group, Boyuan Holdings Limited (ASX:BHL) “Boyuan” has significantly 
strengthened its development portfolio in the Western Sydney growth corridor with the 
acquisition of a 40.5-hectare development site at Bringelly for $70 million. 
The acquisition is consistent with statements in Boyuan’s 12 September 2016 
prospectus that Boyuan would continue to explore property development opportunities 
in Australia. 
The property on the Northern Road, Bringelly is located 14 kilometres south of 
Badgery’s Creek, surrounded by housing diversity and significant infrastructure, 
including the proposed second Sydney airport at Badgerys Creek. 
It is also located within five kilometres of the Oran Park town centre and the proposed 
Oran Park rail station. 
Chief Executive Officer of Boyuan, Caden Wan, said the acquisition was consistent 
with the company’s strategy to pursue further growth opportunities in the Australian 
property market, particularly in high growth corridors. 
“This acquisition is a strong complement to Boyuan’s existing Western Sydney 
development portfolio where we have development sites at Marsden Park and 
Austral,” Mr Wan said. 
“We are rapidly building a quality land bank in the highest growth area of Sydney, 
adjacent to strong housing demand and existing and proposed infrastructure. 
“This specific site at Bringelly is particularly compelling given its close proximity to the 
proposed second Sydney airport and strong, ongoing demand for housing. 
“We’re excited to work with our partners to bring this project to life. 
“The directors of the Company believe this will be a value accretive acquisition with 
significant upside for shareholders over time.” 
Boyuan expects to develop a village centre of approximately 70,000 square metres, 
with around 600 housing lots at an average lot size of 400 square ... 

Original Document

Text Document

CO  heoorn : Boyuan Holdings Ltd

IN  i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest : Real Estate

NS  c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Divestments | cacqu : Acquisitions/Mergers | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat :

Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter

RE  austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales

IPC  07001

PUB  The Australian Securities Exchange Limited

AN  Document ASXTEX0020161222eccn00ga5

UI Ver:98.6.0 Mod:13:30 ID:FWEB11

© 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.  Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Policy

 

https://global-factiva-com.virtual.anu.edu.au/ga/default.aspx

1/1

