Business
Dairy is flavour of the moment
374 words
30 December 2015
The Australian - Online
AUSTOL
English
© 2015 News Limited. All rights reserved.
Gippsland-based dairyBurra Foods has placed a $300 million price tag on the business as it comes under
scrutiny from Canada’s Saputo and a potential Chinese buyer.
Dairy is flavour of the moment
Whether Burra’s controlling shareholders, the Crothers family, achieve their desired sale price remains to be
seen.
But the way dairy stocks are trading on the bourse at the moment, anything looks possible.
Key dairy shares are trading in record territory, while others in the industry are struggling to make a profit.
Bega Cheese was hotly sought after this morning, trading at $8.09 a share before settling on $7.99 — up 7.9
per cent for the day and up some 66 per cent since it signed a deal with Blackmores on September 29 to
supply the vitamin company with infant formula for its Asian export business.
Milk importer Bellamy’s was trading up 2.5 per cent at $15.87 — more than double its $7.91 price at the end
of September.

...
Neither Bega nor Fonterra have surplus supplies of organic milk given the tight restrictions on the label,
which explains why imported product is used by the Tasmanian-based Bellamy’s.
Australian Dairy Farms, which acquired Camperdown Dairy in a debt-funded deal for $11 million this week,
has also seen its stock price triple since the end of September. It was up 47 per cent at 48 cents a share in
late morning trade...

The Crothers family has a minority backer, Japanese trading house Itochu, and engaged Moelis earlier this
year to review Burra for potential sale.
Saputo paid $519 million for Warrnambool Cheese and Butter two years ago and has made no secret of its
desire to buy more assets in Australia.
While dairy stocks are trading at record levels on the bourse, many businesses — including the likes of
Fonterra — are struggling to post positive returns.

Document AUSTOL0020151230ebcu000b5

Search Summary

Text

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or entity) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
23/12/2015 to 31/12/2015
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
153
25 August 2017 10:14

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.