10/8/2017

Factiva

Home

Search

Alerts

Newsletters

News Pages

Companies/Markets

Display Options

+ Related Dow Jones Intelligent Indexing™

Listen to Article

 | 

Share

SE  Property
HD  China's appetite for land called 'mind-boggling'

AU  Matthew Cranston, Lisa Murray
BY  Matthew Cranston and Lisa Murray
WC  960 words
PD  26 April 2016
SN  The Australian Financial Review
SC  AFNR
ED  First
PG  32
LA  English
CY  Copyright 2016. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.
TD  Sino of the times 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 
Location  
NT, Qld, SA, WA  
 
 
Tasmania 

 
         
 

 
Major Chinese rural land purchases in Australia  
 
Property  
Buyer    
 
 
S. Kidman & Co   
 
Shanghai Pengxin 
 
 
controlled by Hunan 
 
 
Dakang Pasture Farming   
 
Van Diemen's Land 
 
Moon Lake 
 
 
 
 
Company  
 
 
Westmar , Qld   
 
Fucheng Group   
 
St George, Qld   
 
Hailiang Group   
 
 
Dashang Group   
NT/ Qld border   
 
Xingfa Ma's Tianma 
 
 
Bearings Group   
NT       
 
Yiang Xiang Assets 
New Hope 
 
 
Goondiwindi, Qld, 
 
Oriental Agriculture 
 
Shanghai CRED   
Kimberley & 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discovery Macadamia 
 
 
 
 
Splendid Farm   
Shandong Ruyi   
 
* JOINT VENTURE  
SOURCE: FINANCIAL REVIEW

 
 
 
 
 
 
Woodlands    
Hollymount Station 
Glenrock Station 
Wollogorang and  
Wentworth 
 
Elizabeth Downs  
 
Undabri  
Yakka Munga and Mt 
 
 
 
 
 
Dunoon Macadamia 
 
Waterloo 
 
Cubbie Station   

Plantations      
 
St George, Qld   

Elizabeth, Mertondale,  Wheatbelt, WA   
Riverina, Perrinvale,   
 
Clover Downs,   
Jeedamya, Melita and 
 
Kookynie, Marvel Loch   

northern NSW 
Pampas, Qld 

Hunter Valley,   

Moxey Farms 

Lismore in 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 

$28m 
$40m 

$47m 

 
$25m 

$12m 
Lachlan Valley, NSW 

 

         

 
$371m 

FIRB 
 

 

Value ($) 

(pending 

$280m 

$45m 

$100m* 
$18m 

$18m-$20m 

$2m 

 
 
 
$232m 

The conditional $371 million purchase of Australia's largest land holder, S.Kidman & Co, by China's Dakang is the beginning of an ambitious plan by the
country to secure more agricultural land and feed its population.

China was Australia's largest source of foreign investment in agriculture last year, spending $2.5 billion on our farms and food factories - more than double that
of the United States.

While public and political interest grows when China makes any investment in Australia, nothing seems to spark debate quite like that of a big land deal. While
many Australians - including politicians Deputy Prime Minister Barnaby Joyce and Liberal Senator Bill Heffernan, and controversial businessman Dick Smith -
see China's investment as an opportunistic land grab, many Chinese see it as a pioneering effort from national heroes.

Holding Redlich partner and head of the firm's China practice Carl Hinze has one of the best insights into how China's ambition will play out in Australia. After
living in the country for 10 years and spending most of the past 25 years doing deals there, he has learnt to speak the language fluently and understand the
culture.

"The reality continues to be that Chinese buyers have a demand which cannot be satisfied by current capacity in Australia. The scale of their needs is mind-
boggling," Mr Hinze says.

Those Chinese companies coming out to Australia and buying land are seen as national heroes.

"Private Chinese business people who make successful investments in Australia's agriculture in pursuit of China's 'going out strategy' gain 'face' back home,
and that 'face' can open doors and secure opportunities in China which would otherwise not be available to them."

However, he says it is more than that. "China's ambition is about combining the commercial objective of pursuing profit-making opportunities with the added
benefit of achieving China's food security objectives."

Part of the motive is about looking for more secure investments abroad now that the investment returns on property and mining in China are trending down.

"They are looking for less riskier investments. Their initial investments abroad are about doing what they know best, investing in commercial and residential
property, but the scale in the Australian market is so much smaller than what they are used to in China. They then diversify into areas they are not so familiar
with, and the classic area is agriculture."

Ashurst partner Kylie Lane, who has led several major Chinese agricultural transactions, says profit motive is paramount. "China's interest is more about profit
motive and a desire to diversify income into a safe country.

"I wouldn't discount the national champion approach - both are interconnected - but I think it depends more on the entity you are interacting with."

https://global-factiva-com.virtual.anu.edu.au/ga/default.aspx

1/2

10/8/2017

Factiva

Since 2012, when a formal meeting between more than a dozen Chinese companies and Australian government officials explored land acquisition
opportunities, investment from China has grown rapidly.

Hunan Dakang Farming Pasture, majority owned by Pengxin, agreed to pay $371 million for S. Kidman Co last week, which owns more than 10 million
hectares across Australia.

"This deal is to promote the development of the whole supply chain of our imported beef business," Dakang said.

Chinese billionaire Xingfa Ma, who snapped up Wollogorang and Wentworth cattle stations on the shores of the Gulf of Carpentaria in the Northern Territory for
$47 million last year has a similar motive.

Mr Ma, the founder and chairman of Tianma Bearings Group, is looking to diversify his business operationally and geographically and the company's latest
annual report clearly earmarks agriculture as a "growth engine".

Chairman of New Hope Group Liu Yonghao said China's was very attracted to Australia's quality land.

"Australia has a vast landmass, good grasslands and sunshine," he said.

The list goes on and on. Austrade's trade commissioner in Chengdu, Jeff Turner, said last year at Austrade's Australian Beef Industry Seminar in Brisbane that
the line-up of Chinese interests was extensive, with as many as 300 Chinese cattle and cattle-related companies looking to invest Australia.

And this is all despite new Foreign Investment Review Board rules which require Chinese investments in agricultural land over $15 million to be vetted.

How long the Chinese-fuelled rush for land will continue depends on so many factors but key among them is China's restrictions on capital outflows and
Australia's own regulations.

"Chinese investors are certainly thinking long and hard about their Australian investments," Mr Hinze says. "With the Chinese government looking to stem net
capital outflows through once again tightening controls of the capital account, and with recent efforts to reignite the property sector in China, we are noticing a
degree of reticence among Chinese clients about investing in Australia."

IN  ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction

RE  china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market

Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

PUB  Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited

AN  Document AFNR000020160425ec4q0001y

UI Ver:99.1.0 Mod:22:40 ID:FWEB12

© 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.  Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Policy

 

https://global-factiva-com.virtual.anu.edu.au/ga/default.aspx

2/2

