9/20/2017

Factiva

Home

Search

Alerts

Newsletters

News Pages

Companies/Markets

LIVE HELP

Display Options

+ Related Dow Jones Intelligent Indexing™

Listen to Article

 | 

Translate Article | 

Share

SE  News
HD  ‘Alarm bells’ for Super Pit

AU  Josh Chiat
BY  Josh Chiat
WC  518 words
PD  22 November 2016
SN  Kalgoorlie Miner
SC  KALGOO
ED  First
PG  1
LA  English
CY  (c) 2016 West Australian Newspapers Limited
LP  Kalgoorlie-Boulder Mayor John Bowler said people in the Goldfields should have no concerns about Chinese investment in the wake of Minjar Gold’s reported

$US1 billion bid for Barrick’s half-stake in the Super Pit, but is concerned about the firm’s ability to meet the mine’s long-term financial obligations.

He warned that whoever took control of Kalgoorlie Consolidated Gold Mines, which employs about 1200 people in the heart of Kalgoorlie-Boulder, had to be
able to fund the project for years to come.

TD  “There’s Chinese investments all through the Goldfields now, and I have no trouble with Chinese investments,” he said.

“However, I do have a problem with the capacity of that company to meet their demands, particularly with the rehabilitation that will come with the closure in 30
or 40 years time.”

Minjar — which counts a $52 million purchase of Evolution’s Pajingo Mine in Queensland as its largest Australian acquisition — is a subsidiary of real estate
firm Shandong Tianye Group, a fact Mr Bowler said sent alarms bells ringing.

“They’ve got to be looking long-term, big amounts of money,” he said. “And that’s my big worry, that they can meet their commitments whenever it may be.

“I understand they’re a subsidiary of a real estate company. That has my alarm bells ringing, but if they can convince government and make sure they have the
funds set aside, then they should be OK.”

The process looms as another test for Australia’s Foreign Investment Review Board, after Treasurer Scott Morrison put the skids on a $370 million bid from a
Chinese consortium for the S. Kidman and Co cattle empire in April.

But mining companies have not proven as much of a hot potato as agricultural land in recent years.

Chinese operators have found success in the Goldfields in recent years. Zijin have taken full control of Norton Goldfields, moving its headquarters to
Kalgoorlie-Boulder last year, while Hanking recently put the Southern Cross Gold Mine, purchased from St Barbara during the downturn for $22.5 million in
2013, up for sale for a reported $300-$400 million.

Federal member for O’Connor Rick Wilson said it was evidence foreign investment was essential for the region’s fortunes.

“The benefits of foreign investment to Australian employment are almost incalculable and there wouldn’t be many people working in the mining industry if it
weren’t for foreign investors coming in,” he said.

State leader of the Opposition Mark McGowan said in Kalgoorlie-Boulder yesterday that he welcomed foreign investment and would place his faith in the
review system.

“(But) we need to make sure that whoever owns the Super Pit has a strong enough balance sheet to ensure that the pit operates for the long-term future,” he
said.

KCGM Community Reference Group chairman Morrie Goodz said Kalgoorlie-Boulder residents expected Minjar to bring the level of professionalism Newmont
and Barrick have brought to the operation, and “the technical and financial capacity to invest in the project’s future”.

CO  kcgmpl : Kalgoorlie Consolidated Gold Mines Pty. Ltd. | bari : Barrick Gold Corp | newmnt : Newmont Mining Corp

IN  i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining

NS  npag : Page-One Stories | ncat : Content Types

RE  china : China | austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China |

devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

PUB  West Australian Newspapers Limited

AN  Document KALGOO0020161121ecbm0000r

UI Ver:98.6.0 Mod:13:30 ID:FWEB1

© 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.  Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Policy

 

https://global.factiva.com/ga/default.aspx

1/1

