SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
China’s Poly eyes southern CBD asset buys

MAGGIE LU YUEYANG, STRATEGY
585 words
5 September 2016
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
21
English
© 2016 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Poly Australia, the local arm of Shanghai-listed Poly Real Estate, has revealed its ambitions to acquire
prime office assets in Melbourne after completing the purchase of two buildings in Sydney’s CBD,
where it plans to develop a major tower.

The company, which is beefing up its acquisition capacity with the appointment of a new acquisitions
director, will also evaluate more residential projects in Melbourne after losing out in the contest for the
Telstra tower earlier this year.

It will open an office in Melbourne this year as it seeks to further these plans, which build on its
investments in South Yarra and Docklands apartment projects.

“Our key focus is on larger site projects, I would say; we like the $100m plus investments,” Poly
Australia’s sales and marketing director Philip Best said.

“We will certainly look at Melbourne CBD office, A-grade office in the CBD. Whether we take it as a
development play, or whether we take it as an asset and hold, it really depends on the opportunities
there,” he said. “We see the Melbourne office market being stable to strong.” The company bought
adjacent buildings at 210-220 George Street in Sydney, near Circular Quay, for $160 million in July.

It has flagged bold plans to redevelop the two existing buildings into a single new A-grade office tower
with ground floor retail space, in keeping with Mirvac’s recently completed EY Tower at 200 George
Street.

That plan is still at the early stages of a feasibility study, but the company will work as quickly as
possible to submit it for approval, according to Mr Best.

“We would like to be able to submit construction design concepts for approval next year,” he said.
“Conceptually, based on the City of Sydney town planning regulations, we are able to get greater
heights, so our expectation would be to create an A-grade or prime grade building at that location.” On
the residential front, Poly aims to create a development pipeline of up to 3000 apartments annually in
Australia, with plans to acquire more development sites in Melbourne and Sydney.

Earlier this year, Poly put a bid for the 308 Exhibition Street site in Melbourne sold by Telstra but lost
out to Malaysian developer SP Setia, which just lodged plans for a $640m twin tower development.

“Obviously we like high-density residential, but at the same time we are doing house and land as well,”
Mr Best said.

Page 1 of 2 © 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

The company is launching its first house and land project, the Grove Place, in western Sydney this
month. It bought the vacant 30,610sq m site at 229 Victoria Street in Werrington from the City of
Penrith earlier this year for an undisclosed sum.

The 67-lot master planned community, 6km from Penrith, has received hundreds of inquiries, mainly
from owner-occupiers in the Indian community near Parramatta, according to Mr Best.

As to the underlying demand, Mr Best noted there were fewer foreign buyers at its residential project in
Epping in Sydney’s northwest, but he shrugged off concerns about an oversupply of inner-city high-rise
apartments, particularly in Melbourne.“You’ve got to remember it can take three to four years to
actually bring a project to finish, so today everyone is talking about oversupply, (but) if you look at five
years out, seven years out, is that the same story? That’s the question we ask ourselves.”

tcoma : Telstra Corporation Ltd
i7902 : Telecommunication Services
c182 : Physical Asset Transactions | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Divestments | c411 : Management
Moves | cacqu : Acquisitions/Mergers | cslmc : Senior Level Management | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c18 :
Ownership Changes | c41 : Management | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
| ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E
Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | melb : Melbourne | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) |
apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz :
Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz :
Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020160904ec9500034

CO
IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page 2 of 2 © 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

