SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

More Sports
Lithium lure sees Chinese lift stake

Paul Garvey
375 words
3 February 2016
The Australian - Online
AUSTOL
English
© 2016 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Lithium play Neometals has sold another 18.1 per cent stake in its Mt Marion project near
Kalgoorlie to Chinese group Ganfeng for $US27.15 million ($38.6m), paving the way for a special
cash distribution to its shareholders.
Lithium lure sees Chinese lift stake

Neometals said Ganfeng, China’s second-largest lithium producer, had decided to exercise an
option to lift its stake in Mt Marion to 43.1 per cent.
The deal will lift Neometals’ cash position to almost $70m, leaving the company with ample funding
for its development plans.

“It’s more cash than we need,” Neometals managing director Chris Reed told The Australian,
adding that the company was working with advisers to look at the best options for returning some
of the cash to shareholders.

Neometals has been one of the big beneficiaries of the rising investor interest in lithium. Demand
for the material is expected to surge as electric cars and home energy storage applications drive
increased demand for lithium batteries.
Fellow Perth-listed mining and contracting company Mineral Resources owns a 30 per cent
interest in Mt Marion and is overseeing the construction of the mine, which will come into production
later this year.
Mr Reed said the sale to Ganfeng would also leave Neometals with enough cash to cover the
planned construction of a downstream lithium hydroxide plant, which would allow for the upgrade of
concentrate from Mt Marion into higher value material.

“The most important thing for us is it strengthens the balance sheet and means our downstream
plans can be fully funded,” he said.

The move by Ganfeng is another big endorsement of the project and follows its decision last week
to expand a take-or-pay agreement over offtake from Mt Marion.

State One Stockbroking analyst David Brennan said the cash injection from Ganfeng would likely
lead to a share buyback or special dividend.

“We believe that Ganfeng’s decision ... illustrates the robustness of the project and its strategic
importance to China’s second largest lithium producer,” he said in a note.

Neometals shares rose 9.4 per cent to 17.5c each yesterday. The stock was trading at just 3.2c a
year ago.

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE

IPD
PUB
AN

gspo : Sports/Recreation | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter
| nrgn : Routine General News
china : China | austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
lithium producer
News Ltd.
Document AUSTOL0020160203ec23001a2

Search Summary

Text

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or entitys) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
29/01/2016 to 04/02/2016
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
199
21 September 2017 13:53

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.