SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
New Sky over west of Melbourne

Larry Schlesinger
416 words
29 September 2016
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
40
English
Copyright 2016. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Chinese developer New Sky has moved into the house and land market, snapping up a 64-hectare
housing project in Melbourne's west with approval for 800 lots for about $60 million.

The deal comes as Melbourne's land market becomes increasingly attractive to developers with
population growth and affordability driving a record 22,000 lots sold this past financial year,
according to the Victorian Planning Authority.

New Sky, which has a 60-storey tower development on Southbank called 88 Melbourne and another
apartment project in Blackburn, bought the housing estate on Sayers Road in Tarneit known as
"Golden Sayers" from prominent WA-based developer Golden Group, backed by Indonesian mining
magnate Johan Lensa.

Demand for permitted sites on Melbourne's fringe - as stock levels run low - presented Golden
Group with the opportunity to take an early profit, nearly doubling its money on the $36 million it paid
in 2011.

The former farm shot up in value - turning its owner into a multi-millionaire - after the expansion of
Melbourne's Urban Growth Boundary in 2010 made it suitable for conversion to housing.

Despite apartment sales starting to decline in Melbourne, albeit off a very high base, New Sky
Group's Judy Gu told The Australian Financial Review land development and apartments were still
in demand as they catered to different buyers and needs.

Ms Gu said land in Victoria was still affordable compared to the east coast.

"We have also acquired another site at Truganina which consists of approximately 450 lots, with our
land acquisition to date totalling $100 million," she said.

Chinese-backed developers have been pouring money into Melbourne development sites amid the
land boom, including Chinese real estate giant Dahua, who bought a 63-hectare greenfield site in
Melbourne's western growth corridor from Lendlease for more than $60 million.

The sale of the Tarneit site to New Sky was negotiated by Frank Nagle and Andrew Egan from
Biggins and Scott Land. Mr Egan said the sale was further evidence of the significant interest among
international players in the Melbourne land market.

"The competition for this site shows demand is not abating," Mr Egan said.

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Golden Group has more than a dozen residential communities under development in WA and
Victoria. The company is backed by Mr Lensa, who has investments in coal mining and property and
has amassed a $US670 million fortune, according to the Jakarta Post, making him Indonesia's 56th
richest person.

i5010022 : Residential Building Construction | ireest : Real Estate | i501 : Building Construction |
iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction
ereal : Real Estate Markets | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020160928ec9t0001q

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.