Overseas
China’s State Power Investment Buys Pacific Hydro from IFM Investors sub headline]
May Hui
264 words
17 December 2015
Greater China Private Equity Review Daily
GCPERD
English
Copyright 2015. Greater China Private Equity Review. All rights reserved.
Australian pension fund IFM Investors has agreed to sell Australia-headquartered renewable energy platform
Pacific Hydro to China’s State Power Investment Corporation (SPIC) (國家電力投資集團公司).
The acquisition price was not disclosed but local media put it more than A$2 billion (US$1.4 billion). IFM
acquired the asset in 2006 through the IFM Australian Infrastructure Fund. IFM Investors is backed by
industry funds including Australian Super, CBUS and Hostplus.
Pacific Hydro has 900 megawatts of capacity across 19 hydroelectric and wind generation facilities in
Australia, Brazil and Chile. It also offers retail electricity products to residential and commercial clients in
Australia. It will be added to the Chinese company’s roster of assets in 35 countries. Pacific Hydro took a
US$685 million writedown last year.
SPIC was formed from a merger of China Power Investment Corporation and State Nuclear Power
Technology Corporation and has interests in logistics and coal power. “The acquisition of Pacific Hydro will
add a high quality global renewable development platform to SPIC,” WANG Binghua, the chairman of State
Power, said in a news release. SPIC has US$113 ... will add a high quality global renewable development
platform to SPIC,” WANG Binghua, the chairman of State Power, said in a news release. SPIC has US$113
billion of assets under management.
The acquisition also marks the latest acquisition by a Chinese company that has seen a string of
Australian investments from property to engineering snapped up in recent years.

...

Document GCPERD0020151222ebch0002t

Search Summary

Text

Date

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or entity) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
16/12/2015 to 22/12/2015

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
199
24 August 2017 12:55

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.