HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Australia privatizes busiest container port

517 words
20 September 2016
04:11
Deutsche Welle
DEUEN
English
(c) 2016. Deutsche Welle.

An Australian-led consortium with Chinese investment has won a 50-year lease on the Port of
Melbourne in a deal giving the government billions to improve the nation's infrastructure and creating
thousands of jobs.

The Port of Melbourne, which deals with more than 3,000 ships annually, was snapped up by the
Lonsdale Consortium, which includes Australia's sovereign wealth fund - the Queensland Investment
Corporation (QIC) - and multinational firm Global Infrastructure Partners (GIP).

The long-term lease was sold for Aus$9.7 billion (US$7.3 billion, 6.5 billion euros) and was the latest in
a series of port privatizations in the country recently.

Tim Pallas, treasurer in the state of Victoria, signed the contracts on Monday, saying the lease fetched a
higher price than originally expected by the government.

"I think we've been very lucky in terms of timing… couldn't have picked a better time to go to the
market," he told reporters. "To say it was a good day and this was a pleasant surprise would be a mild
understatement."

China fears

According to Australian media reports, GIP was acting partly on behalf of China's sovereign wealth fund
CIC Capital, which had reportedly secured 20 percent of the port. A source close to the consortium
confirmed to the news agency AFP that CIC Capital was represented by GIP but would not reveal the
size of its investment.

Chinese interests buying up crucial infrastructure has met with criticism in Australia after a 99-year lease
for the Port of Darwin was sold to China's Landbridge Group at the beginning of this year. The debate
has led to tougher rules adopted by Victoria in March, stating that such sales to private foreign investors,
notably from China, must be subject to a formal review by Australia's foreign investment advisory body.

China was also part of an Australian-led consortium that secured a 98-year lease in 2014 for the world's
biggest coal export port in Newcastle. That deal followed the long-term lease of Sydney's Port Botany
and Port Kembla further south as a growing number of major Australian ports are privatized.

Investment drives

QIC Global Infrastructure chief Ross Israel told reporters the acquisition of the port was part of the
Lonsdale consortium's "long-term vision and business plan."

"The Port of Melbourne is core infrastructure. It is a critical and strategic piece of the Victorian and
Australian logistics supply chain," he said. "Leveraging our global port and regulated asset experience,

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.QIC is focused on delivering long-term stewardship and improvements to the port and for its users," he
added.

AboutAus$970 million of the proceeds of the sale, which has been approved by regulators, will be spent
on regional and rural infrastructure projects.

"Regional Victoria will be big winners from the lease, with significant funding to support projects they
need, like better roads, and irrigation and energy projects," Pallas noted, adding that some of the money
would go towards removing 50 railway level crossings.

uhe/kd (AP, Reuters, AFP)

RF
CO

IN

NS

RE

IPD
PUB
AN

19562476
glinvf : Global Infrastructure Partners LLC | queeic : Queensland Investment Corporation | gnelc :
General Electric Company | sk : Credit Suisse Group AG
i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150206 : Closed-end Funds/Investment Trusts | ifinal :
Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
c183 : Privatizations/Nationalization | ntra : Transcripts | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate
Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E
Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE
Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | melb : Melbourne | queensl : Queensland | victor : Victoria (Australia) |
apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater
China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Business
Deutsche Welle
Document DEUEN00020160919ec9j000m9

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.