HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

A wild ride

783 words
21 December 2016
Weekly Times
HERWEK
WeeklyTimesWrap
8
English
© 2016 News Limited. All rights reserved.

From the scorching dry to floods aplenty, from policy wins to political mayhem and the worst dairy
crisis in decades, The Weekly Times was there to tell the story

JANUARY 27 Dairy was making front page news from the get-go in 2016, but it wasn’t the milk in the
country causing problems — it was the milk leaving it. Booming infant milk formula exports to China
were squeezing out airfreight exports of perishable fruits and vegetables. It caused headaches for
growers wanting to export their produce quickly to key Asian markets.

FEBRUARY 17 After several years covering the story, The Weekly Times revealed plans were afoot to
make rollover protection for quad bikes effectively mandatory in Victoria. WorkSafe Victoria tightened
quad bike rules, banning them from workplaces unless fitted with the appropriate rollover protection.

MARCH 16 The Murray River was gripped by a toxic blue-green algae outbreak, causing havoc for
towns the length of the river, especially with an early Easter this year. Agriculture, tourism and town
water supplies were all affected, and the final red alerts on the river were not lifted until June.

APRIL 13 Football took centre stage with Geelong and Essendon playing in the AFL’s first Country
Game, highlighting the contribution of rural and regional Australia to the nation and football. A highlight
of the edition was the selection of Cats and Bombers teams from their best-ever country players.

APRIL 20 Farmers were still looking to the skies waiting for the season to break in late April, after a
generally drier February and March. But that did not stop optimistic farmers sowing thousands of
hectares, with wetter than average La Nina conditions forecast for later in the year.

APRIL 27 A Weekly Times investigation found tens of millions of hectares of Australian farmland was
owned by overseas interests, with the potential sale of S Kidman & Co to a China-backed consortium
underway. The analysis showed a growing list of nationalities had invested in Australian farms in
recent years.

MAY 4 Murray Goulburn milk suppliers were suddenly facing huge debts when the company slashed
its milk price — the start of what was arguably the biggest story of the year. The day after this edition,
Australia’s second-largest milk processer, Fonterra, followed suit, reducing its farmgate price for the
season to $5.15/kg of milk solids.

JUNE 8 Premier Daniel Andrews’ hold on Victoria’s top job was under threat with the Country Fire
Authority-United Firefighters Union dispute in full swing. The Premier was also plagued by transport
woes after the unexpected cancelling of rail services to rural Victoria due to wheel wear and track
design on V/Line trains.

JUNE 22 Some farmers were rejoicing a wet start to winter but others were left cursing as their freshly
planted winter crops were washed away.

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AUGUST 3 There were renewed calls for water recovery targets in the north of the Murray Darling
Basin to be lowered as the socio-economic impact was revealed — up to 35 per cent of agricultural
jobs had evaporated from communities in the basin’s upper reaches.

AUGUST 24 Victoria will become the first state in Australia to implement compulsory electronic sheep
identification tags, Agriculture Minister Jaala Pulford announced in August.

SEPTEMBER 21 An Australian worker would have to earn $211,632 to be taxed at the rate being
proposed for backpackers in a botched proposal that threatened this year’s harvest of Australia’s
horticulture crop. The backpacker tax debate ran to the 11th hour, finally settling at 13 per cent.

OCTOBER 19 The Federal Government’s argument that its dairy concessional loans should be
exclusive to Murray Goulburn and Fonterra suppliers was beginning to unravel as MG started losing
suppliers. By the end of the year, they would lose more than 350 million litres in supplied milk.

NOVEMBER 16 Geelong City Council’s decision to close its saleyards threatened to put biosecurity at
risk and force sales of livestock on to unregulated markets such as eBay. The council quickly
back-flipped on the decision, announcing it would spend $400,000 to upgrade the yards which had
been shut down in August due to safety concerns.

DECEMBER 7 A record grain crop was predicted for Australian growers, with the Australian Bureau of
Agricultural and Resource Economics and Sciences forecasting a mammoth winter crop of 52.4 million
tonnes — a 15 per cent jump on the previous record of 45.7 million tonnes, set in 2011-12.

"I am confident we can do this without placing any additional cost burden on farmers."Agriculture
Minister Jaala Pulford on unveiling a mandatory electronic ID program for sheep, August 31.

NS

RE
PUB
AN

gozftl : Australian Rules Football | gspo : Sports/Recreation | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nrgn : Routine General News
austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document HERWEK0020161220eccl00039

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.