11/10/2017

Factiva

Home

Search

Alerts

Newsletters

News Pages

Companies/Markets

Display Options

+ Related Dow Jones Intelligent Indexing™

Listen to Article

 | 

Translate Article | 

Share

SE  What's New
HD  Australia's Santos Fends off LNG Attacks
WC  804 words
PD  21 June 2017
SN  World Gas Intelligence
SC  WGI
LA  English
CY  (c) 2017 Energy Intelligence Group. All rights reserved
LP  The CEO of Australian independent Santos has come out swinging, saying the reason domestic gas prices are high is down to geology, not his company's

Gladstone LNG (GLNG) project. GLNG is one of three liquefaction plants built simultaneously on Curtis Island in Queensland that are blamed for creating gas
shortages and price spikes in eastern Australia, prompting government moves to limit LNG exports. But Santos Chief Kevin Gallagher said last week that
prices have risen because "all the cheap gas has been developed, so it is costing more to get gas out of the ground." 

TD  Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull announced in April that restrictions would be introduced from July to ensure the domestic market was adequately supplied

before gas exports were allowed (WGI May3'17). Under the Australian Domestic Gas Security Mechanism (ADGSM), exporters that are not net contributors to
the domestic market -- they take out more gas than they put in -- must explain how they intend to plug the gap (WGI Mar.22'17). Unlike conventional LNG
plants in northern and western Australia, the three coalbed methane-fed projects in Queensland require new wells to be drilled to maintain production or third-
party gas to be bought in. GLNG sources more than half its feedstock from third-party contracts, and Gallagher said the ADGSM "unfairly targets" his project as
it is the only one that is not a net contributor. The other two, Royal Dutch Shell's QCLNG and Origin Energy-ConocoPhillips' APLNG, have their own gas. 

Gallagher has also taken exception to assertions that Australian prices are higher than in markets like Japan where the gas is sold. "It has been widely
publicized that Australian gas is sold in Japan cheaper than it can be purchased in Australia. The GLNG project does not sell gas to Japan [it has long-term
contracts with Malaysia and South Korea] ... Given that all of GLNG's gas is contracted overseas, GLNG has no cheap, surplus gas -- indeed it’s all contracted
at premium prices." 

There is one piece of good news. Turnbull's decision was made partly on the basis of forecasts from the Australia Energy Market Operator (AEMO) of
shortages as LNG projects ramped up and domestic production declined. But in an update last week, AEMO said it has raised supply projections, although gas
markets "remain finely balanced," and much will hinge on the Queensland plants.

UBS analyst Nik Burns said AEMO's updated supply/demand balance means there is less likelihood that GLNG will be asked to address physical gas shortfalls
in eastern Australia by, for example, reducing exports or making more gas available to the domestic market. But as the ADGSM runs until the end of 2023, "the
issue of supply adequacy will be revisited every year, leading to a degree of lingering uncertainty around GLNG." Minh Hoang, a credit analyst with ratings
agency Standard & Poor's, reckons that even if the mechanism were invoked, GLNG partners would be given the chance to make up supply through means
such as LNG swaps.

Santos has a 30% operating interest in the $18.5 billion plant; its partners are Total (27.5%), Malaysia's Petronas (27.5%) and South Korea's Kogas (15%). To
say the project has been a challenge is an understatement. Gas supply problems have forced the partners to write down billions, with Santos alone writing
down $1.5 billion (WGI Sep.21'16). GLNG has also been operating well below its 7.8 million ton per year nameplate capacity. It produced just 1.4 million tons in
the first quarter of 2017 and Santos has said it will only ramp up to 6 million tons/yr by 2019. The Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis, a US-
based think tank, said recently that a combination of lower-than-expected production and low oil prices, off which the LNG is priced, may lead to further write-
downs. Chinese equity firm Hony Capital and gas distributor ENN Group recently increased their stake in Santos to 15.1% through share purchases on the
open market, saying they would "act in concert" at shareholder meetings. There is speculation the Chinese may be looking to take over the company, whose
share price has tumbled 25% since the start of the year.

With debt of US$3.1 billion, Santos has been moving to restructure and refocus its portfolio to improve its balance sheet and growth potential (EIF Dec.14'16).
The focus is gas and LNG projects. It has 13.5% of Exxon Mobil's PNG LNG scheme in Papua New Guinea, where it hopes to expand. It also has an 11.5%
stake in Darwin LNG in Northern Australia, and domestic gas positions in western and eastern Australia.

Shani Alexander, Singapore

CO  sants : Santos Ltd

IN  i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas Upstream Operations | i1 : Energy | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction

NS  mhtgol : Heating Oil Markets | mlpg : Liquid Petroleum Gas Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcrntg :

Crude Oil/Natural Gas Product Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter

RE  austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

PUB  Energy Intelligence Group Inc.

AN  Document WGI0000020170721ed6l00006

UI Ver:99.11.0.0 Mod:20:58 ID:VIRPINFWAUTH02

© 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.  Terms of Use Privacy Policy UPDATED Cookie Policy UPDATED

 

https://global-factiva-com.virtual.anu.edu.au/ga/default.aspx

1/1

