10/10/2017

Factiva

Home

Search

Alerts

Newsletters

News Pages

Companies/Markets

LIVE HELP

Display Options

+ Related Dow Jones Intelligent Indexing™

Listen to Article

 | 

Translate Article | 

Share

SE  Business
HD  Docklands sale gives Little $60m

AU  Ben Wilmot
BY  BEN WILMOT
WC  266 words
PD  3 May 2016
SN  The Australian
SC  AUSTLN
ED  Australian
PG  30
LA  English
CY  © 2016 News Limited. All rights reserved.
LP  Paul Little has more than tripled his money on a site in Melbourne’s Docklands with a mainland Chinese group swooping on the land that the Australian

billionaire bought for $18.5 million just two years ago in a deal worth about $60m.

The former Toll Holdings boss put the South Wharf development site on the market in March, and the site’s permits for two residential towers with 940
apartments saw it draw interest from offshore and locally, with over eight parties bidding.

TD  The sale by Mr Little, who now owns and runs Little Projects, of 89 Lorimer Street, also set a record price for the south Fishermans Bend precinct.

The ex-Essendon Football Club chairman struck the deal on the 8847sq m property through Colliers International after winning ministerial approval to build the
towers.

They will span 49 and 47 levels and have been designed by architects Elenberg Fraser — the firm behind a string of high-rise developments, including
Melbourne’s Swanston Central.

Trent Hobart and Bryson Cameron of Colliers International brokered the deal which could see the Shanghai-based new entrant undertake a project even larger
than Mirvac Group’s at the Yarra’s Edge precinct.

“In the midst of government increases to costs for foreign investment, we have been able to sell the site to a large, private offshore new entrant which shows
international confidence in Melbourne as a long-term investment proposition,” Mr Hobart said.Mr Little marketed the property as a premium site with a de-risked
planning and infra structure framework.

CO  tolhld : Toll Holdings Ltd | jappo : Japan Post Holdings Co., Ltd.

IN  i77002 : Freight Transportation Arrangement | icargo : Freight Transport/Logistics | itsp : Transportation/Logistics

NS  ccat : Corporate/Industrial News

RE  austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

PUB  News Ltd.

AN  Document AUSTLN0020160502ec53000ag

UI Ver:99.1.0 Mod:22:40 ID:FWEB3

© 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.  Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Policy

 

https://global.factiva.com/ga/default.aspx

1/1

