SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

TheNation
Chinese buy island resort for $25m

LISA ALLEN, BEN WILMOT
293 words
10 August 2016
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian2
2
English
© 2016 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Shanghai-based conglomerate China Capital Investment Group has powered back into the
Queensland tourism sector, buying the South Molle Island resort in the Whitsundays for about $25
million.

CCIG recently bought the 296-room Daydream Island nearby in a deal worth $30m and is embarking
on a major redevelopment of that site, sold by vitamin entrepreneur Vaughan Bullivant who initially
wanted $60m.

Another major Chinese company, White Horse Group, bought Lindeman Island in late 2012 for just
$12m and has stepped up plans to redevelop it into a $600m, three-resort island it will market to
Chinese tourists through its cable TV company.

Queensland sources said CCIG was attracted to South Molle because it had more than 12ha of
developable beachfront land including a beach frontage of more than 600m, whereas Daydream was
all but fully developed.

South Molle was sold by Queensland entrepreneur Craig Ross and was billed as the “crown jewel”
of the Whitsundays because of its development potential and nearly 27ha of leasehold land. A
master plan seen by The Australian shows there is scope for four, five and six-star resorts
overlooking Bauer Bay.

Luxury residential accommodation and a spa is included in the master-planned concept. Under
existing planning conditions, more than 1300 rooms could be developed on South Molle, subject to
council approval.

The purchase price includes a non-operating resort of about 188 rooms under the deal, which was
negotiated by Jones Lang LaSalle Hotels executives Peter Harper and Tate Stubbs.

Also in Queensland, the 9.4ha Turtle Island at the southern end of the Great Barrier Reef, off
Gladstone, was showcased in China for sale last week.Colliers International is running the marketing
campaign.

IN
NS
RE

itourm : Tourism | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
china : China | austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020160810ec8a00009

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.