SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PrimeSpace
China Poly likely partner for Billbergia’s $1bn tilt

MAGGIE LU YUEYANG, EXCLUSIVE
523 words
7 April 2016
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
26
English
© 2016 News Limited. All rights reserved.

China Poly Group Corporation, one of China’s largest property developers, is forging deeper into
the Sydney property market on the back of its successful Horizon project in Sydney’s northwest,
emerging as a potential partner of private developer Billbergia on the $1 billion Wentworth Point
proposal.
The audacious move would see China Poly continue on a dual track of teaming up with local
developers for major sites as well as working on its own project book.

The Chinese conglomerate and property company last month snapped up a near $80 million site in
St Leonards on Sydney’s north shore but it also has an apartment joint venture with Southlink
Developments to build in Melbourne’s South Yarra and is building in the city’s Docklands precinct.

NSW government body UrbanGrowth NSW in February month short-listed four parties for the near
$350m development parcels at Wentworth Point.
Local companies Payce and Billbergia were pitted against Chinese groups Greenland and Macrolink
in the second round of the bidding process.

UrbanGrowth has declined to comment on the process which could see the winning bidder develop
part of a new residential precinct called The Peninsula.
Colliers International is managing the sale of the sites that are owned by NSW’s Roads and Maritime
Services department.

The sites, expected to be built by 2017, can house 2500 apartments, a marina and a waterfront
promenade, according to government documents.

Heavyweight developer Billbergia is developing its Wentworth Point Marinas, and has a track record
of forming ventures in the area, including with AMP Capital, on apartment projects.

The Australian can reveal Poly is working with Billbergia on the potential development, according to
company registry documents from the Australian Securities & Investments Commission. ASIC
documents show that a new company — Wentworth Maritime Developments 048 — was set up on
February 26 with Liu Ping, William Kinsella and John Kinsella as joint directors.
Mr Liu is the vice president of Poly Real Estate Group, while the two Kinsellas are the founders of
Sydney-based Billbergia.

Page1of3©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Paul Addison, director of development at Billbergia, confirmed that the company was in the bidding
process but did not comment on whether it was working with Poly.

A spokesman for Poly confirmed it was in discussions with a partner to develop one of the Wentworth
Point projects, but declined to name the party.
Sydney has experienced a wave of Chinese developers buying sites in recent years as they aim to
diversify from their crippling housing market in China.

While many companies find it difficult to secure sites in the CBD and the city fringe, Poly appears to
have a wider vision when scouring for potential projects.
It is understood that Poly bought a development site in Penrith, west of Sydney, through JLL’s
Michael Ajaka and Ari Danas in February. The vacant site near Western Sydney University has
potential to develop about 78 land-plus-house packages at about 300 to 400sq m.A spokesman for
Poly said it was too early for the company to clarify its vision for the area.

CO
IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

cpolgc : China Poly Group Corporation
i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | china : China | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020160406ec470004a

Search Summary

Text

((chin* or hong kong)) and (

( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or assets) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )

or

( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))

or

( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))

)

not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region

and re=austr
01/04/2016 to 07/04/2016
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions

Page2of3©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Language
Results Found
Timestamp

English
217
2 October 2017 23:22

Page3of3©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.