SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
China Poly Group debut in St Leonard

Su-Lin Tan
296 words
1 March 2016
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
33
English
Copyright 2016. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Chinese conglomerate and property heavyweight China Poly Group Corporation has joined the
stampede of developers rushing into Sydney's St Leonards South residential precinct when it
snapped up another coveted development site for just under $80 million.
The 7414-square-metre site between Berry and Park Roads in Sydney's lower north shore is an
amalgamation of 19 houses sold in one-line.

Marketed as "Pinnacle", the site has the potential for high-rise residential apartment buildings up to
14 levels with basement parking. Located 300 metres from St Leonards train station, the elevated
site has uninterrupted harbour and city skyline views.
Agents CBRE, which marketed the site declined, to comment on it.
The powerful state-owned $75 billion Poly Group is involved in many industries, including real
estate. Its real estate businesses are publicly listed in Shanghai and Hong Kong and worth about
$20 billion to the group. It is one of the top five developers in China.

It has global businesses and has attracted controversy for its arms dealing and weapons
manufacturing businesses through another subsidiary, Poly Technologies. The group, which is
already in the Sydney housing market, acquired a development site in Epping in Sydney's north last
year for about $110 million, according to sources.
Poly joins Chinese developer Greenland as the other state-backed group making a big play at
Australia's housing market. Greenland is building Sydney CBD's tallest tower, Greenland Centre,
and has built the Primus Hotel.
Other Chinese developers in the St Leonards south area include a Hong Kong developer who paid
$66 million for nine houses on Holdsworth Avenue and Canberra Street and Zhengtang Investments
which paid over $60 million for ten houses this year.

CO
IN

NS

cpolgc : China Poly Group Corporation
ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs :
Business/Consumer Services
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

PUB
AN

china : China | austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020160229ec310000p

Search Summary

Text

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or entitys) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
26/02/2016 to 03/03/2016
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
236
20 September 2017 11:29

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.