Page1of3©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.ThaiWindEnergydebutsinAustralia......................................................................................................................2Thai Wind Energy debuts in Australia

Thai Wind Energy debuts in Australia
378 words
15 March 2016
Infrastructure Investor
INVEST
English
Copyright 2016. PEI Media Ltd. All rights reserved.
"The firm's investment in CWP Renewables will allow it to access an 800MW pipeline of projects ready for
construction next year.
Thailand's Wind Energy Holdings has agreed to invest in CWP Renewables, an Australia-based renewables
developer and asset manager. 
The deal will see Wind Energy acquire a 50 percent stake in CWP's Australian business, including an
800MW development pipeline, from Continental Wind Partners and the Wind Prospect Group, the two
founding renewables developers. 
The deal marks the Thai company's debut investment overseas. Wind Energy Holdings is majority-owned
by Thai conglomerate KPN Group. 

...and managing 4,200MW of installed capacity across 20 countries, according to its website. Having entered
the Australian market in 2007, CWP has since developed the 113MW Boco Rock Wind Farm, completed in
2014, and established a pipeline of projects totalling 800MW.
As part of the latest round of the Australian Capital Territory's large-scale wind auction, CWP recently won a
contract to sell power from the 100MW second phase of its Sapphire wind farm in New South Wales at
A$89.1 per MWh.

... the opportune time to invest in the country, with increasing government support and positive moves around
certificate pricing promoting the growth of the renewable industry," said Emma Collins, Wind Energy's chief
executive.

"The investment into CWP and its development pipeline is the first of what we expect will be a number of
global initiatives for the company, as we move into the next phase of our international growth plans," added
Nop Narongdej, Wind Energy's chairman, in a statement.

...
China's state-owned utility State Power Investment Corp recently agreed to acquire the 106.8MW Taralga
Wind Farm in New South Wales from Spain's Banco Santander for an enterprise value of about A$300
million, according to reports. 
The deal, hot on the heels of its A$3 billionPacific Hydroacquisition from IFM Investors, came along with a
10-year power sale contract with power retailer EnergyAustralia.

Document INVEST0020160315ec3f0005l

Search Summary

Text

((chin* or hong kong)) and (

( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or assets) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )

or

( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or

Page2of3©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.company))

or

( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))

)

not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

and re=austr
11/03/2016 to 17/03/2016
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
221
20 September 2017 18:38

Page3of3©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.