HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

China state firms seen boosting green energy investment in Australia

528 words
22 March 2016
16:38
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2016 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.

* China state companies to do more deals in Aus energy -SILC

* 6 or so units of state firms invested in or evaluating projects

* Renewables such as wind power in focus
* Attracted by govt steps on green energy

By Melanie Burton
MELBOURNE, March 22 (Reuters) - Chinese state-owned companies are expected to boost their
investment in Australia's expanding renewable energy sector, attracted by a national leadership that is
more favourable to the industry than its forerunner.
With six to eight state-owned enterprises already involved in or looking closely at Australian energy
assets, Melbourne-based financial advisors SILC Group said more deals were on the cards, with
so-called green power coming under particular focus.
They would follow State Power Investment Corp's (SPIC) A$300 million ($230 million) buyout of a
wind farm in New South Wales last week, as well as its $2.5 billion purchase in December of Pacific
Hydro, a company which has wind farms in Australia, Brazil and Chile.
"There was always interest, but now there's increased interest from the Chinese," said Peter Munns,
an executive director at SILC, which works with China state-backed firms.
"Chinese companies always like our rule of law, our currency risk and stable economy. They like
renewables, they also like poles and wires because the revenue is underpinned by regulation."

After coming to power last year, the government led by Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull in December
reversed a decision by the previous administration banning the country's clean energy fund from
investing in wind power projects, opening the door to more deals in the sector. Former prime minister
Tony Abbott had described wind farms as "ugly" and "noisy".
Munns told Reuters in an interview last week that Chinese firms were looking for projects with long
term offtake agreements that would get them a foot in the door in Australian markets, as well as local
expertise that would help them grow.
"They don't just want to have one wind farm here, they want to have a portfolio," said Munns.
"Most want to do solar as well. But they probably think that's a couple of years down the track before
it's as economic and as viable as wind is."

Page1of3©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.A unit of China Shenhua is already part operator of several wind farms in Tasmania, while Beijing
Jingneng Power has a stake in the Gullen Range wind farm in New South Wales. Other Chinese
state-owned companies that have said they are looking at Australian energy assets include Shanghai
Electric Power Co Ltd and Cecep Wind-power Corp .
Wind farms are Australia's No. 2 renewable energy source, behind hydropower but ahead of solar,
providing around 4 percent of its total energy demand.
Meanwhile, a tender for New South Wales poles and wire firm Ausgrid, to be decided by mid-2016, has
attracted the attention of China State Grid and Southern Power. State Grid already has a 41 percent
stake in South Australia's electricity grid. ($1 = 1.3207 Australian dollars) (Reporting by Melanie
Burton; Editing by Joseph Radford)

RF
NS
RE

IPD
IPC
PUB
AN

Released: 2016-3-22T07:38:57.000Z
gsust : Sustainable Development | gcat : Political/General News | genv : Environmental News
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Business
SERVICE:ABN
Thomson Reuters (Markets) LLC
Document LBA0000020160322ec3m00ho7

Search Summary

Text

((chin* or hong kong)) and (

( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or assets) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )

or

( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))

or

( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))

)

not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language

and re=austr
18/03/2016 to 24/03/2016
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English

Page2of3©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Results Found
Timestamp

172
24 September 2017 11:41

Page3of3©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.