8/27/2017

Factiva

SE  TheNation
HD  Locals gazumped on $250m dairy deal
BY  MATTHEW DENHOLM, Tasmania correspondent
WC  493 words
PD  21 November 2015
SN  The Australian
SC  AUSTLN
ED  Australian
PG  4
LA  English
CY  © 2015 News Limited. All rights reserved.
LP  Australia’s oldest and largest dairy has been sold to a foreign-backed consortium, dramatically “gazumping” a

local group that had signed a $250 million sale agreement.

Van Diemen’s Land Company late yesterday announced the shock sale to unnamed foreign interests, prompting
the local bidder, TasFoods, to claim it had been used as a “stalking horse”.

TD  The sale, which will require  approval from the Foreign Investment Review Board, came a day after Treasurer

Scott Morrison rejected the purchase by foreign buyers of Australia’s largest pastoral holding, S. Kidman & Co.

TasFoods, a consortium involving wealthy Australians and superannuation funds using a  listed company
previously known as OnCard International, announced on November 6 that it had signed a sale agreement with
VDL, in Tasmania’s far northwest.

TasFoods chairman Rob Woolley last night said his group had been used as a “stalking horse” and was shocked
and disappointed to have been “gazumped”.

“We are very disappointed — we had what we considered a clean contract with them; we were paying the price
they asked,” Mr Woolley said.

“They’ve managed to use a technicality to essentially get around, and negotiate outside of, our arrangements
without telling us.” While TasFoods had raised the necessary capital, it was still in the process of obtaining
shareholder approval, and Mr Woolley said this “technicality” had been used by the New Zealand owners of VDL
to take a higher bid.

“There’s going to be a lot of disappointed in Tasmania about this, particularly within the farming communities,
that we can be gazumped like this,” he said.

Hugh Robertson, the Melbourne broker and OnCard director who helped formulate the TasFoods deal, last night
said it would reserve its right to take legal action, or to reignite its offer should the successful bidder fail to secure
review board approval.

“The long and short of it is that the New Zealanders have decided to sell it to another foreigner at a higher price
and to use our bid as a stalking horse,” Mr Robertson said.

Taranaki Investment Management, the investment arm of VDL owner New Plymouth District Council, would not
reveal the identity of the successful bidder, but confirmed it would require  review board approval.

Both Chinese and Thai consortia had bid for the company, but it is not clear which had succeeded, or whether
other parties had  become involved.

The vast dairy, with 17,980 cows over 7062ha, produces 7.66 million kilograms of milk solids a year, with $52m
in sales revenue.

Despite its status, it has never been in Australian hands throughout its 190-year history.

https://global.factiva.com/hp/printsavews.aspx?pp=Print&hc=Publication

1/2

8/27/2017

Factiva

VDL chief executive David Beca said the sale, announced late yesterday, was a “positive outcome for the
company”.“The new buyer has confirmed it will make offers of employment to all existing employees of the
business on terms no less beneficial to them than their existing terms,’’ Mr Beca said.

RE  austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

PUB  News Ltd.

AN  Document AUSTLN0020151120ebbl00053

© 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

 

https://global.factiva.com/hp/printsavews.aspx?pp=Print&hc=Publication

2/2

