9/20/2017

Factiva

Home

Search

Alerts

Newsletters

News Pages

Companies/Markets

LIVE HELP

Display Options

+ Related Dow Jones Intelligent Indexing™

Listen to Article

 | 

Translate Article | 

Share

SE  News
HD  Uluru rocks: Coast park of legends

AU  Kathleen Skene
BY  KATHLEEN SKENE KATHLEEN.SKENE@NEWS.COM.AU
WC  538 words
PD  1 December 2016
SN  Gold Coast Bulletin
SC  GCBULL
ED  GoldCoast
PG  6
LA  English
CY  © 2016 News Limited. All rights reserved.
LP  A CHASM through a replica of Uluru opens to an indoor land of snow and ice which is just the beginning of a businessman’s plans for a new World on the Gold

Coast, to be built on his $55 million new block of land at Nerang.

Songcheng Group chairman Huang Qiaoling plans to immediately begin work on development approvals for the $600-million first stage of his Australian
Legends World after the sale of the land, from fellow Chinese theme park group Wanda, which settled yesterday.

TD  A ferry service traversing the Nerang River from the park to Metricon Stadium and Surfers Paradise is also part of the plan.

Mr Huang’s company operates theme parks across China, centred around dramatic dance, music and hi-tech, circus-like performances on transforming stages
of lights, water and sound.

Australian Legends World will have three key performance zones, including a main theatre and a more immersive experience named Phantom of the Gold,
which tells stories of the gold rush.

Precincts called “Mysterious Orient” will be created, which include a Tibetan section and replica of a village in southwest China known as Kingdom of the
Women, where a tribe called the Musuo trace their ancestry through the women instead of the men and where females are head of the households.

A performance based on the arrival of Captain Cook to Australia, featuring a replica of the HMS Endeavour, will also be staged at the riverside park.

Tthe chairman also plans to build an Aboriginal Cultural Village and a small Australian wildlife park, The Colour Zoo.

Mr Huang is the self-taught chief director of all his shows in China and masterplans all his theme parks.

Through a translator he told the Gold Coast Bulletin the parts of the development themed around indigenous Australian culture would not be based on any
specific Aboriginal tribe or nation.

He said he had respect for Aboriginal cultures which would be conveyed by what he created.

“We have been to Aboriginal and cultural villages in New Zealand and Australia and thought they didn’t go deep enough to discover the culture,” he said.

“Our creation department has already in different cities gone to the museums to learn the stories. We met with the Arts Minister (Mitch Fifield) and the Prime
Minister (Malcolm Turnbull) yesterday to seek their support.

“We will look into the cultures deeply to make sure everything is right.” Theatrical performances about Australian soldiers and their experiences in foreign
conflicts, as well as a story of how modern Australia evol-ved, are also planned.

“We won’t compete with the current theme parks on the Gold Coast because we are totally different,” Mr Huang said.

“We have ability to build rides and water parks the same as Sea World and Movieworld but we don’t want to do that but we want to do something that has
never happened on the Gold Coast.”Songcheng has recruited Gold Coast Canford Property agent Roland Evans, who sold the land to the company this year
and Wanda in 2013, as an adviser and buyer’s agent for this and future Australia investments.

IN  i974122 : Amusement Parks/Arcades | i5010031 : Leisure Facility Construction | i501 : Building Construction | i97412 : Theaters/Entertainment Venues | iconst : Construction |

icre : Real Estate/Construction | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality

NS  gcat : Political/General News

RE  austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market

Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

PUB  News Ltd.

AN  Document GCBULL0020161130ecc10004v

UI Ver:98.6.0 Mod:13:30 ID:FWEB6

© 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.  Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Policy

 

https://global.factiva.com/ga/default.aspx

1/1

