SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Chinese hoteliers buy iconic Wisemans retreat

Su-Lin Tan
876 words
14 April 2016
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
41
English
Copyright 2016. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Sales wrap
A private Shanghai-based Chinese hotel group which specialises in Chinese inbound travel to
Australasia has acquired the 54-room Retreat at Wisemans resort in the historic township of
Wisemans Ferry north of Sydney for a price of just under $10 million.

The 18-hectare property with an adjacent parcel of development land approved for an over-55s
estate also comes with a conference centre and a golf course.
The new owner will turn the resort into a more prestige property and it will be rebranded.
There will be future improvements to the property.

Colliers International's Raymond Tran and Gus Moors closed the deal.

Pinaroo units
Private investors have traded a 1208 square metre development site approved for 23 units at 2-4
Pinaroo Place in Sydney's Lane Cove North for $6.325 million.
The site in Sydney's north is bound by public roads and public parks on three sides and low-density
residential development on the fourth side. Ray White's Jeff Moxham and Scott Timbrell handled the
transaction.

ACT foreshore special
Kingston Foreshore Management has sold a 156-sq-m retail unit at 43 Eastlake Parade, Kingston in
the ACT to AVS Kingston for $733,200.
AVS will expand its restaurant business with its new purchase but will lease out the unit in the short
term.

Colliers International's Aaron Bruce brokered the deal.
Lease, then buy
US indoor sports firm Cue Time has acquired an almost new office and warehouse facility at
1/86-102 Whiteside Road in Melbourne's Clayton South for $2.9 million after leasing it for a year.

Page1of4©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The company bought the property from Virtus Property Group through Savills' Daniel Kelly.

Cue Time took advantage of the low interest rates to own its business premises, which is a sporting
complex for badminton, table tennis and other sports.

Hendra hands over
Private investors have exchanged on the purchase of a tenanted office and warehouse strata unit in
a commercial complex in Hendra in Brisbane's inner north-east for $1.75 million. The seller will lease
back the 640-sq-m property at 13/191 Hedley Avenue at a net annual rent of $134,000 for five years
with options, representing a yield of 7.65 per cent.
Ray White's Jared Doyle sold the air-conditioned two-level unit with electric container height roller
door access, a reception area, a board room, a balcony, a courtyard and 15 car spaces.

Net a deal in Netley
South Australian company Cartwheel Resources has acquired a factory and office property in
Netley, Adelaide for $2.55 million to facilitate the relocation of its Victorian business.

Cartwheel will upgrade the 2836-sq-m building which also comes with an air-conditioned factory with
a 6.3-tonne gantry.

The factory includes multiple roller doors plus loading access and has the benefit of a huge power
supply. The property also has a two-level office.
CBRE's Craig Klemich and Andrew Nagy negotiated the sale of 8 Transport Avenue.

Two deals out west
In Sydney's west a private owner occupier has purchased a 695-sq-m office and warehouse at
A/28-32 Egerton Street, Silverwater from Direct Developments for $1.8 million.
The property is in a complex of three and has 6.9-metre clearances.
Ratcliff Brake Services sold a 2032-sq-m industrial property with three roller doors at 46 Adderley
Street East, Lidcombe, to a granite product supplier for $3.57 million at auction. Ratcliff is moving out
west.

Both deals were handled by JLL's David Lidgard and Marco Chiodo.

Servos sell well

A Brisbane developer has paid a private vendor $3.65 million for a 2506-sq-m BP service station in
Capalaba East, Queensland.
202-212 Old Cleveland Road was sold with a comprehensive Environmental Site Assessment and a
tank and line test.

Knight Frank's Jason March brokered the deal.

Tunzafun in Heatherton
Family entertainment Tunzafun has acquired a 6064-sq-m site at lot 1, Centre Dandenong Road in
Melbourne's Heatherton for $1.15 million for its next outlet.
The corner site was originally meant to be a cafe, nursery and garden supplies centre.

CBRE's David Aiello and James Jorgensen acted for a private business owner.

Super buys complex

A private superannuation trust has snapped up a tenanted warehouse and office complex in
Mulgrave, Melbourne for $1.395 million at auction as an investment.
A private businessman offloaded the 1365-sq-m property at 7 per cent via Ray White's George
Kelepouris.

23 McDonalds Lane,offered a net annual rental income of $103,000.

Page2of4©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Southwest sale

A private investor scooped up an 844-sq-m retail space at 437-441 King Georges Road, Beverly Hills
in Sydney's southwest for $3.7 million in a hotly-contested auction.
The fully-fitted property for a food business is leased to Eat GRK at a net annual rent of $86,594. It
also comes with 11 car spaces and a cool room.

Most of the interested buyers were private family investors.

Gunning's James Mckenny and Malcolm Gunning handled the auction.

Submissions to stan@fairfaxmedia.com.au

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | i665 : Lodgings | i66 : Hotels/Restaurants | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ilea :
Leisure/Arts/Hospitality
c182 : Physical Asset Transactions | gtdeal : Travel Deals/Packages | c18 : Ownership Changes |
cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gdeals :
Consumer Deals | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gpersf : Personal Finance | gspend : Spending/Shopping |
gtour : Travel | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | china : China | melb : Melbourne | sydney : Sydney | victor :
Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS
Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales | queensl : Queensland
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020160413ec4e0002c

Search Summary

Text

((chin* or hong kong)) and (

( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or assets) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )

or

( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))

or

( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))

)

not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region

and re=austr
08/04/2016 to 14/04/2016
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions

Page3of4©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Language
Results Found
Timestamp

English
276
3 October 2017 1:11

Page4of4©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.