SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

Property
Chinese buyer pays $11.5m for Bunnings

Larry Schlesinger
245 words
11 August 2016
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
31
English
Copyright 2016. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

A mainland Chinese investor has snapped up a new Bunnings Warehouse in Yarrawonga, regional
Victoria, for $11.5 million on a sub-5 per cent yield.

The outlet was offered off the plan by builder and developer Pellicano Group.

Selling agent CBRE said it was the first time a Chinese investor had acquired a Bunnings warehouse,
and the yield was a record for a Bunnings store outside a major metropolitan region.

Backed by long leases to the Wesfarmers unit, Bunnings warehouses are among the
most-sought-after retail properties by private investors. A new benchmark for the asset class was set
in June when a Perth private investor paid $7.05 million on a 4.7 per cent yield for a small-format
1736-square-metre Bunnings warehouse in Osborne Park with a new 12-year lease.

Recently it was revealed that New Zealand commercial property investor Ben Cook bought the
14,760-square-metre Bunnings warehouse in Sydney's Eastgardens that sold for a record $56 million
in October.

The sales campaign for the Yarrawonga Bunnings was steered by Justin Dowers, Mark Wizel, Kevin
Tong and Joseph Du Rieu of CBRE Retail Investments. "There is evidence that buyers are gaining
more confidence in the performance of key regional cities within Victoria, stemming from increased
government expenditure in these regions, along with improved living conditions (mostly related to
affordability) driving population growth," said Mark Wizel.

wsfrm : Wesfarmers Ltd
ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs :
Business/Consumer Services
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020160810ec8b0001g

Page1of1©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.