Business - Commercial Property
Burnie Bunnings offloaded to Charter Hall for $21million
Simon Johanson
392 words
13 September 2017
The Age
AGEE
First
25
English
© 2017 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.
Diversified property player Charter Hall has begun collecting assets to seed a new consumer staples fund,
paying $21 million for a Bunnings Warehouse in Tasmania.
Charter Hallpurchased a store leased to the Wesfarmers-owned national hardware chain in Burnie, on
Tasmania's north coast, via its balance sheet for an initial yield of 6.1 per cent. The 3.04-hectare site will be
the first property to underpin the group's Direct Diversified Consumer Staples Fund, set to launch next
month.
The Burnie site, with 8.9 years remaining on its 12-year lease and annual 3 per cent rent increases, was
offloaded by a private syndicate.
"A 12,254-square metre Bunnings Warehouse is consistent with the group's investment and product
strategies of owning well-located assets, leased to strong tenant covenants on long-term leases with secure
and growing income," Charter Hall's chief investment officer Sean McMahon said.

Mr McMahon said Charter Hall's platforms now had more than $1.1 billion invested in 35 Bunnings stores
across the country.
"The Burnie property is strategically located in a land constrained, core location with no direct competition
providing an ideal long-term facility for Bunnings," he said.
The new consumer staples fund would be aimed at giving investors exposure to a property portfolio leased
to companies that get their revenue from the sale of consumer goods, the group said.
Burgess Rawson director Darren Beehag handled the transaction. Mr Beehag said similar sites were "highly
sought after" by investors because of the net lease structure, guaranteed fixed rent reviews and the large
strategic landholdings.
The sale suggests a trend towards further tightening of yields in the sector.
 A smaller format Bunnings Warehouse in Colac, in regional Victoria, sold for $7.8 million in July on a similar
6.1 per cent yield. 
Another smaller Bunnings in Warragul, also in regional Victoria, sold with a six-year lease in place for $6.43
million a year ago on a 6.6 per cent yield.
 A sale in August last year of a new Bunnings in Yarrawonga with a 10-year lease to a mainland Chinese
investor on a 4.9 per cent yield set a new standard outside of Australia's capital cities, selling for $11.6
million.

Document AGEE000020170912ed9d00024

Search Summary

Text

((chin* or hong kong)) and ( ( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or
island or hotel or apartment or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.company or board or entitys) and (transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) ) or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company)) or ( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or
sale or equity or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or
group or firm or board) and (million* or billion* or B or M)) ) not (terrorism or war or
navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street or Forex or Stock
Exchange or rst=asxtex) and re=austr
10/09/2017 to 16/09/2017
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
249
19 December 2017 13:41

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.