8/24/2017

Factiva

SE  Business
HD  Santos relents on raising
BY  MATT CHAMBERS, ENERGY
WC  842 words
PD  10 November 2015
SN  The Australian
SC  AUSTLN
ED  Australian
PG  20
LA  English
CY  © 2015 News Limited. All rights reserved.
LP  Embattled oil and gas producer Santos has been unable to avoid what many investors saw as inevitable,

announcing a $3 billion  equity raising after a three-month search amid a low oil price yielded just one deal — the
$520 million sale of a stake in a Bass Strait gasfield to Japan’s Mitsui.

The raising to pay down the company’s $9bn debt load will include Chinese private equity firm Hony Capital
taking a 7.9 per cent stake, a move Santos executive chairman Peter Coates says does not prevent Brunei-
backed Scepter Partners from increasing its  already rejected $7.1bn cash  proposal.

TD  Adelaide-based Santos also revealed that Clough managing director Kevin Gallagher would replace departing
chief executive David Knox , whose exit date has been unexpectedly brought forward to this week following the
completion of the three-month strategic review.

Mr Coates will increase his  duties now that the strategic review is complete, running the whole company until Mr
Gallagher takes the reins some time early next year.

“The $3.5bn of capital initiative puts the company’s balance sheet beyond question,” Mr Coates told The
Australian. “The debt position will be significantly reduced and the company’s liquidity position will be very
strong.” The equity raising comes after oil prices collapsed this year in the face of growing US shale output and
an OPEC refusal to cut production, wiping $6bn, or 50 per cent, of value from Santos’s market value.

Santos suffered heavier losses than most energy companies because of concerns it would struggle to repay
debt taken on to build the $US18bn Gladstone LNG plant if oil prices weakened further.

The raising will be in the form of a $2.5bn, one-for-1.7 renounce able rights issue at $3.85 a share and a $500m
placement to Hony at $6.80 per share.

The Chinese investor will end up with a 7.9 per cent stake after taking up its full entitlements under the rights
issue, which will reduce its entry price to about $5.60 a share, or an 8 per cent premium to the theoretical ex-
rights price of $5.15.

Santos shares last traded at $5.90 on Friday.

Mr Coates defended the decision to sell the stake to Hony for $6.80 a share, just less than the $6.88 a share
Scepter offered for the whole company three weeks ago. “Scepter made an incomplete, non-binding and
indicative proposal that significantly undervalued the company,” Mr Coates said.

“Quite frankly, the Hony investment, for a non-controlling, non-blocking stake as an investor, not an owner,
pointed out how  inadequate the Scepter approach was.” He said restrictions on Hony increasing its stake
beyond 9.9 per cent would mean Scepter had an opportunity to boost its offer.

“Hony has agreed to a three-month standstill — if Scepter is interested, they have all the opportunity in the world
to come back and the board will always consider good proposals,” Mr Coates said.

Scepter Partners refused to comment on its intentions in the wake of the raising, but is said to be unenthusiastic
about increasing its offer.

https://global.factiva.com/hp/printsavews.aspx?pp=Print&hc=Publication

1/2

8/24/2017

Factiva

In August, Santos finally accepted that it needed to take rapid action to pay down debt as a slumping share price
showed that investors felt the company’s debt load was increasingly risky in an uncertain oil market.

It came after months of speculation that it would need to raise equity to pay down debt.

Mr Coates took an executive position, declared Mr Knox would step down early next year and announced a
strategic review that would look at company-wide asset sales to reduce or avoid an equity raising.

The one asset sale that came from the review was the sale of a 35 per cent stake in the Exxon Mobil-run Kipper
gasfield in the Gippsland Basin, off Victoria, Santos said yesterday.

With oil prices trading near 10-year lows, there were few decent offers. “We said we were not a distressed
shareholder and we would only sell if it was consistent with shareholder value,” Mr Coates said. “We decided
that some of the assets that were strongly sought after were of strategic value to the company and were better
kept in the portfolio ... it’s no secret PNG LNG is the jewel in our crown and everyone else wanted it to be the
jewel in theirs.” The 13.5 per cent Santos stake in the Papua New Guinea LNG plant was reportedly set to be
sold down to 10 per cent for $1bn, but this did not happen.

Katana Asset Management fund manager Romano Sala Tenna said he was disappointed the company had not
sold a stake in PNG LNG to reduce the equity raising.

“There were regular and substantial reports they were selling a stake in PNG LNG and a lot of the shareholders
would have preferred to see a partial sale of that and a smaller raising,” Mr Sala Tenna said.

DATAROOM P20CRITERION P32

CO  sants : Santos Ltd

IN  i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1 : Energy | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction

NS  c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Divestments | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :

Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter

RE  austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

PUB  News Ltd.

AN  Document AUSTLN0020151109ebba00016

© 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

 

https://global.factiva.com/hp/printsavews.aspx?pp=Print&hc=Publication

2/2

