Property
Taste for high life on the rise
Development Nick Lenaghan
762 words
27 June 2015
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
39
English
Copyright 2015. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.
The increase in high-rise living coupled with a broader cultural willingness to move the family home into the
sky is putting penthouses back on the drawing board for developers and their customers.

For years a scarce resource on Australian skylines, penthouses have been making a high-priced return to the
market in recent months. Developers as diverse as listed giant Mirvac Group and powerful Melbourne private
MAB Corporation have recently moved to put penthouses back atop their towers. Lend Lease and Cbus
Property are in the market too.

...
Down south, David Allt-Graham, MAB's general manager for residential, has already sold the two
penthouses at the top of the new Banksia project at Docklands. Those dwellings sold for around $5 million
for apartments in the 365-square-metre to 375 sq m range. It's the first time in a number of years that MAB
has...

...
Designed by McBride Charles Ryan, the $140 million boutique-style project comprises 108 apartments
across 18-levels. Three of the nine sub-penthouses, dubbed as "sky homes", ranging up to 264 sq m, have
sold for $3.15 million apiece.

...
"There's also growing acceptance of apartment living. People who previously would have opted for a house
are now happy to live in an apartment.

...
"For the last 10 years we've not felt there was a burning need for people in that realm to come out and buy
bespoke penthouses," John Carfi, group chief executive for residential, said earlier this year.

Further up the river, at the Australia 108 tower in Southbank, Singaporean developer Aspial set a Melbourne
record, with the pre-sale of an apartment to a Chinese businessman for $25 million.
Cbus Property is developing a well-located tower on Spring Street overlooking out over Treasury Gardens.

The super fund developer allowed its buyers to consolidate apartments, with one buyer taking the entire top
floor. The average apartment was $12,250 per square metre in the Spring Street tower. At the top, that figure
was closer to $20,000 per square metre.
In Sydney, Cbus Property is also going in at the top, selling a penthouse and two sub-penthouses at its
Milsons Point project for near $25,000 per sq m.

Chief executive Adrian Pozzo agrees a broader shift is taking place. "The market now is targeting family living
in apartments. A one or two bedroom apartment doesn't suffice for that. People are trying to build homes,
residential homes in apartment towers. A cultural shift is slowly occurring in Australia."

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.At Darling Harbour, Lend Lease is selling into the trend too, with two penthouses in the second stage of its
Darling Square development. They sold for around $10 million each, or $25,000 per sq m.

...s penchant for penthouses better than CBRE's Ben Stewart, who notes an uptick in that market in the past
12 months or so, such as the $17 million sale of the Sulman at The Residence on Hyde Park at about
$21,000 per sq m.

"There's more confidence in the market. When you see an uplift in the housing market, it flows through to the
residential penthouse and luxury apartment market," Stewart says.

...

Document AFNR000020150626eb6r0000k

Search Summary

Text

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (project) and (casino resort or island or
hotel or apartment or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company
or board or assets) and (transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron
or lead or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or
stake or equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or
firm or company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or
equity or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group
or firm or board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall
Street or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
24/06/2015 to 30/06/2015
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
161
15 August 2017 0:46

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.