SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business - Commercial Property
Caydon beavers away on 271 units for plastics site

Marc Pallisco
1,146 words
13 June 2015
The Age
AGEE
First
12
English
© 2015 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Capital Gain

Caydon Property will be hoping third time is a charm with redevelopment plans affecting a prominent
industrial site on the Yarra River's edge.

Backed by Joe Russo, Caydon is seeking to build 271 apartments on the former Beaver Plastics plant
site which also abuts the Monash Freeway in the Richmond pocket known as Cremorne.
The $104 million proposal, being overseen with respected development manager Georgia Willis, will
contain a 16-level residential tower as well as commercial space.

The proposed tower will contain a curtain wall system along the freeway and an animated facade
system on the northern side.

It was regarding this site that Mr Russo went public in 2013 accusing the then Planning Minister
Matthew Guy of "unbelievable behaviour" for rejecting a 21-level residential proposal.

Caydon withdrew an application to develop a 12-level office at 17-21 Harcourt Parade after receiving a
specific height request (21 levels) from the now Opposition leader. The 12-level office permit was later
obtained and is still active.
Late last year, Mr Russo paid $38 million for the neighbouring "Richmond Malt" site increasing his total
Cremorne land holding to about 1.6 hectares. The Richmond Malt includes the prominent Nylex clock
affixed atop of (approximate 12-level high) silos.

Caydon plans to brand its riverside holding as Cremorne South and retain some heritage buildings on
the Malt site for community use. It wants the precinct to be a place Melburnians want to "work, live and
visit" having employed heritage, design and community activation consultants.

Tribute to history

The Collins Street terrace which will become the entrance to one of Melbourne's skinniest skyscrapers
will be restored with original features to resemble the high-class Huddart Parker Building it was when
developed 107 years ago.

As part of plans for the 57-level Collins House tower, Golden Age Group and Asian Pacific Group will
reconfigure the existing three-level building at 466 Collins Street as foyer space for occupants to access
their 263 apartments. No part of the proposed area will be offered for commercial occupation.

Page 1 of 4 © 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

Built in 1908 by FE Shillabeer for shipping giant Huddart Parker, 466 Collins Street was once the centre
of Australia's national trade network, according to Golden Age Group founder Jeff Xu, who said the
restoration would celebrate the historic values of the site.
Huddart Parker transported coal and other goods and was in 1910 ranked Australia's 24th biggest
company. The company ceased to operate in 1961.

More recently the terrace has been known as the Makers Mark building.

The developers plan to replace a large central window, complete with sandstone mullions, and restore
original bluestone cladding. The remainder of the facade will be finished with a grey render and
exposed brick panels.

Inside, the ceiling will be lifted and furnished with ornate cornices. The foyer will also include columns
and medallions.

The Collins Street block measures 483 square metres and is 12 metres wide.

End of an era

Another established blue collar business is quitting a property it has occupied for decades, for
something newer.

This time, Tieman Industries is moving to a premises it will own in Northbourne Road, Campbellfield,
about 16 kilometres north of town.

The new property is twice the size of a prominent 1.7 hectare Thomastown factory which Tieman has
occupied since 1964 and is now selling.

Like many industrial operators, Tieman finds its outgoing holding in a desirable location for developers -
on Keon Parade, it adjoins the Keon Park train station.

Vinci Carbone's Joseph Carbone and Frank Vinci are expecting the vacant site to sell for close to $5
million. It is possible a developer may replace the block with a business park or bulky goods complex.

Last month, the Australian Asphalt Pavement Association announced it would move to Port Melbourne
quitting a Kew premises it occupied for 46 years.

Franze has a plan

Local builder Franze Developments is behind a controversial plan to replace a low-rise showroom,
opposite a Kew park, with a luxury apartment building.
Franze has just settled on buying 56 Cotham Road for $5.5 million, despite a major permit request
being in the air.

The City of Boroondara approved a six-level, 29-unit proposal for the land late last year, when it was
owned by Scott Berkowitz Furniture Pty Ltd.

The permit - for a seven level, 30-unit complex - was requested by Franze Developments, who'd agreed
to buy the site earlier. Franze is now appealing to the Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal to build
what it originally asked. The site overlooks Alexandra Gardens and is the last parcel east of the Kew
Junction permissible for 18-metre high buildings.

Carlton sites sell
A China-based consortium has paid $6.8 million for two neighbouring Carlton buildings which cover
575 square metres of land.

The sites known as 122-128 and 130-136 Berkeley Street were marketed for their medium density
redevelopment potential. The under-bidders, according to CBRE director Justin Clarkson, included local
builders wanting to fill the valuable airspace.

Presently tenanted investments returning total annual rent of $102,000, the property has the potential to
make way for a 13-level structure.

Mr Clarkson marketed the site with colleague Jamus Campbell and Fitzroys agents James Gregson
and Michael Ryan.

Golden deal

Page 2 of 4 © 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

A major retail sale in Melbourne's eastern suburbs is expected to be concluded shortly. The Brand
Smart Premium Outlet Centre at 288 Whitehorse Road in Nunawading was expected to sell for more
than $75 million. The 9300 square metre complex, leased to 63 tenants and with 455 car parks, was
being marketed by JLL's Simon Rooney and CBRE's Mark Wizel. It is in the bulky goods precinct
known as Nunawading's "Golden Mile".

Snow food

Respected businesswoman Rose Yong - responsible for bringing tens of thousands of Asian tourists to
Victoria every year - has purchased the third level of a famous Victorian ski resort to convert into an
exclusive restaurant described as "The Flower Drum of the high country".

Popo is now an attraction of the 20-year old Mount Buller Chalet, located at a central point within the
township, just off the Bourke Street Carpet.
John H Castran director John Castran negotiated the sale to Ms Yong who has spent the year fitting out
the restaurant which opened at the start of Victoria's ski season.

Popo will be an important part of the Extragreen travel business Ms Yong has developed from
Swanston Street over decades. Extragreen, now a franchise opportunity, also has outlets in Bourke
Street, Box Hill and Glen Waverley.
The company represents wealthy clients wanting everything from day trips to tours of the state's
biggest attractions.

mail: marcpallisco@gmail.com

Twitter: @marcpallisco

IN
RE

PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020150612eb6d0006h

Search Summary

Text

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (project) and (casino resort or island or
hotel or apartment or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company
or board or assets) and (transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron
or lead or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or
stake or equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or
firm or company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or
equity or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group
or firm or board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall
Street or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
10/06/2015 to 16/06/2015
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Page 3 of 4 © 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

Results Found
Timestamp

112
7 August 2017 22:39

Page 4 of 4 © 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

