8/6/2017

Factiva

SE  Business - Commercial Property
HD  Market wrap
WC  755 words
PD  6 May 2015
SN  The Age
SC  AGEE
ED  First
PG  31
LA  English
CY  © 2015 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited. www.theage.com.au [http://www.theage.com.au]
LP  SALES

KEYSBOROUGH A local  Chinese -backed syndicate has snapped up a 1.418-hectare infill development  site  at
442-448 Cheltenham Road for $8.2 million. DTZ's Patrick O'Callaghan and Richard O'Callaghan negotiated the deal
for Bridport  Property Group . The land, which is next to Metricon's Elmswood development, is in a mixed use zone
and has potential for high-density development. Patrick O'Callaghan said the  property  attracted more than 100
inquiries and multiple offers.

TD  KNOXFIELD A religious organisation that plans to establish an education centre has snapped up the former Mary

Kay Cosmetics head office at 551 Burwood Highway. JLL's Andrew O'Connell and Simon Wellock said the
prominent corner  site  on Lewis Road  sold  for $3 million. It had an 892-square-metre fully fitted office and 1120-
square-metre functional warehouse.

BENTLEIGH A Melbourne-based developer has paid $2.2 million for a prime  residential  development  site  with a
permit for 17 apartments at 15 Bent Street. Savills Australia's Julian Heatherich and Jesse Radisich said the permit
allowed for two one-bedroom and 15 two-bedroom apartments. The  property  has  sold  on a strong rate of $2588 a
square metre, or for $129,412 per unit if the development proceeds. It was the fifth similar  sale  in Bent Street,
totalling more than $17 million, in the past 12 months, Mr Heatherich said.

PRAHRAN An eager investor bought a double-storey High Street shop (number 604) before auction for more than
$1.5 million, Gross Waddell's Tamara Gross and Jonathon McCormack said. The boutique Victorian building had
retail space on the ground floor and a first-floor office/residence. It  sold  with vacant possession. "There was great
inquiry from a combination of investors and owner-occupiers," Ms Gross said.

OAKLEIGH IT business Results Direct has snapped up a free-standing, two-level 644-square-metre office at 43
Dalgety Street for $1.02 million. The  group  will occupy the building after relocating from Camberwell. The fully
airconditioned building was  sold  by the previous occupier, Pro AV, which relocated to a larger facility, Crabtrees
Real  Estate 's Luke Pitcher said.

SOUTH MELBOURNE Another owner-occupier on the lookout for a new premises has  purchased  a 147-square-
metre office with four car spaces in 150 Albert Road. The deal, negotiated by Biggin & Scott  Commercial 's Daniel
Eramo, represents a square-metre rate of $3740.

BAYSWATER Four properties in the eastern suburb - including two parcels of land in Ricdanic Drive, one investment
property  in Corporate Boulevard and one vacant  property  in Holloway Drive -  sold  for a total of $4.5 million
within one week. CVA  Property  Consultants  sold  the properties. The  property  at 21 Ricdanic Drive fetched
$775,000 and 23 Ricdanic Drive went for $515,000 to local buyers.

LEASES

https://global-factiva-com.virtual.anu.edu.au/hp/printsavews.aspx?pp=Print&hc=All

1/2

8/6/2017

Factiva

CAMPBELLFIELD A high-clearance office /warehouse at 70 Barry Road has been leased to Northern Industrial
Coatings on a five-plus-five-year basis for $130,000 per annum. The industrial 1 zoned building had multiple roller
doors entry and internal separation for dangerous goods, CBRE's Guy Naselli and Lindsay Davidson said.

FOOTSCRAY Childcare and aged care provider Ashleys Health Care has expanded at 37 Albert Street. Ashleys
took 200 square metres on the ground floor, and six parking spaces, over two years, with a further three-year option,
at $48,500 gross per annum in a deal negotiated by Fitzroys' Martin Huang. Ashleys will join Carers Victoria in the
building.

MOUNT WAVERLEY Express Legal would take a 250-square-metre office suite at 417 Ferntree Gully Road, JLL's
Michael Simonds and Natalie Meredith said. The office is part of a multi-unit suite complex owned by a private
investor near the on and off ramps of the Monash Freeway at Blackburn Road. The rent was not disclosed.
However, rents in the area fetch about $260 per square metre.

TRUGANINA Storage specialists Stow Storage Systems Australia has pre-leased a purpose-built warehouse facility
on a $301,350 net per annum rental for its Victorian operations. Located at 2-4 Sunline Drive, the 3,982-square-
metre centre has a two-level corporate office and high clearance warehouse. CBRE's Todd Grima and Harry
Kalaitzis negotiated the seven-year lease deal for a family owned construction  company , Pelligra  Group .

MOVERS

Colliers International has appointed Jonathan Mercuri to its Clayton office. Mr Mercuri will work as an industrial
executive.

Submissions to sjohanson@fairfaxmedia.com.au

CO  lasp : JLL

IN  ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i85 : Real Estate Transactions

RE  austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

PUB  Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited

AN  Document AGEE000020150505eb560005e

Search Summary
Text

((chin* or hong kong)) and ( ( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment or park or
estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or assets) and (transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy)
) or ( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead or coal or oil) and (bonds or
acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or
firm or company)) or ( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity or stake or
merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or board) and (million* or billion* or B or M)) ) not
(terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street or Forex or Stock Exchange or
rst=asxtex) and re=austr
06/05/2015 to 12/05/2015
All Sources
All Authors

Date
Source
Author
Company All Companies
Subject
Industry
Region
Language English
Results
Found
Timestamp 6 August 2017 16:22

All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions

173

https://global-factiva-com.virtual.anu.edu.au/hp/printsavews.aspx?pp=Print&hc=All

2/2

© 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

 

