SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Coast explorer needs more copper coin

JENNY ROGERS
247 words
3 February 2015
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
35
English
© 2015 News Limited. All rights reserved.

CASH-STRAPPED Gold Coast copper explorer Coppermoly will hold an extraordinary general meeting
in March seeking shareholder support for its bid to raise $1.5 million from a Chinese mining investor.

In its quarterly report, the company said it remained on the hunt for extra cash to continue exploration
work at its tenements in Papua New Guinea.

The junior explorer ended the quarter with $453,000 cash in hand. Its expenditure on exploration was
minimal due to its tough financial position.

The company said it performed minor maintenance work in both the field and the office at its
tenements.

It also stripped down operations at its Kimbe operations base to reduce costs. “The company has also
investigated alternative exploration methods in order to make the best use of its funds across the
company’s tenements,” it said in a statement.

Coppermoly said this would allow it to maximise funds on exploring its most advanced project, the
Nakru-1 and Nakru-2 prospects, while undertaking early stage exploration on its other tenements.

The extraordinary general meeting on March 4 will also seek shareholder approval for the issue of
more than 21 million shares to Canadian mining giant Barrick.The share issue, the completion of the
second payment owed to Barrick, is part of a re-acquisition agreement which will see Coppermoly
regain control of its three tenements in New Britain: Nakru, Simuku and Talelumas. Coppermoly shares
closed at .06¢.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

copmol : Coppermoly Limited
imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2114 : Copper
Ore/Nickel Ore Mining
gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020150203eb230000u

Page1of1©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.