8/27/2017

Factiva

SE  News
HD  Golden Mile a 'basketcase' as values plunge
BY  »MICHAEL KOZIOL
WC  737 words
PD  22 November 2015
SN  Sun Herald
SC  SHD
ED  First
PG  4
LA  English
CY  © 2015 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited. www.smh.com.au [http://www.smh.com.au]
LP  Kings Cross will never again function as Sydney's late-night entertainment precinct, property owners say, with

residential developers snapping up promising land, while less desirable sites decline in value.

After the gentrification of the suburb, licensing restrictions and more recent lock-out laws, the Valuer-General
has in recent weeks offered to reduce the land value of at least eight commercial properties in the area - in one
case by up to $1.25 million - in response to land tax objections lodged by owners.

TD  In documents seen by Fairfax Media, the office of Land and Property Information proposed land value

reductions between 5 per cent and 20 per cent on the properties, which include the Kings Cross Hotel, Carlisle
House and Iguana Bar.

Separately, another property, the heritage-listed Minton House, was devalued by almost 35 per cent, from $10
million to $6.58 million.

Andrew Lazarus, owner of the now-closed Soho nightclub on Victoria Street, confirmed he was exchanging
contracts to sell the site to an apartment developer.

"The Cross will never be an entertainment area again," he told a parliamentary inquiry on Friday, unless
governments deliberately intervene to stop its gentrification.

Liberal Democrat senator David Leyonhjelm is conducting an inquiry into measures that limit personal choice
"for the individual's own good". Friday's hearing focused on Sydney's 1.30am lockout in Kings Cross and the
central business district, which business operators believe has contributed to a decline in Kings Cross
patronage.

Business operators say the laws were the last straw for the beleaguered Golden Mile, which has struggled for
years against gentrification, the inquiry was told.

Property valuer Phil Rennie lodged land tax objections on behalf of 12 property owners in May, due to a collapse
in commercial rents. Of the eight that were agreed by the Land and Property Information office, the average
reduction in land value was about 14 per cent. Mr Rennie said the owners would consider the offers within the
next 60 days.

Valuer General Simon Gilkes said all objections were independently assessed.

But it is a different story for commercial properties conducive to residential redevelopment, which has been
going gangbusters in the old red light district.

Chinese developer Greenland Group bought the Crest Hotel site, along with a pub in Parramatta, for $170
million. The Crest was sold by Iris Capital, which bought it for $65 million in 2012. It has development approval
for 139 apartments. The nearby Bourbon Hotel was also sold for mixed-use development.

Mr Rennie estimated many commercial rents in the Cross were down 30 per cent to 50 per cent since 2008. The
financial crisis, small bars, smoking bans and licensing restrictions had all contributed, he said.

https://global.factiva.com/hp/printsavews.aspx?pp=Print&hc=Publication

1/2

8/27/2017

Factiva

The Baird government has said the lock-out laws will be subject to a review in February.

Malcolm Gunning, president of the Real Estate Institute of NSW, sits on the Land Valuation Advisory Group, a
committee of property industry groups and stakeholders that advises the Valuer General.

"The committee has recommended that strip be closely examined and that's taking place," he said. "Today, that
strip is a basketcase. In that area, rents have dropped in some cases by more than half."

Mr Gunning, whose real estate agency is active in Kings Cross, said the area's future would rely on higher floor
space ratios for residential development.

"You'll have expensive apartments with residential frontage and the whole nature of the strip will change."

But Mr Rennie argued the recent land value reductions showed the Kings Cross apartment boom did not apply
equally, because parts of the strip were still not desirable for residential development.

Last month, Fairfax Media reported that developers were urging the state government and the City of Sydney
council to increase height limits for residential towers in the area. Iris Capital chief executive Sam Arnaout
suggested the strip could become "like a New York Manhattan".

A City of Sydney spokesman said the council was not reviewing floor space ratios for Kings Cross.

Friday's inquiry also heard that 30 businesses in the Cross had closed since the lockout was introduced in
February last year.

Alcohol-related violence had declined by 32 per cent, although Bureau of Crime Statistics director Don
Weatherburn said it was "entirely possible" this was due to the reduced patronage in the Cross.

RE  austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

PUB  Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited

AN  Document SHD0000020151121ebbm0002c

© 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

 

https://global.factiva.com/hp/printsavews.aspx?pp=Print&hc=Publication

2/2

