Perspective
The new squattocracy
1,537 words
11 July 2015
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
20
English
Copyright 2015. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.
Rural investment Convinced of the long-term opportunities in Asia's demand for food, some of Australia's
wealthiest people are donning their gumboots, writes Jemima Whyte.

Harold Mitchell is an unlikely poster boy for an East Kimberly cattle station. Inordinately proud of his tailored
jackets, designer shoes and even his tracksuits, it's hard to imagine the energetic advertising entrepreneur,
who usually resides in Melbourne's CBD, being all that comfortable on his 850,000 hectares in remote corner
of Western Australia. But he's certainly financially comfortable with the investment.
"It's a wonderful feeling and great asset to be involved in," he says of the Yougawalla Pastoral Company,
which he bought in 2008 alongside SevenWest's Doug Flynn and managers Jane and Haydn Sale.
"But at the very core it's about the business, and it's paid off," Mitchell tells AFR Weekend from London's
Euston Station, on his way to board the Eurostar to Paris.

...

...It came just a week or so after cattle and horse investor Gerry Harvey bought into a 2000-hectare
Coomboona Holsteins property in Victoria, one of the country's largest dairy farms and his first foray into the
dairy industry. Andrew Forrest and Gina Rinehart, both long-time investors in agribusiness, have also been
expanding their non-mining empires. Last year, Forrest's private company Minderoo bought Western
Australia's largest beef processor, Harvey Beef, while Rinehart's bought a cattle property near Dubbo and
dairy assets.

... and jewellery retailer Diva, has also increased his agricultural holdings. He's now said to have almost as
much invested in agribusiness as retail after last year buying a stake in the Northern Territory's Beetaloo
Station for an estimated $40 million, in addition to his cattle stations OT Downs and Mungabroom.

And Jack Cowin, who owns hamburger chain Hungry Jacks and was an investor in the country's largest
single land and cattle producer at the time, Stanbroke Pastoral Company, says his private company is
actively reviewing whether to buy into the sector and secure beef supply, though he hasn't made any offers
yet.
"We are large buyers of beef. We describe our business as a value-added meat business. Whether we stay
there or backward integrate, it's all part of the process," he said.

... Asian food basket. Australia is one of the major export producers of beef. The question is what happens to
the demand, supply and the product. Being in the business, we're obviously looking at it."

If that isn't enough to pique interest, one of the country's biggest agricultural portfolios, S. Kidman & Co, is on
the sale block, while Mitchell's Yougawalla Pastoral Company and Consolidated Pastoral Holdings, the
Northern Territory properties once owned by the Packer family and now backed by Guy Hands' private equity
outfit Terra Firma, are both seeking new investors.
S.Kidman & Co covers almost 11 million hectares (that's 1.4 per cent of Australia, and half the size of the
United Kingdom) and its assets include the world's largest cattle station, South...

...

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.As the businessmen and other investors move on the sector, land prices also appear to have stopped falling
for the first time since about 2008. "Across the board at a national level it would be fair to say the market
value has stabilised from a downward trajectory in terms of value, and we are starting to see...

...

"We're taking a slightly different approach than simply aggregating land portfolios - we have cattle stations,
meat processing facilities, export licences and emerging consumer brand. It's about being vertically
integrated and taking a broader position in the value chain," says Andrew Forrest. Ground water harvesting is
also key to Minderoo's strategy.

...
One of China's top 500 companies, Hailiang Group, bought more than $40 million worth of south-west
Queensland cattle and cropping land east of St George in March and Chinese group Yiang Xiang Assets
bought Allan Myers' Elizabeth Downs cattle station for a price believed to be more than $11.5 million. In
March, Canadian pension fund Public Sector Pension Investment Board took a stake in Centra
Queensland's Hewitt Cattle Company, which owns more than 200,000 hectares and 30,000 head of cattle.

...
Yougawalla's Sale says it's impossible to overstate the importance of long-term, committed capital -
something that in their case was invaluable while weathering the sinking cattle prices around the...

...
Size in hectares of Yougawalla Pastoral Company, the East Kimberly cattle station owned by Harold Mitchell,
Doug Flynn, and Jane and Haydn Sale.

Document AFNR000020150710eb7b0001j

Search Summary

Text

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (project) and (casino resort or island or
hotel or apartment or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company
or board or assets) and (transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron
or lead or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or
stake or equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or
firm or company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or
equity or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group
or firm or board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall
Street or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
08/07/2015 to 14/07/2015
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
155
16 August 2017 15:58

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.