Domain
Developers swell top-end sales blitz
LUCY MACKEN
1,151 words
4 July 2015
Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
6
English
© 2015 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.
Title Deeds
A waterfront trophy home is snapped up in Double Bay for $38 million; Mosman has a $16 million-plus
waterfront sale; and Bronte's Wave House sells before auction.
Sydney's trophy home market has had a busy first half of the year, with $250 million worth of real estate
trading hands in the top 10 sales alone.

...
Cue the $38 million sale of the Double Bay waterfront mansion of former Multiplex chief Andrew Roberts and
his wife Andrea. It was one of the fastest trophy sales when it was snapped up in April by property tycoon,
Malaysian-born billionaireSeng Huang Lee and his wife Peggy Yeoh Pei Chee.

...property group Mulpha Australia from his father Ming Tee Lee more than a decade ago, is making an
impressive step-up in the local real estate ranks from the $7.5 million Woollahra spread he and Peggy
bought in 2007 from architects Alex and Lynette De La Vega.
The high point for the year, to date, is the $39.9 million that tobacco executive William Webb scored for his
Point Piper mansion Mandalay from road construction and eco-resort developer Phillip Dong Fang Lee and
his wife Shi Xiaobei.

...-waterfront house price record over the trophy Villa del Mare a few doors away says more about the nature
of forced divestments than the mansions' relevant virtues. At least Chinese billionaire Xu Jiayin recouped
his $39 million when he sold Villa del Mare to local lady Lola Wang Li and her high-roller husband Li Liang.

Oceania Property's Julina Lim kicked the high-end deals off for this year when she sold her Point Piper
renovator's delight in January for $28 million to 25-year-old Qingling Wang. Lim then spent $12.85 million of
that on the Vaucluse slow-mover of former investment banker and venture capitalist John Grant.

New York-based fund manager Alwyn Heong impressed plenty of the locals when he took close to $27
million for his Rose Bay waterfront home from FIRB-approved buyers from the UK.
Miner takes gold in Mosman
Mining executive Mark Lochtenberg has taken out Mosman's top result at more than $16 million for his
waterfront home designed by architect Dale Jones-Evans, and since downsized to the Balmoral slopes digs
of former Elle editor-in-chief Debbie Coffey for about $5.8 million.

Non-waterfront honours returned to Stanley Avenue where aviation legal adviser Colin Thaine scored $12.3
million from director of financial broker Tradition Dubai John Conway and his wife Marjorie.

Colonial First State Asset Management chief Mark Lazberger and his wife Anne sold their Clifton Gardens
home for $11.3 million, and took their cash to Lavender Bay where they gave $9 million of it to architect Will
Rothwell and his wife Siobhan for their historic home Quiberee. That freed the Rothwells up to settle on their
$12,306,000 for the...

Page1of3©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NAB's chief in Asia Spiro Pappas and his wife Nicolette did an off-market deal on their Chinamans Beach
designer home for $11 million to Birchgrove-based fund manager James Simpson and his wife Jane
Baumann.

It was a decent return for Pappas, who had only bought the Cyprian Street property a year ago for $9.25
million.

...

...Bronte ski resort developer Simon Harvey sold his Wave House - better known as the one-time rental of
Latino stud Ricky Martin - pre-auction for less than $16 million.

The record auction clearance rates have delivered big prices all over the city so far this year, but the biggest
was $15.3 million paid by rag trader Bob Locke for the Kutti Beach house of the late bookmaker Albert
Webster.
Settlement will need to confirm if Locke's Vaucluse purchase beats the Rose Bay waterfront sale of The
Easybeats' lead guitarist Harry Vanda, who sold his long-held home to property developer Stuart Rose.

Vanda and his wife Robyn have meanwhile downsized to a stately residence on Double Bay's Cooper Street
where they paid close to $5 million.

Property developer Jason Chia Chong Tay was just bumped out of the top 10 sales of the past six months
despite paying bang on $15 million for the Point Piper home of Linda and Robert Biancardi, and having sold
his Kensington mansion in the Raleigh Park Estate for $2.4 million.
Meanwhile, the Tay family patriarch, billionaire dad Tay Tee Peng, has been selling his Sydney homes,
starting with his clifftop house in Dover Heights in March for about $4 million and following that up in May
with a $3,825,000 sale for his two-bedroom apartment in the Bennelong building at Circular Quay.

...

Takeovers Panel president Vickki McFadden and her venture capitalist husband Richard Woods scored $13
million on their waterfront home in Double Bay.
It sold to a FIRB-approved buyer Wenbin Xu, 26, from China, although corporate records show Xu isn't a
total stranger to our shores, having well-established interests in an accountancy firm and property in Perth.

There was no need for FIRB approval for the Hunters Hill record-setting buyers in May. Having recently
emigrated from China, the family were good to pay a top of $12.85 million for the non-waterfront home on
Chevalier Crescent of property investor Jana Lanvin.
Mining boss Peter Freyberg and his wife Kylie Low have packed up their respective homes at either side of a
shared tennis court in Darling Point to move their new $12.4 million penthouse atop the Eliza.
The purchase of their compound on the Babworth Estate for $12.5 million by printing industry boss Bob
McMillan, OAM, has sparked plenty of talk in the Hills District about the fate of McMillan's vast Dunrath
estate.

Having added the adjoining blocks over the years to create two hectares of prime development potential,
word is locally it has sold to a local developer for $42 million.

... a median house price that is set to show an increase of 8 per cent for the first half of this year, it's not all
champagne and caviar. Billionaire property developer Bob Ell didn't quite realise the $25 million hopes he
initially mooted for his Cremorne waterfront estate with its DA-approved monolith. Instead, he settled on some
$11 million for the property last week, no doubt much to the delight of Kylie and Brad Hunt, the son of Primo
Smallgoods co-founder John Hunt.

Document SMHH000020150703eb74000bj

Search Summary

Text

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (project) and (casino resort or island or
hotel or apartment or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company
or board or assets) and (transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron
or lead or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or

Page2of3©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.stake or equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or
firm or company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or
equity or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group
or firm or board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall
Street or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
01/07/2015 to 07/07/2015
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
144
16 August 2017 1:27

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

Page3of3©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.