SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PrimeSpace
Norman joins Guo to drive golf-based project

GREG BROWN, SITES
532 words
11 June 2015
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
26
English
© 2015 News Limited. All rights reserved.

EXCLUSIVE Chinese-backed Visionary Investment Group has struck an agreement with golf
entrepreneur Greg Norman to develop a championship golf course and more than 500 homes on the
NSW south coast and is stepping up plans for an ambitious multi-tower project in central Sydney.
The group, led by Michael Guo, has agreed to develop The Huntley Project, near Wollongong, with
Norman to design the course in hopes it will attract top tournaments on the Australian PGA tour.

The group will invest in the project through the Huntley Richlink Capital Property Fund No 3, with
partner Richlink Capital. The development, on a 420ha site, is to include a 18-hole golf course, 500
residential lots, 65 apartments, a clubhouse and retail.

Mr Guo and Richlink Capital would not return calls yesterday but meetings have been held with
investors to help fund the project.

“Mr Greg Norman expressed his great pleasure to design this golf course in his hometown Australia,
and highlighted the location of The Huntley — the fantastic landscape of Illawarra and its maritime
climate which are perfectly suitable for building a golf course,” the group said in materials obtained
by The Australian.
It said Norman and Mr Guo were both excited “about this project and believe this co-operation will
be an unprecedented and excellent model in the market”.

An investor meeting was on March 26 and it is not known if the fund has received the required
capital.
Norman is also developing a resort on Great Keppel Island with veteran property player Terry
Agnew, where a casino licence is being sought. He was at one stage a partner in international and
local golf course empire Medallist, which was primarily funded by Macquarie Bank.
Industry consultant Jeff Blunden said Chinese investment would probably support the next wave of
golf course development. He advised Chinese-backed Harman Global on its purchase on a golf
course in the NSW central coast last year.

“There is appetite to get involved in the early stages of development and it is pleasing that there is
appetite to take over developments that are in the early stages of progress,” Mr Blunden said.

Elsewhere, VIG has bought another building on a block in the Sydney CBD, where it is planning a $1
billion-plus luxury project. The group has purchased 241 Castlereagh Street from Richard Gu’s
AXF Group, and is also thought to have hired architects Woods Bagot help with preliminary work.

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The site was assembled with the assistance of Knight Frank’s John Bowie Wilson, who declined to
comment. VIG last year bought office towers at 233 Castlereagh Street and 338 Pitt Street, with both
buildings having residential conversion potential.
It is thought that VIG aims to build a luxury residential tower taller than the 235m-high Greenland
Centre on the same block, as well as hotel and commercial space.
Nearby Anzac House is also likely to be redeveloped as part of the project but the owner of the
building, RSL NSW, will probably retain ownership, despite previous negotiations to sell.VIG is
believed to be looking to buy other properties in the area.

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

capfu : Capital Property Fund | tprfgt : The Professional Golfers Association of Australia Ltd.
i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150211 : Unit Trusts/Mutual Funds | ifinal : Financial
Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
c11 : Plans/Strategy | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020150610eb6b0000m

Search Summary

Text

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (project) and (casino resort or island or
hotel or apartment or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company
or board or assets) and (transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron
or lead or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or
stake or equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or
firm or company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or
equity or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group
or firm or board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall
Street or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
10/06/2015 to 16/06/2015
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
112
7 August 2017 23:35

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.