Exclusive
Wednesday, Real Estate edition
Randolf Santos
1,261 words
28 July 2015
SNL Financial Extra
SNLFE
English
Copyright 2015. SNL Financial LC
AUSTRALIA
* Sovereign wealth fund China Investment Corp.'s reported A$2.45 billion acquisition of Morgan Stanley Real
Estate Investing's Investa Property Group office assets lifted the amount of Chinese investment in
Australian commercial real estate to A$3.84 billion for 2015, which is already 16% higher than last year's
figures, The Australian reported.
The deal is also likely to increase the benchmark rate for prime commercial properties in the country by
another 20%, as the nine-building portfolio was bought at nearly 20% higher than its previous book value,
according to The Australian Financial...estate.
* In pursuit of riding the wave of Chinese investments in Australia, Canada-based Brookfield Multiplex seeks
to provide Asian institutional investors with investment opportunities by positioning its Australian property
portfolio, as China Investment's Investa acquisition is only the "tip of the iceberg," The Australian reported,
citing Brookfield Multiplex COO Kurt Wilkinson.
The company's assets include landmark office towers such as the Brookfield Place in Perth and the One
Carrington and Wynyard Place in Sydney. Wilkinson added that the company's development pipeline for
prime assets could attract prominent Asian investors.
* Discussion on the company's future strategy is expected to take front and center during GPT Group's
interim results in August, following the appointment of Bob Johnston as the CEO, the AFR reported.
* Mirvac Group unveiled a A$150 million office tower development at the central business district of
Melbourne, the first of a two-tower project in the city, The Australian reported.

...
* DEXUS Property Group said its A$200 million new equity offering had an oversubscription of around
A$260 million by existing investors.
DEXUS intends to use the proceeds to help fund its purchase of a 50% stake in the Waterfront Place and
Eagle Street Pier in Brisbane.
* Charter Hall Group said it completed the A$31.5 million sale of a development site at 685 La Trobe St. in
Docklands, Melbourne. The company plans to use the proceeds for property investments.
The Sydney Morning Herald reported that Chinese developer AZX Group is tipped to be the buyer.
HONG KONG AND CHINA
* The share buyback trend among mainland Chinese developers, including China Vanke Co. Ltd. and
Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd., is fueling concerns over their ability to repay their bondholders,
Bloomberg News reported.
China Vanke and Evergrande's recently announced share repurchase plans are worth 10 billion Chinese
yuan and HK$1.48 billion, respectively.

Page1of3©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.* Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd.'s Top Deluxe (H.K.) Ltd. won a contract with the Urban Renewal Authority for
the Pak Tai St./San Shan Road project in Ma Tau Kok, Hong Kong. The authority said it received 20 bids for
the development plan.
Hong Kong Economic Journal reported that land valuations for the project were in the range of HK$530
million and HK$680 million.
* HKR International Ltd. bought the Cheung Sha Wan Pokka commercial center in Hong Kong for HK$1
billion from a vendor who acquired the building from Hang Lung Properties Ltd. three years ago for HK$625
million, Hong Kong Economic Times reported.

* Chow Tai Fook Enterprises Ltd. and Kerry Properties Ltd. are believed to be bidding for a cross-border
project in Qianhai, Shenzhen, called the Shenzhen Newtown Plaza, the Hong Kong Economic Journal
reported, citing unnamed sources.
The site is near Henderson Land Development Co. Ltd. and Sun Hung Kai Properties' similar cross-border
development.
* Property developer Cheuk Nang Holdings Ltd. sold its 31-storey headquarters building in Wan Chai, Hong
Kong, for HK$790 million to ITC Properties, according to The (Hong Kong) Standard.
* Franshion Properties (China) Ltd. said it seeks to change its name to China Jinmao Holdings Group Ltd.
and amend its existing articles of association, subject to the approval of the Hong Kong Registrar of
Companies and the company's shareholders during an extraordinary general meeting.
* Middle-income families in Hong Kong will receive a 20% discount on new flats under the government's
Urban Renewal Authority scheme, subject to certain conditions, the South China Morning Post reported.

...
* The city-state's commercial and residential real estate sectors are slated for a long-term growth despite
an economic slump since 2012, Bloomberg reported, citing an interview with Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp.
CEO Samuel Tsien.
* Sin Capital Partners is believed to have paid S$380 million for the purchase of the Thong Sia Building
along Bideford Road, The (Singapore) Business Times reported.
* The market sentiment for real estate rose to 3.9 in the second quarter of 2015 from 3.8 in the prior quarter,
The Business Times reported, citing an NUS-Redas Real Estate Sentiment Index survey.

...
* Ichigo Real Estate Investment Corp. said it plans to acquire 13 assets from Motoazabu Holdings GK and
Motoazabu Holdings GK for an anticipated ¥2 billion.

...
* UEM Sunrise Bhd. sold two of the three phases at its 529-hectare Southern Industrial and Logistics Cluster
project in Nusajaya, Malaysia, London's Financial Times reported.
The sale occurred as other developers such as SP Setia Bhd. and Mah Sing Group are capitalizing on an
industrial property boom in Iskandar, amid a glut in residential supply in the development area.
* UEM Sunrise also signed off on a joint venture with Singaporean company Ascendas Group and
Japan-based Mitsui & Co. Ltd. for the Nusajaya Tech Park project in Iskandar, The Business Times
reported.
* Meanwhile, in Bali, Indonesia, Knight Frank LLP data showed that the prices of prime residential properties
in 2014 went up 15% year over year, a trend that is expected to continue as Indonesia's government plans to
amend existing policies about foreigners' ownership...

* The Philippines' National Economic and Development Authority, or NEDA, believes that the country's real
estate sector could fully realize its growth potential, if it resolves a number of major obstacles, The Manila
Times reported, citing NEDA Director General Arsenio Balisacan.

...

The Eastern Front: Shui On could pave the way for Xintiandi listing via asset sales: Shui On Land's latest
asset monetization effort in the sale of Corporate Avenue 1 & 2 to Link REIT comes as the struggling

Page2of3©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.company tries to time the listing of its China Xintiandi subsidiary, which holds premier office and retail
properties in mainland cities including Shanghai.
Hires and Fires: European, Asian real estate moves through July 28: SNL Financial presents a weekly
rundown of recent significant management and board changes and personnel moves in the European and
Asia-Pacific real estate industries.
The Daily Dose Asia-Pacific, Real Estate edition is updated by 6:30 a.m. Hong Kong time. Some external
links may require a subscription. Articles and links are correct as of publication time.

Document SNLFE00020150730eb7s0002t

Search Summary

Text

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (project) and (casino resort or island or
hotel or apartment or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company
or board or assets) and (transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron
or lead or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or
stake or equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or
firm or company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or
equity or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group
or firm or board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall
Street or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
22/07/2015 to 28/07/2015
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
216
17 August 2017 1:27

Page3of3©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.