HD (SWNMT) Ferret's Stock Watch; NEOMETALS LIMITED
WC 1,148 words
PD 4 September 2015
SN Ralph Wragg Australian Business News
SC AAPRAW
LA
CY Copyright 2015 RWE AUSTRALIAN BUSINESS NEWS PTY LTD. All Rights Reserved.
LP

English

TD

LITHIUM OPERATOR HAS MOU WITH CHINA'S 2ND BIGGEST PPRODUCER Sydney - Friday -
September 4: (RWE Aust Business News) = NEOMETALS's (ASX:NMT) jointly owned subsidiary, Reed
Industrial Minerals Pty Ltd has entered into a conditional Memorandum of Understanding with China’s
second largest lithium producer Jiangxi Ganfeng Lithium Co., Ltd. The MOU sets out key commercial
terms for: Ganfeng to acquire an up-front 25% shareholding in RIM by way of share sale and equity
subscription leaving Neometals with 45% of RIM and MIN with 30% of RIM. Neometals will net about
US$19.5 million from this initial transaction. PMI and Ganfeng will be granted options by Neometals
pursuant to which they can elect to increase their respective shareholdings in RIM to 43.1% by around Q4
of 2016 by way of share purchase from Neometals. If these options are fully exercised, Neometals will be
left holding 13.8% of RIM.

MIN building, owning and operating the Mount Marion mining, crushing and beneficiation infrastructure
and equipment pursuant to a fixed price mining services contract. Ganfeng has entered into a long-term
offtake for 100% of the spodumene produced from the Mt Marion Lithium Project at benchmarked market
prices subject to an agreed price floor. Under the agreement, from year 4 onwards RIM reserves the right
to take 51% of the total production if greater commercial benefit can be derived from such product
(“Ganfeng Offtake”); and prudential corporate governance arrangements for RIM between Ganfeng and
RIM’s existing shareholders with equal board representation for all shareholders. The parties will proceed
to finalise Formal Agreements to give full effect to the terms of the MOU with execution and financial close
scheduled for 31 August 2015. Financial close will trigger a fFinal Investment Decision for the Mt Marion
lithium concentrate operation and commencement of full plant construction and assemblage as all
necessary approvals for the project have been secured by RIM. MIN is already well advanced with
development planning and procurement, with commissioning and production of lithium concentrate
product anticipated by mid-2016. Neometals and Mineral Resources (MIN)– via its wholly owned
subsidiary Process Minerals International Pty Ltd) refer to their joint announcements on July 16, 2015 and
August 31, 2015 regarding the binding Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) entered into by their jointly
owned subsidiary Reed Industrial Minerals Pty Ltd (RIM) with Jiangxi Ganfeng Lithium Co.Ltd. Neometals
and MIN have advised that Ganfeng has received confirmation from the Foreign Investment Review Board
that FIRB has no objections to the proposed equity investment by Ganfeng in RIM. This satisfies the
condition in the MOU for receipt of FIRB approval. Neometals and MIN will continue to keep the market
updated on material developments relating to the proposed investment. The parties are continuing to
progress the formal agreements to document and give full effect to the terms agreed in the MOU and have
agreed to extend the date for the execution of the agreements to September 15, 2015. Following
execution of the formal agreements and receipt of FIRB approval, Ganfeng will seek approval of the
transaction from its shareholders and the Jiangxi Provincial Government. For the quarter ended June 30,
2015 Highlights: Mt Marion Lithium Project - * Subsequent to the end of the quarter a binding conditional
MoU was signed with Jianxgi Ganfeng Lithium Co., Ltd, China¡¦s second largest lithium producer for life of
mine offtake and equity acquisition which at completion will trigger final investment decision to construct
lithium concentrate operation. * At completion Neometals will receive US$19.5M and dilute from 70% to
45% of RIM. * Transaction excludes downstream lithium processing intellectual property held in JV with
Mineral Resources Ltd. Barrambie Titanium Project * Pre-feasibility Study continuing with estimated
completion in August 2015 Corporate * Evaluating divestment of nickel portfolio * Cash and restricted

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.access term deposits $7.5 million SHARE PRICE MOVEMENTS -------------------- Shares of Neometals
yesterday edged up 1c to 14.5c. Rolling high for the year is 16.5c and low 2.5c. The company has 509
million shares on issue with a market cap of $73.8 million. Barrambie Pre-feasibility study results released
on August 25 Highlights: • Confirmation of the technical feasibility of a licenced proprietary process to
produce +99% pure titanium dioxide (TiO2). • Potential for lowest quartile operating cost per tonne pure
TiO2 produced after co-product credits. Neometals has provided the results of its Pre-feasibility Study
(PFS) on its 100% owned Barrambie Titanium Project. The economic assessment carried out by
Snowden, and based on capital and operating costs developed by Sedgman Limited, indicates the
potential for a viable hard-rock titanium mining and processing operation. The PFS has highlighted the
potential for the Barrambie Project to be a low cost producer of titanium dioxide (TiO2), vanadium
pentoxide (V2O5) and iron oxide (Fe2O3), over a mine life of 19.6 years. Full details of the Pre-Feasibility
Study are available. BACKGROUND ---------- Neometals (ASX:NMT), formerly Reed Resources Ltd) is a
mineral exploration company operating primarily in Western Australia. NMT has 100% interests in
Meekatharra Gold Project, Barrambie Vanadium Project and the Comet Vale Project. NMT also holds
partial interests in the Mt Marion and the Mt Finnerty Projects in WA. Meekatharra gold project (100%):
The project centred on the Bluebird processing plant, was located 640km northeast of Perth and 10 km
south of Meekatharra, in the Murchison Region of Western Australia. The project also contains the 3Mtpa
Bluebird CIL processing plant. The project has produced 22,710oz of Au during the year. The Barrambie
project (100%): The project is located in the Mid-West region of WA and has a mineral resource estimate
of 47.2 Mt @ 22.2% TiO2, 0.63% V2O5 and 46.7% Fe2O3 at a cut-off grade of 15% TiO2. Mt Marion
lithium project (70%): : The project is locate 40km SW of Kalgoorlie,WA and is a JV with Mineral
Resources Ltd. There are 6 deposits all open along strike and at depth. The current JORC resource for
the project is 14.8Mt @ 1.3% Li2O. A Pre-feasibility Study was completed in September 2012. The Mt
Finnerty project (20%): The project is located 65km east of Koolyanobbing and is currently being explored
for iron ore in JV with Cliffs Natural Resources (Cliffs) and nickel mineralisation in JV with Barranco
Resources NL (Barranco). The Inferred resource for the project is at 47Mt @ 53.5% Fe. Comet Vale
Project (100%): The project is located 100km north of Kalgoorlie, is prospective for gold and covers an
area of 25sqkm. The project has combined underground and open-pitable resource of 850Kt @ 7.66g/t Au
for 209,000oz. Nimbus Silver -Zinc royalty (1%): FY13, NMTheld a 1% Net Smelter Royalty on all Zn
extracted and recovered form M26/0490 and M26/0598 containing Macphersons Resources Ltd's Nimbus
Silver-Gold-Zinc mine.

CO jglcom : Jiangxi Ganfeng Lithium Company Limited
IN
NS

i31 : Metal Products | iindstrls : Industrial Goods
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Shareholdings | cacqu : Acquisitions/Mergers | c18 : Ownership Changes |
cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | waustr : Western Australia | jiangx : Jiangxi | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz :
Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

RE

PUB RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd
AN Document AAPRAW0020150903eb94000gp

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.