News
China’s local model
By SIMONE SMITH
306 words
3 June 2015
Weekly Times
HERWEK
WeeklyTimes
13
English
© 2015 News Limited. All rights reserved.
TWO Gippsland dairy farms bought by Chinese company DFP will become model farms that could be
replicated in the future.
That’s according to DFP Australia general manager Roy Wang, who heads up the $US5 billion business
specialising in printing, cigarettes, packaging and alcohol, which recently bought farms at Poowong and
Athlone.

...
Mr Wang said DFP Australia’s interest in dairy farming in Australia stemmed from food safety concerns in
China, but the free-trade agreement between the two countries made it more attractive.

...

“The environment is really important for food quality, especially for agriculture products.” Gippsland was
selected for its reliable rainfall and prominence in the Victorian dairy industry.
Mr Wang said DFP Australia could buy more farms in the future, but the current focus was on the recent
acquisitions.
“We are new to the agricultural business, especially dairy,” he said. “It is a big project for us. The dairy
business will take some time to develop.” Mr Wang hoped to create a model from these two farms that could
be rolled out across others.

He said DFP Australia was happy to continue supplying the Gippsland farms’ current processors Burra Foods
and Murray Goulburn, but shipping milk back to China could be an option in the future.
The farms will employ local staff. “We want to be an Australian local company, we don’t want to be seen as a
foreign investor,” Mr Wang said.
“We live here, use a local team and run the business the way the Australians do.”

...

Document HERWEK0020150609eb630003w

Search Summary

Text

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (project) and (casino resort or island or
hotel or apartment or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company
or board or assets) and (transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron
or lead or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or
stake or equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.firm or company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or
equity or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group
or firm or board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall
Street or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
03/06/2015 to 09/06/2015
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
99
1 August 2017 0:21

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.