Business
Chinese buy into MG’s dairy float
SUE NEALES, Agribusiness
502 words
4 July 2015
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
28
English
© 2015 News Limited. All rights reserved.
A Chinese government-owned company has emerged with nearly 5 per cent of Australia’s largest dairy
company, after the partial float of the Murray Goulburn co-operative on the Australian Securities Exchange
yesterday.
An early list of the 20 largest shareholders of the $468 millionMurray Goulburn Unit Trust showed China
Resource Ng Fung Limited holding more than 10 million of the 209 million units in the new listed trust, which
accounts for one third of the company’s total shares.
Another company specialising in offshore Chinese financial investment in Australia, the BMY Group, run by
Melbourne’s Eric Gao, appeared as the ninth-largest shareholder, purchasing four million shares in the
capital-raising bookbuild.

...
The MG Unit Trust listed with an initial capitalisation of $438m, raised though the issue of the 209 million
non-voting units, or 36.5 per cent of the business, to more than 6000 new investors.
After yesterday’s trading of 11.7 million units at the close of trade, the entire Murray Goulburnbusiness was
valued $1.28 billion.

...

“It’s all full throttle at our strategic implementation now.” The $500m raised through the unit trust listing and
the sale of $62m of additional shares to farmers is being used to build a new consumer cheese plant at
Cobram, Victoria. Two new dairy beverage and nutritional plants are also planned.

Mr Helou said the strategic thrust towards more value-added products was protecting Murray Goulburn from
the volatility of world dairy commodity prices.
Less than 40 per cent of Murray Goulburn’s $2bn in annual sales are for bulk unbranded skim milk and whole
milk powder on world markets.
“Our business mix has significantly changed over the past few years to much more branded, value-added
and highly-specialised food ingredients; it makes us much less exposed to global volatility...

...

“(These expansion plans) will be a key driver behind MG’s growth and value-creation strategy to support
sustainably higher farmgate milk prices and returns for MG shareholders and MG unit trust unitholders.”The
listing price of $2.10 was at the lower end of prospectus expectations. Some farmer-owners...

Document AUSTLN0020150703eb740006i

Search Summary

Text

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (project) and (casino resort or island or

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.hotel or apartment or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company
or board or assets) and (transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron
or lead or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or
stake or equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or
firm or company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or
equity or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group
or firm or board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall
Street or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
01/07/2015 to 07/07/2015
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
144
16 August 2017 1:27

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.