Companies and Markets
Murray Goulburn listing seems worth the journey
Inside the deal Jared Lynch and Joyce Moullakis
824 words
11 July 2015
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
39
English
Copyright 2015. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.
It was shaping as the winter of Murray Goulburn's discontent when it started a book-build for its $500 million
partial float.
On the second-last day of June, the dairy co-operative's managing director, Gary Helou, and chief financial
officer, Brad Hingle, bunkered down in the offices of their capital markets investment bank, Macquarie Group.

...

... which had committed to Murray Goulburn's initial public offering, had withdrawn their support, citing the
volatility. And earlier in the month, insurance reseller Greenstone, and printer and marketing company IVE
Group, abandoned their respective $900 million and $100 million initial public offerings.

...

But by the end of the week, after tens of hours of phone calls, Murray Goulburn listed on the ASX. It secured
$437.7 million from non-farmer investors, and another $62.3 million from two supplier share offers, meeting
its $500 million target.

...
So how did the partial listing of Australia's biggest milk processor succeed?
Even when the market was shaky, Murray Goulburn's board remained confident the capital raising to fund
sweeping upgrades across the co-operative factories, to focus more on high-value dairy goods - such as
infant formula and consumer beverages and cheeses - would succeed.

...

Helou had maintained Murray Goulburn would get support from international investors, particularly in Asia,
saying there was "pent-up demand" for agriculture stocks. In the Murray Goulburn camp, company secretary
and general counsel Fiona Smith was the project leader.
The transaction was dubbed Project Two Rivers, drawing on the company's name and the Murray and
Goulburn rivers.
Two weeks before the book-build, Helou flew to Hong Kong, then to Europe and New Zealand to sell the
float. The pitch was simple. Helou and Hingle took their trusty sachets of milk powder and some of their UHT
milk as a great example of the strategy.
One investor who was impressed was Chinese billionaireRichard Liu, who is the chief executive of internet
retailing giant JD.com.
JD, which sells Murray Goulburn's Devondale-branded products for more than double the price to China's
wealthy middle class, spent $20 million on a 4.6 per cent stake in the trust, becoming its sixth-biggest unit
holder.

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved....

... wasn't the main agenda item. Lazard, which had conducted an earlier scoping study, was announced as a
joint adviser alongside Macquarie, and Herbert Smith Freehills was the law firm appointed. Lazard's Charles
Whiting was the advisory firm's point person.

Farmers understood the co-operative's strategy, particularly how focusing more on value-add products and
less on bulk dairy goods would insulate them against volatility on commodity markets and deliver a more
stable farm gate milk price.

...

Instead of farmers buying 500 shares at $1 each, it was proposed that a new farmer must hold one share for
every kilogram of milk solids it supplied to Murray Goulburn, potentially saddling young farmers with more
debt.
After more farmer workshops, Murray Goulburn's management agreed to keep the 500 share buy-in, except
they would be valued at the market price instead of the static $1.
It also won over farmers with tying the dividend yield to the milk price. If the milk price is high, so is the
dividend. Under the Fonterra model, it's the opposite, with expectations from farmers and investors at times
colliding.

...McEwen and James Crowe of Freehills, said its plan to flip the New Zealand structure ensures the interests
of both unitholders and farmer shareholders were aligned, with each benefiting from milk price rises.

...

Document AFNR000020150710eb7b0000p

Search Summary

Text

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (project) and (casino resort or island or
hotel or apartment or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company
or board or assets) and (transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron
or lead or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or
stake or equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or
firm or company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or
equity or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group
or firm or board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall
Street or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
08/07/2015 to 14/07/2015
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
155
16 August 2017 15:58

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.