9/11/2017

CIC International buys Investa property for $2.5 billion

THE AUSTRALIAN
CIC International buys Investa property for $2.5 billion

GREG BROWN THE AUSTRALIAN 7:27PM July 27, 2015

Chinese sovereign wealth fund CIC has outlaid almost $2.5 billion for a portfolio of office tower assets being sold
by the Investa Property Group in Australia’s largest ever direct office sale.

The owner of the $8.9 billion Investa platform, Morgan Stanley Real Estate Investing, announced that it has sold the
property it owned through Investa.

The Australian’s DataRoom first foreshadowed the likely deal earlier this month.

The next step in the Investa sales process, being managed by investment banks UBS and Morgan Stanley, will be for
the control of the Investa platform’s management rights, that are being contested by LaSalle Investment
Management and Mirvac Group.

On the property front, CIC has in one swoop become a major investor in the Australian office market, buying stakes
in nine buildings across Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane

The group has a quarter stake in the trophy asset, 126 Philip Street, which is the Australian headquarters of Deutsche
Bank, and regarded as one of Sydney’s finest towers.

Other Sydney towers in the portfolio include a quarter stake Grosvenor Place, which is occupied by accounting firm
Deloitte, and a half stake in Telstra’s Sydney headquarters at 400 George Street.

Another Sydney CBD building is 255 Elizabeth Street, to be occupied by education firm Navitas from 2016, while a
North Sydney office building at 80 Pacific Highway is also part of the portfolio.

In Melbourne, CIC will have a half stake in 120 Collins Street, which houses a range of blue chip tenants, including
Rio Tinto, Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley and Citigroup.

The portfolio also included one Brisbane building, at 410 Ann Street

Morgan Stanley took over the then ASX listed Investa Property Group at the top of the market in 2007.

The Investa team sold a significant portion of the original portfolio into the funds it manages, the listed Investa
Office Fund and the wholesale Investa Commercial Property Fund.

During the sales process, Morgan Stanley agreed to sell more than $300 million worth of office buildings and
development sites to ICPF.

This included the landmark development site at 60 Martin Place, as well as shares in 126 Phillip Street, 1 Market
Street and 33 Bligh Street.

FROM THE HOMEPAGE

Heat on unions’ super cash

J

SIMON BENSON
The financial watchdog will be granted powers to force the $2.3 trillion super industry to disclose hidden payments.

‘Prepare to lose enormous wealth’

J

TURI CONDON
The apartment market slowdown is worsening and will have a severe impact on the economy, says billionaire Harry
Triguboff.

Trump warns of ‘big monster’

J

CAMERON STEWART

http://www.theaustralian.com.au/business/property/cic-international-buys-investa-property-for-25-billion/news-story/69a16e0bd07dff054621b4b2fb… 1/2

9/11/2017

CIC International buys Investa property for $2.5 billion

Hurricane Irma has roared into Florida for a sustained assault on the entire Sunshine State. ‘The bad news is that this is
some big monster,’ said President Donald Trump.

In her mum’s footsteps

J

GLYNIS TRAILL-NASH
A former supermodel’s daughter has turned heads on day three of New York Fashion Week.

MPs slam ‘vile filth’ tweets

J

JOE KELLY
Coalition MPs have lashed the  author of an essay calling for a national rollout of the Safe Schools program.

Same-sex marriage act alarm

J

JENNIFER ORIEL
The Liberals’ draft bill has little protection for supporters of traditional union.

Insurance won’t cover terror

J

NICK TABAKOFF
Hundreds of thousands of Australian travellers are leaving themselves exposed to huge bills if caught up in terrorist acts.

Hurricanes not man-made

J

GRAHAM LLOYD
Climate change is not behind these devastating weather patterns.

LOG IN

SUBSCRIBE

L Back to top

NewsFlash

The Australian app

Terms of Use

Contact Us

Editorial Code of conduct

Help

Contact Us info

Photo Sales

News Archive

Standards of Practice

Subscription terms

Group Subscription Terms

Accessibility

Privacy Policy

Relevant Ads Opt-out

Cookie Policy

Copyright The Australian. All times AEST (GMT +10:00)

W
V
a
Instagram
Twitter
Facebook

About Us

About The Australian

Advertise with us

Our journalists

Subscribe

The Australian Plus member benefits

Sign up to Newsletters

Manage Your Newsletters

http://www.theaustralian.com.au/business/property/cic-international-buys-investa-property-for-25-billion/news-story/69a16e0bd07dff054621b4b2fb… 2/2

