CommercialProperty
HK’s Tian An buys PBD stake
BEN WILMOT, INVESTMENT
455 words
25 July 2015
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
38
English
© 2015 News Limited. All rights reserved.
EXCLUSIVE
Hong Kong-listed investment companyTian An China Investments Company has emerged with a 19.9 per
cent stake in listed developer PBD Developments, as an associated group, Malaysia’s Mulpha International,
exited the company.
The movement in the $110 million developer’s register will see a Hong Kong investment group hold some
sway over the company, a switch from the usual path of Chinese developers directly investing in projects.
The play could also assist PBD Developments, formerly known as Port Bouvard, in marketing apartment and
housing projects in mainland China, where Tian An has a substantial presence.
Tian An was the first China concept stock and listed in Hong Kong in 1987. It develops apartments, villas,
office buildings and other properties across China.
Mulpha sold its entire 19.9 per cent stake in PBD Developments at 1.5c per share to a Tian An unit for
$19.39m. Tian An itself is 48.66 per cent owned by Allied Properties (Hong Kong) Limited, which in turn is
74.92 per cent owned by Allied Group Limited.

The family of Mulpha executive chairman Seng Huang Lee is a trustee of a fund that has a 70.19 per cent
stake in Allied Group, and he has had a long history with the company. Listed FKP, in which Mulpha invests,
emerged with a 29.47 per cent stake in Port Bouvard in 2010. But two years later corporate advisers Azure
Capital were...
By early 2013, interests associated with Mr Lee effectively controlled the company after a $23.8m
entitlement offer. FKP, since renamed Aveo, later sold its stake.

...Mulpha said it picked up its direct stake in PBD in 2013 for about $17.54m. It had wanted to use PBD’s
West Australian operations to expand its property activities in the area. But Mulpha said PBD had not
expanded to a size that was significant to its overall operation. It was now focused on its core property
development and investment assets on the east coast and in December last year it bought a $120m
shopping centre in Sydney.
PBD chief executive Jally Lin said in February the company was selling down finished developments,
working on existing projects, and mulling options for its Point Grey project in WA.
It was also chasing medium to high-density residential projects on the eastern seaboard. PBD has struck up
joint ventures with B1 Group at Burwood Square, in Sydney, with Aveo Group at The Milton, in Milton,
Queensland, and with BHW Group in inner Sydney Annandale.PBD had also started on a residential
subdivision in Point Cook, Victoria.

Document AUSTLN0020150724eb7p0007e

Search Summary

Text

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (project) and (casino resort or island or

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.hotel or apartment or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company
or board or assets) and (transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron
or lead or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or
stake or equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or
firm or company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or
equity or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group
or firm or board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall
Street or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
22/07/2015 to 28/07/2015
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
216
17 August 2017 1:27

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.