HD
CR
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

SPI Announces Agreement to Acquire Majority Interest in Solar Juice

Distributed by Contify.com
426 words
31 March 2015
India Energy News
ATENER
English
Copyright © 2015. Contify.com

March 31 -- Solar Power, Inc . ("SPI") (OTCBB:SOPW), a vertically-integrated photovoltaic ("PV")
project developer, today announced that its wholly owned subsidiary, SPI China (HK) Limited, has
entered into a definitive share purchase agreement to acquire 80% of the outstanding capital stock of
Solar Juice Pty Ltd ("Solar Juice"), the leading solar PV wholesale distribution business in Australia in
2013 and 2014 by wholesale volume, according to SolarBusinessServices, Pty Ltd ("SBS"),an
independent Australia-based research and consulting firm.

Under the terms of the share purchase agreement, SPI will acquire from entities controlled by Solar
Juice's shareholders 80% of the outstanding capital stock of Solar Juice for an aggregate consideration
of approximately $25.5 million in SPI common stock. This transaction is subject to several customary
closing conditions.

Andrew Burgess, co-founder of Solar Juice, commented, "We have spent over 5 years building Solar
Juice into the leading PV wholesale distribution business in Australia. Given the huge potential we see
in the Australia PV market in the coming years, we felt the timing was right for Solar Juice to seek
additional resources to capture this once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. We think we have found the ideal
partner in SPI, which has demonstrated a remarkable track record of growth since last year." Rami
Fedda, co-founder of Solar Juice, added, "We are pleased to partner with SPI, and have already
identified a number of areas where the combination of our organizations can leverage more
opportunities than as standalone businesses."

According to SBS, Australia had more than 3 gigawatts (GW) of cumulative installed PV capacity,
including more than 750 MW installed during 2014, dominated by the residential segment in recent
years. However, SBS noted that the large commercial segment in Australia almost doubled in size in
2013, and that other significant opportunities exist in large-scale solar project developments, the
provision of engineering, procurement and construction ("EPC") services and a rapidly expanding
market for power purchase agreements ("PPAs").

"We are particularly excited to announce this landmark transaction with Solar Juice," said Xiaofeng
Peng, Chairman of SPI. "We have been evaluating for some time the best entry point into the very
promising Australia market, and we are confident this transaction gives SPI the strongest local platform
to address this tremendous market opportunity. We feel this is truly a win-win arrangement for both
companies, and we look forward to working closely with our new partners and shareholders at Solar
Juice."

Source: Solar Power

CO
IN

sopwob : Solar Power, Inc. | ldksol : LDK Solar Co., Ltd
isolar : Solar Energy | i1 : Energy | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16101 : Electric Power Generation |
i163 : Renewable Energy Generation | ieutil : Electric Utilities | iutil : Utilities

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE
PUB
AN

c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Shareholdings | c33 : Contracts/Orders | cacqu : Acquisitions/Mergers |
c171 : Share Capital | c333 : Non-governmental Contracts | c17 : Funding/Capital | c18 : Ownership
Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Athena Information Solutions Pvt. Ltd.
Document ATENER0020150331eb3v0006w

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.