This is Google's cache of http://www.theaustralian.com.au/business/property/metro-24m-profit-from-sale-of-brisbane-sites-to-chinese-rampf/news-
story/667946fce143cd5814cecc95123eea20. It is a snapshot of the page as it appeared on 5 Sep 2017 12:22:40 GMT.
The current page could have changed in the meantime. Learn more

Full version
Tip: To quickly find your search term on this page, press Ctrl+F or ⌘-F (Mac) and use the find bar.

Text-only version

View source

Metro $24m profit from sale of Brisbane sites to Chinese R&F

ROSANNE BARRETT THE AUSTRALIAN 12:00AM January 24, 2015

THE AUSTRALIAN

METRO Property Development is set to make a $24 million profit after flipping two Brisbane sites to Chinese
housing giant R&F Properties.

Settlement is expected in the second quarter this year after Metro won development approvals for the South Brisbane
and Kangaroo Point sites, completing the conditions necessary for the $65m twin sale to the Hong Kong-listed
developer.

This week, Brisbane City Council granted approval for a 606-apartment triple-tower complex on the land, formerly
South Brisbane TAFE.

Metro had contracted to buy it eight months earlier for $22m from the state government.

A spokeswoman for the Department of Education, Training and Employment said it was ​satisfied with the sale price
to Metro, which was the highest bidder. In November a judgment in the Planning and Environment Court allowed a
20-storey tower at Kangaroo Point.

Managing director Luke Hartman said there was “no ​impediment” to the deal. “We’ve passed that on now to R&F
and they will proceed to develop that as they chose to.”

Mr Hartman said the two companies remained in talks but there were no formal plans.

“The relationship is very, very strong between the groups. R&F is a very active player in the Australian market,” he
said. “Asian developers are coming to Australia at the start of the cycle.”

R&F has bought sites across the eastern seaboard since ​venturing into the Australian market last year.

FROM THE HOMEPAGE

AGL: We’re getting out of coal

J

PIA AKERMAN, GREG BROWN, RACHEL BAXENDALE
AGL boss contradicts PM’s claim that he’s negotiating to keep Liddell coal-fired power station in the Hunter Valley
open.

GetUp! attacked for SSM petition
ROSIE LEWIS
Cory Bernardi says GetUp! and others seeking to deregister No-vote doctor are “singular most intolerant individuals” in
debate.

J

Socceroos miss golden chance

J

RAY GATT
A frustrating half of football for the Socceroos, dominating the Thais but unable to punch through their defence.

Teen girl in coma with flu
SAM BUCKINGHAM-JONES
A 14 year-old Queensland girl is in an induced coma after her health dramatically deteriorated when she contracted the

A 14 year-old Queensland girl is in an induced coma after her health dramatically deteriorated when she contracted the
flu.

Call for citizenship law changes

J

PRIMROSE RIORDAN
Tighter English testing for citizens may lock out valuable migrants, a Coalition-led Senate committee concedes.

1300 reluctant interns lose dole
EWIN HANNAN
Government suspends payments of young long-term unemployed for not taking part in an internship program.

J

Terri Irwin vs Bob Katter’s hat

J

RACHEL BAXENDALE
Bob Katter hits back at conservationist Terri Irwin after she questioned how much time he really spends in the bush.

Smith bowled as wickets fall
ANDREW FAULKNER, CHITTAGONG
Warner and Handscomb have added 84 to drive the tourists to a solid position 50 minutes before stumps.

J

A NOTE ABOUT RELEVANT ADVERTISING: We collect information about the content (including ads) you use across this site and use it to make both advertising and content more
relevant to you on our network and other sites. This is also known as Online Behavioural Advertising. You can find out more about our policy and your choices, including how
to opt-out here

LOG IN

SUBSCRIBE

NewsFlash

The Australian app

L Back to top

Terms of Use
Editorial Code of conduct

Standards of Practice

Subscription terms

Group Subscription Terms

Accessibility

Privacy Policy

Relevant Ads Opt-out

Cookie Policy

Contact Us
Help

Contact Us info

Photo Sales

News Archive

Copyright The Australian. All times AEST (GMT +10:00)

V
W
a
Instagram
Twitter
Facebook

About Us
About The Australian

Advertise with us

Our journalists

Subscribe

The Australian Plus member benefits

Sign up to Newsletters

Manage Your Newsletters

