SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Domain
Mosman's beauty spot makes its mark

LUCY MACKEN
1,177 words
13 June 2015
Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
6
English
© 2015 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

TITLE DEEDS
Dentist Hugh Fleming cashes in; Stamford Residences score a $16.2 million high; Macquarie
bankers trade up in Bellevue Hill.

In Mosman's Beauty Point there's been a rush on high-end stock, headed by the sale of the Luigi
Rosselli-designed residence of dentist Hugh Fleming.
Listed for much of last year with $7 million hopes, the Euryalus Street house failed to snag a buyer,
but two weeks after it was relaunched last month it sold for about $8.2 million. Richard Simeon, of
Simeon Manners, declined to confirm the rumoured sale price nor confirm talk it was sold to a buyer
from China.
Fleming bought the ridge-top property in 2007 for $2.9 million from architect Clive Benson for land
value only before he commissioned the designer masterpiece.

Meanwhile, the 2200-square-metre residence of barristers Brian Dooley, SC, and his wife Lorna
McFee, on Bickell Road has also sold for more than $7.5 million.
This is the property the Dooleys bought in 2001 for $3.5 million from Woollahra-bound Transfield
Holding managing director Luca Belgiorno-Nettis and his wife Anita.

The statement home overlooks the vast waterfront estate of Ying Li, who set a local record in 2012
when he bought the Bay Road property for $20 million from car dealer Laurie Sutton.

Raine & Horne Mosman's Brendan Warner refused to be drawn on details, but a well-placed source
not only offered the Dooleys' sale result but cheekily suggested the buyer is Sutton's daughter,
Lauren, who is hoping to buy her forever home overlooking her childhood digs.

As it happens, Lauren and her husband, former state cricket fast bowler Warwick Adlam now have
their five-bedroom home around the corner in Bapaume Road up for grabs, again listed with Brendan
Warner.

The Sutton clan are generally loathe to leave their Beauty Point stamping ground. Lauren's brother
Craig Sutton bought the waterfront property next to their Bay Street compound in 2011 for $5 million
through a family transfer, and Ryan Sutton bought the waterfront home of former Mr Liquor owner
Ross Heidtman around the corner on Carrington Avenue for $9,875,000 off-market late last year.

Penthouse dreams

Page1of3©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Stamford Residences penthouse has sold three years after it was completed for a hefty $16.2
million to Chinese buyer Zhang Zetian.
Details on the buyer from China are scant, so Title Deeds is unable to confirm if Zhang is the internet
sensation known in China as "Sister Milk Tea" and girlfriend of billionaire technology entrepreneur
Liu Qiangdong, who is ranked as the 11th richest person in China on this year's Forbes rich list.
Strangely, agents say there are strict confidentiality agreements gagging any disclosure of the sale,
and the agent widely tipped to have done the deal is even denying any such success.

The Kahn-Finch-designed building was completed in 2012, and the three-level penthouse with
Thomas Hamel interiors was listed a year ago for $15 million-plus.

Bank on it
The Bellevue Hill trophy home of New York-based Macquarie Group senior executive Alan James
and his wife Jennifer looks like it has scored some buyer interest from fellow Macquarie banker
Sebastian Barrack.
Nicely timed with a surge in the Macquarie Group share price, the April 30 caveat lodges a call option
on behalf of Barrack, but does not give any indication of the sale value, if and when it eventuates.
The grand home was listed with $20 million-plus hopes a year ago, but was taken off the market
more recently given it is leased until the end of the year.

Designed by Professor Leslie Wilkinson in 1923 and sitting on 2400 square metres, it was formerly
owned by the Perth-based John Bond, son of the late Alan Bond, who bought it in 1979 for $675,000.
Bond sold it 1991 for $6.15 million to the late John Dawson-Damer, whose widow Ashley sold it to
the James family in 2002 for $9.03 million.

Records show the James family tested the seven-bedroom statement home with tennis court and
heated pool on the market in 2005 and again in 2009, before it hit the market last year following their
move to New York.

No sign yet what Barrack plans to do with his waterfront apartment in Double Bay, which he bought in
2011 for $4.65 million.

Climb the hillside

In Vaucluse, settlement on the former home of Belgium-based chief executive of Telenet, John
Porter, and his wife Susan Mougey reveals the $9.3 million buyer is Harriet Waugh, wife of hotelier
Mitchell Waugh.
The sale of the Hillside Avenue residence designed by US architect Tom Rivard was negotiated by
Monika Tu, of Black Diamondz Concierge.
The Waughs are trading up from their former home on New South Head Road, which they sold off
market in March for $6.6 million to Harry Triguboff's granddaughter Ella Lizor.

The pride of Pymble

In Pymble, the Federation residence known as The Knoll is up for grabs by reinsurer Simon Cloney
and his wife Emily.

Set on 1680 square metres, the Pymble Avenue property is one of the oldest houses west of the train
line, having been built for Lewis F.G. Oswald in 1906.

In the 1970s the landmark property was owned by classical musician Enzo Toppano and his dancer
wife Peggy Mortimer, parents of actor Peta Toppano.
It last traded in 2007 for $2.35 million when sold by Warrawee-bound Dennis and Jacqueline
Teroxy, who had undertaken a substantial renovation during their 13-year ownership.

Featuring plenty of its original ornate touches, it has a modernist extension at the rear with an
open-plan living area overlooking the swimming pool.

Don MacLennan, of Chadwick Real Estate, is taking it to auction on June 27 for upwards of $3
million.

Page2of3©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Media millions
Media agency boss Peter Horgan and his wife Jo are hoping for more than $2.7 million at Saturday's
auction of their Willoughby home.

The Castlecrag-bound couple built their bespoke-designed home in 2012, having bought the
617-square-metre property in 2003 for $1,125,000.

The two-level Warrane Road property has formal and informal living rooms, four bedrooms and a
swimming pool.

Horgan, chief executive of OMD Australia, has listed it with Ray White Lower North Shore's Danny
Grant.

Sound investment

Tim Duggan, the co-owner and content director of new media outfit Sound Alliance, is selling his
Darlinghurst pad to trade up to something larger nearby.

The two-storey spread is set in a converted terrace in the Burley Katon Halliday-designed Republic 1,
and last traded in 2010 for $580,000 when it was a less glamorously appointed rental.

The founder of junkee.com and SameSame.com has listed it with Innercity Property Agent's Felice
Cotroneo with a guide of more than $800,000 ahead of the July 4 auction.

IN

RE
PUB
AN

irreal : Residential Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction |
ireest : Real Estate
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020150612eb6d0009l

Search Summary

Text

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (project) and (casino resort or island or
hotel or apartment or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company
or board or assets) and (transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron
or lead or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or
stake or equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or
firm or company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or
equity or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group
or firm or board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall
Street or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
10/06/2015 to 16/06/2015
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
112
7 August 2017 21:44

Page3of3©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.