SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

EGN
Mini-city to rise on Bradmill site in Yarraville after $160 million sale

Ben Millar
385 words
2 September 2015
Maribyrnong & Hobsons Bay Weekly
FMARUW
WKL Maribyrnong & Hobsons Bay
1
English
Copyright 2015 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

By Benjamin Millar

A $2 billion “mini-city” is expected to rise on the site of the former Bradmill denim factory in Yarraville
after it was sold to a developer for more than $160 million.

Tommy Jiang, who owns Chinese language newspapers and radio stations in Melbourne, reportedly
bought the 24-hectare site, now known as Yarraville Garden, from former Carlton Football Club
vice-president Colin De Lutis.

Mr De Lutis paid $7 million to take over the ailing Bradmill business when it went into receivership in
2002 and later paid $16 million for two neighbouring blocks.

The area was rezoned from industrial to residential and mixed-use in 2011. The rezoning will
facilitate 1500 new dwellings in a mix of townhouses and apartment blocks of up to six storeys.

Bounded by Francis Street, McIvor Reserve and the Newport freight railway line, the area was
marketed as having “significant scope” for increased density, subject to approval.

Maribyrnong mayor Nam Quach says that while it is a positive that development will get moving on
the site, new ownership shouldn’t lead to a push for higher density.

“It’s not uncommon when new ownership comes on board for them to look at ways to maximise their
investment,” he said.

“You can have new ownership and they may have new ideas, but I don’t want to see greater
densification.”

Mr Jiang, who acquired the site through his Fortune Property Group, told Fairfax Media he wanted to
contribute a landmark in Melbourne’s west.

“I’m a local Chinese and I’ve been living 27 years in Australia,” he said. “We’ll need to talk to the
government for their idea for the western suburbs planning. We also want to bring in some new
ideas, to create more benefit for local people.”

Mr De Lutis was last year granted planning approval for a $20 million development on the Francis
Street edge of the site that will include a new library, medical centre, restaurant, service station, two
supermarkets and 30 shops.

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Yarraville residents have questioned the ability of the area’s roads, public transport and schools to
cope with thousands of extra people.

RE
PUB
AN

victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FMARUW0020150901eb920000a

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.