News
Yorkeys Knob the key focus for Aquis
298 words
26 December 2015
Cairns Post
CAIRPO
Cairns
7
English
© 2015 News Limited. All rights reserved.
THE multi-billion-dollar Aquis Great Barrier Reef mega-casino resort project is set for a new lease of life
following a decision by the Fung family to pull out of a major deal on the Gold Coast.
Aquis has axed a proposal to buy the Sheraton Mirage Resort and Spa at Main Beach for $160 million.
Plans were for a redevelopment including a casino.

...
Senior executives, including new Aquis Entertainment chief executive Aaron Gomes, met in Hong Kong this
week to discuss plans for 2016, including Yorkeys Knob.

The Sheraton deal fell over after the groups left the negotiating table. The spokesman said they had been
negotiating with the vendors since May over conditions for the sale.

“However, the parties have been unable to agree acceptable terms and Aquis has elected to withdraw from
the acquisition,” he said.

In May, Aquis announced plans to replace the Skase-era beachfront resort with a large-scale integrated
resort and casino development, saying the company was open to discussions with neighbouring property
owners about a possible combination of projects.

...

Rival developer ASF, which has secured state land next to the Southport Yacht Club at Main Beach, has first
right of refusal for the only available Gold Coast licence.Aquis has re-entered the Integrated Resort
Development process for Yorkeys Knob which involves providing a detailed proposal and negotiating a
gaming licence, a casino agreement and...

Document CAIRPO0020151227ebcq00028

Search Summary

Text

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or entity) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
23/12/2015 to 31/12/2015
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
153
25 August 2017 9:06

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.