SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
ACU’s $90m North Sydney boost

321 words
15 September 2015
The Australian - Online
AUSTOL
English
© 2015 News Limited. All rights reserved.

The Australian Catholic University has extended its holdings in North Sydney, snapping up 33 Berry
Street for more than $90 million, as it looks to form an education precinct.

ACU’s $90m North Sydney boost

Buying the building on the corner of Pacific Highway and Berry Street will allow the ACU to cut the
cost of leasing space in the area and adds to its purchases in North Sydney. In 2011, it acquired NCR
House for $57.3m in what was one of the largest deals in the precinct after the global financial crisis.
At the time the university bought the tower at 8-20 Napier Street, that adjoined its North Sydney
campus, from the then listed Charter Hall Office REIT.

The latest building purchase has been driven by a 53 per cent jump in student numbers at ACU’s
North Sydney campus over the past three years.

“ACU’s expansion reflected the university’s overall strategic plan for sustainable growth and the
purchase consolidated its place as part of North Sydney’s thriving education precinct,” ACU chief
operating officer Stephen Weller said.

The university’s purchase represents a windfall for private investor Horaco Property, which bought the
property in 1994 for about $24m, and has seen values in the area surge. In July, Chinese group Yuhu
picked up a nearby apartment site in North Sydney for about $60m from property tycoon Robert
Magid.

Colliers International’s Henry Burke and Jon Chomley handled the sale of the Berry Street building.
“The property offered all buyers something special and, accordingly, attracted attention from a diverse
range of buyers,” Mr Burke said. “Being fully leased and with a mixed-use zoning, we saw strong
interest from investors and developers but in the end the future strategy and property requirements of
the ACU prevailed.”

Mr Chomley said the vendor knew the timing was right to move on.

CO
IN

NS

RE

IPD

ppinv : Charter Hall Office REIT | catuau : Australian Catholic University
i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150206 : Closed-end Funds/Investment Trusts | ifinal :
Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
NCR Corporation House

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

News Ltd.
Document AUSTOL0020150915eb9f00184

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.