Property briefs

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Property briefs

603 words
26 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
38
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Walker Corporation has appointed Brookfield Multiplex to build the tallest commercial building in the
western CBD of Melbourne – Tower 2 – at the city's largest mixed-use project, Collins Square.
Construction of the 39-storey building will be completed in mid-2016 and has already generated
pre-commitments for more than 50 per cent of the tower. KPMG is the anchor tenant. It has signed an
agreement to take close to 30,000 square metres of office space in the 'Sky Building', positioned
across the top 11 floors of the Tower. Michael Bleby

CBRE has appointed Ben Younger to head the Perth metropolitan investment sales team. Mr Younger,
who been with the agency for 10 years, was previously director of the of the Adelaide metropolitan
investments team. Mercedes Ruehl

Paris-based hotel groupAccor has issued a €900 million ($1.3 billion) perpetual hybrid bond that will
pay a return of 4.13 per cent a year. The bonds can be redeemed from June 30, 2020 at the earliest.
The order book was five times oversubscribed. Accord said this reflected investor confidence. Larry
Schlesinger

Knight Frank has appointed retail expert Michael Hanscomb as director of retail leasing in its Sydney
office. Mr Hanscomb's key areas of expertise include luxury retail, flagships, food and beverage and
major CBD projects. Mercedes Ruehl

The ABS tourism accommodation survey will run for at least another year (2014-15) after new funding
was secured from Austrade. The survey of occupancy rates and room takings was to be scrapped due
to funding constraints. The Tourism Accommodation Australia, representing hotel owners, had lobbied
against it being scrapped. Larry Schlesinger

Engineers Australia has listed its Victorian headquarters in North Melbourne with expectations in
excess of $10 million. The three-level office building on a 2076-square-metre site is being marketed as
a high-density retail and residential development opportunity through Clinton Baxter and Nick Peden
of Savills.  It is zoned mixed use with an eight-level height limit. The expression of interest campaign
closes July 25. Larry Schlesinger

Brisbane-based Wilson Architects has beaten rivals including Cox Architecture to design a $19 million
city hall for Miri City in the Malaysian state of Sarawak. Managing director Hamilton Wilson said the win
would give the firm a foothold in the growing regional market. Michael Bleby

Hip eatery Meatmother will open its second restaurant after taking a lease at the Drapac-owned
Georges on Collins building at 162 Collins Street in the Melbourne CBD. The 302-square-metre
basement space was leased on a 10-year term, through a deal brokered by CBRE's Zelman
Ainsworth. Nick Lenaghan
Serviced apartment group Quest will open six new accommodation offerings in the second half of the
year, three in each quarter. They will be in Adelaide, Brisbane, Darwin, Newcastle, Melbourne and
Townsville.  A seventh property will open in Wellington, New Zealand.

Page161of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Larry Schlesinger
A China-based family paid $5.4 million to acquire a three-level office building at 355 Exhibition Street
in the Melbourne CBD. The property sold within 12 hours of listing on a yield of 4.29 per cent. The
price reflected a land rate of $18,500 for the 219-square-metre site. Larry Schlesinger
GDI Property has closed the capital raising for its No. 38 Diversified Property Trust. GDI told the ASX
on Wednesday the $43.8 million raising was oversubscribed in under three weeks. The trust will own a
portfolio of six industrial properties and one office block. It is forecast to have a 9.75 per cent
distribution yield for FY2015. REBECCA THISTLETON

muloz : Brookfield Multiplex Group Ltd | walcor : Walker Corporation Ltd | ptmwm : KPMG International
| pgc : Brookfield Asset Management Inc
ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i836 : Accounting | i85 : Real Estate Transactions
| iacc : Accounting/Consulting | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
c411 : Management Moves | cslmc : Senior Level Management | ncdig : Corporate Digests | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | c41 : Management Issues | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140625ea6q0002n

CO

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page162of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.