UGL eyes John Holland after $1.2b DTZ buy

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
UGL eyes John Holland after $1.2b DTZ buy

Jenny Wiggins and Sarah Thompson
569 words
16 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
15
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Contractor UGL is set to kick off consolidation in the engineering sector and consider a play for
Leighton Holdings' John Holland business after finalising a deal to sell property arm DTZ to private
equity firm TPG for $1.215 billion.
The DTZ deal, which was signed on Friday night after delays finalising sale and purchase
agreements, is expected to be announced Monday.

UGL will reap between $1 billion and $1.1 billion in cash from the sale, enabling it to pay off almost
$650 million in net debt, return money to shareholders and pursue acquisitions.
As revealed by AFR Weekend , it is understood private equity firms, including Warburg Pincus, have
already approached UGL chief executive Richard Leupen to discuss teaming up to bid for other
engineering businesses, including John Holland.

Leighton's new Spanish CEO, Marcelino Fernández Verdes, confirmed last week John Holland is up
for sale as part of a selling spree designed to strengthen the contractor's balance sheet. People
close to Leighton say the sale of John Holland may hurt the company in the long term if it creates a
new competitor.

Mr Leupen could also revive talks with Transfield Services, UGL's long-term rival. UGL approached
Transfield in 2012 with a bid of more than $4 a share but was rebuffed.
UGL investors said they were happy with the DTZ sale, which represents a multiple of around 9
times earnings and avoids the need for an expensive and time-consuming de-merger.

"It looked like TPG had played a brilliant game of bluff and bluster and backed UGL into a corner,"
said Will Vicars, chief investment officer at Caledonia Investments and a UGL shareholder.
"But UGL has stared them down and come up with a sale price that will be more than acceptable to
investors and puts the company in a great state to pay down debt to an acceptable level, do
buybacks and start an aggressive dividend policy all while the engineering arm is winning lots of
business and the pipeline is particularly strong."
TPG formed a consortium with Hong Kong investment manager PAG and Canada's Ontario
Teachers' Pension Plan to buy DTZ after making an initial offer for the property group in November.
TPG wants to take advantage of DTZ's footprint in China and make further acquisitions to build a
global property group that can rival US-based market leaders CBRE and Jones Lang LaSalle.

TPG has brought in former CBRE CEO Brett White as a non-executive director on DTZ's board.

Mr White will become executive chairman of DTZ in March when his non-compete agreement with
CBRE, which he left at the end of 2012, expires.

Page197of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr White spent 30 years at CBRE, becoming chief executive in 2005, and led the $US900 million
acquisition of the real-estate businesses of Netherlands-based ING Group in 2011.

DTZ's incumbent CEO, Tod Lickerman, who joined in September last year, will remain in the role.

DTZ's auction attracted offers from TPG and rival firms Warburg Pincus, Ares Management and Bain
Capital.

Warburg Pincus, whose bid was financed by Macquarie Group, stopped working on the deal earlier
this month.
UGL was advised by Goldman Sachs. TPG's lead advisor was UBS and it also received advice from
JP Morgan and Credit Suisse.

leiho : Leighton Holdings Ltd | tpgpar : TPG, Inc. | uncont : UGL Ltd. | wpcap : Warburg Pincus LLC |
jhgpl : John Holland Group Pty Ltd | hocht : Hochtief AG | ocisa : ACS Actividades de
Construcciones y Servicios SA
i502 : Heavy Construction | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150203 : Private Equity |
ialtinv : Alternative Investments | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ifinal :
Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
cacqu : Acquisitions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 :
Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140615ea6g0000u

CO

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page198of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.