Capital Gain

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business - Commercial Property
Capital Gain

Marc Pallisco
1,063 words
20 September 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
12
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Spencer Street tower to cast Yarra in poor light

Two adjoining properties at the super-prominent south-west corner of Melbourne's Hoddle grid are the
subject of speculation that they are selling to a high-rise builder for about $50 million.

The buildings - between 2 and 16 Spencer Street, on the corner of Flinders Street - cover 1960 square
metres and are expected to be the subject of a skyscraper application, which, like several other
proposals this year, will overshadow the Yarra's north bank.
The mooted sale includes the All Nations International Backpacker Hotel - formerly the Nomads All
Nations - which last traded for $10.7 million in 2012. It also includes the neighbouring Pensione Hotel
Melbourne, formerly the Explorers Hotel Melbourne, which is owned by a separate investor and last
traded for $13.7 million in 2007.

Capital Gain reported that a campaign to sell the sites together was under way in July. CBRE selling
agents Josh Rutman and Mark Wizel were unavailable to comment about the off-market deal.

Last week, the Melbourne City Council approved a 295-metre tower for 447 Collins Street, despite
concerns it would shade the Yarra.
This month, Singapore's Fragrance Group unveiled plans for a building about 90 storeys high, which,
like the nearby Rialto, would overshadow the north bank.

Also recently, the Malaysia-based owner of the former Fletcher Jones building at 1-5 Queen Street
lodged plans for a 90-metre (26-level) building, which would cast shade around the Banana Alley
Vaults and Sandridge Bridge from 11am to 2pm.

On the riverside World Trade Centre block at 7-23 Spencer Street, developer Asset1 last month lodged
plans for four towers, the tallest being 34 levels.

Pakenham parcel
A private business is speculated to be paying about $9 million for a 35.4-hectare development site in
the south-east suburb of Pakenham.
The property - currently a farm but zoned Industrial 1 - was offered with an approved plan of
subdivision, the first stage of which would see a portion sliced into 24 blocks. It is expected the new
owner will retain a section for itself.

The land, at 1110 Healesville-Koo Wee Rup Road, is about 800 metres from an interchange to the
Pakenham bypass. Dandenong is 30 kilometres away via the freeway; the city centre about 60
kilometres.

Page195of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Facey Industrial Commercial's Josh Kendall and Mark Bond marketed the Pakenham parcel, which is
near the SouthEast Business Park - a joint venture between the McMullin Group and the Casey City
Council. High-profile occupant Car MegaMart this week has announced a move to SouthEast.
Masonic sale
Interests associated with the Freemasons Victoria Masonic Centre have quietly sold a community hall
in one of Melbourne's most exclusive suburbs and streets. Chatham Lodge - also known as Emulation
Hall - is an imposing 87-year-old Masonic Centre at the southern end of tree-lined Rochester Road,
opposite the Canterbury train station, in Melbourne's ritzy east.

The distinctive building is Australia's last remaining example of Egyptian Revival architecture,
according to selling agents Peter Batrouney and Campbell Ward of Jellis Craig, who were also
marketing it to prestige residential buyers with price expectations of $1.5 million.
The property is speculated to have sold to a developer, who will reconfigure the building for
commercial use.
Last August, Freemasons Victoria unveiled plans to replace its prominent Dallas Brooks Hall site,
opposite the Fitzroy Gardens in East Melbourne, with two apartment buildings rising 11 and 17 levels
and offering 275 flats. It would retain a 1000-square-metre portion for function space.

Billionaire buys in
A Chinese billionaire has agreed to pay a Werribee farmer $4.4 million for a 54-hectare block before a
scheduled October auction.
Formerly green wedge-zoned land, the residential development site known as Lot 1 Browns Road in
Werribee is on the north-east corner of Wests Road, which is a service lane to the busy Geelong Road
and Princes Highway.

Though not offered with a permit, it is expected that the land, about 38 kilometres from town, will make
way for a housing estate in the longer term, being three kilometres from the Werribee retail and
commercial centre.

Last year, the state government also announced plans for a major employment hub in East Werribee,
which includes infrastructure improvements.
John H Castran director John Castran said the Browns Road sale price was a record for rural land in
Werribee's urban growth boundary.
Last May, the 81.5-hectare neighbouring block at 15 Browns Road sold for just over $4 million.

Carlton grows up
Carlton may not be looking so low-rise in years to come, with two applications for major apartment
towers lodged this month - including one that will shut down a budget accommodation institution.
Australian Unity has applied to build a nine-level, 91-unit aged-care facility on the site of a former
housing estate. With 106 car parks, 14 bike spaces, and green spaces, the proposed building will
replace sites known as 508 Rathdowne and 21 Reeves streets.

The government-owned block is one of several around Melbourne's inner-city being replaced with a mix
of new public and private housing.
Meanwhile, not far away at 66 Lygon Street, Zagame Corporation will shut the Downtowner Hotel and
replace it with an apartment building more than four times the height. More details of the proposal are
in Domain.
Fire sale
A fire station near the busy T-intersection of Dandenong and Waverley roads in Malvern East has sold
to a developer for about $8 million.

The 1376-square-metre block was offered with a permit for a five-level complex with 64 flats, two
shops, and 66 car-parking bays. The proposed complex is within walking distance of Monash
University's Caulfield campus, Caulfield train station and Caulfield Racecourse.

Page196of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Gross Waddell's Michael Gross and Jonathon McCormack marketed 80-90 Waverley Road for an
investor who bought it from the Metropolitan Fire Brigade a couple of years ago and then leased it back
while obtaining the permit.

This year the MFB listed two 1750-square-metre development sites in Essendon and Coburg. The MFB
will shortly relocate Waverley Road services to a new facility in Malvern Road, Glen Iris.

marcpallisco@gmail.com

Twitter: @marcpallisco

IN
RE

PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140919ea9k000bq

Page197of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.