LionHub seeks $12m for China technology park

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Market Wrap
LionHub seeks $12m for China technology park

IPO watch Sally Rose
760 words
19 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
21
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

A Chinese-Singaporean property development group wants to raise $12 million through a local
listing this month to kick-start its ambitious plans to build an $850 million technology park in regional
China.
LionHub Group will be the ASX-listed parent company of Lian Huat, an entity incorporated in
Singapore.

Lian Huat's sole asset is its contractual rights for the construction and development of a proposed
technology park in China's Anhui province.

A back-door listing is being pursued through Arasor International, a television component
manufacturer that went into administration and was delisted in 2006. Arasor has since been stripped
of all assets and liabilities, with new directors installed.
The group raised $1 million in debt and private equity over the past year to finance the legal costs of
relisting.
At a general shareholder meeting last week, it was agreed that, subject to raising $7 million in new
shareholder equity, the shell company would be relisted as a property developer trading under the
name LionHub.

Draft plans for the technology park have an "architectural history of the world" theme.

One part of the park would feature buildings in the style of Cambridge, alongside a canal replica of
London's River Thames, while another would be styled as a mini-Venice, said Goldspark Investments
director Andrew Rowell, who is acting as lead corporate adviser on the deal as a representative of
Otsana Capital.Risk of share dilution

Initial estimates put the final cost of the development, which, in addition to the business precinct,
would include retail, restaurants and residential apartments, at $850 million.
Most of the $7 million to $12 million sought through the Australian Securities Exchange listing is
earmarked to start building the initial roads and infrastructure at the site.
A gap of more than $838 million between the initial raising and the final cost presents a significant
risk to investors that the value of their shares will be diluted or irredeemable. The strategy is to market
the proposed "Singapore Xuancheng Technology Park" to Australian and Singaporean businesses
wanting to establish a base in China.
The company is hopeful that selling lots off the plan will reduce the amount of additional debt and
equity it needs to raise to bring the project to fruition.

Page227of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.One of the poorest regions in eastern China, the Anhui province, is still a largely rural area renowned
for its traditional calligraphy and paper-making cottage industries. In 1996, an 80-square-kilometre
parcel of land in Anhui was nominated as a super economic zone. So far, about 17 square kilometres
have been developed. The Lian Huat development will cover 2.2 square kilometres within the special
zone.

It is hoped that development of the first 1.5 square kilometres will be completed and occupied within
two years.Not another 'ghost town'
While China has undergone the biggest construction boom in the history of the world over the past
decade, it is now a stated priority of the government to slow growth in the construction industry and
steer investment towards domestic consumption.

But LionHub's supporters argue the Singapore Xuancheng Technology Park project is not at any
serious risk of being left unfinished or unoccupied.
"This development is not like the ghost towns of empty apartment blocks in China we see on the
television. It is a whole package of residential, commercial, industrial, entertainment and warehousing
facilities which makes for a vibrant economic zone," LionHub deputy chairman Geoffrey McIntyre said.

A retired senior Australian banking executive, he was recruited to the board in November. Mr McIntyre
is a former honorary Australian trade representative to Singapore and is the recipient of national
honours from both countries for his services to building trade links through his work in the finance
sector.

In his former role as head of the Overseas Union Bank, Mr McIntyre was a banker to the parents of
the current owner of LionHub's Chinese parent company. He has a long-standing relationship with
the Singaporean-Chinese family who have made many property development investments in China,
Australia and Singapore. The family's business interests include a major business park in the
Chinese steel-making port of Tianjin.
On offer are up to 35 million shares priced at 20¢ each to raise a maximum of $12 million. A
minimum of $7 million must be raised for the float to proceed. The offer opened on May 1 and closes
on May 22. Normal trading is due to start on May 30.

arinna : Lionhub Group Ltd.
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i34531 : Semiconductors | ielec : Consumer Electronics | iindele :
Industrial Electronics | iindstrls : Industrial Goods | itech : Technology
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
singp : Singapore | china : China | austr : Australia | anhui : Anhui | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140518ea5j0000h

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

Page228of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.