CITY BEAT

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
CITY BEAT

ANTHONY MARX
521 words
23 April 2014
The Courier-Mail
COUMAI
CourierMail
25
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

LINCED TO DRAMAS It seems there’s a spot of bother inside the Linc Energy camp. The
Brisbane-based company has just sacked one of its most senior executives, Scott Broussard, who
served as president of oil and gas operations in the US.

Broussard, an industry veteran with more than 30 years of experience, only joined Linc 2 ½ years
ago and oversaw the firm’s interests in the Gulf Coast.

Linc boss Peter Bond (right), meanwhile, has quietly unloaded 516,000 shares in the company he
launched in 1996.
The dramas come as Linc faces allegations that a gas operation in Chinchilla has caused serious
environmental damage by polluting groundwater.

Linc has appealed against a State Government legal bid to reveal information that allegedly would
have shown that toxic compounds had been detected in an off-site groundwater bore and tank.
Bond maintains the company has complied with environmental laws and water samples show no
problems.
ROAD TO NOWHERE For a now-failed mob who cobbled together $4.8 billion to build one of
Australia’s most ambitious toll road projects, it’s amazing how little dough remains.
BrisConnections, which built the city’s Airport Link tunnel, has just $3.43 million in cash left and
nearly $1 million in “likely liabilities’’ according to info released yesterday by the company’s deed
administrators.

The administrators at McGrath Nicol said any offloading of the under-used road may result in a
partial payment to unitholders. But these investors should not hold their collective breath since
“there is no sale process being pursued’’.

How did that old Talking Heads tune go? “We’re on a road to nowhere ...’’ STILL PLENTY OF ZIP
Property industry stalwart Christian Sandstrom chalks up 25 years at JLL this week.

According to those in the know, a young Christian with a lot of get-up-and-go joined what was then
Jones Lang Wootton on April 24 – the same day the firm moved from 307 Queen St, where space
was so tight Christian couldn’t find a seat, to the more spacious surroundings at Central Plaza One.

Still with plenty of zip, he is a national director at JLL and for many years headed the leasing team in
the fringe CBD and suburban office markets before moving on to investments a few years ago.

SMOOTH SAILING Boat owner Richard Cavill is a man you can trust, even when Hollywood comes
knocking.

Page25of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The son of publican and sailing aficionado Greg Cavill knocked back a request from Tinsel Town
heavyweights Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie for the services of his 90 foot luxury charter boat Laura J
last New Year’s Eve.

Not that Cavill Jnr is against movie stars – the occasional chef had already taken a deposit from
some locals for the same time and honoured the commitment.
Both generations of the Cavill family were on board the Laura J for the start of the Brisbane to
Gladstone yacht race last Friday, with father Greg pulling the trigger on the starter’s gun for the
Queensland Cruising Yacht Club.JAMES MCCULLOUGH IS ON LEAVE

CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

lncegy : Linc Energy Ltd
i1 : Energy | i14 : Petroleum/Coal Products | i14001 : Petroleum Refining | iindstrls : Industrial Goods
gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document COUMAI0020140422ea4n000b9

Page26of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.