Baosteel poaches Stokes lieutenant

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Baosteel poaches Stokes lieutenant

Peter Ker
364 words
23 October 2014
Canberra Times
CANBTZ
B010
English
(c) 2014 The Canberra Times

Alwyn Vorster's move could help unlock synergies on mining projects. Photo: Reuters

Baosteel poaches Stokes lieutenant

Peter Ker
'From a mining perspective it is a real positive that we have someone there at Baosteel.'
Morgan Ball, BC Iron
The chances of a corporate partnership between the newly enlarged BC Iron and Baosteel have
improved, after the Chinese steel giant poached Kerry Stokes' top iron ore man this week. Alwyn
Vorster has spent the past four years running Mr Stokes' Iron Ore Holdings, which is being acquired by
BC Iron in a friendly takeover. Mr Vorster was expected to become a non-executive director of BC Iron
when the deal was completed, but has instead been appointed by Baosteel and its partner Aurizon to run
the Aquila mining business that they acquired earlier this year. Baosteel and Aurizon want to build $5
billion of rail and port infrastructure in the west pilbara, and
BC Iron has acknowledged that such an asset could be a good option for exporting iron ore from the
Buckland Project it acquired in the recent Iron Ore Holdings takeover. BC Iron managing director
Morgan Ball declined to comment on the potential for Mr Vorster's move to smooth the path towards a rail
and port partnership with Baosteel, Aurizon and Aquila, but said it could help unlock some synergies
on mining projects. "The ore body beneath our Buckland tenements abuts into an Aquila tenement, and
it makes far more sense to develop that jointly than two separate operations, so I think from a mining
perspective it is a real positive that we have someone there at Baosteel who understands the synergies
that can be achieved through all of that and that is something we would engage with Alwyn about at the
appropriate time," he said. BC Iron owns more than 90 per cent of Iron Ore Holdings and has moved
into the compulsory acquisition stage. Mr Stokes has become BC Iron's biggest shareholder with just
over 19 per cent. BC Iron is due to report its quarterly update on Tuesday, and its shares closed 3.5ï¿½
higher at $1.425 on Wednesday.

RF
CO

IN

RE

61445570
ironoa : Iron Ore Holdings Ltd. | baois : Shanghai Baosteel Group Corp | dorval : Aurizon Mines Ltd |
hclamn : Hecla Mining Co
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i2111 : Iron Ore
Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | isteel : Steel
Production
canbrr : Canberra | apacz : Asia Pacific | auscap : Australian Capital Territory | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
| austr : Australia

PUB Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty Ltd
AN

Document CANBTZ0020141022eaan00011

Page102of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Page103of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.