China begins its wool empire down under EXCLUSIVE

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Local
China begins its wool empire down under EXCLUSIVE

SUE NEALES, RURAL REPORTER
423 words
5 February 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
6
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

IN a $37 million move, one of China's biggest textile manufacturing companies has snapped up two
of Victoria's most prized pastoral properties in the fine merino heartland of the Western District.

The deal, shrouded in secrecy and confidentiality clauses, is the first step by the Zhejiang RIFA
Holding Group towards establishing an elite merino sheep and fine wool empire in Australia.

A former state-owned machinery company, RIFA has signed contracts to buy the historic 2400ha
Blackwood property near Dunkeld from the Ritchie family for about $14m.
It has also signed a heads of agreement contract to buy one of the biggest and most productive
grazing properties in western Victoria, the 2850ha ``Minjah'' aggregate at Woolsthorpe north of
Warrnambool for $23m from farmer and lamb exporter Tim Clarke.
The RIFA group is also understood to be negotiating to buy a third Western district pastoral estate
and its 26,000 merino sheep, Banongil Station at Skipton, for more than $20m from former VFL
footballer turned Ballarat property developer Stewart Gull.

Other grand pastoral holdings close to Naracoorte, South Australia, are also believed to be under
consideration for acquisition by the RIFA group.
News of RIFA's surprise move comes in the same week as Hong Kong investors announced the
$70m purchase of Australia's sixth-biggest dairy processor, United Dairy Power.
The little-known RIFA group is in the process of transforming itself from a Chinese government
textile and loom-making machinery company to an ``independent'' corporation with a focus on
precision machinery, investment, sports and agriculture.

It is not yet clear whether RIFA's ambitious rural play will require the approval of the federal
government and the Foreign Investment Review Board.

While both deals are below the current threshold value of $248m -- which triggers automatic FIRB
review of private corporate newcomers -- Zhejiang RIFA's original status as a Chinese state-owned
machinery enterprise and its unclear current ownership structure may attract the mandatory FIRB
scrutiny of all foreign government or sovereign entities buying Australian farmland.
On its website, the RIFA Holding Group claims to have eight subsidiaries, 1500 staff and to be worth
more than 10 billion yuan ($1.9 billion).
It is also understood to own more than three million sheep in China -- although none are merinos --
in its agricultural holdings.

Blackwood and Minjah will be used by RIFA to breed and showcase the thousands of fine-woolled
merino sheep that the company is expected to acquire.

Page181of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

i0100124 : Sheep/Goat Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
china : China | austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz
: Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140204ea250003j

Page182of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.