HK investors splash $220m at Randwick

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
HK investors splash $220m at Randwick

Samantha Hutchinson
256 words
19 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
35
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

A housing project on Randwick Racecourse in Sydney has sold to a trio of Hong Kong investors for
$220 million.
Businessmen Wo Mok Chan, Hu Wit Li and Kai Yuen Chan bought the site at 66a Doncaster
Avenue, approved for 82 homes, from Sydney-based developer Anson City Developments.

Under the agreement, Anson is responsible for construction of the development, and the three
businessmen will take hold of the final, complete product, which will have 29 units and four blocks of
townhouses.
The site is within walking distance of Centennial Park and will be serviced by a light-rail stop.

"They liked the location," Colliers International agent Steam Leung said.
"It's a lot like Happy Valley in Hong Kong, which is the most expensive residential area because
it's built around a racecourse."
The buyers were unsure what they would do with the completed site, Mr Leung said. There was a
chance they might keep it for their respective families, but no plans were yet certain.

"I've been approached by many Asian developers with more than $100million . . . they believe the
Australian market is providing them with good value for money," Mr Leung said.
On the same day, a Balmain waterfront site with approval for 121 apartments came onto the
market.
The 12,375 square metre site at 100 Elliott Street was owned by developers Roche Group and was
known as the former Nutrimetics site.

Knight Frank agents Peter Krieg and Dominic Ong hold the listing.

IN
RE

PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
hkong : Hong Kong | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
| austr : Australia | bric : BRIC Countries | china : China | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New
South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140618ea6j0005t

Page12of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.