CITY BEAT

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
CITY BEAT

AMNTHONY MARX
548 words
3 July 2014
The Courier-Mail
COUMAI
CourierMail
49
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

anthony.marx@news.com.au @AnthonyMarxCM

CHAINED TO THE WHEEL YOU might call them the not- so-easy riders Brad Halcrow, from
Brisbane-based software company simPRO, is a self-confessed retro motorcycle nut but even that
may not be enough to soothe the pain he expects from his planned mega-jaunt on a classic bike.

Brad (illustrated) and his colleague, Mark Alfred, have agreed to ride from Melbourne to the Gold
Coast for charity in the Laser Group Postie Bike Challenge next month after CEO Brad Couper had to
pull out.

The 1700km journey – at a very restrained maximum speed of 80km per hour – won’t be quite the
same experience as it would be on Halcrow’s Yamaha XS750 classic.

But the lads say it’s worth it to raise the money for depression support service Beyondblue – even if
they end up with bottoms beyond red.
TAKING A PUNT CITY Beat has come across a bit more intelligence about Hong Kong-based
investment and development group Chow Tai Fook Enterprises, which is now one of two Asian groups
which have partnered with Echo Entertainment to bid for Brisbane’s new $1 billion casino complex.

It seems that Chow Tai Fook has already gotten its feet wet in the gaming world this year by acquiring
a controlling stake in a business called Sun City, which has a lock on more than 30 per cent of the
Macau VIP junket market. It has nearly 280 tables and poker games in Macau, as well as a casino in
South Korea. Chow Tai Fook remains under the watchful eye of Cheng Yu-Teng, an 88-year-old
billionaire who has had a financial stake in Macau gaming for years.

CURRYING FAVOUR CITY Beat is not sure whether it strictly meets the dictionary definition of an
aptronym, as in Australian tennis legend Margaret Court, but it definitely gave us a chuckle. The
administrator of the Brisbane-based chain of curry restaurants, the Ceylon Inn, is none other than Ian
Currie of BRI Ferrier.

Currie yesterday held the second creditors meeting of AUA Group and CRS Corp, the companies
behind the restaurants. As expected creditors voted to place what was left of the businesses into
liquidation. Five of the restaurants have been sold. Their one-time owner, the lamborghini-loving
Asoka Alahakone was a no-show at the meeting.

SMALLER STEPS IN CITY Beat’s experience, companies posting a loss will often husband their cash,
which made it surprising to see that Brisbane- based mine services business Sedgman has stumped
$500,000 for a stake in a small miner focused on tungsten.

Sedgman says the deal is part of its strategy of small investments to “put us in a preferred position for
project delivery and operations”.

Page20of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The money is going into Vital Metals, which has a majority stake in a tungsten project in Queensland.
Sedgman has been doing study work for Vital already and the investment is part of the company’s
strategy to diversify more into metals.
Like others, Sedgman is having to tighten its belt. It has foreshadowed a $5 million-$7 million loss for
fiscal 2014.
Sedgman last year made a $1 million investment in Ascot Resources.James McCullough is on leave

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document COUMAI0020140702ea7300028

Page21of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.