Rival bid for Aquila in offing

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Rival bid for Aquila in offing

Sarah-Jane Tasker, TAKEOVERS
560 words
17 June 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
19
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

WEST Australian mining millionaireChris Ellison may be poised to make a rival bid for Aquila
Resources that could trump Chinese-backed Baosteel’s $1.4 billion offer.

The battle for Aquila took a dramatic twist yesterday when its newest shareholder, Mr Ellison’s
Mineral Resources, placed its shares in a trading halt pending a “corporate transaction”
announcement.

Aquila Resources quickly followed this with a request for a trading halt on its shares because of an
expected announcement — tipped tomorrow — on a “corporate transaction”.
Perth-based contractor and iron ore developer Mineral Resources already surprised the market last
week when it emerged with a 12 per cent stake in Aquila Resources, in a move it said was to put it
in the front seat to develop and operate Aquila’s West Pilbara iron ore project.

Mineral Resources, with a market capitalisation of about $1.8bn, is likely to be looking at a scrip
deal and The Australian understands that Aquila’s boss, and 30 per cent shareholder, Tony Poli, is
unaware of what his latest investor has planned.

Aquila, which has a market capitalisation of $1.2bn, is expected to release its target statement on
Baosteel’s bid this week and is understood to be planning to recommend shareholders reject the
offer.
Baosteel, which has a 20 per cent stake in Aquila, and its joint Continued on Page 20 Continued
from Page 19 bidder, Brisbane-based freight operator Aurizon, launched an all cash, $3.40-a-share
offer, last month for the iron ore and coal company.
The market had anticipated the Chinese stated-owned entity would increase the offer after Mineral
Resources last week paid $3.75-a-share for its interest.

That speculation saw Aquila’s shares reach an intraday high of $3.77 last Wednesday.

But Baosteel and Aurizon drew a line in the sand on Friday when they revealed they would not
increase the offer.
The Chinese also warned that it could pull its support for the company if its deal did not succeed.
Aquila’s shares last traded at $3.13.
Mineral Resources was keen to highlight its experience in iron ore developments when it
announced its significant stake in Aquila, outlining that it had been working on a proposal for the
past six months to build, own and operate Aquila’s iron ore project.

Mr Ellison said at the time that he wanted to speak to all the key stakeholders in the project and The
Australian understands that while he has met with Mr Poli, he is yet to meet with Baosteel
representatives.

Page152of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It is understoodthat Baosteel senior executives have made it clear they will not engage with Mineral
Resources.

Morgan Stanley’s David Evans said Mineral Resources’ move on to Aquila’s share registry flagged
the company’s longer- term resource infrastructure focus.

“We expect that its focus here is not the product but the process, with Mineral Resources’ ambition
built around project development and future cashflows from the BOO (build, own, operate) elements
of the project,” Mr Evans said.
The proposed infrastructure to support the West Pilbara iron ore development includes a 432km
heavy-haul rail line from the West Pilbara iron ore project to the Anketell port.The port could be
developed to handle as much as 300 million tonnes.

aqures : Aquila Resources Ltd.
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140616ea6h0002y

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page153of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.