Dairy is milked for all it’s worth

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Lifestyle
Dairy is milked for all it’s worth

NIGEL AUSTIN
473 words
4 February 2014
The Advertiser
ADVTSR
Advertiser
29
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE Murray Bridge and Jervois dairy factories have been sold in a deal in which major private milk
company United Dairy Power has been bought for about $70 million by Hong Kong businessman
William Hui.
The sale was viewed with mixed blessings by the South Australian dairy sector yesterday after a
lengthy sale process.

South Australian Dairyfarmers’ Association president David Basham said that it was a positive the
industry finally knew what was going to happen after months of uncertainty.
“The other good thing is that being a HK buyer they are likely to have connections into Asia and China
specifically, which may strengthen sales,’’ Mr Basham said. “The possible downer is we don’t know
much about the buyer and how they will handle the company, although they have said nothing
changes, but time will tell.’’ Mr Basham said UDP had invested in the business and improved it and he
expected the new owners will do likewise.
“The two factories are very important to the SA dairy industry in helping to balance fresh milk needs
with processing needs,” he said.
“They buy a reasonable amount of milk on the Fleurieu Peninsula, along the River Murray further north
and down to Bordertown,’’ he said.
The business will continue to be managed by the senior management team led by Mark Smith, who will
assume the position of chief executive.

Mr Smith said UDP was pleased to have found a strategic partner who valued its heritage and the
ongoing contribution of UDP to the dairy industry.
“I want to assure our staff, suppliers and customers that it is business as usual and they should expect
the same high service level they have come to expect from UDP,” Mr Smith said.

UDP was established in Victoria in 1999 and bought the two businesses at Murray Bridge and Jervois
when Lion divested them in 2011 following a long sale process.
It processes more than 500 million litres of milk annually for annual sales of $200 million from the two
plants and its Victorian dairy factory at Poowong, UDP’s main milk production site.
Mr Hui said he wanted to reiterate that UDP’s business and investment strategy will remain
unchanged.
UDP founder Tony Esposito will step back from the business during the next three months, but remain
involved and committed to ensuring it continues to flourish.

Page256of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Jervois plant manufactures Australia’s leading pizza cheese brand Caboolture, while Murray
Bridge supplies a diverse range of products from cheddar cheese through to hard grating cheese in
bulk rounds, mozzarella and various value-added dairy products including butter and whey powder.It
produces the Caboolture brand of mozzarella cheese, a favourite with leading pizza franchises and
independent restaurants. The sale is unconditional and not subject to regulatory approvals.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document ADVTSR0020140203ea24000cr

Page257of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.