Asciano on track but many sectors still slow

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Asciano on track but many sectors still slow

Jenny Wiggins
414 words
13 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
27
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Asciano chief executive John Mullen has cautioned the economic environment remains weak ahead
of Christmas as the ports and rail group reaffirmed existing profits guidance at its annual meeting.

"It's disappointingly slow across most sectors in the business," Mr Mullen told The Australian
Financial Review after Asciano's AGM in Sydney.

Although economic activity was "not disastrous," Mr Mullen said it was weak across many sectors,
including in Asciano's agricultural, intermodal and steel transport businesses.

Container lifts in Asciano's Patrick ports business were flat in the first quarter of 2014-15 compared
with a year earlier, with the overall container market growing between zero and 3 per cent – below
historical norms.
While coal haulage volumes continued to be strong in Asciano's Pacific National rail division, with
tonnages hauled up 6.6 per cent in the first quarter, bulk haulage volumes were down 7.7 percent.

In Asciano's intermodal business, haulage volumes (as measured by net tonne kilometres) dropped
2.4 per cent n the first quarter due to falls in the amount of freight transported from the west to the
east coast.

Sea freight has been taking market share from rail freight over the past two years, according to
Commonwealth Bank of Australia analyst Matt Crowe, who pointed out that container volumes at the
port of Fremantle in Western Australia had been "strongly positive" over the past year.

Mr Crowe claimed Asciano's Pacific National intermodal rail business was losing share to cheaper
container shipping. "Shipping industry feedback suggests ships are sailing directly to Fremantle more
often, rather than unloading containers at east coast ports, then using rail," Mr Crowe said. "This
appears to be a structural change and we do not expect it to unwind as economic conditions
improve."

Asciano reiterated its existing earnings guidance at the meeting, confirming it was on track to
increase earnings before interest and taxation by more than 5 per cent in 2014-15.
Asciano continued to hold talks with Chinese conglomerate China Merchants over the potential sale
of a minority stake in its Patrick ports business, which analysts estimated was worth more than
$2 billion. "We're still proceeding along," Mr Mullen said.

Asciano's large market shares in its existing businesses combined with sluggish growth in the
Australian economy meant the company needed to look for new sources of growth in Australia and
overseas, Mr Mullen said.

CO

ascian : Asciano Ltd.

Page41of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

itsp : Transportation/Shipping
c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c15 : Performance | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141112eabd0000s

Page42of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.