Property briefs

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Property briefs

350 words
4 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
39
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Sydney real estate agent Jeff Moxham has partnered with the White family to start Ray White
Commercial. Mr Moxham, who started his career in the family business Moxham's Real Estate before
joining JLL said the family aspect of the Ray White Group was appealing. Mr Moxham said the White
family had developed the largest real estate property group in Australasia and he was keen to drive
similar growth in the commercial business. Ray White Commercial NSW. His team includes Ray Lord,
formerly a senior property manager with JLL as director of Asset Services and Vanessa Rader, with 15
years experience in property research, as Head of Research. Robert Harley

The ACT government will reduce the amount of new residential land supplied to market over the next
three years as demand is expected to wane following federal cuts to the public service. The indicative
residential land release program was cut by 3000 new dwelling sites over the three years in the
territory's budget, handed down on Tuesday. REBECCA THISTLETON

Council rates will rise across 31 NSW councils in the next financial year. The biggest increases will be
in Gundagai, where average rates will rise $116 in 2014-15, and in Maitland, where average rates could
rise $96 for each of the next seven years, according to the NSW Independent Pricing and Regulatory
Tribunal and announced on Tuesday. Rebecca Thistleton
A Chinese-based developer has acquired a development site in Preston in Melbourne's inner north for
$4 million. The 1,220 sqm corner site, at 5-9 Blanch Street, was sold with a permit for a Rothe
Lowman- designed residential tower of 114 apartments and one office.

The deal was negotiated by Patrick O'Callaghan and Nicholas Bourke of DTZ, who are also selling a
similar sized site across the road at 365 Bell Street via public tender closing June 19. Larry Schlesinger
An item in the June 2 property briefs described developer Anthony Panzarino as bankrupt. This was
incorrect. Mr Panzarino is not bankrupt. The Australian Financial Review apologises to Mr Panzarino for
the error.

CO
IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

lasp : JLL
ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i85 : Real Estate Transactions
nsum : News Digests | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncdig : Corporate Digests | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140603ea640002y

Page34of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.