Clock ticking on bid for Aquila

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Clock ticking on bid for Aquila

Sarah-Jane Tasker
378 words
6 June 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
25
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Takeovers: The clock is now ticking on Aquila Resources’ official response to China’s $1.4 billion bid
for the iron ore and coal company.
China’s state-owned Baosteel and its joint bidder, Aurizon, officially “dispatched” the bidder’s statement
to Aquila’s shareholders, setting a deadline for the target to formally respond.

Baosteel teamed up with Brisbane-based freight giant Aurizon earlier last month to launch a
$3.40-a-share offer for Aquila, which is developing the $7.4bn West Pilbara iron ore project in Western
Australia and the Eagle Downs coking coal project in Queensland.
Shares in the company continue to trade comfortably above the offer price and closed at $3.51
yesterday.

Given the bidder’s statement has now been dispatched, Aquila has 15 days to respond with its target
statement. The company said yesterday the independent board subcommittee it had formed to assess
the offer had been working diligently with its advisers to ensure a “thorough and objective” assessment
of the bid. Aquila also appointed an independent expert to assess the offer.
The company continued yesterday to tell its investors to take no action until it had completed the
assessment and communicated its findings to all shareholders.

“We would like to reassure you that we have been working hard to assess the current offer on its merits
and, as always, we will look at this objectively and with our focus on ensuring we deliver value to all
Aquila shareholders,” executive chairman Tony Poli said in a letter to shareholders yesterday.

“Important information will be contained in the target’s statement, which you should carefully consider
before you decide what to do in relation to the bidders’ current offer. It will include an independent
expert’s report and the recommendation of the IBC on whether to accept or reject the offer.” Baosteel
and Aurizon last week received the all-clear from Australia’s Foreign Investment Review Board to
progress their surprise bid for Aquila.China’s Baosteel has a 20 per cent stake in Aquila and had
outlined at the time it launched the bid that it had lost patience with the progress being made on the
miner’s key iron ore asset.

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB

aqures : Aquila Resources Ltd.
i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i211 : Metal
Ore Mining | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.

Page167of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document AUSTLN0020140605ea6600030

Page168of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.