IN BRIEF

IN BRIEF

HD
WC 256 words
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

7 August 2014
The Queensland Times
APNQUT
Main
20
English
Copyright 2014 APN Newspapers Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

IN BRIEF

Banks’ rating down

TD

THE scourge of “too-big-to-fail” banks in the UK is receding, according to Moody’s credit rating agency.

Moody’s downgraded the outlook of British financial institutions yesterday from stable to negative and said
the reason was the increasing likelihood that banks would not be able to count on a public bailout if they
were to get into trouble again.
The previous Labour government pumped $119 billion of taxpayers’ money into Lloyds and the Royal
Bank of Scotland during the 2008–09 financial crisis because officials judged that allowing those insolvent
banks to go bankrupt would inevitably impose catastrophic costs on the wider economy.

Since then, politicians and regulators have been trying to tackle the problem of too-big-to-fail by
establishing a legal resolution regime for complex troubled financial institutions, whereby unsecured
bondholders would automatically take losses in a crisis. – INM

African pledge
US companies have pledged $14 billion of investment in Africa in areas such as energy and
infrastructure, US President Barack Obama has said.

The BBC reports the announcement came at the first US-Africa Leaders’ Summit, attended by more than
40 African heads of state.
The summit is an effort to strengthen US ties with Africa as China increases investments in Africa.
The deals include a $5 billion partnership between private-equity firmBlackstone and Aliko Dangote,
Africa’s richest businessman, for energy infrastructure projects in sub-Saharan Africa.

NS

nsum : News Digests | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe :
IWE Filter
queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia

RE
PUB APN Newspapers Pty Ltd
AN

Document APNQUT0020140806ea870008p

Page32of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.