Chinese in hurry for a bargain

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

RealEstate
Chinese in hurry for a bargain

452 words
1 February 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoastRE
8
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

LOCALLY based Chinese investors have immerged as the key buyer group in the now sold out $700
million Southport Central development.
Sales in this third and final stage of the Raptis Group project, which exceeded $38 million, have added
to the growth of Southport’s Chinese community.

Mark Worth, director of residential project marketing at Colliers International, said demand in the past
12 months had been unprecedented, with 70 of the final 92 apartments sold to buyers of Asian origin,
most of whom were already living on the Gold Coast.
“Chinese investors, who make up the largest percentage of buyers, are securing a home for their
children studying in the area,” Mr Worth said.
“They tend to look for Chinese-populated communities and, after the students graduate, the parents
intend to hold the property as an investment or sell it in an improved market in the future.
“Many of the Chinese buyers have also purchased an apartment as a permanent residence, because
the remaining stock still had Foreign Investment Review Board status.’’ Apart from the Gold Coast,
more than half of these buyers are based in Brisbane and Sydney, spending their time between
Australia and China.

The $700 million three-tower project comprises 788 apartments, with Colliers International Gold Coast
Project Marketing appointed by receivers 18 months ago to market the remaining 92 apartments in
Tower 3.
“The value of apartments sold by Colliers International amounts to $38.64 million with the majority of
apartments featuring a two-bedroom configuration and having an average price of $420,000,” Mr Worth
said.
“A street-level retail precinct and 11 floors of office and commercial space marketed by other local
agencies have also sold, with the retail component bought by a Chinese investor.” Tony Holland,
director of residential project marketing at Colliers International, noted Southport has a particularly high
Asian demographic, with 10.4 per cent of residents being of Asian origin, when compared to Surfers
Paradise, Broadbeach and Burleigh Heads (about 2 per cent).

“This shift in demographics and Southport’s PDA classification has influenced Gold Coast City Council
to establish the new Chinatown precinct in Young Street, and Meriton to launch their new high rise
development Stellar, which is the final stage of their master-planned Brighton on Broadwater project.
“In addition, offshore developers The Sanbano Group have acquired two developments in Southport,
and we expect their first project to launch to market in the first half of 2014, and commence construction
prior the end of this year.“It is a great time to buy in Southport as the area offers exceptional value for
money, and provides strong rental occupancy and returns,” Mr Holland said.

Page81of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO
IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

rapdea : Raptis Group Ltd
i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest : Real Estate
greest : Real Estate/Property | gcat : Political/General News
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020140131ea210008d

Page82of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.