CITY BEAT

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
CITY BEAT

ANTHONY MARX
398 words
10 December 2014
Courier Mail
COUMAI
CourierMail
47
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

PEACE REIGNS Peace, if not happiness, has returned to Kangaroo Point.
David Devine’s Metro Property Development has reached a truce with the area residents’
association, which waged a losing battle to stop one of the company’s planned unit towers.

Devine revealed yesterday that he won’t chase the group for his $400,000 legal tab, while the
residents pledged not to appeal against the Planning and Environment Court ruling last month which
approved the project.

The residents have also agreed not to challenge any future amendments to the development
approval.
That’s a key point since Metro has sold the Lambert St property and another site for $65 million to
Chinese developers, who can now build the 20-storey high-rise.

Devine, in a barb aimed at his critics, said it was “disappointing that it has taken so long to get to this
position”.

Resident David Murray, a local architect who previously denounced the proposed tower as “an
absolute town planning disgrace”, declined to comment yesterday.

Murray and his neighbours had passed the hat to raise $120,000 for a legal fighting fund in their
ill-fated bid to stop the $122 million Riverview Towers development.
MORRISON ON BOARD The Queensland Symphony Orchestra has added a bit of firepower to its
board. Chair Greg Wanchap said legendary trumpeter James Morrison (pictured) and UQ music
school head Margaret Barrett have both accepted roles as directors.

“It is an absolute coup to have them both,’’ Wanchap said.
They join other heavy hitters on the board, including AEG Ogden’s Rod Pilbeam and Australia Pacific
LNG’s Page Maxson.

PAYDAY SLAP DOWN More than 2000 consumers, including plenty in Queensland, will be getting
money back from a payday lender pounced on by the corporate watchdog.

ASIC said yesterday that a mob known as Fast Easy Loans will cough up nearly $478,000 that it had
charged in prohibited brokerage fees.
Over nearly three years to last June, the company acted as the broker for a related lender, Easy
Finance Loans, and charged fees above certain rate caps. It also operated without a required credit
licence.ASIC has ramped up its campaign against the industry over the past four years and seen

Page234of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.nearly $2 million paid back by various lenders to more than 10,000 consumers. Nearly $120,000 in
fines have also been levied.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document COUMAI0020141209eaca0000n

Page235of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.