IN BRIEF

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
IN BRIEF

617 words
18 December 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
18
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

AGRIBUSINESS: Dairy food groupMurray Goulburn Co-operative has opted to keep its forecast milk
price, despite signs of slowing demand among export markets. MG, the nation’s biggest diary
processor, said it was maintaining its current farmgate price at the opening price and forecast level — at
a weighted average of $6 per kilogram milk solids in its southern pool. MG managing director Gary
Helou warned conditions were weakening due to growth in supply across major exporting countries, and
declining demand from major importers China and Russia. “MG continues to optimise its sales and
marketing mix and reduce costs throughout the business,” he said. MG’s board has reappointed Philip
Tracy as chairman for the next 12 months.

PROPERTY: Mirvac Group has sold a 50 per cent stake in its office development at 2 Riverside Quay
to fund manager ISPT for $106 million, with ISPT to fund half of the development costs through the
construction period. Mirvac will provide a five-year rental guarantee on any untenanted space from the
date of completion. Mirvac chief executive Susan Lloyd-Hurwitz said PricewaterhouseCoopers had
already committed to lease about 17,200sq m of office space for an initial 12-year term. “The transaction
is in line with our strategy to secure high-quality capital partners with Mirvac retaining a 50 per cent
interest in the completed asset,” she said. The 21-floor A-grade office building in Melbourne’s
Southbank precinct will have 21,000sq m of lettable space.
DEALS: Village Roadshow’s movie division is buying a one-third stake in US distribution and production
company FilmNation Entertainment. Village says the deal will expand the library of its Roadshow Films
business, which already distributes FilmNation’s movies in Australia and New Zealand. Under the
$US18m ($22m) deal, a US subsidiary of Village Roadshow will buy shares in FilmNation at various
stages next year. FilmNation, founded by veteran film executive Glen Basner in 2008, plans to use the
money to expand its development slate. Movies released by FilmNation include Woody Allen’s Magic in
the Moonlight and Oscar winner The King’s Speech.

TECH: EFTPOS terminal provider Smartpay will take on the likes of Cabcharge and Uber after
launching a taxi payments business. The business, Smartpay Taxis, has signed up Cabit Taxicabs in
Victoria as its first customer. Smartpay already provides a retail payments business and has provided
point-of-sale devices to taxis through its Taxipos business.
TRANSPORT: Scooter maker Vmoto is launching a joint venture company in China to meet increasing
demand for electric vehicles. Vmoto will work with several Chinese firms to develop three and
four-wheel vehicles. It will invest up to $1.5m in the new company during the first 12 months of
operation and will own a 20 per cent stake. The number of China-made electric three-wheeled vehicles,
which are used by the elderly and disabled as well as freight and delivery operators, has soared from
500,000 units in 2004 to about 12 million this year. The market for four-wheel low-speed electric cars is
also growing as China tries to reduce pollution. Shares in Vmoto gained 0.2c to 4.1c.
BIOTECHS: Cancer therapy group Novogen hopes to raise $4.1m from investors in its second capital
raising in a month. Novogen plans to raise money from institutions in the US, offering more than 32
million shares at 12.5c each, to be used for research programs. Novogen failed to meet its target of
raising up to $7.5m in November to help fund early trials of an experimental ovarian cancer drug, raising
just $1.8m. Novogen shares fell 5c to 11.5c.

Page228of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.criterion P26

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

mirva : Mirvac Group | mryglb : Murray Goulburn Co-operative Company Limited
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy Products | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icnp : Consumer
Goods | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ifood : Food Products | ireest : Real Estate
gmovie : Movies | gcat : Political/General News | gent : Arts/Entertainment
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141217eaci0004a

Page229of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.