IN BRIEF

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
IN BRIEF

601 words
17 December 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
20
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

AVIATION: Qantas passenger numbers were down 1.1 per cent from the previous year in November
but capacity management allowed it to fill a bigger percentage of seats and yields were up for the third
month in a row. Group capacity fell by 2.6 per cent, outstripping a fall in demand to push up the
revenue seat factor by 2.8 percentage points to 79.4 per cent.

QantasLink recorded the biggest rise in passengers of 16.4 per cent and boosted its load factor to 66.8
per cent as it introduced Boeing 717 services on Canberra and Hobart routes. This offset an 8 per cent
decline in mainline passenger numbers to see overall domestic numbers up 2.2 per cent. The biggest
fall was at Jetstar Asia, where passenger numbers were down 13.2 per cent. Qantas Domestic yields
were flat for the year-to-date compared to the same period last year while international yields
increased.

By contrast, Air New Zealand reported a 3.1 per cent rise in passengers with Tasman-pacific demand
growth particularly strong at 4.2 per cent. Group-wide yields were up 2.2 per cent, with both short-haul
and long-haul figures rising.
LITIGATION: A $17 million settlement agreed to by the Bank of Queensland for customers caught up
in the Storm Financial scandal has been finalised by the Federal Court.

The bank agreed to the payout in September as part of a settlement of legal action brought by the
corporate watchdog and borrowers who invested in Storm before its collapse in 2009. The settlement
was approved by the Federal Court yesterday, BoQ said.

The lender will hand out $17m to customers who borrowed money and suffered hefty losses on
investments made through Storm. Customers caught up in the scandal are expected to be
compensated for about 45 per cent of their total losses.

BANKING: The Customer Owned Banking Association — which represents mutuals, credit unions and
building societies — has formally appointed Mark Degotardi as chief executive. After the departure of
Louise Petschler in July, COBA yesterday named Mr Degotardi to lead the lobby group ahead of a
critical time for junior lenders. The biggest priority is the Murray financial system inquiry’s
recommendations, which is open to consultation until March 31.

The inquiry called for the big four banks to hold more capital in their mortgage books, boosting the
competitiveness of small lenders.
PROPERTY: Chinese shopping mall developer Dalian Wanda Commercial Properties has raised
$US3.7 billion ($4bn) in an initial public offering in Hong Kong, making it the biggest in the world by a
real estate firm. The company, owned by the property arm of Dalian Wanda Group, sold 600
million shares at $HK48 ($6.70) apiece — near the higher end of its indicative price range, Dow Jones
Newswires said.
The sale beats the $US2.9bn IPO of Singapore’s Global Logistic Properties in 2010, the newswire
said. The Beijing-based company, controlled by Chinese billionaire Wang Jianlin, is one of the
world’s largest developers of shopping malls, owning dozens across China.

Page36of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AGRIBUSINESS: Archer Daniels Midland has agreed to sell its global cocoa business to Olam
International for $US1.3 billion ($1.41bn). The agribusiness company says the deal will let it invest in
less volatile businesses or distribute money to shareholders, or both.

ADM’s cocoa unit includes facilities in countries including Brazil, Canada, Germany, Ghana and
Singapore.The Chicago-based company said a majority of the approximately 1550 employees in the
cocoa business will transfer to Olam, an agribusiness company headquartered in Singapore.

airnz : Air New Zealand Ltd | jetass : Jetstar Asia Airways Pte Ltd | qntas : Qantas Airways Ltd | ostihl :
Orangestar Investment Holdings Ltd
i6560011 : Shopping Malls/Superstores | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i656 : Mixed Retailing | iretail : Retail |
i75 : Airlines | i7501 : Scheduled Passenger Airlines | iairtr : Air Transport | ilowair : Low Cost Airlines |
itsp : Transportation/Shipping
gcat : Political/General News
auscap : Australian Capital Territory | dalian : Dalian | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | bric : BRICS Countries | china : China | chinaz : Greater China |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | liaon :
Liaoning
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141216each00024

CO

IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

Page37of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.