SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CommercialProperty
Shanghai developer in $160m apartment venture after listing

BEN WILMOT, INVESTMENT
363 words
16 August 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
38
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

SHANGHAI-based developer Chiwayland International has pushed into the Australian property market
with a $160 million venture in Queensland just after listing on the Singapore Stock Exchange.

The group has made its first foray outside China by setting up a 50-50 joint venture with
Brisbane-based Property Solutions Pty Ltd.

The venture will initially focus on apartment developments in Nundah and Toowong town areas in
Brisbane, where the pair will jointly develop three property projects that occupy a total site area of
about 5500sq m. The three projects will cost a total of $160m and are expected to yield an aggregate
gross floor area of about 32,000sq m.

They will build two stages within Property Solutions’ larger Circa Nundah Village development, and
they are expected to be complete by second quarter of 2016 and fourth quarter of 2015 respectively.
Construction of the Toowong project is expected to be complete by second quarter of 2017.
Chiwayland executive chairman Kevin Qian Jianrong said: “The (Singapore) listing has opened
up new horizons in the international arena for Chiwayland, and our co-development projects in
Brisbane with Property Solutions lead the way for the group’s overseas expansion.” He added
that there were “good investing opportunities in Australia’s property market”, saying “we believe that
the JV will allow the group to offer an attractive opportunity for the clients in China who wish to
purchase or invest in properties in Australia”.

Mr Qian said he was confident that the homes being built would be in demand by local as well as
foreign buyers.

In China, Chiwayland International develops residential and commercial properties and it has
undertaken projects ranging from office buildings to education hubs and fixed-price housing.

As the Chinese government moved to cool its property market, Chiwayland expanded into fixed- price
housing. It specialises in developments with lower land costs and working with authorities in order to
reduce its exposure to market fluctuations.Property Solutions is focused on Brisbane’s Fortitude Valley,
as well as on industrial estates in the Yatala Enterprise Area, which sits between Brisbane and the
Gold Coast.

NS

c184 : Joint Ventures | ereal : Real Estate Markets | c14 : Stock Listings | c02 : Corporate Changes |
c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 :
Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | china : China | brisbn : Brisbane | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz
: Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140815ea8g00096

Search Summary

Text

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

Chiwayland executive chairman Kevin Qian Jianrong said: “The (Singapore) listing has
opened up new horizons in the international arena for Chiwayland, and our
co-development projects in Brisbane with Property Solutions lead the way for the
group's overseas expansion.”
All Dates
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
1
12 December 2017 13:36

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.