Australia Post pushes the envelope in China trade

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Australia Post pushes the envelope in China trade

Christine Long
796 words
28 July 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
26
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

MY SMALL BUSINESS
Got your eye on exporting to China? A new tie-in between Australia Post and Alibaba Group's
third-party platform, Tmall Global, can offer small businesses an easy way to dip a toe in the water.

Currently, the group's Tmall.com platform carries stores for Australian brands, such as Penfolds
wines, Bellamy's Organic baby food and JeansWest clothing, with in-country operations.
What this new tie-in offers is a way to sell directly to Chinese consumers without having a Chinese
entity, according to an Alibaba spokeswoman. "They wouldn't need to have stock in China. They
wouldn't need to have local staff, for example. They can do everything from within Australia."
"They should probably still have some Chinese-speaking staff within Australia but they don't need to
have them on the ground in China."

The new development is ideally suited to businesses that have a strong "made in Australia affiliation"
but are not necessarily a well-known brand in the Chinese market.
An Australia Post spokeswoman says the types of products under consideration for sale via its Tmall
Global store include food, clothing, footwear, health supplements, baby and maternity wear, skincare
products, ornaments and stamps.
The lure of the Chinese market is already showing up in trade statistics. Australia's goods and
services exports to China exceeded $100 billion for the first time in 2013, according to Australian
Bureau of Statistics figures released in May.

And when Austrade surveyed 1600 businesses about their export intentions this year, 74 per cent
were planning to expand into two or more markets in the next two years and China was among the top
three.
But exporting to China takes plenty of homework and cultural awareness. A lack of information about
local culture, business practices and local regulations were the most frequently reported barriers,
according to the Austrade survey.

Aromababy, natural and organic baby skincare products, made its first foray into Asia two decades
ago, exporting to South Korea.
It's only more recently that its strong presence in Hong Kong has opened the door to the Chinese
market.
"We've got quite a long relationship with major retailers in Hong Kong such as Mothercare and some
of the other major players in the nursery industry," says founder Catherine Cervasio. "I think it was just

Page218of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.through them seeing our products in the Hong Kong market over the last decade that they
approached us."
But doing business with China is a different ball game. "Even though Shanghai, for example, is a
buzzing international hub it's not like Hong Kong. It's more Chinese.
"In fact, often when I'm travelling there I'm the only Caucasian person, let alone a woman." Business
meetings often involve elaborate dinners, with numerous toasts.
Her advice for others? "It's important to choose a distribution partner that suits your business ethos
and longer-term goals rather than choosing the company that promises the most pay or promises
volume."

She suggests accessing information provided by Austrade and the Export Council. "Really do your
homework and learn about the market and look at it as something that's an adjunct to your business,
not a means to a quick growth strategy."

"If you learn a little bit about their country and their culture and a few words of the local language it can
really be a lovely way to interact with them rather than just going there and trying to sell product."

Scott Longbottom is the owner of Farmer's Leap, a family winery in Padthaway, South Australia, that
has been exporting to China since 2008.

What's made it work for them? Face time. "The key ingredient for success is to physically go to
China," he says. "More than once."
"For us making those trips over in the early days to understand culture and how people work in China
was incredibly beneficial. We also hired an external consultant who's been doing business in China
for 30 years."
Not that it's been entirely easy. They didn't have the brand clout of a Penfolds or a Henschke and
Chinese legislation proved a time-consuming hurdle.
"While the central government legislates how wine can be imported, each province can have quite
different interpretation of how this legislation should be enacted," Longbottom says.
"Fortunately, people identified we're a genuine family who care about the wine; Chinese consumers
are really wary of fakes and will go to lengths to verify a story."
Some gold medals at the Hong Kong Wine Show helped, too. "We've since gone on to build an
almost cult-like following in certain pockets of China," Longbottom says.

CO
IN
RE

PUB
AN

auspst : Australia Post
i7901 : Postal Service | icargo : Freight/Cargo Transport | itsp : Transportation/Shipping
china : China | austr : Australia | hkong : Hong Kong | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140727ea7s0002l

Page219of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.