Saving EFIC for sake of small fish

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Saving EFIC for sake of small fish

John Durie
1,188 words
16 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
23
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

IN a welfare-slashing budget, the federal government showed welcome support to the Export Finance
and Insurance Corporation, in part to offset the chronic failure of the big banks to back small business
in export markets.

EFIC chairman Andrew Mohl should know how the banks work, because in his AMP days he competed
against them and he is now on the CBA board.

EFIC’s Murray Commission submission lays out the issue with some precision, noting first how
competitors use export credit agencies aggressively to support their trade to the tune of $US300 billion
in 2012 and indeed helping to finance $40bn of resources development in Australia.

The trouble in Australia is between the big banks and superannuation. Up to 90 per cent of
financial-sector assets are held by a handful of companies — namely the banks, and financial giants like
AMP and IAG — and with the big four banks also controlling 80 per cent of banking assets there is little
room to move.
The 63 per cent of bank loans to residential real estate compares to 40 per cent in Continued on Page
36 Continued from Page 23 Canada, 30 per cent in South Africa and 34 per cent in the US. Small
business loans total 10 per cent of total loans, compared to 80 per cent in Switzerland and Korea, yet
this sector of the economy adds 60 per cent of value to the economy and provides 70 per cent of
employment. Australian banks are reluctant to support Australian companies in markets where they
have little presence.

EFIC can be accused of talking up its own book, but even with ANZ et al marching into Asia with
high-quality staff the role for a government-backed agency is obvious. That explains why Trade Minister
Andrew Robb was able to persuade Joe Hockey to reject Tony Shepherd’s Commission of Audit on this
issue.

Optus draws a line OPTUS boss Paul O’Sullivan has drawn a line on the sand and is ready to go back
on the front foot to protect his market position after losing mobile market share to Telstra and facing a
highly subsidised competition as the National Broadband Network gets rolled out.
The new NBN will allow Telstra to maintain parts of its copper network and this worried Optus, based
on past performance when Telstra favoured its network customers. The final arrangements are yet to be
reached, but expect Telstra rivals to be making plenty of noise on the issue.

O’Sullivan has inherited his old realm with a lower-cost base, with staff numbers at about 8614 people,
with more retail-facing staff offsetting some head office job losses and bringing actual job cuts closer to
2 per cent, from 8745 a year ago.

Like Telstra’s David Thodey, he sees merit in changing advertised revenue numbers from revenue per
device to per account on the grounds that the old ARPU numbers don’t take in the fact that most people
now have more than one device and data is king.

Page32of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Now it is up to phone companies to make the advertised changes and for O’Sullivan to put his foot on
the accelerator, complete with a new advertising campaign to offset a 10.2 per cent fall in fourth-quarter
profits on a 4.9 per cent fall in revenues.

Goodman close to done WILMAR and First Pacific are close to wrapping up control of Goodman Fielder
at 70c a share after reaching deals with the two biggest shareholders to increase their stake to 20 per
cent.
Perpetual and Ellerston, who both have just over 12 per cent of the company, agreed to sell the
combined 10 per cent holding to the Singapore based bidders yesterday.

This puts Goodman chairman Steven Gregg in a difficult position, with his major shareholders deciding
the increase from 65c to 70c a share was good enough for them.

The bidders told Gregg it was the last and final offer so all that is needed is a decision to accept or
reject the offer, which his major shareholders have accepted.
Gregg had rejected a 65c-a-share offer last month and the company’s stock price closed at 67c when
the company halted trade yesterday, with a decision in favour of the offer expected before the market
opens today.
The $1.9bn offer including $500 million in debt and values the company at about 8.3 times earnings
before interest tax, depreciation and amortisation of about $230m this year.
The offer is conditional on no sale of the $500m New Zealand dairy business and it seems former
owner Graham Hart’s unwanted assets are to be finally tested in Asia, leaving the fate of one of
Australia’s two big bakers up in the air.
Tanna an inspired pick ENERGY Australia chairman Graham Bradley has made an inspired choice in
choosing Catherine Tanna as its new boss at a time when the industry is in the midst of myriad
problems.
Tanna replaces Richard McIndoe, who in his eight years at the Melbourne-based integrated energy
supplier transformed the company into one of the big three dominating the sector along with Origin and
AGL.
Tanna is best known locally in her past roles at BG, firstly running its Queensland Gas coal-seam gas
operation and helping to create its Gladstone Harbour LNG terminal.
While coming from the other end of the energy market, she confided yesterday she was excited about
the opportunities and challenges ahead.

Given her father Reg created the working port of Gladstone on the Queensland coast, this was almost a
natural progression for the former Shell and BHP executive.
A lawyer by training, Tanna stepped aside from day-to-day operations at BG for family reasons but
remained as chairwoman and is a member of the Reserve Bank board.

A consummate networker, Tanna, whose fan club includes the likes of former Shell Australia boss Ann
Pickard and Seven Group chief Don Voelte, is also prominent in the Business Council of Australia.

She is a highly regarded boss, known for being smart but easy to deal with, even if her visits to outback
Queensland pubs were best known for her matching glasses of wine with the schooners of her drinking
pals.

Tanna starts at EnergyAustralia in July at a time when the industry is replete with problems.

The list begins with what some regard as a dysfunctional regulatory system, colossal electricity
oversupply and a half-pregnant electricity sector, with states such as Victoria already privatised and
others such as NSW and Queensland working through the problems. Australian Competition &
Consumer Commission chairman and chief executive Rod Sims has also come down hard on the
industry for its sometimes wayward sales practices.Once Tanna works through those options and
finalises an executive team — which has had its own personnel difficulties — there is the fact that
parent company China Light and Power would still like to float the company. Tanna gives you the
impression that all of the above will be handled with her usual calm efficiency.

CO

expaus : Export Finance & Insurance Corporation | austmp : AMP Ltd

Page33of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150110 : Export-import Financing | i82 : Insurance | i82002 : Life
Insurance | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140515ea5g0008m

Page34of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.