Improving U.S. Indicators Bode Well for Ansell: DB -- Market Talk

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Improving U.S. Indicators Bode Well for Ansell: DB -- Market Talk

1,592 words
14 November 2014
10:52
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

The positive momentum in key U.S. indicators such as employment and PMI bodes well for Australian
glove maker Ansell (ANN.AU), especially given its increased exposure to the U.S. following the
completion of its $615 million acquisition of Barriersafe Solutions International in January, Deutsche
Bank says. It notes that the average PMI across Ansell's key markets recently has remained above 50,
signaling an expansion in activity, with the U.S. being the biggest driver. Good news was provided by
U.S. auto sales rising 6% sequentially, putting that sector on track for its highest rate since 2007. "While
butadiene prices are down 2% in the past six months, latex prices have seen a slight increase in October,
albeit still down 30% in the past six months," says Deutsche analyst David Low. "This should continue to
provide a tailwind for Ansell." The broker retains a buy call and A$24.55/share price target. ANN last
traded at A$20.64. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

2341 GMT [Dow Jones] -- Offshore accounts at six foreign brokerages place net buy orders for 3.6
million Japanese shares overnight, according to traders. The net buying may be positive for the market
at the open, although the yen value basis of the figures is unknown. Buy orders total 12.6 million shares,
with sell orders amounting to 9.0 million shares. (bradford.frischkorn@wsj.com)

2324 GMT [Dow Jones] Japan stocks are likely to trade in a tight range Friday, as investors await more
news and reports on the status of the government's apparent stance to dissolve the lower house and go
call snap elections some time around mid December--ostensibly with the goal of putting off next year's
planned consumption tax hike. Such hopes have buoyed stocks and helped to weaken the yen this week,
sending the Nikkei to a fresh seven-year high. "Both the stock and currency markets are sensitive to
election-related information; the real key will be Monday's third quarter GDP data, which will essentially
make or break the case for putting off the tax hike," says Takashi Matsumoto, a director at Okasan
Securities. "If the data come in as expected, however, and long-term foreign investors become interested
in Japan equities again, a Nikkei year-end finish above 18000 becomes possible, if not likely." He puts
the Nikkei's expected range for the session at 17300 to 17500. Nikkei 225 December futures ended
yesterday's Chicago trading up 155 points at 17410 vs their close earlier yesterday in Osaka at 17420. In
the cash market, the Nikkei added 1.1% to end at 17392.79 Thursday. (bradford.frischkorn@wsj.com)

Editor SXS
18:07 EST - The USD/JPY has largely factored in the prospect of a snap election and delay of
consumption tax increase in Japan, says a senior dealer at major European bank in Tokyo. The risk now
is Monday's gross domestic data. Japanese stocks have risen because investors see a delay as positive
to the economy, but if growth figures are disappointing, stocks could fall on concerns over the
fundamental strength of the economy, he says. USD/JPY's topside is likely capped around
116.05-116.10 during Tokyo trading hours, he says. The downside could extend below 115.50, he says.
Pair last at 115.78. (kosaku.narioka@wsj.com)

17:45 EST - Drivers will likely pay the lowest gas prices on Thanksgiving in five years, says AAA
spokesman Michael Green. Prices at the pump have fallen nearly 80 cents from their 2014 peak to $2.92
a gallon today, and the still-dropping price of crude oil suggests that retail gasoline prices have further to
slide. AAA expects the national average to fall another 10 cents a gallon by Thanksgiving, which is
typically a strong time of year for fuel demand as drivers travel to visit friends and family. In 2009, the gas

Page260of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.price averaged $2.63 a gallon on Thanksgiving, AAA says. (nicole.friedman@wsj.com;
@NicoleFriedman)

16:58 EST - The US dollar has "remained ascendant over the past month" and "even for the pessimists
who note the US economic recovery has been anaemic relative to history, it is the 'least bad' option
amongst the major economies," says BNZ FX strategist Raiko Shareef. As a result, firm now sees
NZD/USD at 0.7000 at end-2015 from a prior view of 0.7300, "with a base of 0.65 in mid-2017 in mind."
In the short-term, importers hoping for NZD/USD opportunities above 0.80 may be disappointed, while
exporters may soon be rewarded for their patience with dips toward 0.75, he says. Pair last at 0.7884.
(rebecca.howard@wsj.com; @FarroHoward)
2158 GMT - Chinese steel output is increasing once again after the end of an economic summit in
Beijing, during which steelmakers were forced to curtail production to ensure cleaner air, analysts say.
That's a positive sign for iron ore, a crucial ingredient in steel that trades at five-and-a-half-year lows.
"According to steel mills and traders in China, mills ramped up steel output in the provinces of Shandong
and Hebei on Wednesday following the conclusion of the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation
conference," says Commonwealth Bank of Australia analyst Lachlan Shaw. According to The Steel Index,
iron-ore prices rose 0.1% Thursday to US$75.50/ton. (rhiannon.hoyle@wsj.com; Twitter:
@RhiannonHoyle)

16:55 GMT - New Zealand is in the midst of a rather "bamboozling phase" of its economic history, says
BNZ economist Doug Steel. "Labour market participation is high and unemployment is declining to levels
normally associated with elevated wage pressure; the housing market remains buoyant; and the NZD is
falling." He adds that growth seems to be above potential and is resulting in a run-down of spare capacity
and while under normal circumstances this would see inflation "there's absolutely no sign of such. So, for
now at least, nirvana it is." However, Steel says the rate of growth in the New Zealand economy is
expected to slow over coming years, "although confidence and activity indicators remain upbeat with
some even increasing over the past month."(lucy.craymer@wsj.com; @lucy_craymer)

2142 GMT - Ramsay Health Care's (RHC.AU) signing of a non-binding term sheet for a joint venture in
China is incrementally positive, says JPMorgan. The deal is being negotiated by Ramsay Sime
Darby--the company's existing Asian partnership with Malaysia's Sime Darby Bhd. "We are encouraged
by the partnership between Ramsay Sime Darby, which already has a presence in Asia, and Chinese
operator Jinxin," the broker says. The JV with Jinxin will cover five hospitals based in the central Chinese
city of Chengdu. "We had always maintained that, given the complexities of operating within the Chinese
market, we viewed a partnership with a local hospital operator as the best course of action," JPMorgan
says. Broker rates Ramsay Health Care at neutral, with a A$52.52/share price target. RHC last traded at
A$52.80. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

2139 GMT - AUD/GBP stronger as the GBP is the weakest major currency as the BOE report continues
to bite, says ANZ. "GBP is now at its lowest level in more than a year. Seems that the UK's proximity to
Europe means it will not be immune to catching an economic sniffle from its gravely ill neighbour." It adds
that the GBP is likely to continue to decline and this will keep the AUD and NZD bid in the interim. The
AUD/GBP is at 0.5547. ANZ sees the pair trading in a short term range of 0.5500 to 0.5590.
(lucy.craymer@wsj.com; @lucy_craymer)

2135 GMT - Continued weakness in commodity prices means the AUD/USD has been unable to break
higher, and the "technical picture continues to point to downside risks," ANZ says in a morning note.
However, that slightly softer-than-anticipated data from China had little impact on the AUD as buying in
the crosses provided some support, the firm adds. The pair is at 0.8715. ANZ expects pair to trade in a
short-term 0.8650-0.8800 range. ANZ adds US retail sales data will be important Friday. "A strong
number is needed to stabilize the USD in the near term." (lucy.craymer@wsj.com; @lucy_craymer)

16:34 EST - A closely-watched international price for cotton fell to its lowest level of the season,
remaining below a threshold that triggers US government loan-repayment assistance to farmers. Federal
government offers cotton growers nine-month loans at a rate of 52c/lb. USDA late today releases its
adjusted world price -- a proxy for the physical price of the fiber -- for the week beginning Friday at
48.57/lb., the lowest since the 2014-15 season began on August 1. When USDA's world price falls below
the loan rate, the government allows cotton farmers to pay back their loans at the world price rather than
the higher price they took the loan out at. That's heaping fiber onto the market, helping to pressure prices
to a five-year low of 58.75c/lb. (alexandra.wexler@wsj.com; @alexandrawexler)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

November 13, 2014 18:52 ET (23:52 GMT)

CO

anslcp : Ansell Capital Corp. | dnlpol : Ansell Limited

Page261of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS

RE

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources |
ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying
epmi : Purchasing Managers Index | cacqu : Acquisitions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | namt : All
Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income
Asset Class News | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio :
Corporate Actions | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1111 : Industrial Production | ecat :
Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
jap : Japan | usa : United States | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America

PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020141113eabd0052k

Search Summary

Text

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or entitys) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
01/09/2014 to 31/12/2014
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
2,847
28 August 2018 23:01

Page262of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.