Merger deals to test Hockey

The Australian

HD Merger deals to test Hockey
CR
WC 681 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

19 March 2014
23:00
theAustralian.com.au
NLAUSW
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

TD

A POTENTIAL wave of cross-border takeover deals is likely to set up new tests for the Foreign
Investment Review Board and Joe Hockey.

As the government kicks off its deregulation agenda, an inaugural report on merger and acquisitions in the
Asia-Pacific by law firm Herbert Smith Freehills, to be released today, predicts that to accommodate the
changing landscape there may be a shake-up of Australia's foreign investment regime in place since the
1970s.

Concern about Australia's attitudes to foreign investment spiked after the Treasurer last year blocked US
giant Archer Daniels Midland's $3.4 billion takeover of grains handler GrainCorp following pressure from
the Nationals.
After that decision, Mr Hockey did approve State Grid Corporation of China's acquisition of stakes in
Australia's energy infrastructure, which Freehills said indicated GrainCorp was blocked due to unique
circumstances.
While the Abbott government has vowed to be "open for business", foreign acquisitions of agriculture,
mining and property assets have sparked concerns in recent years, with the Chinese buying more than
$5bn worth of residential property a year, according to Credit Suisse.

Tony Damian, a partner at Freehills, which has extended its reach into Asia with its 2012 merger with
Britain's Herbert Smith, said the FIRB would only get busier as cross-border M&A in the region rose amid
a relaxation of regulatory barriers in countries from China to Indonesia.

He said the national interest test, regarded by many as an opaque measure that was easily subject to the
whims of politics of the day, as well as other aspects of the regime could be reviewed, after the Coalition
pushed for a Senate committee into foreign investment in agriculture before the election.

"It's absolutely possible (the national interest test could be changed). It seems to be on the cards . . . and
if that happened it would be significant," Mr Damian said.

"Is national interest the right test? What does it mean? This current government through pursuing, for
instance the Korea free trade agreement and the Trans-Pacific Partnership, demonstrates it is very much
in favour of those capital flows as opposed to being against them."

Mr Damian said the removal of barriers to capital flows across the Asia-Pacific would result in a "golden
age of growth and prosperity", citing the Trans-Pacific Partnership as critical.

The partnership would form a massive free trade bloc in the Asia-Pacific, including Japan, the US,
Singapore, Malaysia and Australia. In addition, the relaxation of outbound investment in China and
reforms in Myanmar, Singapore and Indonesia would further drive activity between nations -- and the deal
flow for law firms and investment banks.

"It's a growth region with a potential free trade agreement thrown on top of it," Mr Damian said. "This
really is groundbreaking economic and legal architecture, and I do believe it will drive this golden age of
growth and prosperity in the region, and it will see increased capital flows, unhindered by many of the
legal and regulatory barriers that exist today -- and therefore lots more deals."

Page208of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Damian's comments come as a survey of fund managers by Merrill Lynch showed investors were
favouring emerging markets

such as Indonesia winning the "race to reform".
In the latest major cross-border deal, Singapore-based CapitaLand yesterday sold its $844 million stake
in property group Australand.
In a soft M&A market, foreign acquisitions of Australian companies fell 22 per cent to $US29.4bn last
year, according to Thomson Reuters.
Law firm Gilbert + Tobin has tipped a potential M&A revival as foreign bidders return after "keeping their
powder dry" last year.
Gilbert + Tobin said the extraordinary battle for Warrnambool Cheese & Butter, won by Canada's Saputo,
pointed to a return of animal spirits and that foreign bidders would face smoother conditions this year.

"With the Australian dollar now coming off its recent highs, and the prospect of a more stable federal
government, 2014 could see a return of foreign bidders," the firm said.

CO arch : Archer Daniels Midland Company | stgcoc : State Grid Corporation Of China | freeho : Freehills
IN

i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16102 : Electric Bulk Power Transmission | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco |
i416 : Flour/Malt Products | i835 : Legal Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | icnp : Consumer
Goods | ieutil : Electric Utilities | ifood : Food Products | iutil : Utilities
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin
: FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

NS

RE
PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document NLAUSW0020140319ea3j000gu

Page209of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.