The South Coast Brekkie Wrap | Tuesday, October 21

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

news
The South Coast Brekkie Wrap | Tuesday, October 21

3,220 words
20 October 2014
South Coast Register
FSCORG
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

8.58AM: Keep an eye on your local newspaper's website today. We are compiling a special on the late
Gough Whitlam. Better still be a part of it and share your memories of him with
kim.treasure@fairfaxmedia.com.au. Farewell until tomorrow.

8.51AM: Here's a great idea from the Bay Post. They collected social media grabs from people at the
Granite Town Festival. Take a look you'll feel like you were there.

8.46AM: This is handy.

A free workshop for parents and supervisors of learner drivers will be held by Roads and Maritime
Services at Sapphire Coast Anglican College, Max Slater Drive at Bega on Wednesday 29 October
from 5.30pm to 7.30pm. More details.

8.40AM: Former South Coast Register journo Russ Quinn has an amazing collection of surf pics.
Some are very different. He called this one Cookies and Cream Jervis Bay. Thanks for sharing Russ.

8.32AM: Here's a few photos from Gough Whitlam's glory days. He died at age 98. There will be a
private cremation and a public memorial service. See the photos.

8.29AM: Into fishing? Check out the catch of the day from Bega, only in The Fish Files.

8.24AM: From pop/punk to rock and heavy metal, the region's musicians raised funds for motor
neurone disease research at Kiama on Friday night.

Instead of dumping buckets of ice water on one another, the Rock 4 Regal charity concert used music
to join the fight against the disease. Full story.

8.16AM: I just heard former Prime Minister Gough Whitlam has died at age 98.

8.12AM: This is the ultimate fancy dress outfit.

8.02AM: Lady Gaga just bought a $27 million pad by the beach. Not bad for a 28-year-old. Full story.

7.57AM: Anyone see that special report on the ice drug problems in regional Australia. It was a real
eye-opener. In case you missed it here's an earlier story South Coast papers ran of a local mother's
heartbreaking tale. Ice: A Shoalhaven mother's story

7.52AM: Time will tell, but for now check out Bega District News' story on changes to Southern NSW
Medicare Local.

Despite job uncertainty, Southern NSW Medicare Local CEO Kathryn Stonestreet has welcomed the
Federal Government's long awaited announcement of geographical boundaries for the new Primary
Health Networks.

Federal Minister for Health Peter Dutton announced the boundaries for 30 Primary Health Networks
across Australia last week. Full story.

Page73of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.7.44AM: Come on girls get involved. The Milton Showgirl competition is calling for more entrants. Full
story.
7.38AM: Kiama council plans to buy the 3.3-hectare Kiama Hospital site from the Illawarra
Shoalhaven Local Health District and build a new nursing home and hostel for the council's Blue
Haven aged care facility, replacing the current Havilah Place nursing home and hostel. Find out more
here.

7:33AM: The inquest into the suspected death of Eden grandmother Sylvia Pajuczok in December
2008 has resumed in Bombala with three witnesses giving evidence on Monday morning.

In an opening address before Magistrate Mark Douglass, Senior Counsel Ian Bourke told the court that
the evidence at the Sydney hearings last year did not support the theory that Ms Pajuczok had
committed suicide or had "wandered off". Full story.

7:28AM: Police seized knives from two ACT men after a violent disturbance at Malua Bay Bowling and
Recreation Club on Friday night.

A 26-year-old man and 29-year-old man were searched at a Eurobodalla club.

Both had knives seized. They will receive criminal infringements for custody of a knife in a public place.
Full story.

7:23AM: Animal love awww.

7:19AM: Oh guess what I found yesterday... cicadas. Yep they're back already. After last year's
ear-splitting effort I thought we were going to get seven years off. Keep an eye on your local paper's
website today. I'll see if I can rustle up some more information about the coming cicada season.

7.15AM: Are you bush fire ready? If you didn't get ready on Get Ready Weekend now is the time to
make a plan to stay and defend or leave if a fire approaches your property. For help with your bushfire
survival plan visit the NSW RFS website at www.rfs.nsw.gov.au or call Shoalhaven Fore Control
Centre on 4424 4424 or download the MyFirePlan app for your smart phone. Full story.

Roads are open and clear.

Passengers travelling on the 5:31am Goulburn to Campbelltown train are advised to allow an
additional 25 minutes travel time due to a freight train that required mechanical repairs at Moss Vale
earlier.

-------------------------------

Good morning. Need a national news snapshot first thing? Well, we have you covered.

Monday night's interview with The Bachelor's Blake Garvey and Louise Pillidge on The Project was
flagged as "the gift that keeps on giving" - and it most certainly is.

The Project's Carrie Bickmore travelled to Thailand, spending just four-and-a-half hours in the country
to interview Garvey and his new love about their burgeoning relationship.

But, that's not all - there's even more to come tonight with his jilted fiancee Sam Frost and runner-up
Lisa Hyde being dragged into the mix to keep fanning the flames of what has inadvertently turned into
Ten's biggest TV story of the year. Read more.

6.58AM: PORT MACQUARIE: The power of social media will fuel a campaign aimed to build visitor
numbers from the Central Coast to the Tweed.

Some of Australia's leading travel writers, passionate community advocates and the regional tourism
industry will share their experiences with a broad audience during the #mylegendarydrive social media
campaign.

A team of travel writers will visit major destinations along the Pacific Drive, posting across the social
media platforms of Facebook, Instagram and Twitter and the Legendary Pacific Coast website. More
here.

6.55am: TAMWORTH: The highly addictive drug ice is sinking its claws deeper into Tamworth's
underbelly, driving up crime and sparking a dramatic increase in the number of used syringes being
found on public land.

Page74of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Workers on the frontline fear the problem could become an epidemic to rival the heroin boom of the
1980s unless drug services and education are bolstered in the region.

It comes as the community of Moree debates whether to establish a legal injection centre in the town.
Read more.

6.50am: GOULBURN: Councillors have ignored the advice of the Roads and Maritime Service in a
move set to cost the State Government more than two million dollars.

They have opted in favour of a straight through building alteration to Lansdowne Bridge " a 1902 De
Burgh truss structure destined for the scrap heap.

Their decision could culminate in the temporary closure of Forbes Street and increase the Roads and
Maritime Service"s bill to the tune of $2.2 million.

The historic structure, which joins Eastgrove to South Goulburn over Mulwaree Ponds, has been in
council's cross-hairs since 2007. More here.

6.45am: ILLAWARRA: He is the blond-haired, blue-eyed larrikin who usually spends his boundless
energy tackling big kids on the footy field, hoping to one day follow in the footsteps of his famous
cousin, Greg Inglis.

But all of that changed for Corey Carlson eight days ago, when the outgoing nine-year-old was hit by a
truck as he rode along a Koonawarra street with his cousin, Joel, on Sunday evening.

Since then he has been confined to his bed in Sydney Children's Hospital's intensive care unit, lying in
an induced coma with a machine to help him breathe, unaware of the never-ending parade of family
members visiting his bedside. Read Corey's story here.

6.40am: NEWCASTLE: Fracking could begin at AGL's Gloucester pilot project as early as today.
AGL delivered hydraulic fracturing equipment to its Waukivory pilot coal seam gas project site in the
early hours of Monday morning, escorted by NSW Police.
A spokesperson for AGL confirmed the equipment had arrived at the 13-well site.

In a letter to residents, AGL said it was finalising construction work for the next phase of its program,
which involved hydraulic fracture stimulation of four wells. Read more.

6.35am: MAITLAND: Police have found a missing East Maitland man safe and well at Muswellbrook.

Guy Ritchie, aged 32, was last seen at his home on Knoll Crescent around 3pm Saturday.

When he didn't show up at a close relative's birthday, family called police. More here.

6.30am: DUBBO: The safety of Dubbo residents could be compromised by the number of dimly-lit
areas in the city, the Dubbo Ratepayers and Residents Association (DRRA) has said.

Merrilyn Mulcahy, the president of the DRRA, said there were a number of areas about Dubbo that
either did not have enough street lights or where the lights were faulty.

"Statistics show one in six street lights are out in Dubbo," she said.

Ms Mulcahy said poorly-lit areas could have dire consequences for residents and visitors. Read more.

6.25am: NOWRA: The Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) has launched an investigation into
a light plane crash west of Nowra on Thursday afternoon.

A 22-year-old man made a forced landing in a 1970s Cessna 206 around 33km west of the Nowra
airfield, in bushland near Touga in the Morton National Park.

The initial investigation report states during cruise, the aircraft engine malfunctioned, the pilot
broadcast a mayday call and activated the emergency beacon prior to conducting a forced landing,
during which the aircraft hit vegetation. More here.

6.20am: TAS: Tasmania has the highest proportion of patients waiting more than a year for surgery out
of all states and territories, according to new figures.

The Australian Institute of Health and Welfare elective surgery waiting times report for the 2013-2014
financial year found that Tasmanian hospital waiting times had increased by almost 10 days.

Page75of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The report comes as acting Tasmanian Health Organisation North chief executive Helen Bryan meets
with unions to discuss budget savings suggestions.

There are fears that nursing positions are under threat at Beaconsfield, Campbell Town, Deloraine and
George Town. Read more.

6.15am: WHYALLA: A man accused of murdering a Whyalla woman in July last year allegedly
stomped on her face and chest repeatedly after a "blood-shedding event" in the spa bath of the
deceased's family home.

Crown prosecutor Mark Norman told the Supreme Court in Adelaide on Monday that forensic evidence
would be presented to put Bevan Brougham at the scene of the crime at the time Dianne Rogan died.

He alleged that Brougham, who has pleaded not guilty before Justice John Sulan, had been in the spa
when he first attacked the deceased and continued to assault her in the garden "stomping on the
deceased's face and chest". Read more.

6.10am: WAGGA: "He asked us 'do you want to die?' and I said no, not really".

It was the Macca's run that turned ugly for three Wagga friends who were threatened with knives and
had their ute stolen from the car park of the fast food chain's Fox Street store at the weekend.

Just hours before the horrific ordeal unfolded, about 12.15am on Sunday, the trio had celebrated a
friend's 20th birthday and visited the Victoria Hotel for a couple of drinks.

The designated driver of the Holden Rodeo ute had stopped so they could grab some food when three
figures were seen lurking around the Edward Street side of the car park. More here.

6.05am: BOMBALA: The inquest into the suspected death of Eden grandmother Sylvia Pajuczok in
December 2008 resumes in Bombala this morning.

In an opening address before Magistrate Mark Douglass yesterday, Senior Counsel Ian Bourke told
the court that the evidence at the Sydney hearings last year did not support the theory that Ms
Pajuczok had committed suicide or had "wandered off".

Mr Bourke said the evidence pointed to her having met with foul play on or around December 23 or 24,
2008.

Full story here.

6.00am: REGIONAL: Let's start your day with a spin around Fairfax newspaper front pages today.
Click here.

" Michael Cheika has accepted a three-year offer to take on the Wallabies coaching job left vacant by
the resignation of Ewen McKenzie.

A source close to Cheika confirmed he would take up the deal and was keen to bring in Stephen
Larkham as an assistant coach and Michael Foley to work with the forwards.

A smiling Cheika, dressed in a Waratahs tracksuit top and black jeans, confirmed the offer when he
spoke to the media out the front of Waratahs headquarters at Moore Park. "It's a pretty humbling
experience to be asked to be involved in something like that, but we'll see what happens," Cheika said.
More here.

" Non-profit community groups are being forced to pay hundreds of dollars a week in rent, throwing
their viability into doubt, as the NSW government abandons "peppercorn rent" agreements that have
been in place for decades.

In the latest example, the Darling House aged care home at Millers Point has been informed that a
$5-a-week rent agreement struck more than 20 years ago will be scrapped, forcing the facility to close
and leaving residents "stunned".

The Department of Family and Community Services rents about 1200 properties to non-profit
organisations, many on peppercorn rents. It has confirmed it intends to fulfil a direction by Treasury
that "market values ". be realised" on the lease of the assets " a move critics have described as
"cruel". Read more.

" Senior academics at the University of Sydney are waiting in suspense at the prospect of being
named as recipients of racist and sexist emails that were sent by English Professor Barry Spurr.

Page76of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Numerous academics at the University of Sydney were among recipients of Professor Spurr's insulting
emails, which branded Chancellor Belinda Hutchinson as an "appalling minx" and Prime Minister Tony
Abbott as an "Abo lover", and mocked an apparent sexual assault victim.

While the university has suspended Professor Spurr pending an investigation, the online journal New
Matilda is weighing up the "public interest" in naming university staff on his email trail. Read more.

" A magistrate has questioned the basis of a defence by an American businessman hired and then
sacked by Myer on his first day, after it found he had allegedly falsified his credentials, to charges that
include obtaining a financial advantage by deception.
Andrew Flanagan was appointed earlier this year by Myer as group general manager of its strategic
and business development.

But Mr Flanagan, 46, of Glen Waverley, was dismissed after Myer announced he had falsified his CV
and references to get the job. Full story here.

" Agriculture Minister Barnaby Joyce, who has promised to defend the interests of family farms against
threats from mining companies and supermarket giants, has risked alienating some rural landowners
with an ambitious dam-building proposal.

Releasing a federal government green paper on agricultural competitiveness, Mr Joyce described
working the land as an "inherently noble and good occupation," and said the government wanted to
help farmers get better returns. For a farmer to get "between 10 and 15 per cent of the final price when
they've done the majority of the work is inherently unfair," he said. More here.

" Even before a formal announcement, the deal for Australia to help Iraq battle the so-called Islamic
State which now controls swaths of Iraq and Syria, drew sharp criticism from forces allied to the
Baghdad government.

As Foreign Minister Julie Bishop was finalising the deal for Australian Special Forces to be deployed in
Iraq to "advise and assist the government of Iraq in building up the capacity of the Iraqi security
forces", it was condemned by senior figure in three of the Shiite volunteer militias that now prop up the
Iraqi Army on the battlefield. Read more.
" The Australian Federal Police are poised to seize assets of corrupt Chinese officials within weeks, in
an unprecedented joint operation with their Chinese counterparts.

In an exclusive interview with Fairfax Media, Commander Bruce Hill, the manager of the AFP's
operations in Asia, has confirmed Australia has agreed to assist China in the extradition and seizure of
assets of corrupt officials who have fled to Australia with illicit funds running into the hundreds of
millions of dollars.

The joint operation will make their first forfeiture of assets within weeks, having agreed on a priority list
of alleged economic fugitives who have taken residence in Australia " identified by Beijing as one of
the most popular outlets for corrupt Chinese money.

Among the suspects identified by the AFP are naturalised Australian citizens and permanent residents
who for years have laundered money under the guise of being genuine investment or business
migrants from China. More here.

" A Tasmanian Devil in a US zoo was killed when a block of asphalt was thrown at it this week.
Jasper the devil died when the asphalt crushed his head at the Albuquerque Bio Park Zoo, New
Mexico.

Police so far believe Jasper may have been hit by the thrown piece of asphalt on Tuesday afternoon
and retreated to a log in his enclosure, where he died.

His body was discovered Wednesday morning, US time and an autopsy found the devil's skull had
been fractured. Read more.

" Tony Abbott met the new Indonesian President Joko Widodo late on Monday night and personally
invited him to Brisbane to the G20 meeting next month, but received a non-committal reply.

As foreshadowed in an exclusive interview with Fairfax Media recently, Mr Joko is waiting for advice
before deciding to make the trip to Australia on November 15 and 16. Read more.

Page77of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved." Did you miss this yesterday? If his record 11 world titles haven't convinced you he's one of the
world's best surfers, then take a look at Kelly Slater's latest incredible acrobatics in the waves off
Portugal.

Competition in the Moche Rip Curl Pro Portugal had been called off for the day on Friday, but that
didn't stop Slater, 42, from paddling out into the break where he once again proved his prowess with a
massive manoeuvre that was captured on camera. One surfing magazine has described it as
"arguably the best air ever made". Take a look.

Velma 'Aunty Val' Mulcahy grew up on the Aboriginal mission at La Perouse in the 1930s under
Protection Law.

Her childhood is incomprehensible to today's youth.

"If I go into a school and tell a kid that we never had electricity or Nintendo games and we never had
bathrooms in our little house they can't believe it," she said.

"Our little house was a three-bedroom fibro cottage built back-to-front with the fibro on the inside and
the frame on the outside.

"We had one tap outside and we were real up-to-date Koori's because we had a pull chain toilet up the
back."

Read her story here.

RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FSCORG0020141021eaak00002

Page78of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.