Traveller | Graham Perry

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Life & Leisure
Traveller | Graham Perry

752 words
17 January 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
12
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Graham Perry managing director Asia Pacific Access Prepaid
First, business or economy?

When I sit at the pointy end of a plane, the trip never seems long enough. I love first class but the
reality is that it's only for upgrades. Our travel policy allows for long-distance business-class travel and
economy for domestic. When I'm with my kids, it's economy all the way. I couldn't subject pointy-end
travellers to children!

Most frequented destination
I've been in the travel money game since the days when people queued six deep to buy their
travellers' cheques. Work has taken me to a lot of fascinating places, plus I have a personal addiction
to travel. For pure pleasure, my family can't go past Fiji. Short plane trips are essential when you
spend six months of the year travelling. My kids are young and Fiji's very child-friendly. It's a place in
the world where we head to do very little. The tropical climate, warmth of the locals and beaches make
it easy to become our second home.
For business, I travel far and wide in Asia, especially India, China and Japan. Japan's one of the most
intriguing places on Earth. It's full of tradition and natural beauty yet it's incredibly modern and
technologically advanced. It's very safe and clean. You have to watch the locals – I've seen
unsuspecting colleagues unknowingly dine on horse meat sashimi for instance!

If I ran my own airline I would . . .
Refresh the TV programs more often. I'm overseas six months of the year. I've seen almost every
program and usually the same ones for weeks on end.

Worst place you've been lost
I was in Shanghai, China, recently for an important business meeting. My Japanese colleague and I
couldn't communicate with the cab driver, and it all went downhill from there. The trip was a comedy of
errors – the cabbie first took us to a furniture home show and then to the airport. We missed the
entire meeting.

Most memorable overseas dining
I've long had an addiction to curries, and I seek them out when I'm in India, Singapore and the UK. I
adore Veeraswamy in the UK. It's the country's oldest surviving Indian restaurant and has been around
for almost 90 years. If I had a choice of anywhere in the world for my final meal, that would be it.

In the suitcase

I have my own personal travel policy – keep it light. The essentials are my laptop, BlackBerry, two
multi-currency cash passports, just one change of business clothes and some gym gear.

Page99of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.A spare afternoon in a strange city

I pick one thing I couldn't do at home and go for it. Doing something out of the ordinary is what setting
foot in a new destination is all about. Walking the streets is the best way to soak up the vibe and it's
those impressions – the kimono-dressed Japanese lady in a fast-food outlet or cows sleeping on the
road in India – that will stick in your mind for years to come. If it's wine country, a sprint to a vineyard
wins every time.

Tips

A lesson learnt the hard way . . . pay for a cab fare with a card because the receipt will help you track
down any valuables you left behind in the back seat.

Best overseas purchase?
I'm typically shy of buying clothes overseas but my tailored business shirts from Mumbai are particular
favourites.

Best tale
I'm ashamed to admit it but I was once detained in China for carrying old passport details. I was
stopped by officials because my APEC business travel card didn't match my new passport. A quick
SOS call to our London office, some official paperwork exchanges hands, and I'm granted a temporary
visa and released.

Best thing about travelling?
The food! I never miss an opportunity to sample the local cuisine. One of the perks of business travel
is eating where the locals eat. My international colleagues take me to some of their great local finds.
Khyber in Mumbai is fantastic. but watch the staircase, there are no hand rails

Top travel gripe?

Providing the same hotel with all my details despite the fact I've stayed there at least 20 times. And
waiting, for anything: luggage, queues . . .

lifeandleisure@afr.com.au

NS
RE
PUB
AN

glife : Living/Lifestyle | gtour : Travel | gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140116ea1h00037

Page100of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.