City & Country: Property Briefs

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

City & Country: Property Briefs

Compiled by Amy Tan
1,949 words
21 July 2014
The Edge Singapore
EDGESI
English
(c) 2014 The Edge Publishing Pte Ltd. All Rights Reserved.

Kyoto project launch in Singapore
The Urbanex (above) is a newly completed, 90-unit apartment block located in the prime area of
Sakyo-ku, Kyoto, which is popular among visitors to the city. The area is bordered by mountains on the
east, north and west, while to the south, it overlooks the Kamo and Katsura rivers. This should appeal to
those who want a location with good feng shui.

The project is situated between the Matsugasaki and Shugakuin stations, and is within one of the most
exclusive residential areas of Kyoto. The property is also within walking distance of cafés, restaurants
and shops. Nearby are several tertiary institutions such as Kyoto University, Doushisha University, Kyoto
Institute of Technology and Notre Dame Women’s College.

The freehold development was completed in March and comprises one- to four-bedroom apartments in
four low-rise blocks. Apartments have internal areas sized from 804 to 1,195 sq ft. The project was jointly
developed by leading Japanese developer Osaka Gas Urban Development Co Ltd and Mitsubishi Jisho
Residence Co Ltd. The designer of the development is Toyo Sekkei Co Ltd, an established player in the
market.

The project should attract Singapore buyers, given its prime location in the heart of the city, and the
prospect of capital appreciation, says Doris Tan, JLL’s regional director for international property
services, the appointed marketing agent for the project. The project will be launched over the weekend of
July 26 and 27 at the Conrad Singapore. Prices of units range from $725,598 to $1.32 million.
In Japan, buyers are subjected to a capital gains tax of 30% if they sell the property within five years of
purchase, and 15% for the next five years. As the project is newly completed, it can be rented out
immediately, with purchasers having the option to obtain a guaranteed lease for five years at an average
gross rental yield of about 2.6%.
Spring Grove for collective sale at $1.39 bil

The owners of Spring Grove (top, right) have collectively put up their condominium block along Grange
Road for sale with Knight Frank as the exclusive marketing agent. Spring Grove sits on a site area of
263,513 sq ft and the existing development contains three 20-storey apartment blocks with a total of 325
units. There is also a conservation property, the Spring Grove House, which was built in the late 19th
century, and was previously an ambassadorial residence, as well as the former residence of several
renowned businessmen in Singapore. It is currently used as a clubhouse.
Under the Master Plan 2014, the site is designated for residential use with a gross plot ratio (GPR) of
2.1, which means it can be redeveloped into a new project with a maximum gross floor area (GFA) of
approximately 553,377 sq ft. The owners of Spring Grove are expecting offers of more than $1.39 billion,
and the price is inclusive of the lease top-up premium for a fresh 103-year lease. This translates into a
land price of $2,512 psf ppr, based on the maximum permissible GFA.

The estimated breakeven cost for the developer is $3,400 to $3,500 psf, according to Ian Loh, Knight
Frank’s director and head of investment and capital markets. This means the selling price of the luxury
apartments in the new development will be between $3,800 and $4,200 psf if it is launched for sale within
the next few years. According to Loh, the newly completed freehold TwentyOne Angullia Park in the

Page182of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.vicinity has seen sales achieve prices ranging from $4,704 to $5,560 psf since 2013, while at the 99-year
leasehold The Orchard Residences, which sits on top of ION Orchard mall, have seen units transacted at
$3,416 to $4,312 psf over the same period. If successful, the en bloc sale would be the largest in
Singapore, he says. The tender for Spring Grove closes on Sept 10.
City Gate launches for sale on July 19
The 99-year leasehold City Gate (right) will be launched for sale on July 19. The project previewed on
June 28. Developed jointly by World Class Land and Fragrance Group, the mixed-use development
contains a 30-storey residential tower with 311 units and a three-storey podium with 188 commercial
units, including a supermarket and food court, which are also up for sale. The new development is
located along Beach Road and on the site of the former Keypoint commercial tower.
The sizes of the commercial units range from 280 to 4,693 sq ft, with prices starting from $2,900 psf.
Meanwhile, the residential units contain a mix of one- to three-bedroom apartments, dual-key two- and
three-bedroom units, as well as four-bedroom penthouses. Unit sizes are from 431 to 1,819 sq ft, and
prices start from $798,000 for a one-bedder and $998,000 for a two-bedder.
Real estate investment volume falls in 2Q2014
Real estate investments fell around 11% q-o-q to $4.4 billion in 2Q2014, according to DTZ in a research
report. This brings total investment volume for 1H2014 to $9.4 billion, which is 17% lower than the $11.3
billion over the same period last year. While overall transaction volume was lower in 2Q2014, there
were a large number of deals of between $500 million and $1 billion, says the property consultant. Four
such deals were concluded, namely the sale of Equity Plaza ($550 million), a 92.8% stake in Prudential
Tower ($512 million) as well as two government land sites at Woodlands Avenue 5/Woodlands Square
and Sims Drive.
Non-residential deals, especially office deals, dominated investment activity in 2Q2014, which is in line
with the results from DTZ’s annual “Global Investors Survey 2014” released in June, where investors
indicated that they expect to put more money into the office and industrial sectors this year, with about
40% expecting to increase their allocation to offices. “Non-residential deals will continue to drive
investment activity for the rest of this year, given the tepid private residential market,” says Lee Lay
Keng, regional head (SEA) of research at DTZ. Despite an expected increase in REIT and investor
activity in 2H2014, Lee still expects investment sales volume for 2014 to come in at the lower end of its
previous forecast of $20 billion to $25 billion.
M&L Hospitality expands with hotel investment at Manchester Business School
Singapore-based hotel investment group M&L Hospitality is expanding its portfolio with a new hotel
complex on the University of Manchester campus adjacent to Manchester Business School (MBS) in the
UK. The group is taking a 125-year lease on university land for a 326-key hotel complex, comprising 16
storeys of rooms above three levels of hotel facilities, including restaurant, bar, conference facilities and
gym. This will be the only hotel on the main University of Manchester campus. The development forms
part of the university’s £1 billion ($2.1 billion) campus masterplan to provide some of the most modern
campus facilities in the world.

This new investment increases M&L’s portfolio to 14 hotels in key gateway cities in Singapore, Australia,
Japan, New Zealand and the UK, following its acquisition of two hotels in Stratford City, London in 2012.
This brings the group’s assets under management to approximately $1.5 billion. UK property company
Bruntwood will be developing the hotel on behalf of M&L. Cycas Hospitality, which is M&L’s operator for
its Stratford City hotels, will manage the hotel.

Centurion Corp ventures into student accommodation in the UK

SGX-listed Centurion Corp is making its first foray into the UK with the proposed acquisition of three
student accommodation assets in Manchester and one in Liverpool with a total of 1,906 beds. With a total
purchase consideration of £77 million ($163.64 million), this transaction, when completed, will be
Centurion’s largest acquisition to date.

The properties are located in the education precincts of Manchester and Liverpool. The former boasts the
largest regional student population in the UK. The properties to be acquired are Manchester Student
Village, Manchester Student Village South, The Grafton in Manchester and Cathedral Campus in
Liverpool. All the properties provide easy access to the main university campuses and city centres. The
three properties in Manchester are freehold while Cathedral Campus in Liverpool has 243 years
remaining on its lease.

Page183of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.All assets are fully operational and have a strong track record of achieving high occupancy rates over the
last three years. The assets also offer redevelopment and asset-enhancement opportunities to increase
bed capacity but these will be further evaluated after the acquisition is completed in September, says
Centurion. The four properties are owned and managed by MCR Property Group. On completion of the
acquisition, Centurion will take over the relevant staff and continue to use the platform that has been
operating the assets.
LaSalle Investment raises US$1 bil equity to invest in Asian real estate

LaSalle Investment Management announced on July 16 that it had raised US$1 billion ($1.24 billion) of
equity since the beginning of the year for its Asia investment strategies. The amount raised will allow it to
gear up to purchase up to US$3 billion worth of assets of the final close for the LaSalle Asia Opportunity
Fund IV (LAOF IV) and two separate funds. The final close of the opportunity fund IV secured total
commitments of US$485 million plus US$100 million of co-investment capital for China logistics deals.

The investment strategies for the two other funds will focus on income-producing assets in Japan and
Australia that require active asset management. These funds are targeting total gross returns in the
mid-teens with a significant portion of the returns coming from current, in-place cash flow. LaSalle sees
attractive investment opportunities in income-producing assets in Japan, logistics assets and special
situations in South Korea, retail and urban for-sale residential developments in Australia, and the
development of logistics assets in Tier 1 and Tier 2 cities in mainland China.

Holiday Inn Express to open in Brisbane
InterContinental Hotels Group (IHG) and international investment group Pro-Invest have signed a
franchise agreement for a 226-room Holiday Inn Express (left) hotel in Brisbane’s Spring Hill. The hotel
will be the first Holiday Inn Express property in the city and marks the company’s return to Brisbane. It
is located near the “Golden Triangle” of Brisbane’s CBD.
This is the second site in the portfolio of 15 Holiday Inn Express hotels Pro-Invest is developing under a
A$150 million ($174.4 million) fund. The first hotel will open at Macquarie Park in North Ryde, Sydney,
next year.

GuocoLeisure launches ‘every’ hotels
The London-based hotel group, glh, a subsidiary of Singapore-listed GuocoLeisure Group announced
the launch of a new four-star hotel brand called “every” hotels on July 15. The new brand intends to
maximise the yield for owners of new build hotels and properties ripe for conversion. It will do this by
eliminating the space taken up by restaurants, ballrooms, meeting spaces, spa and swimming pools,
says glh. The new brand will focus on offering bedrooms with the same up-market comfort and quality as
other four-star hotels.
The first “every” hotel will open in Piccadilly, followed by Hyde Park, Leicester Square and Bloomsbury.
The intention is to have up to 50 hotels globally by the end of the decade.

NS

RE

nsum : News Digests | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe :
IWE Filter
singp : Singapore | austr : Australia | uk : United Kingdom | brisbn : Brisbane | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz
: Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | queensl :
Queensland | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | weurz : Western Europe

PUB The Edge Publishing Pte Ltd
AN

Document EDGESI0020140722ea7l0000b

Page184of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.