Preliminary 2014 CSL Ltd Earnings Presentation - Final

HD Preliminary 2014 CSL Ltd Earnings Presentation - Final
WC 12,366 words
PD 12 August 2014
SN CQ FD Disclosure
SC FNDW
LA English
CY © 2014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.
LP

Presentation

MARK DEHRING, IR, CSL LIMITED: Okay, ladies and gentlemen, we will make a start. Good morning and
welcome to CSL's full year results briefing for fiscal 2014. I have with me here in the room Paul Perreault,
Chief Executive Officer of CSL, and Gordon Naylor, Chief Financial Officer.

TD

As with past practice, Paul will be providing an overview of the results and operations and Gordon will be
picking up on some of the financials. Please note, this is being webcast and we have quite a number of
people online, so during Q&A I do ask that you use the microphones.

And before we start, I draw your attention to the forward statement disclaimer contained in your packs. And
with that, I'll hand over to Paul.

PAUL PERREAULT, CEO, CSL LIMITED: Thank you, Mark. Good morning everyone. It's a pleasure to
present the CSL results to you all this morning. As Mark said, Gordon will be filling in on some of the
financials, detailed financials as we go forward.

Please do note the forward-looking statement slide. Obviously these are the forward-looking statements
are identifiable and we have called out the risks and the caveats around the representations in this
presentation.

So I'm very pleased to report that CSL has produced a strong result this year across all of our financials in
what remains a very competitive marketplace. When we take a look at the revenues of $5.5 billion, it's up
8% at constant currency.

The EBIT line at $1.637 million, up 11%, up 10% at constant currency and NPAT at $1307, up 8% and the
same at constant currency. And this all is -- this result does include the one-off for the US anti-trust class
action settlement that we had earlier last financial year -- this past financial year.

R&D investment was up again, to $466 million, that's 11% at constant currency. We continue to invest in
the future of the organisation as part of our strategy and I'll talk more about R&D in a little bit. And our final
dividend increased to $0.60 unfranked and that's up 15%.

For the operational highlights we had a number of things happening obviously this year and one of the
highlights was Hizentra and the approval for flexible dosing for Hizentra. What this means is that you can
dose Hizentra once every two weeks as opposed to once a week, and we actually have some flexible
dosing that's being submitted to the agencies around -- even going to more -- a longer dosing interval than
once every two weeks. So the final cokinetics of this product really support the dosing flexibility, which is
great because it does give patients additional options to infuse subcutaneous immunoglobulin with Hizentra
at a high concentration.

Kcentra was approved for surgical use, so you know the year before last we had Hizentra approved for the
reversal of severe bleeding on patients with -- taking Warfarin or Coumadin, and this past year we had the
additional indication for those patients in surgery that also were on Coumadin or Warfarin that had severe
bleeds during surgery. So an expansion of the label that has shown significant growth for this particular
product that I'll talk about in a minute.

We continued to expand our facilities to support our growth. Obviously you have to plan these things well
ahead of time. Facilities don't pop up overnight and so you have to do your planning years in advance, and
we've done that on the back of really demand. So when we see the market demand we start to invest and

Page114of207©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.make sure that we have enough capacity to supply these lifesaving and life-extending products to patients.
CSL362, we had a license agreement with Janssen Biotech this year. This produce is for acute myeloid
leukaemia and actually has utility we believe in expanded indications beyond that.

BioCSL, our Australian vaccines pharmaceutical business, is in the middle of what we termed the
turnaround process. We separated this business over a year ago to really get a close look at the financials
and the health of this business here in Australia, and Gordon will talk a little bit more about that later in the
presentation.

In terms of capital management, we're in the process of completing the current share buyback of about
AUD950 million, that's about 93% complete at this particular point. And we will have a new foreshadowing
of a buyback by the Board of up to another AUD950 million once this share buyback is complete and the
Board makes a determination.

We also are doing a private placement that we're foreshadowing of up to EUR300 million. And of course,
we did settle that class action suit which we were able to move on with the business. I think the litigious
nature of the US was such that it was really of benefit to the Company to settle and move on with the rest
of our business.

In terms of the facilities expansion that I mentioned, many of you may have visited Broadmeadows in
March. We had a bit of a tour back in March and I hope you enjoyed the tour there. Certainly the biotech
manufacturing facility that we have opened in Melbourne to really supply our clinical trial material for our
recombinant proteins as well as early stage commercial launch has a fantastic new facility that is currently
in the process of manufacturing those clinical trial materials. We did announce recently that we are going to
be putting in a new recombinant coagulation manufacturing plant for full commercialisation in Lengnau,
Switzerland.
Our plasma business, we -- in the commercial start-up of Broadmeadow's Privigen facility, we expect that
to open in 2016. The multi-site capacity expansion that we've had across the rest of our sites, including an
expansion of base fractionation and additional albumin capacity is well underway and we expect some
approvals in the Kankakee area later this year.

In terms of collections of plasma, we opened 18 centres this past year in the United States. Again, you
have to collect this plasma well ahead of when you may need it because it takes time to ramp these
centres up and really get the donors flowing through the centre. But with 18 facilities that takes our fleet
globally to 106 centres and we also opened a second plasma logistics centre in the United States. This is
the area where we store the plasma and then ship it out to the manufacturing facility once it's ready for
production.

We did expand our laboratory in Knoxville, Tennessee, where we will now be able to perform 64 million
tests per year, quite a large facility for testing of the plasma, and we have transitioned to in-house nucleic
acid testing in the Europe lab. We did do that in the US in fiscal 2013, so we've in-sourced all of our NAT
testing.
In terms of the Group revenue and through the product groupings you can see that we have a bit of a
broad mix in terms of the products. Somebody hit a slide, go back. You can see that the IG area
contributes to quite a number of -- actually, 43% of our revenues in terms of IG. Mark, I think I did miss a
slide, didn't I? Okay.

The albumin at 13% of our revenues now as well as our coagulation portfolio that's -- okay, so I don't think
I'm hitting anything, and I'll see where we go. Mark, is there -- excuse us just for a second as we get the
technology right. Okay. So albumin at 13% and our specialty products which account for 15% of our
revenue. I'll try to move it.
So we do have a broad sales reach in terms of where the products obviously are sold and you can see that
we've called out bioCSL as a segment with seven -- okay -- with 7% of our sales, but North America
contributing 41%, Europe you can see the numbers there at 29% and Asia at 10%.

In terms of our outlook for this financial year we expect revenue growth of around 8% as well as reported
EBIT of around 15%, which is important because it really highlights the underlying growth of the business,
and the reported NPAT of around 12%. And I think that as we continue to look at our EPS growth we think
that that will exceed NPAT growth going forward, and that's driven not only by our underlying growth in the
business but also by some benefit from our capital management initiatives. I mentioned before, and we are
foreshadowing that the Board will consider a further buyback to help us maintain that capital management
discipline that we've had in the past.

In terms of the product sales, digging into this a little bit you can see that we had growth in pretty much all
the segments. We had significant growth in specialty products, significant growth in immunoglobulin,

Page115of207©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.significant growth in albumin. Our plasma-derived and our recombinant haemophilia portfolio was slightly
down and we'll delve into a few of the details on these segments now.

So in terms of immunoglobulins, normal IG was up about 13%. IG growth in total was 12%, that's
diminished a little bit by the hyper immune area but in terms of normal IG, 13% growth which I think was
extremely strong. This was driven by a number of factors including the fast adoption of additional patients
in Europe with Privigen due to our new indication with CIDP, as well as a strong demand in Latin America.
We had a very strong demand for IG and Privigen specifically in Latin America this year, so our Latin
American operations continue to help us drive forward.

Certainly the Hizentra, as I mentioned before, is a key factor in terms of our growth. Hizentra was up 19%
this year in terms of growth, so again very strong growth in the subcutaneous space, and I think the flexible
dosing option in the US has really assisted us in that growth as well. So having that option to be more
flexible with the dosing and the label has ensured physicians that this is a product that does have a bit of
flexibility in terms of how patients are able to adapt and use it in their treatment. So we see ongoing
demand for Hizentra in the US and Europe and certainly Privigen, as I said, has shown some very good
growth in the second half as well.

When we take a look at albumin sales, up 16%. You would expect that albumin would be growing quite
strongly because IG is growing, and as you know with our economics of our business the albumin growth
will come with the IG growth and so as we continue to grow IG, albumin should grow, and it did.
We were very happy to see that we had very strong demand in China. Our albumin growth in China was
up 29% this year. It's a huge number, but it just shows that there's a real need and a demand in China for
albumin. Certainly, our ability to manage our distribution quite effectively, the changes we made in
distribution last year with the addition of Cardinal as a partner in our distribution in China, and our ability to
actually deliver in China through the changes in serialisation and the way that the product flows through
the ports has been extremely beneficial. We have a very strong logistics team that really helps us in the
China marketplace.

In Europe, the solid demand for albumin was [still there]. There is still a flow-on effect from the starches
and the downplay of the starches in a number of indications and the addition of albumin in terms of
treatment therapies. And in the rest of the world we had strong demand. Again LatAm, Latin America was
strong in albumin and Brazil particularly we saw some great strength in albumin this year.

Haemophilia was down 4% at constant currency. A number of factors here in terms of the plasma-derived
segment and the recombinant segment. For plasma-derived, as you know a lot of the plasma-derived
utilisation is in countries that are not switched over to recombinant.

A lot of the emerging markets and some of the Eastern European markets, most of these tend to be tender
markets, government markets and the tenders are a bit lumpy. The timing is not always aligned with our
fiscal years for the issuance of these tenders so we kind of go up and down a bit, depending on our ability
to compete in the tenders with our competitors. Again, a very competitive space.

But we do see growth in the emerging markets and we also did have some impact, we had a number of
high utilisation patients that were on a immune tolerance therapy that resolved the inhibitors and came off
of the high dose therapies in plasma-derived and these patients can actually use millions of units a year so
it does have an impact when they resolve the inhibitor. We're happy they resolve the inhibitor certainly but
it does impact sales at some point.

In terms of Helixate, I think the movement in sales mix, the multiple clinical trials that our competitors are
running which allows patients to go on product free of charge because they're on the clinical trial material,
eats into the commercial markets. This is not commercial product that the patients are currently on when
they're in the clinical trials, so that has an impact across the marketplace in terms of the recombinants.

Oobviously we've had some new entrants, and people that have not currently been in our space that are
now entering the market like the biogenetics of the world. So a lot of competition in this space but I have to
say we're well-placed for the future with our recombinant portfolio and we still have a strong plasma-derived
portfolio as well. So we'll continue to push forward and we don't mind the competition; we're just ready to
get into the game.

In terms of specialty products, another very, very strong performance this year in our specialty products
portfolio, up 18%, which was a tremendous effort. Kcentra and Beriplex, so it's -- the name in other markets
is Beriplex, in the US it's Kcentra -- grew by 98% this past year. So a tremendous effort in terms of the
growth of Kcentra; it just shows the actual medical need of these products in terms of resolving patients'
bleeds when they didn't have options prior.

Page116of207©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The other thing about the specialty products was Berinert continues to grow. We saw 25% increase in
Berinert sales this past year across the globe. Zemaira grew at 10%, fibrinogen was in the 6% range. So
the specialty products continued to show this growth based on the medical need of these rare diseases that
these products actually help resolve.

So I can't say enough about the specialty product portfolio. We certainly -- with our broad breadth of
products in our portfolio it's a real advantage to have this great cadre of specialty products to be able to
continue growing over the next number of years.

BioCSL, this is in Australian dollars, just to remind you now that we're switching back to bioCSL which is
really the Australian business for pharmaceuticals and vaccines, and flu vaccines, so we do look at in the
Australian dollar terms. The business turnaround is underway. The influenza sales this year were AUD125
million. We did see increased US demand.

We did have a partner, (inaudible) exit the market in the EU and they were a good customer for us in terms
of antigen sales, so that went away, which depressed our flu sales a bit. But the seasonal flu business
continues to go well and so far this year we've seen strong demand in the US and Europe for the northern
hemisphere season which is just underway.
Next I'll move on to the IP segment and intellectual property. When we take a look here you can see that
the HPV royalties were $119 million, that was down on an annual basis of about 7%. As you vaccinate
more and more people obviously the opportunity to vaccinate people as they come into age is lessened
based on the catch up programs which we've had in the past.

So the royalties from the HPV were down about 7% however we are excited that the 9-valent vaccine was
submitted this past February to the US authorities and will be submitted in other jurisdictions. This will
cover five new potential cancers with the 9-valent, which is I think a great growth opportunity. So we expect
to hear something within this financial year back from the agency, or Merck does, on the 9-valent.

CSL362 I mentioned briefly earlier, and certainly in AML we think this is a fantastic opportunity. Janssen is
a great partner and they certainly have the expertise in oncology to take this product and really develop it
the way it should be developed. I think that when you take a look at the benefit that you get from CSL362
you actually are able to take and generate killer cells from the natural immunity system within the body
against the AML, the cancer cells. So it's a fantastic product really.

When we take a look at the AstraZeneca arrangement that we have in rheumatoid arthritis, this program
continues to advance and we've completed, or AstraZeneca has completed, multiple Phase II studies. So
far the results have been extremely promising so we're looking forward to the continuation of those
programs within AstraZeneca. Then in terms of ISCOMATRIX, we continue to see benefit, the Merck
Dengue Study is ongoing and there is a New England Journal of Medicine article that show the effects that
ISCOMATRIX is able to generate, not only on antibodies but in terms of dose sparing. So a very good
outcome so far for ISCOMATRIX.

Quickly I'll move just to look a bit of the R&D update and the highlights there. Certainly our recombinant
portfolio in terms of recombinant factor IX fusion protein, our recombinant VIIa fusion protein and our
recombinant factor VIII-SingleChain product are all moving through development and many in the later
stage. So the factor IX program, which the pivotal phase III study enrolment was completed this past year,
the pharmacokinetic data supports 14 day treatment regimen.

So again a very significant change from the market leader today, BeneFIX, and I think we can compete
quite readily with the (inaudible) product as well. So we're looking forward to putting that submission
through, hopefully this fiscal year and we'll see where we go. But certainly the data is very, very strong.

The recombinant factor VIII program, the phase I/III study support twice weekly dosing. The first patient
was enrolled in the paediatric study and we do have to have some paediatric patients as well, so that
continues to move. Our recruitment is strong in this particular product as well, so very pleased with the way
our clinical group has been performing there. With recombinant VIIa fusion protein, we have -- the phase
II/III trial is due to commence this year, so this calendar year, and we're moving that forward as well. Very
exciting product because, again, the fusion protein technology is very similar to what we're using for our
factor IX product where we've seen the every two week dosing. So we're looking for some excellent results
there.

In terms of Hizentra, the administration options in the EU and the US, in terms of that flexible dosing, has
been really helpful for patients and we see the growth that we experienced with Hizentra this year. That
was done with pharmacometric modelling which was quite a unique way to approach the agency without
having to do a full scale clinical trial, because the data actually works.

Page117of207©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.We have some very intelligent scientists in our group here in Australia that took a look at the modelling
from the data that was in the clinical trials and were able to put a submission together that the agencies
were well prepared to receive. In terms of the approval in Japan for primary immune deficiency and
secondary immune deficiency, this also has another way of the expansion obviously of our portfolio across
our geographies. This is the first and only subcutaneous IG available in Japan.

Kcentra I've talked about and certainly the expanded indication in surgery was extremely helpful in terms of
driving additional utilisation in the hospitals. Zemaira we have the efficacy data from our phase III/IV study
and that submission has been put into the US regulators and the EU regulators. In the EU we're looking for
approval of Zemaira and in the US we're looking for expanded labelling with the data that we have.
Berinert, the pivotal phase III subcutaneous prophylaxis study has started. Berinert has, as I mentioned
before, grown at 25% this past year. When we look at a high concentration and a subcutaneous
administration it would be of big benefit to patients that currently today only have the IV option with a
C1-esterase inhibitor.

Going into CSL112, another very exciting program for us in terms of development. The phase IIa data
supports our mechanism of action and we presented that at the American College of Cardiology this past
year. Our global phase IIb program is initiated now, so we're initiating the phase IIb program that will have
approximately 1200 patients and we'll look to drive that as quickly as possible.

This is a unique product that can actually cause the efflux of cholesterol out of plaque after a heart attack
and that's really when patients are most susceptible for a second event and potentially death. So in this
time period after the first heart attack, patients really need to be stabilised and that's where we see a lot of
utility for CSL112, assuming that all of the trials continue to progress as we've seen thus far. Risk is always
in R&D, but certainly exciting in terms of the opportunities.

Then with that I'm going to hand it over to Gordon and Gordon will take you through some of the financial
detail.

GORDON NAYLOR, CFO, CSL LIMITED: Thanks Paul, good morning everyone. As Mark mentioned I'll
talk you through some of the financial detail behind the results that Paul has announced this morning. In
addition to the accounting result I'll also cover some thoughts on the development of margin structure,
which is always a popular topic, and talk about management of the balance sheet cashflow and then finish
up by talking about progress we're making with bioCSL.

So you're all aware now that our reported NPAT result was a shade over $1.3 billion for the full year. On a
reported basis that's up 8% on the last financial year and pretty much the same growth in constant
currency terms. You will recall the FY13 was especially strong, helped by a few special items including the
boost in albumin sales in China following the change in distributor model at the beginning of that financial
year.

By far the most significant influence on the FY14 result was our settlement of the long running US class
action. The cost of the settlement was $64 million, or $39 million after tax as the expense was tax
deductible in the US. Our EBIT growth for the full year was 11% or 10% in constant currency terms.
Obviously EBIT was also adversely affected by the class action settlement.

The main reason that EBIT grew more strongly than NPAT in FY14 was due to a step-up in the reported
effective tax rate from 17.1% to 18.5%. As I foreshadowed a year ago, and confirmed in February, we did
successfully complete the strategic decision making around manufacturing of the recombinant haemophilia
portfolio which was followed by migration of the ownership of these assets to Switzerland.

The transfer itself nets out in the consolidated accounts but there is a tax effect that you can see in the
reported ETR. Similarly our current thinking, in expectation of ongoing clinical success with CSL112, or
RHDL, is to make the strategic manufacturing decision for that asset in FY15 and to follow that decision
with migrating the asset to the appropriate location. This will also net out in the consolidated accounts but
again will tend to inflate the effective tax rate due in that year of migration. That's the main reason our EBIT
growth guidance is stronger than NPAT growth guidance for FY15.
In light of these one offs EBIT is probably more indicative of underlying profit growth and the Company's
operational performance. In past years when we reported in Australian dollars, we saw significant volatility
caused by currency fluctuations. In the main the change to US dollar reporting, as well as our active
management of our natural currency hedges, continues to dampen these effects in the reported accounts.
So that a moderate transaction headwind in this year, for the year just completed, has been more than
offset by a translational tailwind to give us a small net tailwind of only $3.3 million at the NPAT line.

Different parts of the accounts are affected differently by currency. For example the general depreciation of
the US dollar against our other major currencies has inflated the balance sheet slightly by about 4%. You

Page118of207©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.can see this in the movement of the foreign currency translation reserve. In these accounts, as at the half
year, we've adopted AASB 119, the accounting standard which deals with our defined benefit plans.

The standard has a modest net effect upon the reported figures but also required us to restate the prior
period, reducing the FY13 reported profit by about $5 million. Finally you'll note in the accounts that the
inventory write-downs are up a little this year but still within the usual 5% of COGS. The write-down is
already in the reported cost of sales and, as it's mainly the result of an accounting shift in plasma cost
allocation, the cost will continue to occur in the future.
So moving onto margin, we always get a lot of questions about the strategic development of the Group's
margin structure. Broadly speaking however there are two confounding factors that are important to
understand. The first is that half year figures tend to move round a bit. Not surprising given that the working
capital cycle of the business is about nine months, so about one and a half times the six monthly reporting
periods. As usual we do recommend that you focus upon the full year margin figures which tend to be more
reflective of the underlying trends.

The other issue that plays out in the short run margin structure is the influence of the investments that we
make back into the business to ensure long run sustainability. From a financial perspective these
investments are mainly into R&D and also operating assets. As you know we expense R&D investments in
the period in which they're incurred and capitalise investments in operating assets.

These investments are many and varied but have two common characteristics. They tend to be lumpy in
nature, as they're driven by business needs rather than accounting periods. Secondly, they tend to be long
term, investment projects typically take three to 10 years to implement and the useful lives of these assets
can span decades. So this chart is a rough attempt to show a pre-investment view of the profit structure of
the Group.

We've used US dollar reported figures over the last 10 or so semesters and simply backed out the whole
R&D expense from EBITDA to give us this chart of EBITDAR&D, which is the pre-tax profit of the
Company if we hypothetically ceased reinvestments in the business. So it's clearly unsustainable but it's
still interesting to look at the chart and make some observations.

So I've got two comments to make about the trend line. Firstly, although there is some noise around the
accounting periods, the effect is relatively muted. Secondly, you can clearly see the long run benefits of
operating leverage as we gradually improve operations over time to lower unit costs, broaden the product
portfolio and gain the benefits of business scale.

If I can now turn to the classic EBIT margin view, which we've presented a few times in the past, but now
updated with the FY14 reported results. This is now a more sustainable pre-tax and financing view of the
business. So all of the reinvestments are now incorporated in these figures. The basis of the calculation is
the same but the curve is more bumpy, corresponding particularly to the timing of R&D investments and
when large operating assets come online.

Over the long term and looking through the short run volatility you can see that, whilst it's fairly meaningless
to consider half year margins in isolation, we are sustaining, and maybe even expanding slightly, the
operating margin structure over time. This is quite remarkable given the growth of the business in such a
strongly competitive environment.

If I can move now onto the balance sheet and cashflow, we do continue to be very focused on the financial
fundamentals of the business. Operating cashflow of $1.4 billion, so exceeding NPAT, was strong for the
year especially in the second half. At the period end we've got good cash balances to support operational
needs, the buyback and dividends.

CapEx for the year came in a little over $400 million, consistent with our expectations. Paul has given you
some details of our current capital investments. Looking forward I anticipate that capital investment for
FY15 will be approximately $450 million, driven by the ongoing capacity expansion programs and what we
anticipate will be the early spend on the new recombinant haemophilia facility in Lengnau in the canton of
Bern in Switzerland. I'll provide an update on this at the half year.

We have continued to keep the balance sheet efficient by managing working capital carefully. You can see
that the modest reduction in working capital cycle which we achieved was driven by more efficient inventory
management and that cash, beyond what we need for liquidity, is being returned to shareholders. As a
result of these measures free cashflow was particularly impressive for the year.

As Paul mentioned, the current AUD950 million buyback is going well. We're now 93% complete and we
will resume buying sometime in the next few days. This program fits into the strategic context of working
toward a loose target of net debt to EBITDA ratio of about 1 times, to ensure that the balance sheet is

Page119of207©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.prudently efficient. The chart shows our steady progress toward this target over the last few years so that
we're now sitting at about 0.7 times.

As Paul's mentioned, we do anticipate that during the coming financial year we'll look to tap the US private
debt markets again as part of this strategy. It's also interesting to note that if we look back over all the
buybacks that we've undertaken since 2005, and excluding the [Telequest] transaction that was roughly a
net wash, you can see that the accumulated buybacks have boosted earnings per share by about 19%
which is real value to our shareholders.

As Paul mentioned, the turnaround of bioCSL does continue to make good progress but we do have a little
way to go. We've taken over responsibility for the distribution of flu in the important northern hemisphere
markets, and as Paul has mentioned, this season's distributions are running well to date.

In the second half we were successful in gaining two important new in-licensing agreement and two
logistics customers that will help to secure those parts of the business. Behind the scenes we are working
hard to reduce the unit cost base of the business, especially in flu and in business infrastructure within
bioCSL. These initiatives are key to making the business, especially flu, more nimble and competitive in a
demanding global landscape.

It's especially important that we're efficient, given that the majority of our production operations are in
Australia, which as you know has a consistently strong currency. These changes are all expensive through
the transition phase and we expect it may take a few more periods before the business is fully performing
as a whole. But I'm very confident that we can return bioCSL to sustainable profitability.
So I'll hand over now to Paul who'll run you through our strategic framework for the Group.

PAUL PERREAULT: Thank you Gordon, I appreciate the excellent job that you did explaining all of the
financials in detail and I hope everybody was as excited as I was to hear about them, not that I didn't hear
about them before.
Certainly the strategy for the Company is solid. When I take a look at the strategy that's been employed
over the past number of years and look at what's paying off today, it's really a credit to the people in our
organisation that are focused every day on making sure that we deliver these life-saving and life-extending
therapies to patients.

It really starts with the base of the business. So at the bottom of the triangle, in terms of our core products,
this relentless commitment to our -- really being efficient and productive in everything that we do, and to
really build on our core of albumin and IG growth. But also continuing to expand into our recombinant and
specialty products, I mentioned the specialty products, earlier which have been a real benefit to CSL in
terms of our ability to access new patient therapies and new patient markets and additional markets around
the globe.

So the continued development of our recombinant portfolio, our investment in R&D which needs to
continue because in this business you have to innovate and you have to product differentiate. By doing
those things in our strategy at that next level, it's going to help sustain CSL in our growth tracks that we've
had in the past.

Certainly it's a competitive market and you also have to look for new things that are in the horizon and so
our biotech, our antibodies, the research that we do here at Bio21 where we share space at Melbourne
University is extremely important to our future of longer term investment in R&D. Things like CSL112 which
we think can be transforming in a market where patients continue to pass away based on this horrible
disease in the cardiovascular area, is a real opportunity for us should it continue to progress the way that
the early trials have gone.

So really building from our base of strengths, continuing to focus on the basics of the business. Sometimes
people say, well, it's a bit boring and I say that's okay. It's a very strong boring business so it's boring in the
sense that maybe from a strategic perspective that we've talked about our strategy for a number of years.
The nice thing is that we're able to deliver on it and that really does talk about the credit of the people that
are focused on making sure that we hit all of these individual items day in and day out and commit to the
patients that we serve.
It's a wonderful company. I appreciate all of your support and your interest in CSL and with that I think
Mark will move to questions.

Questions and Answers

MARK DEHRING: Ladies and gentlemen, we'll take some questions here first in Melbourne and then we'll
take them online. So we'll just pass the microphones around. So Ian, why don't you go first?

Page120of207©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IAN ABBOTT, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great, yes thanks. Ian Abbott from Goldman Sachs.
Kcentra was one of the standouts in the result. Just wondering where you are in the launch of that product
in terms of the ramp up. Have you got to a point where you'd regard it as a reasonably steady state or do
you still see a fair bit of ramp in that through fiscal 2015?

PAUL PERREAULT: I would say Ian, that we continue to see growth in Kcentra because there is over -- in
the US, for instance, there is about 5000 hospitals. We focus the first year out of the gate on the largest
institutions which take an awful lot of time because the approvals that they have, the committees that they
have to go through, they have these pharmacy and therapeutic committees that you have to get approvals
for, for any new product that comes into these institutions so there's a process you have to go through. So
we've accessed hundreds of those main hospitals and we're moving into the second tier but it's going to
take time before you get everywhere.

The problem with these patients that bleed is that they just don't live around all the big hospitals and so you
have to then expand and get to all of the hospitals around the country. The other thing is it's a new therapy.
There hasn't been anything like this in 50 years and so you have to get physicians understanding exactly
what the product is. There has to be awareness of the product and you have to get the science out there in
terms of what this product actually does for patients. So it is spreading well.

I would say it's -- certainly the uptake has been strong but there's still more room to grow and we are
continuing to register and launch in new countries as well so there is room for growth in Kcentra.

IAN ABBOTT: Thank you and just to switch topics, [subcu] was a big area of growth as well. One of your
competitors has had some initial positive news -- hasn't had the final positive news but it has had initial
positive news. To what extent does your guidance capture some of that risk into 2015?

PAUL PERREAULT: Thank you Ian. In terms of the guidance, we certainly have taken [High Q] into
account. So we don't assume that competitors won't be successful and so when we look at our numbers
and we look at our growth and our strategy, we take competitors' activities into account. So I would say it's
covered and, as you say, the final approval from the agency hasn't come yet but they had a good response
from the BPAC committee.

IAN ABBOTT: Thank you.

MARK DEHRING: Thanks Ian. Andrew Goodsall.

ANDREW GOODSALL, ANALYST, UBS: Andrew Goodsall from UBS. Sorry, (inaudible). Andrew Goodsall
from UBS. Just trying to understand volume growth. Historically I think you've told us, look at albumin, it
gives you a bit of an indication. Obviously China and higher priced China has helped that so I guess if we
were to strip out China could you give us a sense of where your volumes were for the year?

PAUL PERREAULT: Across just albumin or all products?

ANDREW GOODSALL: I think just overall fractionation throughput --

PAUL PERREAULT: I would say, Andrew, that most of the growth was volume so when you look at our
growth pricing is fairly steady. It's up and down in different markets but I'm always cautious about talking
about price gains because I think that in this environment, in the health care environment, where
governments are big payers and you've got especially distributors and pharmacies as well that are under
pressure to deliver to patients, the pricing is going to move around a bit. But I wouldn't look to our growth
and say it's going to come from price.

We assume pricing to be fairly flat. In our projections it's all about the volume which is why we have the
major capacity expansions under way because we see the demand. We still think IG is growing globally in
the 6% to 8% range. You can look at snippets of data at PPTA and others and see where you get the ups
and downs. I think the most recent data was somewhere around 10% but there's lagging indicators in those
numbers as well but still a strong demand for these products overall.

The key aspects are, do you have enough plasma to manufacture these products and do you have enough
capacity to actually put the plasma through your plants? So I think we're well placed.

ANDREW GOODSALL: I guess if we strip out the second half, it looks to us like your IG was actually up
close to something like 17% in the second half. So, again, just trying to understand how much of that was
volume or just mixed shift amongst --

PAUL PERREAULT: It's mostly volume and it's based on a number of initiatives that we had under way in
terms of our penetration into the IDN market in the US. We had some very good growth in Brazil as well in
the second half and others areas of Latin America that we didn't have in the first half. So I think that there

Page121of207©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.were a number of factors around that. Some of it was part of the strategy, some of it was really some
opportunities that arose in markets where we had infrastructure.

ANDREW GOODSALL: Just a final one from me, just on Kcentra, picking up from Ian's comment. We're
actually hearing that some people wanted more supply and I know you're building out another unit in
Germany. Were you constrained at all during that half or early year?

PAUL PERREAULT: It's hard to see 98% growth as constrained but I would say that we have certainly
been looking at where the product is placed. So we manage it because this is a product that because of the
success that we've had, some people want more than others and most of it's in the distribution channel and
we want it in the hospitals because that's where the patients are going to show up. So we've been watching
it very closely.

ANDREW GOODSALL: Thank you.

MARK DEHRING: Thanks Andrew. We'll now take a few questions online. So we have David Low from
Deutsche Bank.

DAVID LOW, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks Mark. Just touching on the pricing comment that you
made Paul, it looks to me that the revenue growth was dramatically above what your larger competitors
have reported from their plasma businesses and Gordon's obviously touched on margins. Would it be fair
to say that average pricing is down in the second half because of the geographic mix and product mix
versus what we saw a year ago or in the first half?

PAUL PERREAULT: David, there's always mix in the markets and mix in the products. We did see
Carimune, for example, if you look at that area that's our fighting brand and there are some competitors
trying to move into the US market and discounting. So we use Carimune in that so there's some pricing mix
there. That probably was a bit different than Privigen, for instance, which stayed mostly flat.

So there is some price mix that goes on but the bulk of it is volume. When you're seeing volume demand in
the marketplace at 6% to 8% on a global basis that's pretty significant on a base of IG volume that's
currently out there today.

DAVID LOW: The growth in countries like Brazil and Latin America, I mean are emerging markets typically
at lower price points?

PAUL PERREAULT: It just depends. Some yes, some no. It just depends on the marketplace and really the
treatment methodology that physicians are using in those markets and what the governments are willing to
pay for because, again, all the governments have a different aspect. So for instance, if you look across
Europe we know that the IG prices in Europe are traditionally less than they are in the US. The products
are used for the same indications but that's where the market had evolved to at that particular point. So
Japan still has some very good pricing. Even though they put a lot of pressure each year on manufacturers
to lower price, or mandate it actually, they still start at a higher base so it just depends on the market.

DAVID LOW: Great, thanks and just the other question I had was on the haemophilia products in
development, particularly the SingleChain factor VIII, we've now seen a fair bit of data and pricing from
Biogen. I was just wondering if you could talk in terms of what the latest data that CSL's seeing from their
product, how it compares in terms of dosing with the extended half-life products that we see out there and
we see coming?

PAUL PERREAULT: I think we compete extremely well. I say it would be a very competitive product to
what's out there in terms of the data that's being presented. We understand coagulation extremely well. It is
in our heritage, all the way back to the Behringwerke days in Germany. That's where our coagulation
expertise really started and when you look at the data in detail and you start to sort through the actual
results and certainly our people look closely at that, I'd say we compete extremely well.

DAVID LOW: The (technical difficulty) extended half-life therapy effectively the dosing looks comparable.

PAUL PERREAULT: I'm sorry you broke up. I didn't hear the whole question.

DAVID LOW: I just wanted to make sure I understood that you see the dosing as comparable to what
Biogen's presented and is out there in the market.

PAUL PERREAULT: Yes, I would say based on what we've seen, it's going to be very competitive and I
would say that long-acting factor VIII is something that everybody continues to work on. It's not like factor
IX where we've already demonstrated 14 day dosing intervals. Factor VIII is a very difficult molecule to
characterise and to actually develop into a longer acting vein. That's why we're seeing that you're reducing
a dose or so a week but you're still dosing every week.

Page122of207©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It's a tough molecule to work with and so everybody is -- nobody's gotten there yet so we'll keep after it.
Certainly we have programs ongoing but in the first step, it's to reduce the dosing at least once a week
which is important for a family where they have a child with haemophilia or multiple children with
haemophilia which a number of families do. Trying to get them out in the morning and onto the bus when
they have to stop and put a needle in their vein, sometimes it's not the most convenient thing for mothers
and kids to be doing. So it's one of those things where even one less dose per week is significant in terms
of patient convenience.

DAVID LOW: Right, thanks very much.

MARK DEHRING: Thanks David. We also have Sean Laaman from Morgan Stanley online. Do you have
some questions Sean?

SEAN LAAMAN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Yes, thank you Mark and good morning gents. Just a
couple. The first one, just on some of the dynamics in the albumin market in China. We understand that
surprisingly, I suppose, Baxter had some missteps in that market. I'm wondering if you could just describe,
if you've seen any benefit based into your numbers as a result of those missteps, is the first question, and
whether that's sustainable. Secondly, just first [cut of] numbers, so excuse me if they're wrong, but I'm
getting about 40% or so second half growth in your POB franchise and ex that, I see that you've stopped
reporting separately the wound healing but ex the perioperative bleeding, it seems that we're getting about
mid-single digit growth in the second half.

So I'm wondering ex-Kcentra, essentially what's the sustainable growth for specialty products going
forward? Thanks.

PAUL PERREAULT: I don't think I caught the number that you said about the growth at first where you said
you calculated a growth of --

SEAN LAAMAN: 40 -- around 40%, four-zero, in the second half.
PAUL PERREAULT: For which group?

SEAN LAAMAN: The perioperative bleeding.

PAUL PERREAULT: Okay, so that's mostly in the Kcentra area and, as you know, the full year we were up
98% so it's about half of it, I guess. So it's about right but I would say that I continue to see growth in that
franchise. The wound healing is mainly a Japanese marketplace for us in terms of wound healing and there
are new competitors in Japan in the wound healing. Not everything grows in specialty products so when I
said 98% growth in Kcentra and 25% in Berinert you say, well, geez maybe you should be growing it 40%
in specialty products but indeed Zemaira grew at 10%, fibrinogen was growing at 4% to 6%. Fibrinogen
also is in the perioperative space as well in a number of countries.

So how you characterise these products in terms of the categories is one thing but I would say it is
sustainable. The specialty products are a growth driver force clearly and I think there's a lot more to be
done as we move into new countries and continue to expand the labelling on some of these products as
well. So it's a very good franchise for us and I continue to see that.
In terms of your other question around China, I really can't comment on my competitors and what's
happened there. I don't know any of the details really. All I can say is that when I look at where we started
in China 10 years ago and I look at where we are today, there weren't really other competitors there that
may have had a problem. We've been competing with locals in China as well as additional people that
have come into China and we really haven't missed a beat in terms of our growth. So I think there's still
sustainability. There's a lot of people in China as people continue to move out of the agricultural areas and
into the urban areas. The tier two hospitals are getting more and more business.

There is a migration into the cities and so we continue to see growth and access to products in albumin is
certainly one of them.

SEAN LAAMAN: Right, thank you Paul.

MARK DEHRING: Thanks Sean. We have David Stanton from CSLA next.

DAVID STANTON, ANALYST, CLSA: Thanks very much for taking my question. Just perhaps to ask in a
different way from what Sean said, should we be thinking specialty products can continue to grow at about
double system in line with historic, would be my first question.

PAUL PERREAULT: I think we still have room to grow in the double digits with specialty products. When
we look at the numbers and we've said for the last couple of years we should be growing around 15%, 16%

Page123of207©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.in specialty products. For the last few years we've been able to deliver that and I do think that we'll continue
to see opportunities there. Will it be dropped to 12% or 11% versus 15% or 16% or 17% or 18%? It'll move
around clearly but there is opportunity because, again, inherently in the term specialty is the fact that they
are special.

These are products that people have not had access to. They're for rare diseases and specialty utilisation
areas and when you need it you need to have it and if you don't know about it and now you get access to it,
you'll see the growth continue. I have a very -- I'm quite bullish on our specialty product portfolio. I look at
the utilisation and the need and the benefit that patients have from these products and very, I would say,
strong opinion that we'll continue to perform in that space.

DAVID STANTON: Thanks, and my second question -- wouldn't want Gordon to miss out. So could he give
us any colour in terms of DNA and tax rate for FY15, that would be great? Thank you.

GORDON NAYLOR: Thank you David, for thinking about me. I think on DNA, it might go up a little bit
because we do have a few assets coming online. I can't quantify that off the top of my head but I think that
would be the trend. It's one of those lumpiness things that I talked about where these assets come online
and you get hit by the depreciation. Just an accounting effect. The economic cost is different of course and
then on effective tax rate, I think I implicitly -- you can work out the numbers from the difference between
the NPAT growth numbers and EBIT growth numbers.

We do expect, and I've forgotten exactly how it works, but it'll tend to be a bit elevated I think in the coming
year because of that transfer that we anticipate for 112.

DAVID STANTON: Sorry, just lastly then, so we should [break] that in probably as an ongoing thing, at
least for the next couple of years in terms of that elevated tax rate?

GORDON NAYLOR: Yes, I think I've said in the past that we had expected over the longer run that our
effective tax rate will probably sit 18%, 19%, 20%, something in there, and that's the way it's been playing
out. We've got a few moving pieces there. You get a bit of mix effect, for example, as these specialty
products that Paul talks about, we're growing faster than the rest of the company. So that tends to carry
with it a higher tax rate, so you get a little bit of mix there but overall I think you're pretty comfortable
somewhere in that 18%, 19%, 20% is quite a reasonable number to use as your base (inaudible).

DAVID STANTON: Thank you.

MARK DEHRING: Thanks Dave. We have some questions from Craig Collie at Macquarie.
CRAIG COLLIE, ANALYST, MACQUARIE GROUP: Thanks guys. Can you hear me okay?

MARK DEHRING: We can.

CRAIG COLLIE: Great. Just to dive a little bit deeper on the competitive environment, Paul, you've said that
you see market growth IG very strong. Recent data is as good as can be expected of -- in the longer term.
Just to look at the competitive dynamics, you've had a couple of competitors who have had supply capacity
issues in the past and there's a bit of chatter out there that those are resolved and some of those
competitors are now competing pretty aggressively especially in the US. Can you talk to that assumption
and elaborate on whether or not that's accurate or not?

PAUL PERREAULT: Well, sure Craig. I'm not sure how much time you have but we can give it a go. I
would say that, as I've said during the presentation and as I continue to say, it is a competitive market. I
also don't mind. Competition drives people, it forces you to innovate, to differentiate, to really try to come
up with something that's unique for patients in terms of the product proposition, in terms of convenience, in
terms of availability. Some of the competition out there have -- are well placed to compete really strongly,
others are struggling to compete with those types of advantages.

So you look at a skilled player like ourselves and you look at what we're investing in our R&D and you look
at what we're doing in the business in terms of our ability to expand to meet demand, in terms of our
investments in capital. You look at our expansion of our plasma collection because without the raw material
you're not going to be able to grow. And you look at when we started all that, it was well before everybody
started talking about these issues. I think it just goes to the strength and the understanding that we have in
the industry.

So I look at our game plan and I say, look here's where I see the competition. Obviously I look at that
landscape, but I try to execute extremely well within the organisation on the things that we need to focus on
and as I said with the strategy slide, people might say, because many of you have been following us for a
while, boy it looks kind of the same. You've changed the picture but it looks kind of the same. It is the same

Page124of207©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.but there's nuances. There's nuances behind all of those areas that we're working on in terms of
innovation, product differentiation, patient convenience and impact in terms of our R&D portfolio.

So look, it is competitive and it will become more competitive because you've got government pressures in
terms of payers. You've got new people entering the space, like the Biogens and the Novos that are really
expanding into the recombinant haemophilia space. But you also have to be able to really understand
what's driving the economics behind the business and when you look at our underlying financials I feel very
strongly that we're well placed to compete in a competitive market place.

I think our results this year show that. I think that people should have confidence in the game plan and the
underlying aspects of what we're doing, so that would be my comment.

CRAIG COLLIE: Great and then just to dig a little bit deeper on plasma-derived factor VIII, so plenty of
positive points across your result. One potential weakness perhaps was that number going backwards a
little. You highlighted a few one offs, does that mean that your expectations going forward are, I guess
better than what you've printed this year?

PAUL PERREAULT: Well again it depends. The tender market is lumpy and that's also a competitive
market because the competition has plasma-derived factor VIII as well. So depending on what you see in
the various tender markets, I would say that until we really are fully entrenched with our new recombinant
therapies it will be a battle in the trenches on plasma-derived factor VIII.

Again, our ability to manufacture with our multiple sites around the globe have product available because
the other part of these tenders is not just pricing. It's actually when you can deliver the product against the
tender, because there is many nuances in terms of what the tenders require in terms of delivery and the
amount that needs to be delivered within a certain timeframe. I think we'll continue to do okay. There might
be a few percentage points down over the next year or so or a few percentage points up, depending on
timing of some of the opportunities, but what's really going to drive us forward is our recombinant portfolio
in the haemophilia space.

CRAIG COLLIE: Okay, thanks Paul, just one quick question for Gordon. I think Gordon, in the past you've
given us some guidance on R&D, any I guess guidance for next year?

GORDON NAYLOR: Look I think it will continue to grow in line with the business. I think we're running at
about 9.1% revenue in the year just gone. The last two or three years it's been about the same, maybe a
tad less in the past. So I'd expect it just to continue to grow with the business. The -- obviously it's
influenced by the progress on these different clinical programs. So it might move around a little bit.
Obviously those figures are inside the guidelines that we've given.

CRAIG COLLIE: Great, thanks a lot guys.

MARK DEHRING: Thanks Craig, we'll now take some questions from Steve Wheen at JP Morgan.

STEVE WHEEN, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: Yes, thanks very much. Just a question following on from that,
on R&D. The guidance that you previously gave was for it to grow by about 13% in the constant currency
basis. I take your point about the long term nature and the lumpiness and the difficulty to predict the timing
around R&D, but the fact that you came in less than that guidance for R&D this year, does that mean
there's a little bit of catch up that will take place next year in terms of what you're expecting?

PAUL PERREAULT: Hi Steve, how are you doing? Look in terms of the R&D, I think that you will see some
movements around, but because we're increasing our R&D spend this year again, I'm not sure you'll be
able to ferret out what it is, whether it was just a transfer over or whether it's the additional movement of our
trials into the later stage development process.

So I think our guidance is that we will increase our R&D this year. The timing of some of those payments
and such are interesting but we've also been able to get some efficiencies in R&D this year as well through
some changes we've made in our clinical operations group.

So for instance we've had some sites in the past that we opened to try to get additional patients that
actually had never recruited a patient. In the past we would keep running them and now we actually are
shutting them down. Which -- it costs money to keep them open. You still have to monitor, you still have to
go, so we've taken a look at our operations. So when we talk about efficiencies and productivity, we look
across the whole business. So I wouldn't say it's impacting at all our investment in R&D. We're just trying to
also make sure that we're efficient in everything we're doing.

STEVE WHEEN: Great, and then just one other thing about the guidance, just trying to tease out what the
base is. Included in FY13 there was obviously a license payment with Janssen. With that not there, would

Page125of207©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.that suggest the underlying growth is stronger, or is there expectations of further milestone payments for
Janssen within the FY15 year?

GORDON NAYLOR: Yes look, I think be careful not to overanalyse this one Steve. I think there's no doubt
that was in the first half of the FY14, but there's a few other things as well, which move. I think we have an
ongoing program, we've got obviously the arrangements with Janssen, but we've got other things we're
doing as well. So I'd be a bit cautious about drawing that one out as being a one-off. I think you'll see
similar things in the future.

STEVE WHEEN: Is that a comment specifically about FY15, or is that further out than that?

GORDON NAYLOR: It's a general comment, but it's a broader, longer range comment. So FY15, you
should just refer to the guidance, which we've given.

STEVE WHEEN: Yes sure. Okay and just another follow on question on the recombinant factor VIII, have
you quoted the half-life that you're now looking at? It suggests that given you're now looking at twice
weekly dosing, that half-life has actually improved a bit.

PAUL PERREAULT: We have published a few papers and presented a few conferences, so off the top of
my head Steve, I can't tell what we've quoted publicly. So I'd have to go back and come back to you.

STEVE WHEEN: Okay, that's all from me, thanks.

MARK DEHRING: Thanks Steve, next question comes from Alex Smith at Citi.

ALEX SMITH, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Yes thanks, just a question the margins. If I strip out the $64
million, I'm still looking at EBITDA margins in CSL Behring down a little bit. Given the really strong sales
growth that that group has achieved and that a lot of growth is coming from a really high margin product
and specialty and Hizentra and so forth, can you help me understand why margins haven't expanded quite
considerably in the period? Is R&D spend a head wind there, COGS, additional expenses or is there pricing
pressure? Can you sort

of -- I would have anticipated margin expansion would have been a lot stronger?

GORDON NAYLOR: I think you've answered your own question Alex. There's a whole lot of things going
on there. The other -- like pricing pressures and so on. The other thing I would point you to is currency. So
Behring in particular is the most probably exposed part of the group with respect to the movement between
the Swiss franc and the US dollar and that will directly impact margin. So there was -- that directly
squeezed it, so be careful about that.

ALEX SMITH: Okay so things like the COGS -- it's obviously cost more to [collect those] when you're
opening new centres and pricing pressure in the marketplace -- features that will continue into FY15?

GORDON NAYLOR: That's probably true. I don't think we're expecting that the marketplace is going to get
a whole lot less competitive or that our customers are going to get much more -- much less price sensitive.
So I think that's probably fair.

ALEX SMITH: Maybe just a second question on Kogenate sales reported by Bayer were down 20% in the
second quarter and they commented that they were using capacity for their long acting product. How does
that impact your ability to source Helixate supply into FY15? Do you have adequate inventory to continue to
grow that product et cetera? Just trying to understand how that impacts CSL.

PAUL PERREAULT: Thank you, I think certainly we're working closely with Bayer, they've been a great
partner and there is some pain that has to be shared when we're trying to develop new products and the
manufacturing process being impacted by the development of these new agents. So I think that also is a
point to some of our -- you saw that Helixate was down about 1% this year versus last year. A lot of that is
due to the fact that it's difficult if the product is not flowing fully. We're not short on product, but I don't
expect that it will impact FY15 significantly. We're working with Bayer quite closely on these inventory
levels.

ALEX SMITH: Terrific, thanks for that.

MARK DEHRING: Thanks Alex. We'll take one more question online and then we'll come back to the room
here in Melbourne. So we have Saul Hadassin from Credit Suisse.

SAUL HADASSIN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thank you, good afternoon. Paul, just if I could explore
US IVIG growth in a little bit more detail. So excluding Hizentra, do you think you managed to grow in line
with market there? Do you see any material share shift in those particular product categories of Privigen
and Carimune?

Page126of207©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PAUL PERREAULT: Thanks Saul, look, I think we're more in line with the market when you look at the IV
growth of Privigen and Carimune in the US marketplace. Hizentra is the driver, clearly, it's differentiated, it's
a phenomenal product, but we were still able to show some very good growth in the second half in Privigen
and some of that is part of our strategy with the -- some of the customers there in the US, which has been
helpful.

The US market is very, very competitive in IG. It's the largest market in the world, there's tens of millions of
grams going into that marketplace and competitors that are looking to expand really look at where the
growth is being driven from. It's being driven from the largest market, so the competition is quite fierce in
the US, but again that's okay. We'll manage with it and continue to grow, is my view.

It's an interesting environment in the US with IG, but again with differentiated products and with a premium
product like Privigen, we've been able to do okay.

SAUL HADASSIN: Right thanks and is it your assessment that the PPJ data is an accurate reflection of
volume growth in the US?

PAUL PERREAULT: It's one data point and it's a lagging data point, so I think it's okay to look at if you're
trying to get some trending going, but I wouldn't rely 100% on that for your models.

SAUL HADASSIN: Cool, okay, just moving on to fibrinogen quickly, so you mentioned a 4% to 6% growth
rate. I was just wondering if there's been any progress on trying to get that product -- in terms of into clinical
programs in the US?

PAUL PERREAULT: Yes.

SAUL HADASSIN: So what does that consist of?

PAUL PERREAULT: So we've been in discussions with the agency around the clinical trial design for
fibrinogen in the US and I think those discussions are progressing well. Our trial that we're running across
Europe and Japan has recruited. So we're anxiously putting all of the data together there as well. So that's
been a big success. When we opened the trial for cardiac bleeding in Japan we recruited quite rapidly.
There's a number of physicians in Japan who were quite excited about having the opportunity for fibrinogen
and they really moved quickly to recruit patients in the aortic bleeding trial we have running. So that was
very helpful because they were able to significantly improve our timelines on that trial.

SAUL HADASSIN: Right, thanks and final question, just on albumin. I haven't had a chance to try and pull
out the China sales, but are you able to comment on what that growth was ex-China for albumin in fiscal
2014 and the starch effect, again is that again something that we should see temper in terms of growth into
FY15?
PAUL PERREAULT: Look ex -- well so we were up 16% in albumin and China's about 40% of our albumin
sales today and we were up 29%, so I haven't backed out the number. I'm sure you can.

GORDON NAYLOR: I'm sure Saul's got a spread sheet.

PAUL PERREAULT: Probably. So from that perspective I think it was still strong demand. I think the
starches still do have that hangover effect. So we've been able to see some growth, as I said, in Europe
and we actually had some very good growth again in Latin America. You know our Latin American affiliates
are really starting to come online. Argentina, Brazil, Mexico have been -- they're strong this year, so we're
very pleased with the growth we've seen there.

SAUL HADASSIN: Right thank you, that's all I had.

MARK DEHRING: Great, thanks Saul. Look we have no further questions, so with that I'll draw the meeting
to a close and thank you very much for your interest in the company, good bye.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this
web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon
current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those
stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more
specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and
believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the
assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results
contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

Page127of207©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF
THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE
AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR
INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO
WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE
COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE
BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND
THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER
DECISIONS.]

CO cslabs : CSL Limited
IN

i2569 : Biotechnology | i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences | ibioph :
Biopharmaceuticals | idrugty : Drugs/Medication

NS c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content

Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin :
FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter

RE usa : United States | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :

Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | namz : North America

PUB CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
AN Document FNDW000020140815ea8c001e1

Page128of207©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.