Highlights of the AAP National Wire at 19:30, April 9 2014

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Highlights of the AAP National Wire at 19:30, April 9 2014

602 words
9 April 2014
Australian Associated Press General News
AAP
English
(c) 2014 Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

HIGHLIGHTSHighlights of the AAP National Wire at 19:30, April 9 2014.

PERTH - The search zone for flight MH370 has narrowed down to 1300 square kilometres after more
audio signals consistent with the plane's black box were detected from the depths of the Indian Ocean.
(Malaysia Plane Wrap (with graphic))

SYDNEY - South African retailer Woolworths believes it can dramatically turn around David Jones
within five years, after launching a $2.15 billion takeover bid for the department store business. (David
Jones Wrap (with factboxes, pics))

CAIRNS - Evacuations have begun and Queensland's premier is returning from overseas as the
strongest cyclone since Yasi in 2011 moves in on the state's far north. (Ita Wrap)

SEOUL - Prime Minister Tony Abbott will stress how urgently he wants to see free-trade talks with
China resolved when he meets its premier Li Keqiang. (China Aust (Pics available))
CANBERRA - The Abbott government has refused to allow a foreigner to buy a house in Sydney in
what some experts say could be a new direction in government policy. (Investment Wrap (pics
available))

SYDNEY - Fallen NSW Labor powerbroker Eddie Obeid says he was motivated by duty, not greed, in
requesting ministerial meetings and approaching a premier on behalf of Australian Water Holdings
(AWH) and its boss Nick Di Girolamo. (ICAC Wrap (pics available))

SYDNEY - Two teenage girls who skipped school to go shopping were coaxed off a Sydney train and
raped in a park in broad daylight. (Assault Wrap)

MELBOURNE - A Victorian man has been found guilty of murdering a sleeping 10-month-old boy as he
robbed the boy's house. (Legal: Hicks Update)

MELBOURNE - Toyota Australia has recalled hundreds of thousands of superseded Yaris small car
and Hilux utilities because of safety concerns. (Toyota)

BRISBANE - The man accused of murdering French student Sophie Collombet has appeared briefly in
a Brisbane court. (Legal: Milward Update)

SYDNEY - A royal commission into trade union governance, slush funds and corruption is nothing more
than a witch-hunt and taxpayers will be better served if more money went to enforcing existing laws,
unions say. (Unions 2nd Wrap)

MELBOURNE - A Victorian mother who killed her partner by hitting him 16 times with a pickaxe has
been cleared of murder after lawyers argued she was a victim of domestic violence. (Legal: Kally Wrap)

BRISBANE - The day a red rose was named after slain Queensland schoolboy Daniel Morcombe, his
killer launched an appeal for release. (Legal: Cowan Wrap (pics available))
DARWIN - The Ranger uranium mine in Kakadu National Park is currently on track for the site to be
fully rehabilitated when it closes - but it can't guarantee that if the Ranger 3 Deeps underground project
doesn't go ahead. (Ranger Wrap)

Page92of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.MELBOURNE - In life, he called himself the premier and boasted of involvement in at least 15 murders.
(Legal: Williams Update) with factbox

CANBERRA - People may be clamouring for a mortgage but buying a home is not lifting their spirits.
(Economy Wrap)

JAKARTA - Schapelle Corby had trafficked drugs into Bali three times before her arrest, and "acted
crazy" to get her sentence cut, her former Australian cellmate Renae Lawrence claims. (Indon Corby)

FINANCE
MELBOURNE - Global engineering groupWorleyParsons will cut more jobs in a new restructure that
will hit this year's bottom line by $35 million (WorleyParsons) Wrap

SPORT

SYDNEY - Melbourne have urged the NRL to clarify the ruling on lifting tackles after opting not to
appeal Jordan McLean's seven-match ban following the career-ending injury to Newcastle back-rower
Alex McKinnon. (RL Wrap)

AAP pmu

NS

RE

PUB
AN

gmurd : Murder/Manslaughter | gedu : Education | nsum : News Digests | gcat : Political/General News |
gcrim : Crime/Courts | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe :
IWE Filter
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | melb : Melbourne | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) |
apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales | queensl : Queensland
Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd
Document AAP0000020140409ea490053e

Page93of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.