Fosun’s cash offer wins Roc Oil

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Fosun’s cash offer wins Roc Oil

Matt Chambers, Takeovers
583 words
5 August 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
18
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

CASH has triumphed in the battle for Roc Oil, with China’s privately owned Fosun Group striking a
$474 million deal to buy the company and scuttling a controversial scrip tie-up with Horizon Oil that
would have provided Roc with strong growth options.

Roc’s major shareholder, Allan Gray, has applauded the new deal, calling it a pleasing resolution to a
saga that saw strong shareholder opposition to the structure of the Horizon deal.

The Roc board was not talking yesterday but the deal appears to be a concession that the strength of
investor desire for cash over growth had been misread.

“The board has unanimously concluded that the (Fosun) offer is a superior option and a low-risk route
to maximise immediate value for our shareholders,” said Roc chairman Mike Harding, who would have
chaired a merged Roc/Horizon.
“The proposal to purchase all of Roc’s shares for cash is superior when considered against the
alternative merger of equals with Horizon and offers a significant premium to the share price
performance.” The off-market Fosun offer is 69c per Roc share, a 52 per cent premium to where the
shares were before the Horizon deal was announced and a 10 per cent premium to Friday’s closing
share price, which included gains after Roc signalled it was in talks with potential counter-bidders.
The merger of Roc’s producing Chinese assets with Horizon’s Papua New Guinea growth projects
would have created an $800m company with strong cashflow and growth options.

But Allan Gray, which owns 19 per cent of Roc, objected both to the proportional valuation put on
minor partner Roc and the fact it had been structured so Roc shareholders would not get a say.

At the time, the Roc team painted the often vocal Allan Gray as a fund intent on drawing excessive
dividends out of the company at the expense of growth — which is essential for the survival of an oil
and gas company whose business depletes its reserves.

But 51 per cent of Roc shareholders backed Allan Gray’s desire to be heard on the issue — not the 75
per cent needed to force a vote on the merger, but enough to send a strong message to the Roc
board.

Horizon chief Brent Emmett said the Fosun deal appeared to be a nod by the Roc board to the wishes
of Allan Gray and its push for Roc to deliver near-term cash rather than long-term growth.

“The board has to be cognisant of the wishes of their major shareholder,” Mr Emmett said.

“We note and respect Roc’s decision to be acquired for cash as a low-risk means of achieving
immediate value for its assets, bringing an end to Roc’s 15-year history as an ASX-listed company.”
He said Horizon had a strong balance sheet and remained able to pursue PNG growth projects
through a recent $200m asset sale to Osaka Gas. But he conceded dividends planned for Horizon’s
shareholders with some of Roc’s cash would now have to wait.

Page201of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Yesterday, Roc shares rose 4.5c, or 7 per cent, to 67.5c, while Horizon slipped 2.5c, or 7 per cent, to
34.5c.It is understood Fosun is keen to keep Roc chief Alan Lim in charge. If the bid is successful it will
be the Chinese company’s first foray into oil and gas.

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

rocoil : Roc Oil Company Ltd | fosuni : Fosun International Limited
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs :
Business/Consumer Services
c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140804ea850002f

Page202of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.