IFC upbeat on Simandou outlook

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

IFC upbeat on Simandou outlook

Peter Ker
388 words
23 September 2014
Canberra Times
CANBTZ
B009
English
(c) 2014 The Canberra Times

IFC upbeat on Simandou outlook

Peter Ker

First production at Rio Tinto's African iron ore venture, Simandou, could coincide with an improved iron
ore market later this decade, according to the World Bank's International Finance Corporation and
commodities analysts. The troubled project took a major step forward in May with the signing of an
investment agreement between the Guinean government, Rio, Chinalco and the IFC, which has a stake
of 4.6 per cent in the project. In Melbourne on Monday, IFC principal investment officer Stephan
Vermaak said the gloomy outlook for iron had not dimmed enthusiasm for Simandou, due to begin
production in 2018.
"Maybe there is going to be an over-supply of iron ore for the next three or four years, but in the five or
10-year horizon, new mines have to be developed and the new mines are in Africa," he told the
International Mining and Resources Conference. "We just have to make sure that when the next boom is
there, that we are there. We see it as a long-term play, for Africa to be developed these projects must be
done." Mr Vermaak's comments echoed those of ANZ commodities analyst Mark Pervan, who said the
iron ore market should be more balanced in about five years. "We still see supply being ahead of
demand for the next two or three years and that is going to keep prices down, but what we do see

later in the decade is for that to balance out," he said. There has been speculation that Simandou will
struggle to meet its 2018 production target. Mr Vermaak said the 2018 target was still in place, but that
the timing could be affected by market forces like any other mining project. "This is a commercial project
that has to be developed, you cannot go and do that if it commercially doesn't make sense, so at this
stage nothing is being pushed out, but at the end of the day it is dictated by the commercial realities of
the world we live in," he said. Rio will spend about $US5 billion on the mining project, while the
650-kilometre railway for the project will be built by an external group that is yet to be selected.

60537418
almcor : Aluminium Corporation of China Limited | ifc : International Finance Corporation
i22 : Primary Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | i2245 : Aluminum | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RF
CO
IN
RE
PUB Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty Ltd
AN

Document CANBTZ0020140922ea9n0000v

Page199of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.