Ben Gray plots rise of DTZ

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Ben Gray plots rise of DTZ

Larry Schlesinger
745 words
17 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
32
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Private equity whizz Ben Gray is plotting to turn DTZ into the world's third biggest commercial real
estate firm behind CBRE and JLL.

Mr Gray, managing partner of TPG Capital, plans to do this through acquisitions and by growing DTZ's
facilities management offering to take advantage of growing demand for these services from
institutional investors.

Private equity firm TPG has acquired DTZ from ASX-listed contractor UGL for $1.22 billion alongside
investment partners PAG, an Asian fund manager and Canadian pension fund, the Ontario Teachers'
Pension Plan .

Chicago-based DTZ generated $1.8 billion in revenues in 2013 and pre-tax earnings of $145 million,
ranking it the fourth-biggest commercial property services group on revenue behind US giants
CBRE, JLL and Cushman & Wakefield.
DTZ's first acquisitive play could be for Cassidy Turley, a Washington-based firm with annual revenues
of $US1.2 billion ($1.3 billion) and which is well-positioned in outsourcing real estate sectors such as
corporate services, facilities management and portfolio management.

Further acquisitions will have the guiding hand of former CBRE  global chief executive Brett White, who
is understood to have played a major part in convincing Mr Gray and fellow director Simon Harle to
take a look at the DTZ business.
Mr White will join the DTZ board in September and become executive chairman of DTZ in March.

Tod Lickerman, who replaced Robert Shibuya in October last year, will remain global chief executive of
DTZ.

Under the guiding hand of Mr Gray, DTZ is expected to shift its US business - which contributed about
55 per cent of DTZ's 2013 revenues – away from low margin sectors like janitorial services to
higher-margin ones including facilities management, brokerage and transactional services. The
acquisition of Cassidy Turley would help DTZ fill out its US business and expand into these markets.
DTZ earns three-quarters of its revenue from facilities management, but not enough of it comes from
the high margin corporate and asset services provided by rivals CBRE, JLL and Cushman & Wakefield.

A source close to TPG said facility management was the strongest growing part of the sector, with big
pension funds in the US, Canada and Australia now significant owners of commercial property.

"Facilities management is a very significant growth component," the source said. It's an area that is
making an increasing contribution to the earnings of DTZ's global rivals.

Corporate and asset services accounted for nearly half of CBRE's first quarter revenues in 2014. Fees
from real estate sales accounting for 14 per cent over the same period.

Page148of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Property and facilities revenue was up 40 per cent across JLL's business in 2013 rising to more than
$1 billion. Cushman & Wakefield, which currently occupies the coveted third spot on the global list, is
also a strong player in facilities management. Last year, it was awarded the facilities management
contract for Citigroup's 27 million square foot (26 million square metres) real estate portfolio in the US
and Canada as well as property management of a 17 million square foot portfolio for DLF, the largest
developer in India.
TPG will also look to expand its already strong presence in China and the Asia-Pacific region, including
Australia (where it is particularly strong in facilities management) and cement its position in Western
Europe.

Mr Gray declined to comment on his intentions for DTZ. In a statement he said: "We see great
opportunities in corporate real estate services to create a best-in-class firm servicing clients on a
global basis.

"We believe DTZ is well progressed on this path and that together with our co-investors we can
accelerate the evolution of its platform."

TPG controls Australia's second-largest private hospital operator, Healthscope, gas and electricity
retailer Alinta, and the nation's biggest poultry company, Inghams.

Mr Gray looks to have engineered another value acquisition for TPG investors.

Morgan Stanley analyst Nicholas Robison said in a note that based on full-year earnings estimates of
$146 million, TPG had acquired DTZ on an earnings multiple of 8.3 well below that of its global peers.

JLL is currently trading at a 2015 earnings multiple of 13.8 with CBRE at 12.7, based on Bloomberg
estimates.

The news has also been well received by Australian-based DTZ staff, who are said to be "upbeat" at
the takeover following months of waiting.

CO

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

ctrlyi : Cassidy Turley Inc. | otppb : Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan Board | tpgpar : TPG, Inc. | dtc :
DTZ Holdings plc | lasp : JLL | uncont : UGL Ltd.
i831 : Financial Investments | i923 : Services to Facilities/Buildings | ireest : Real Estate | i8150203 :
Private Equity | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | ialtinv : Alternative Investments | ibcs :
Business/Consumer Services | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv :
Investing/Securities | i834 : Real Estate Agents/Brokers | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | ipension :
Pension Funds | ippf : Public Pension Funds
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140616ea6h0002u

Page149of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.