Poor quality shows in Melbourne towers

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Poor quality shows in Melbourne towers

461 words
21 June 2014
The Chronicle (Toowoomba)
APNCHR
Main
28
English
Copyright 2014 APN Newspapers Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

Melbourne’s newest high-rise towers are overrun by bad-quality apartments, but the investors
who buy them do not care – as long as they get the rent.
A Melbourne City Council study has estimated 55 per cent of the city’s tallest apartment
buildings over 15 storeys are of “poor” quality, with common design flaws such as cramped
layouts and a lack of natural light.

Meanwhile, windowless bedrooms exist in almost a quarter of new residential developments
studied.

Some of Melbourne’s architects are so unhappy with the result of buildings they have designed
they have refused to have their name associated with them, the Australian Institute of Architects
has revealed.
The group’s president, Melbourne architect Jon Clements, is backing calls for minimum
apartment design standards, mandated through legislation.

“The general feeling among architects is that it’s ridiculous to be forcing architects to produce
buildings that don’t deliver appropriate quality and amenity standards,” he said.

Melbourne City Council’s Future Living report, which analysed the design of 25 of the city’s new
residential developments, found poorer quality apartments were more likely to be located in
taller apartments.
All 11 of the high-rise apartment designs studied were considered either poor or average quality.

Common failings included kitchens in hallways, poor storage, lack of ventilation and excessive
energy use.
But the report’s authors said as long as there was someone willing to rent the property, the
investors who buy 85 per cent of apartments in the municipality were not bothered.

“An owner occupier … will be more discerning when it comes to layout, access to sunlight,
daylight, ventilation and adequate storage,” the report said.
“An investor will be less concerned with these elements as long as the apartment can be
rented.”

There are no laws in Victoria governing how apartments must be designed, beyond the National
Construction Code.

Victoria’s high cost of construction and the hefty sums paid for blocks of land are among the
factors being blamed for developers skimping on the quality of apartments.

Mr Clements said some developers would simply employ another designer if an architect made a
stand on apartment quality standards.

Page164of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“If there is legislation in place around minimum standards the developers have to achieve the
standards. If you don’t [have rules] the architects will be subject to pressure”.

Though Mr Clements argued it was possible to build very liveable small apartments, if designed
right.

Last week it was revealed Melbourne is home to developments so dense that they would not
pass laws in Hong Kong New York and London, prompting concerns the city was building the
slums of the future.

autuht : Australian Institute of Architects | melurn : Melbourne City Council
i8371 : Architects/Surveyors | i837 : Technical Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services |
icre : Real Estate/Construction
garchi : Architecture | gart : Art | gcat : Political/General News | gent : Arts/Entertainment
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | queensl : Queensland | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz :
Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
APN Newspapers Pty Ltd
Document APNCHR0020140618ea6l000p7

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

Page165of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.