Ausin close to $1b in sales

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Ausin close to $1b in sales

Duncan Hughes
426 words
12 July 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
39
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Ausin, a property, financial services and immigration advisory group, claims to be on track to sell
more than $1 billion of residential Australian property this year to Chinese investors, chiefly from the
mainland.
Ausin managing director, Joseph Zaja, said it has sold more than $260 million and 450 properties in
the past three months and that demand was growing as it built a sales and advice network across
major mainland Chinese cities. "Overseas investment has only just started," Mr Zaja said.

It was being driven by a strong Australian residential property market, a buoyant international
student market, tougher investment rules in China and traditional favourite locations for Asians, such
as Vancouver, Canada, tightening rules.
Investments totalling billions of dollars were being placed by Chinese ex-pats, who were highly visible
at weekend auctions in Melbourne and Sydney, and Asian developers, who account for more than
half of the 36,000 apartments planned around the country. Mr Zaja also attributes strong sales to his
network of offices in major mainland cities, such as Beijing, Shanghai and in major mainland business
centres.

The traditional approach has been to market one-off investments projects, typically on road-shows
through Hong Kong. Chinese are major investors in overseas property to diversify risk, as a prelude
to immigration and to provide accommodation for their children while studying overseas.Restraints
in China
They have also been discouraged buying multiple properties in China by authorities who have
imposed high loan-to-value ratios on second properties and who have restricted borrowing on third
and more properties. In Vancouver, where large numbers of Hong Kong-Chinese have emigrated,
there has been a reduction in investment and visas by the Canadian government amid concerns that
it was inflating local prices.

Five-year-old Ausin has more than 300 employees and 11 offices.

"All of our overseas buyers go through Australian banks and usually borrow about 70 per cent of the
purchase price," Mr Zaja said. The typical buyer is between 35 and 60, is seeking to spread
investment risk away from China, considering a foreign education for their children and possibility
permanent residency.
Australian rules about overseas buyers being restricted to new property, means the bulk has been in,
and around, the central business districts of Sydney and Melbourne.
The main recipient has been Melbourne, because of the recent surge in apartment approvals. Inner
city areas, like Toorak, are popular, and large communities are developing in middle-ring suburbs,
particularly in the south-east suburban corridor.

Page187of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
c182 : Asset Transactions | gimm : Asylum/Immigration | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir :
Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | cana : Canada | vancv : Vancouver | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz :
Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | cabc : British Columbia | chinaz : Greater
China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern
Asia | namz : North America
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140711ea7c00016

Page188of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.