Goodman agrees cut-price takeover offer

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Goodman agrees cut-price takeover offer

BLAIR SPEEDY Food
641 words
3 July 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
19
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

SINGAPOREAN palm oil giant Wilmar and Hong Kong investment manager First Pacific are set to
save $49 million on the acquisition of food manufacturer Goodman Fielder after the target company
agreed to a 2.5c-per-share reduction in the offer price.
Goodman yesterday signed off on a deal to sell the company for 67.5c a share, which was above the
65c the company first rejected in April but below the subsequent 70c offer that prompted Goodman to
allow the bidders access to its accounts the following month.

Shareholders will also receive a final dividend of 1c per share for the past financial year.

Over four weeks of due diligence, it is understood the bidders did not uncover any major items of
concern, but they concluded that the level of investment Goodman required to turn its fortunes around
was higher than they had expected, prompting them to trim their offer from $1.37 billion to $1.32bn.

Goodman chairman Steve Gregg said he still believed the offer was a good deal. “In reaching our
conclusion to unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour of the scheme, the board
concluded that the proposal represented an attractive value outcome for shareholders,” Mr Gregg said.

“I believe it also represents a positive outcome for our employees, our customers and our consumers; it
provides an opportunity to further leverage our strong consumer food brands in Australia and New
Zealand to grow our business across the Asian region.” The decision was met with resignation by
investors, who have watched Goodman deliver four profit downgrades over the past three years while
announcing more than $1.1bn in restructuring costs and asset writedowns — including an impairment
of between $300m and $400m announced yesterday to be taken against its baking and grocery
divisions.

“We’re disappointed that the price has been lowered, but we support the chairman’s decision to accept
the offer,” said Paul Skamvougeras, portfolio manager with 8.9 per cent shareholder Perpetual.
Perpetual and fellow institutional investor Ellerston in May sold a combined 4.8 per cent stake in
Goodman to the bidders, lifting their stake to 14.9 per cent, and agreed to sell them a further 5 per cent
tranche at 70c per share if the deal received approval from the Foreign Investment Review Board.

The Goodman board signed off on the lower offer late on Tuesday, agreeing to recommend the deal in
the absence of a superior bid and subject to an independent Continued on Page 25 Continued from
Page 19 expert declaring it is fair and reasonable and in the best interests of shareholders.

Negotiations over the terms of an implementation deed continued through the night, with agreement
reached only shortly before the release of the document on Wednesday morning.

The deed includes a break fee of $13.2m payable to the bid consortium if directors change their
recommendation on the offer without an independent expert declaring it is not in shareholders’ best
interests, and allows the bidders to walk away if Goodman’s asset value falls by more than $100m or if
its earnings fall by more than $30m.

Page10of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Deutsche Bank analyst Michael Simotas said the outcome was frustrating for shareholders because
Goodman Fielder “has been forthcoming with bad news and the capex and marketing investment
required should not have come as a surprise to the purchasers”.

But he noted the bid price was still well above his fundamental valuation on Goodman stock of 54c per
share, “so we believe the company’s decision to accept the offer was sound”.

The takeover will be put to a shareholder vote at a meeting expected to be held in November, with the
deal being executed by the end of the year.Shares in Goodman closed down 2.5c at 65.5c yesterday.

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

fdgl : Goodman Fielder Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140702ea730009r

Page11of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.