GLOBAL INSIGHTS - Brought to you by ANZ; Regional housing market to hold up well

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Invest
GLOBAL INSIGHTS - Brought to you by ANZ; Regional housing market to hold up well

1,053 words
13 July 2014
Straits Times
STIMES
English
(c) 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

In the fourth of a six-part series on the outlook for various regions, Francis Kan reports on
Asia-Pacific housing markets

The buoyant Asia-Pacific housing market could be buffeted by rising interest rates and a growth
spurt in supply. However, barring a sharp economic downturn, property prices are unlikely to drift
significantly lower, according to experts from ANZ Bank.

"In general, we expect ongoing, albeit more moderate, gains in home prices in the years ahead,"
says ANZ's team of property analysts in the bank's regional outlook for the housing market.
The regional residential real estate market has been fairly resilient this year and, with a few
exceptions, has managed to avoid the sharp drop in prices seen in Western markets such as the
United States, Ireland and Spain.

"This has been largely due to stronger prudential supervision, more conservative lending practices,
relatively robust economic conditions and supportive property market fundamentals," says the
report, released earlier this year.

However, solid home price gains across the region in recent years have raised the spectre of a
housing bubble. Housing affordability is likely to deteriorate as global interest rates rise over the
coming years, potentially exposing vulnerable loans.

Individual markets in the region also face different challenges, with places such as Singapore,
Hong Kong and Taiwan facing the risk of falling prices and rents in the years ahead.
Singapore property prices ended last year on a weaker note, falling by 0.9 per cent over the fourth
quarter, interrupting 17 consecutive quarters of price gains.

The market's dip continued into this year, falling 1.3 per cent in the first quarter and 1.1 per cent in
the three months ended June 30, according to data from the Urban Redevelopment Authority.

Moreover, a large pipeline of new construction coming onto the market over 2014-16 presents
clear risks for rents and prices, according to ANZ.

Indeed, Singapore's Deputy Prime Minister Tharman Shanmugaratnam said earlier this month that
further correction "would not be unexpected".

However, the ANZ report says that while demand growth may slow, it is unlikely to collapse. Still,
the property market is likely to face twin headwinds of rising supply and rising interest rates.

"This suggests pressures on home prices are likely to be skewed to the downside over coming
years," the report says.
China's property market turned around sharply last year after stagnating in the previous two
years. Property prices gained more than 20 per cent in top-tier cities and the gain outpaced the
second-tier and third-tier cities by a large margin.

Page151of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Prices have eased this year, as the Chinese authorities sought to keep the market from
overheating by promising to raise supply and restricting purchases of second and third homes,
among other measures.
Despite the indicators pointing to a slowdown, ANZ does not think China's housing market is about
to collapse.
"In our view, China's property market is experiencing a cyclical slowdown. China's demand for
property will continue to remain elevated as long as the urbanisation process continues.
"While property investment growth could slow significantly, total floor space under construction will
continue to pick up in the next few years and peak around 2020," the bank said in a report on
China's economy in May.

The report noted that the country's large and listed developers will be able to withstand this
slowdown, and are unlikely to cut their prices sharply to liquidate unsold housing stocks. Also, the
housing price to household income ratio in China remains at a reasonable level.
In Hong Kong, the housing market stalled last year following the introduction of a property curb
policy in late 2012.

With US interest rates set to rise, ANZ believes that city's home prices have limited upside. A
government commitment to create 470,000 apartments over the next 10 years, if mistimed, could
also result in an oversupply that could have a significant impact on the local real estate market.

The rapid rise in Australian housing prices, which has been driven by record-low interest rates, has
led to fears of a bubble forming.
Last month, credit-rating firmMoody's Investor Service said that with house prices climbing at the
fastest pace in almost four years in the first quarter, there was a growing risk that the real estate
market may be overheating.

Prices have risen by about 10 per cent nationally. Among the major cities, Sydney has seen the
quickest growth, at a rate of about 17 per cent.

However, ANZ believes Australian house prices are sustainable, as they are supported by
improved loan affordability, solid economic fundamentals, a stable mortgage market, strong
investor demand and a significant pent-up demand.

"Prices are likely to continue to rise strongly in 2014 before moderating thereafter and growing
broadly in line with average household incomes in the medium term," it said in its regional
property outlook report earlier this year.

Meanwhile, housing shortages in Auckland and Christchurch, rising immigration, an earthquake
rebuild and historically low mortgage interest rates have boosted the New Zealand housing market
in the past two years.

However, as rising interest rates bite into demand, the volume of house sales is dipping, and
selling prices are also starting to succumb, says ANZ.

Business confidence in the country slid last month, due mainly to a series of interest rate hikes by
the central bank.

A net 43 per cent of respondents in the ANZ Bank Business Outlook survey for June expected
general business conditions to improve in the coming year, down from a net 54 per cent in the
previous month's survey.
On the flip side, the property market has been buoyed by rising net immigration, an improving
labour market backdrop and a low inventory.

"But times are a-changing, not least with a turnaround in interest rates, but there are also the first
signs that the labour market may be cooling," the bank said in a report on the New Zealand
economy released in June.

ART

CO

ANZ says housing shortages in Auckland and Christchurch, rising immigration, an earthquake
rebuild and historically low mortgage interest rates have boosted the New Zealand housing market
in the past two years. -- PHOTOS: BLOOMBERG
aanzb : Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited

Page152of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
ereal : Real Estate Markets | ginved : Investment Advice/Investor Education | e11 : Economic
Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpersf : Personal
Finance | gpersi : Personal Investments
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric
: BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Singapore Press Holdings Limited
Document STIMES0020140712ea7d00012

Page153of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.