Cheap fert rush helps, and cuts, Incitec result

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

agribusiness
Cheap fert rush helps, and cuts, Incitec result

548 words
4 June 2014
The Land
FTLAND
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

FERTILISER sales are up strongly, however unusually low global prices late last year have taken
the gloss off crop nutrient earnings opportunities for explosives and fertiliser businessIncitec Pivot
Limited (IPL).
Despite drought eroding summer crop sales in IPL's northern region, total volumes sold by the
company increased eight per cent in the past six months, compared with the same period last year,
as farmers rushed to lock in cheap fertiliser orders.

Urea prices for the six month period were down almost $US100 a tonne to $US332 contributing to
$14m being shaved from the company's fertiliser division earnings.

However, a lower dollar did help recoup some of the losses on imports.

Releasing its first-half results for the 2013-14 year last month, Incitec Pivot also reported strong
activity growth in its pasture and dairy market volumes - up 31pc on the previous year.
It posted a group net profit after tax (NPAT) of $115.7 million for the half-year to March 30, up
seven per cent on the same time last year.
Favourable early season weather conditions, improving milk prices and early sales activity in the
single superphosphate market helped lift superphosphate volumes by about 50,000t in spring and
summer.

Cheap prices also prompted early winter crop sales to be stronger than the year before, while
improved weather conditions since March, particularly in southern Australia have boosted the winter
crop outlook setting the scene for average second-half crop fertiliser sales.

Much of IPL's overall net profit growth was fuelled by the explosives market, particularly a focus in
the emerging industrial growth opportunities in Asia while its traditional fertiliser business recorded
a marginal $49.8m (2pc) lift in earnings before interest and tax (EBIT).
This compared with EBIT for the entire company rising 14pc, to $193.1m.
Earnings per share rose 7pc to 7.1 cents/share and the company will pay a partially-franked interim
dividend of 3.5c/share - up 3pc on the same period last year.

Managing director James Fazzino said the half-year result confirmed the strength of IPL's strategic
focus on driving returns from the existing operations while growing the business in line with a
strategy to develop revenue in the world's two largest economies - China and the US.
Industrialisation and urbanisation in China and the US "shale gas revolution" represented
compelling value, built around improving the businesses IPL already owned, he said.

"We are focused on optimising the performance of IPL's existing manufacturing assets, lifting
productivity and concentrating on costs," he said.

Page240of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Earnings before interest tax depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) rose 20pc ($50m) to $302.6m,
pri- marily driven by cashflow from the Moranbah ammonium nitrate plant in Central Queensland
and management action on costs and productivity.

He said lower average global fertiliser prices eroded local market income opportunities, but returns
were partially offset by the weaker Australian dollar and a continuing drive for business
efficiencies.

Overseas fertiliser marketing division Southern Cross International enjoyed an EBIT increase of
$12.7m million to $37.9m.
The company's $20m overhead reduction program was on track to deliver $11m in savings,
despite one-off implementation costs of $8m.

pspcop : Incitec Pivot Limited
i2513 : Fertilizer | iagro : Agrochemicals | i0 : Agriculture | i25 : Chemicals | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources
c151 : Earnings | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FTLAND0020151217ea640012x

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page241of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.