Australian winemaker’s vintage simply dynastic

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Focus
Australian winemaker’s vintage simply dynastic

Sarah Hudson
800 words
11 June 2014
The Weekly Times
HERWEK
WeeklyTimes
70
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

AUSTRALIAN family wine dynasties are, arguably, agriculture’s great anomaly. Where succession and
longevity are becoming rare on farms, wine bucks the trend. Century-old names such as Yalumba,
Brown Brothers, McWilliams and Angove continue to grow despite competition from commercial,
industrial makers and a plethora of smaller wineries.

Victoria Angove, a director of the 130-year-old Angove Family Winemakers alongside brother Richard
and father and managing director John, said they “regularly” received takeover offers.

“You just say no,” said Victoria, the sixth generation to run the medium-sized family business, started
by her great, great grandfather in 1886.

“You should probably never say never, but for us, there’s a real love of what we do. We have one, three,
five and 20-year plans, we have a real vision of what we want the brand to be about.

“That is premium — alongside affordable and accessible — wines from South Australia’s premium
winegrowing regions.” Angove owns three properties: 10ha at McLaren Vale, which includes their cellar
door; 480ha (280ha under vine) at Paringa on the Murray River on the South Australian-Victorian
border; while production is at their nearby Renmark winery. Half their grapes are sourced from external
growers throughout South Australia, including McLaren Vale, the Barossa Valley, Coonawarra and the
Adelaide Plains north of Adelaide, to bring total annual yield to 20,000 tonnes.
Annual production tips a million cases each year, with a range of brands representing varied styles and
winegrowing regions and aimed at different markets. About 70 per cent is sold domestically, while
overseas the US, UK, Germany and China are their most important export markets.
Victoria said the business model had continued to succeed where others had failed not only because of
family dedication, but because of attention to detail in each aspect of winemaking.

Angove grapes come from conventional, organic and biodynamic vines with a “strong core” of growers
certified organic and their production process also certified organic.

Victoria said organic vines tended to perform better in tough growing seasons and recovered from
stress more quickly.

“We find using organic and biodynamic principles the vines have naturally stronger immune systems
and greater tolerance to pests and disease pressure,” she said.

“Even with conventionally farmed vines, we use as minimum inputs as we can.” With varied grape
sources, and varied wines and markets, all grapes are handled in separate parcels in the winemaking
process. A microwinery sits within the winery, allowing small parcels of grapes — about half a tonne —
to be crafted, outside the larger commercial process, up to 20 tonnes.

Angove has about 50 styles, with shiraz, chardonnay and cabernet the most popular.

Page238of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Experimental varieties include carignan, a red found around the globe but with most plantings coming
from France, as well as vermentino, a white grape largely found in Italy.

“Consumer tastes change. In the last two years there’s been big demand for pinot grigio and moscato. It
takes at least three years to deliver a commercial level of fruit so we’re always looking into the crystal
ball,” Victoria said.

Their most recognised bottle — “for its sheer number of medals” — is the Nine Vines Rose, released in
2004.

While Angove grapes are sourced from a variety of regions, in marketing terms the emphasis is on
McLaren Vale, purely for its cache.
Victoria said marketing was crucial to any wine brand.
“What makes a brand fantastic is really an inexact science and often it’s not so much about the wine as
the packaging styles,” she said.

“Every element helps, the colour of the cap, the style of font, the detail on the label, what kind of paper
stock is used, what kind of bottle you choose, how tall or short it is.” With this in mind, Angove Family
Winemakers has diverse wines on offer. The starting point is the $10 Long Row, which has 12 different
varieties and which makes up the largest volume.

Family Crest hovers around $22, while the Warboys, priced about $35, is a single vineyard range,
sourced from the family’s Warboys Vineyard in McLaren Vale.
Their premium wine is The Medhyk, a McLaren Vale shiraz made only in the best years, with 2012 to
be released soon.

“We have a complete portfolio, a number of brands across different price points and regions and styles.
We are always mindful of our audience,” she said.

Victoria, who has two children with husband Heath Amber, said she had worked in every aspect of the
business, down to cleaning bottles on the production line at 15.“I was nine when my grandfather asked
me what I wanted to do when I grew up and I said to him, ‘I want to run your business for you
grandpa’.”

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

i426 : Wine | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge :
Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods
gwine : Wine | gcat : Political/General News | gfod : Food/Drink | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gwbs :
Wine/Beer/Spirits
austr : Australia | saustr : South Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document HERWEK0020140610ea6b0002c

Page239of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.