Cattle shine at historical agricultural show, the North Coast National, in northern New South Wales

Cattle shine at historical agricultural show, the North Coast National, in northern New South Wales

HD
BY
Kim Honan
WC 815 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

28 October 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) News
ABCNEW
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

TD

The steer auction attracted record prices and international buyers, while the dairy cattle were rated of the
highest quality in the state.

Lismore's agricultural show, the North Coast National, in northern New South Wales has attracted record
prices and international buyers at its annual Led Steer Auction.

The beef cattle auction, with 77 steers listed and sold for around $100,000 in total, was held for the first
time under the lights at Lismore Showground.

A Speckle Park heifer was named the 2014 Supreme Beef Exhibit after taking out the Junior Interbreed
Female.

The animal, from Wattle Grove Speckle Park Stud at Oberon, was exhibited by Travis Luscombe from
Allora in Queensland.

"The Speckle's a little bit different and catches everyone's eye, but the judges really commented on how
well she was made and loved her maturity pattern," he said.

"There wouldn't have been too many Speckles shown here before so to come down here on one of their
first showings and win the Supreme Exhibit of the show will be pretty special for the owners."

An Angus cow Mr Luscombe showed, on behalf of the K5X Angus Stud at Allora, won the Senior
Interbreed Female, and the cow was part of the winning Champion of Champions team with a Red Angus
Bull from Triple M Red Angus at Rukenvale.

It was a successful show for the cattle fitter, but the win he's most wrapped about was his own steer
winning Champion Led Steer and then receiving in excess of $6 a kilogram at auction.

"Pure bred black Limo and he won Champion Heavyweight Steer class out of about 30 steers and then
won the Champion Steer and then he was part of the Limousin group that won Overall Pen of Three on
the carcass," Mr Luscombe said.

"That Champion Steer of ours made just over $6 a kilo dressed and they were saying that's a record price
for led steers sold at a sale outside Sydney and Brisbane here at the North Coast National, so that's
good for the show and good support from the local producers and butchers as well."

Auctioneer Darren Perkins says it's the first time the auction has attracted international buyers.

"One buyer being here from Japan, who bought a few head, and we also had an American from Dallas
who bought a couple of head as well," he said.

"I think that we've got a very, very good green image out there for our beef and with the US numbers
dropping and more and more appetite for other countries like China, and other areas like that, looking for
our beef Australia's out there in the leading front."

Mr Perkins says it's one of the best steer sales for the North Coast National in Lismore.

Page142of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Champion School Led Steer was named Reserve Champion Led Steer at fetched $5 a kilogram at
auction.

That steer, James Bond 007, was also a black Limousin and owned by the Stanthorpe High School in
Queensland.

Nathan Hurtz, one of the school's four agriculture teachers, is ecstatic about the win.

"He's actually a steer that we bred at the school, we've got a Limousin stud," he said.
"This steer's just gone 12 months old, so he's still a milk tooth, and he weighed 482 kilos when we put
him across the scales this morning.

"They loved his length, and in the beef cattle game length means more money and they liked his softness
and the way he was finished and also the carcass, the meat attributes of the Limousin breed."
This year the Dairy Spectacular was moved to the main show days, rather than in the days prior, and also
changed location in an effort to attract more of the public.

A nine-year-old Holstein cow owned by Alan and Julie Clark from Caniaba, south of Lismore, was named
the Supreme Dairy Exhibit.

"Our Supreme Champion Holstein Cow got pneumonia two weeks before the Brisbane Show so she
never went back to the Brisbane Show this year," said Mr Clark.

"She was the reigning Supreme Udder at Brisbane Show and she was the reigning Supreme at Lismore
Show so we'll able to get her here today, and get Supreme Cow which is a great thrill for us."
Mr Clark says the new facilities for the dairy cattle at this year's show are wonderful.
"The people have been coming through the shed and it's been a real positive for the dairy industry and
for the show," he said.

Away from the cattle, Ellie Stephens was crowned the 2014 North Coast National Showgirl, and Margaret
Young named Runner Up.

In 2015 the historic agricultural show will celebrate 130 years.

IN

NS

RE

i4122 : Meat Processing | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i412 : Animal Slaughtering/Processing | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
mlvstk : Livestock/Meat Markets | mcattl : Beef/Dairy Cattle Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m141 :
Agricultural Commodity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact
: Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | nswals : New South Wales | uk : United Kingdom | apacz : Asia
Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | queensl :
Queensland | weurz : Western Europe

IPD lismore
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCNEW0020141028eaas0003s

Page143of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.