Dairy ’s direct hit

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Dairy’s direct hit

By SIMONE SMITH
643 words
4 June 2014
The Weekly Times
HERWEK
WeeklyTimes
1
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

EXCLUSIVE
VICTORIA is about to be hit by a radical new dairy export supply and production model.

Major mining services provider MCG Group has joined forces with agricultural investment
management company EAT Group to buy the Camperdown Cheese and Butter Factory and local
farms to form the basis of a radical paddock-to-plate model.
In an Australian first, their joint venture, Camperdown Dairy International, will control the supply
chain, from farm to distribution.
It will initially produce tinned infant formula for Asia and bulk whole-milk powder for the international
market.
It will be Australia's first fully vertically integrated dairy export business and include an infant formula
blending and filling site in Melbourne.
Initial plans include building a spray drier at Camperdown costing up to $120 million, with processing
scheduled to start towards the end of next year.
The plant would process 100 million litres of milk annually from its own farms, with plans for up to
300 million litres in the next three to four years through partnering with local farmers.
Camperdown Dairy International chief executive Phil McFarlane said the concept started with the
customer in Asia and worked backwards to add value to the farmgate.

● Continued Page 4 ● Editorial, Page 26 ● Rule’s View, Page 27 ● From Page 1 “We already have
large contracts in place for ... infant formula to be produced into the China market in particular,” Mr
McFarlane said.

“(The customers’) willingness to basically put large orders on the table allowed us to then go and
appropriately select the right assets to fill them.
“(In the past) agriculture in Australia tended to group up a bunch of farms and do the same thing,
produce the same product, for the same market here in Australia, which is price-sensitive, the cost
base is heavy and there's no real access to international market.

“That's made the performance of those packaged farms underwhelming. “They are stuck in the same
market as everyone else, which, unfortunately, has put a bad result on investing in one part of the
chain at farmgate.

Page39of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“If you group the farmgate asset with the supply chain assets and open up international markets it's
a much healthier return and especially with a focus on quality and volume into an emerging market
such as Asia."
The business is also looking at developing an “end-to-end” agricultural model for other commodities,
including red meat, but said demand for Australia's clean and green dairy was high in market
research.
Traceability was a key requirement for exporting to Asian countries, particularly China, linking
production with the end-product, according to Mr McFarlane.

He said controlling the whole supply chain from feed inputs to distribution would demonstrate product
traceability.
Mr McFarlane said the Camperdown region's 100-year history as a “blue ribbon” milk supplier would
provide credibility for customers.

Mr McFarlane said it was too early to confirm employment numbers, but said the plant could employ
up to 100 people, with possibly 30 to 50 needed at the start.

Mr McFarlane couldn't provide details about the location or number of farms his venture had or aimed
to buy.
He said they would also buy farms that supplied fodder and grain and integrate them into the supply
chain.
Milk supply expansion would come from the business partnering with “specific” existing farms in a
co-investment or ownership model.

“We are particularly offering farmers co-investment partners to expand and also look at their future
needs, succession planning ... ensuring they have a sustainable future by taking the financial risk out
of the farmgate,” he said.
Camperdown Dairy International is a separate business to Aussie Farmers Direct’s Camperdown
Dairy, which operates out of the Camperdown Cheese and Butter Factory.Camperdown Dairy will
remain a tenant under the new ownership.

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i413 : Dairy Products | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming |
i0100105 : Cattle Farming | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood : Food
Products | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
npag : Page-One Stories | ncat : Content Types
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document HERWEK0020140603ea6400045

Page40of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.