TWE chases global traveller windfall

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
TWE chases global traveller windfall

Eli Greenblat
352 words
28 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
21
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

WINE: If Treasury Wine Estates, the makers of Penfolds, Wolf Blass and Lindeman’s, could just entice
window shoppers in duty-free stores and airport lounges to buy a bottle of wine the company could
lay claim to an expanded revenue pool of more than $US1 billion ($1.13bn).
Treasury Wine, the world’s largest listed wine company, has commissioned fresh research into the
$US39bn ($44.3bn) global travel retail market to better understand the motivation of travellers, and
believes there are lucrative opportunities in the rapidly growing niche retail channel.

The winemaker said research, conducted in conjunction with Counter Intelligence Retail, showed that
while a high number of people were engaged in the wine category this was not translating to sales as
they headed into the departure lounge or passed stores on their way to pick up their luggage.

A closer relationship with international travel retailers and suppliers could help grow sales by more than
50 per cent by 2019, representing turnover of $US3bn a year against only $US2bn in current sales, the
TreasuryWine report indicated.
Treasury Wine, whose Penfolds wine is a globally recognised luxury brand, has long had its eye on
the global travel retail sector.
A deal inked last year with Nuance Group, one of the world’s biggest travel retailers, saw a maiden
stand-alone Penfolds store at Sydney airport, while the winemaker also recently launched airport
installations for its Penfolds 2014 Bins and premium wines range at Dubai, London, Amsterdam,
Singapore and Hong Kong.
The chance to grow wine sales at airport shopping centres is huge. The wine category remains
underdeveloped at airports, lagging behind the spirits sector, which accounts for 70 per cent of all
alcohol sales.Treasury Wine established a dedicated global travel retail team 18 months ago. New
airports, especially in the Middle East and Asia, are also keen to hook in luxury brands for their retail
precincts, such as Penfolds or Wolf Blass, and give Treasury Wine access to wealthy travellers looking
for a gift to take back home or to their destination.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

trzwn : Treasury Wine Estates Ltd
iairtr : Air Transport | iretail : Retail | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | itsp : Transportation/Shipping | i41 :
Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i426 : Wine | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge :
Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141027eaas0003w

Page155of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.