Sea Swift Pty. Ltd: CBD Carpark to Fetch $15 Million 28 August 2014

Sea Swift Pty. Ltd: CBD Carpark to Fetch $15 Million 28 August 2014

HD
WC 538 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

31 August 2014
News Bites - Private Companies
NBPRCO
English
Copyright 2014. News Bites Pty Ltd.

NEWS BITES - PRIVATE COMPANIES
[Company Release]

TD

An eight level Melbourne CBD carpark being marketed by Savills Australia is expected to fetch a price of
around $15 million as investors ponder the prospect of on-selling individual spaces with bays typically
selling for more than $60,000 each.
According to marketing agents Clinton Baxter and Nick Peden, the purchaser will have the option to hold
as a long-term passive investment, on-sell individual spaces or take over management of the facility at the
conclusion of the current lease.

"Either way assets such as this are sure to prove a star performer in any portfolio, especially when you
consider single bays typically sell for more than $60,000 each.

"With other CBD car parks selling in recent years at $50,000-$70,000 per bay, the opportunity to acquire
this asset in the order of $21,000 per bay is extraordinarily compelling, and illustrates the tremendous
upside potential." Mr Baxter said.
He said the property would be sold fully leased to Secure Parking expiring in June 2015 providing a
significant renegotiation or management opportunity.
The 20-28 La Trobe Street (between Exhibition and Russell Streets) property comprises 706 bays over
eight above-ground levels and is well located within the northern CBD, with an extensive commercial and
retail catchment area.

Mr Peden said investors loved to own CBD car parking facilities especially given the planning policies
aimed at limiting development of additional facilities leading to ever-increasing car parking rates.

"Facilities can operate on an automated basis, can trade 24/7, have extremely low maintenance and
refurbishment costs, and vacancy is virtually non-existent.

"This is an extremely tightly-held segment of the market. Years can pass without a car parking asset being
offered to the market. Furthermore, car parks are very appealing to local and offshore investors alike
because of the relative ease of management of the asset," Mr Peden said.
He said the property's location ensured strong seven day per week trade, given its close proximity to a
huge weekday office population accommodated in numerous major office towers, as well as the
advantage of being a short walk to the CBD retail core, Chinatown, the State Library, QV, and RMIT
University.

The vendor is LaSalle Investment Management.
The property will be sold by Expressions of Interest closing Thursday 18 September at 2pm. Search
Savills news Keyword Month All months Year All years By Country Select a country first

Click here for the full original announcement
COMPANY BACKGROUND

ACTIVITIES

Page36of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Sea Swift Pty. Ltd. provides marine transportation services to remote coastal and island communities,
and resource development sites. It offers project logistics services, such as barge/tug and landing craft
operations, and crewed vessel chartering services. The company also provides cargo shipping services,
including scheduled liner and coastal freight services for regional break bulk, bulk fuel, and container
freight requirements. In addition, it offers fishery support and freighter travel services. Further, the
company provides passenger services, such as cruise services. Sea Swift Pty. Ltd. was incorporated in
1981 and is based in Portsmith, Australia.

BUSINESS NEWS ROUND UP
To view Recent Company Headlines, click here

IN
NS

i98204 : Parking Lots/Garages | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
c1521 : Analyst Comments/Recommendations | c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | c15 :
Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact
: Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
IPD ACTIVITIES; BUSINESS NEWS ROUND UP
PUB News Bites Pty Ltd (Europe)
AN

Document NBPRCO0020140831ea8v001ba

Page37of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.