(AE) Ferret's MOVING FACES

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

(AE) Ferret's MOVING FACES

1,365 words
2 September 2014
Ralph Wragg Australian Business News
AAPRAW
English
Copyright 2014 RWE AUSTRALIAN BUSINESS NEWS PTY LTD. All Rights Reserved.

Sydney - Tuesday - September 2: (RWE Australian Business News) - A list of changes of management
within ASX-listed companies.

Moving in ...

* Ross Burney, Elizabeth Johnstone and Trudy Vonhoff have been appointed as directors of Ruralco
Holdings Ltd. Mr Burney is chief executive officer of Taverners Group and a director of Kaplan Equity Ltd
(a substantial shareholder in Ruralco). He brings over 20 years of experience as an accountant and
investment manager together with a deep knowledge of the agricultural supply chain.
Ms Johnstone was previously a corporate partner and practice head for company law and governance at
a top-tier legal firm and focused on corporate advisory work for listed companies. She has been
Business and Professional Women's Association/Qantas Business Woman of the Year and is
acknowledged as one of Australia's leading lawyers.

Ms Vonhoff has held senior executive positions with AMP and Westpac, where she was head of
Commercial & Agribusiness Banking and prior to that was head of Regional & Agribusiness Banking. She
brings to the group a strong financial and risk management background.

* Modun Resources Ltd has appointed a highly qualified executive team and board with over 30 years'
private equity investment experience to accelerate the transformation of Modun into a high-growth and
strong cash flow generating business.
Mike Hill has been appointed executive chairman. Mr Hill, a former partner of Ernst & YoungM&A in
Sydney, has been a senior member of the investment team at private equity firm Ironbridge since 2004
and a partner of the firm since 2009.

Andrew Gray has been named a non-executive director. Mr Gray is currently the managing director of
Value Capital Partners, an investment firm with investment interests spanning software, technology,
healthcare, HCIT and growth businesses globally.

Philip Kapp joined the board as a non-executive director. He is a senior partner of Corrs Chambers
Westgarth Lawyers. Mr Kapp has 25 years' experience in M&A, capital restructuring and private equity.
He is widely regarded as one of Australia's leading corporate lawyers.

* Singapore internet venture accelerator Fatfish Internet Group Ltd has appointed former Accenture Asia
managing partner and renowned tech investor Dato' Larry Gan as non-executive chairman. Dato' Larry
held leadership roles with Accenture over a 26-year career including as managing partner for Asia. He
also spent four years of his tenure overseeing the firm's multibillion-dollar Venture Fund, managing
investments throughout Australasia. More recently Dato' Larry was a founding director of iProperty Group
Ltd, which owns and operates a range of real estate websites and investments throughout Asia. He is
independent non-executive chairman of Malaysia-listed Rev Asia Berhad (formerly known as Catcha
Media Berhad) which, like iProperty, is a spinoff of Catcha group.

Outgoing chairman Donald Low will remain on the Fatfish board as a non-executive director.

* Mark Summers and Jack James of Palisade Business Consulting have been appointed as joint and
several administrators of Advanced Engine Components Ltd. The appointment of voluntary administrators

Page3of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.is a condition of the recapitalisation deed between Advanced and Otsana Pty Ltd trading as Otsana
Capital.

* Chorus Ltd announced the appointment of Tim Harris in the newly created role of chief commercial
officer. Mr Harris is returning to his native New Zealand after spending eight years in Singapore, most
recently as managing director of BT Global Services South-East Asia. He has held a number of senior
roles with BT since 2004. The chief commercial officer role at Chorus is an executive position,
responsible for leading its Marketing, Sales and Corporate Strategy functions.

* InvoCare Ltd has appointed Gary Stead as an independent non-executive director. Mr Stead is
managing director of Olympus Capital Asia Credit. He starting his working career as a solicitor with a law
degree from the University of New South Wales and later completed an MBA at Wharton Graduate
School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania before commencing a 30-year investment banking
career.
* Bradley Simmons of Houston, Texas has been appointed as a non-executive director of Titan Energy
Ltd. Mr Simmons, 58, is a seasoned veteran of the oil patch with more than 30 years of Gulf Coast drilling
and production operations experience. He has been involved with the founding and building of several
oil, gas and drilling companies. Most recently, he retired in October 2013 from his position as executive
director of Maverick Drilling & Exploration Ltd.

In addition to his Titan board functions, Mr Simmons will begin conducting a project-by-project evaluation,
thereby optimising the US assets of Titan. He has also been given the task of evaluating new acquisitions
and drilling opportunities along the Gulf Coast of the US.

* Acuvax Ltd has appointed Kevin Baum as non-executive director. He is a veteran IT executive with 30
years of experience. Mr Baum has spearheaded a multitude of technology businesses ranging from
startups to large corporate enterprises. Alex Bajada has resigned from the board.

* Max Ramajaya, an Indonesian businessman, has been appointed as a non-executive director of Arc
Exploration Ltd. Mr Ramajaya is the head of business for Katingan Timber, responsible for the group's
operation and performance in the forestry, agro forest plantation and related downstream industries.
* Charlie Harrison has been appointed as company secretary of Mesoblast Ltd, replacing Jenni Pilcher.
Mr Harrison joined Mesoblast as legal counsel in 2013. He was a senior associate at the international law
firm Allens, working in its Hong Kong and Melbourne offices for nine years as a corporate lawyer.
* Rory McGoldrick has been appointed as company secretary of Rampart Energy Ltd. Mr McGoldrick is
a qualified lawyer with broad experience in Corporations Act and ASX Listing Rules compliance, and
corporate governance matters. He will replace Mal Lucas-Smith, who is retiring after almost 30 years as a
director and company secretary of a broad range of ASX-listed companies.

It is intended that Mr Lucas-Smith will formally retire from his role in October, in order to provide for an
effective handover period.
* Susannah Ball has been appointed to the position of acting company secretary of Ruralco Holdings
Ltd. Angie Somann-Crawford, Ruralco's company secretary & general counsel, is on maternity leave.

Moving On ...

* Peter Sarantzouklis has stepped down as chairman of Uranex Ltd. "After 12 months as a non-executive
director and chairman it is timely that I focus on other opportunities and resign from my position on the
board. I do so with a high degree of confidence in the knowledge Uranex is set up well for success," said
Mr Sarantzouklis. Frank Poullas has taken on the role of interim non-executive chairman.

* Neil Tomkinson and Joshua Pitt have resigned from the board of Pan Pacific Petroleum NL and
associated subsidiary companies.
* Cleveland Mining Company Ltd executive director - Commercial, Rod Campbell, has left to take up an
opportunity to be the executive chairman of a private Australian gold company, after assisting Cleveland
through a difficult transition over the past 18 months. Mr Campbell's Brazilian responsibilities have been
assumed by the company's Brazil-based chief financial officer, Sam Clarke, who will take on a broader
commercial role within the company after spending the past eight months focusing on the Premier
Goldmine, which is now cash flow positive and has strong financial and operating systems in place. The
company intends to appoint a new non-executive director in due course to replace Mr Campbell on the
board, and is currently shortlisting candidates.

Page4of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Company secretary Katrina Grose has resigned to pursue other opportunities. She will be replaced on
September 5 by Albert Longo, who will work in the Perth office. Mr Longo has extensive experience in the
mining industry, having held positions as CFO, company secretary and operational roles. He has been
working as a consultant to the company and will assume Australian-based commercial duties that were
previously handled by Mr Campbell.
* Robert Dalton has resigned as company secretary of Tangiers Petroleum Ltd. Sarah Smith and Amy
Just have been appointed as joint company secretaries. Ms Smith specialises in company secretarial
and financial management services while Ms Just specialises in corporate advisory, company secretarial
and financial management services.

CO
IN
NS

growfa : Ruralco Holdings Limited
i25 : Chemicals | i2513 : Fertilizer | iagro : Agrochemicals | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
c411 : Management Moves | c41 : Management | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types
| nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd
AN

Document AAPRAW0020140902ea92000xd

Page5of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.