DBS poised at last to make Aussie debut

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies & Markets
DBS poised at last to make Aussie debut

Angela Tan,and Siow Li Sen , DBS poised at last to make Aussie debut
722 words
6 December 2014
Business Times Singapore
STBT
English
(c) 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

The Singapore bank is just waiting for regulatory approval to set up a unit in Sydney

Singapore

DBS Bank, South-east Asia's largest lender, has set its eyes Down Under, finally.

Australian sources tell The Business Times that the Singapore bank is awaiting regulatory approval to
set up a branch in Sydney.

DBS is the only Singapore bank which does not have a presence in Australia. Rivals OCBC Bank and
United Overseas Bank (UOB) have had branches in Australia for a while. OCBC has one in Sydney
while UOB has a branch in Sydney and offices in Melbourne and Brisbane.

DBS declined to comment on its Australian plans.

BT understands that DBS has tapped Helen Yap, the former Australian general manager for OCBC
Bank, to head the operations in Sydney.

The new branch is expected to do corporate banking business. "This will make more sense since it will
have a limited distribution network in the beginning," a banker said.

While DBS has no physical presence in Australia currently, it has already extended project financing to
a handful of blue-chip corporates as well as fund a number of high-profile infrastructure deals.
These include the A$1.75 billion (S$1.93 billion) Port of Newcastle acquisition earlier this year by
Hastings Funds Management and China Merchants. It also participated in the lending syndicate to the
A$5.07 billion privatisation of Port Kembla and Port Botany, which was bought by a consortium
comprising three Australian companies, Industry Funds Management, AustralianSuper and QSuper, as
well as Tawreed Investments, a subsidiary of the Abu Dhabi government.

DBS corporate clients are understood to include Lend Lease as well as Toll Holdings and Origin
Energy.
As The Australian newspaper revealed last month, Origin is in the midst of a A$6.6 billion refinancing
deal that involves close to 30 different lenders. The new terms of its facility are expected to be finalised
by the end of the year.
A physical footprint in Australia will allow DBS to build on its existing operations and to extend its
regional connectivity. The bank boasts more than 250 branches in 17 markets, with key markets in
Singapore, Hong Kong, China, India, Indonesia and Taiwan.

While DBS may be South-east Asia's largest bank, its global network is much smaller than that of
OCBC and UOB, both of which have major subsidiaries in Malaysia and Indonesia.
OCBC's network surged this year to over 545, via its acquisition of Hong Kong's Wing Hang Bank,
which brought with it 95 branches in Hong Kong, China and Macau.

Page83of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.UOB's global network of over 500 offices includes the largest presence in South-east Asia, with 484
branches and representative offices across the region.

Still, DBS has been no less busy expanding via acquisitions. In October, it completed the US$220
million acquisition of Societe Generale Private Banking Asia.
DBS's private banking assets under management (AUM) are now S$88 billion after the acquisition;
its AUM was S$75 billion before that.

DBS is now going after Coutts International, the non-UK private banking business of the Royal Bank of
Scotland (RBS). Last week, it was reported that DBS had begun studying a potential bid for Coutts.

"We will take a look at Coutts when it comes on the block," said DBS chief executive Piyush Gupta on
Oct 31 when the bank released its Q3 results.

Mr Gupta also said that the bank is looking to scale up in India, where it now has 12 branches. It is
looking into subsidiarising its business there which will allow the bank to open more branches, he said.

DBS's application to operate in Australia comes a month after it failed to receive a banking licence from
the Central Bank of Myanmar. The latter granted nine foreign banks licences to set up a branch each
and they will also be able to provide loans to foreign companies, but only in foreign currency. OCBC
and UOB were among nine approved foreign banks. But DBS, which has a representative office in
Myanmar, has said that it would stay committed to that market and continue to do offshore business.

CO

IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

uob : United Overseas Bank Limited | dbsbsg : DBS Bank Limited | devbnk : DBS Group Holdings
Limited
i81402 : Commercial Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | singp : Singapore | china : China | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia
| ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales
| seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Singapore Press Holdings Limited
Document STBT000020141205eac600004

Page84of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.