Singapore raider moves in with $2.59b bid for Australand

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Singapore raider moves in with $2.59b bid for Australand

408 words
5 June 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
34
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

A PREDATOR from Singapore has joined the takeover battle for property group Australand and won
the endorsement of the takeover target’s board.
Frasers Centrepoint has proposed an offer of $2.59 billion in cash for Australand, at $4.48 per
Australand security.

It trumps Australian property developer Stockland’s sweetened share-swap proposal made last week.
Australand, the owner of $2.4 billion in residential and commercial developments including Cova and
Ambience on the Gold Coast, has granted Frasers four weeks to exclusively complete due diligence,
at the expense of Stockland.

Australand’s board will recommend the Singaporean proposal to its investors if no superior offer
eventuates.

“The board concluded that the conditional proposal would deliver a compelling value outcome for
Australand securityholders and is superior to the final and conditional proposal received from
Stockland,” chairman Paul Isherwood said.
Frasers is an international real estate firm, with core markets in Singapore, China and Australia.
Frasers said the acquisition of Australand would help achieve its aim of generating profit outside of
Singapore. Frasers already has a presence in Australia, but it wants to accelerate its growth here.

“The proposal will catapult Frasers to being one of Australia’s leading real estate companies with a
portfolio of scale and quality,” group chief executive Lim Ee Seng said.
Stockland said its board members would consider the company’s options in relation to Australand.
Australand securities jumped 24¢, or 5.6 per cent, to $4.55, while Stockland added 7¢ to $4.01.

IG market strategist Evan Lucas said Australand’s actions and comments suggested the proposal from
Frasers was a “stellar” bid.

“They have suspended due diligence for Stockland and opened their books to Frasers, so that would
suggest that they believe that it is a really good bid,” Mr Lucas said.

He suggested the rise in Stockland’s securities flagged that some of its investors believed the play for
Australand was too expensive and they would be glad to be out of it.

Stockland launched its move to take over Australand in April, with a proposed all-scrip offer of 1.111
Stockland securities for each Australand security. The proposal valued each Australand security at
$4.20. Australand rejected the proposal as inadequate.In May, Stockland lifted its offer to 1.124
Stockland securities for every Australand security, at an implied price of $4.35 per Australand security.

Page224of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

ahlaus : Australand Property Group | dbsl : CapitaLand Limited
i85 : Real Estate Transactions | i8500031 : Residential Property Dealing/Owning | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | ireest : Real Estate | irreal : Residential Real Estate
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
singp : Singapore | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
seasiaz : Southeast Asia
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020140604ea6500004

Page225of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.