Smokin’ cold the new cool

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

APlus
Smokin’ cold the new cool

JOHN LETHLEAN
1,313 words
29 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
APlus
2
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Tom Cooper has devoted his life to the technique of cold smoking, tasting both success and failure in
the process

Tom Cooper puts some food on the table, things he has prepared and cold smoked in a number of
ways. Prosciutto, corn kernels, allspice-smoked shredded carrot, salmon — marinated first in orange
juice, hoisin, ginger and Shaoxing wine — and blue cheese.

Then, he shows me a grab from Anthony Bourdain’s No Reservations television series; the American
host and gastro-explorer is in a Madrid bar where a piece of Valdeon arrives at the table in something
that looks like a cocktail shaker, except that beneath the famous blue cheese, lavender is smoking
away.

“That gave me an idea,” says Cooper, his accent still distinctly Canadian, despite many years here. And,
yes, there is a lavender accent to the cheese perceived towards the end of the mouthful.

That’s Cooper.
“I’m not a chef, I’m a geologist,” he declares, but there’s no doubt that the man, like any good chef, is
brimming with food ideas. Unlike most chefs, however, Cooper’s food always includes one ingredient:
smoke.

To Cooper, it’s a multifaceted ingredient to add nuance to food, in much the same way as a spice. But
it’s also a technique, just not the technique raging across the food world, where a menu without smoke
is a menu not worth reading.

Cooper is an evangelist of cold smoking, the technique that imparts flavours via smouldering fuels that
does no cooking, whatsoever. Just about every smoked food in Australia today is produced via hot
smoking, which cooks and layers the food with the flavours of the chosen smouldering fuel.

For more than 30 years, Cooper has been the go-to man in Melbourne for chefs wanting small-scale
products with a whiff of smoke. For many years, the figure of Cooper, delivering salmon, tomatoes,
ocean trout and anything else was a common one on the food streets of the city. MoVida’s signature
smoked tomato sorbet with anchovy is just one example.

For his early years in Australia, after arriving in 1979 with a freshly minted masters degree from Cape
Town University, Cooper imported and distributed what he knew: Canadian and Scottish salmon,
Spanish saffron, Iranian caviar, Canadian wild rice. Geology had to wait; business was good. But the
rise of Australia’s salmon growers and smokers in the late 80s made it a very competitive industry.
Forced to rethink the business, Cooper set out on the path that made his reputation. “I became a
microproducer,” he says, and for the next 20 years, using American equipment, Cooper developed a
reputation as the man with “the touch” when it came to niche foods with a touch of smoke.

Page289of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.For Cooper, the mantra is low, slow and cold.“Smouldering smoke is more important than a burning
smoke,” he says. “There’s a difference in taste between strength and bitterness.

“The great smoking houses of the UK burn big piles of woods until they smoulder gently for a long time.
That smoke particle is very fine as opposed to a coarse smoke particle and this is the problem I have
with leaves, particularly tea smoking — it’s coarse and bitter.” Cooper salmon, in particular, became a
must-have ingredient on many Melbourne menus. “Many very good restaurants in Melbourne supported
me,” he says, “however, the seven-day weeks and seasonal surges took their toll.” So, for the past three
years, Cooper has been on a different kind of smoking journey. His many years of producing
cold-smoked foods had also made it blindingly clear there was no such thing on the market as a piece of
simple, foolproof cold-smoking equipment chefs might use to produce the same results he was
achieving. So he developed the clever, if flawed, Kold Smoker.

The benchtop Kold Smoker consists of a four-stage smouldering box with elements on timers, allowing
precise duration of the smoking process. A fan system that induces air from outside to push smoke from
the smoker box into a refrigerated food cabinet, like a small fridge. And an insulation chamber between
the two that keeps the food box at a very stable, chilled temperature.
The concept is brilliant, but early Chinese production was problematic. Cooper is working on a new
generation that will be manufactured, he hopes, in the US. The project has been costly, the patent
process for Australia, the US and Britain alone absorbing huge sums, but there is hope.
In the meantime, Cooper is writing a book on cold smoking and planning a retail business at
Melbourne’s Camberwell Market.
He tells me of a meal he cooked to demonstrate the application of smoke to Chinese flavours … cured
scallops smoked with mandarin peel; smoked pea mash with unsmoked scallops; mussels smoked with
kechap manis, the Indonesian sweet soy; green prawns smoked with dried shrimp shells; and
watermelon lightly smoked to accompany cheese.

“My combinations are just one or two ingredients that combine with the smoke,” he says, sounding more
the chef than the geologist. And Cooper’s no great fan of the current hot-smoking craze, which he likens
to the “over-oaking” of chardonnay, when wood characteristics all but obscure fruit. “We have this
generation of consumers coming through who expect the egg to be cracked with a hammer; if it’s not
in-your-face smoky, it’s not smoked,” he says.
“I’m trying to get people to understand the subtleties. It’s like the over-oaked chardonnays from the 80s
— all that changed, now they’re refined, they’re delicate. That’s what I’m trying to achieve. I want to talk
about the other aspects of smoke — the varieties and the gentleness — not this in-your-face rough
stuff.” Cooper, possessed of no mean palate, says he goes to restaurants specialising in smoking and
finds so much of what he tries tastes the same.

“That’s the problem with these modern smokers and big barbecues that they’re bringing in from the
States. You can smoke lamb or pork belly or jowl or beef and they all taste the same — of smoked
flavour. That’s fine but it’s not delicate.

“For me, the refinement of food is a delicate thing.”

HOW TO SMOKE There are plenty of ways to hot smoke at home. One, which offers the flexibility to
cold smoke as well (provided you buy a separate cold smoking box) is the Pro Q ($599), a rather smart
elongated kettle-style barbecue with a water bath buffer built in to keep temperatures at optimum level
instead of racing too high.

Weekend A Plus has been test-driving a Pro Q, which can be used with charcoal, or what are commonly
known as heat beads, for fuel.

It helps to be familiar with the use of these heat beads, in kettle style barbecues such as the original
Weber Kettle, to get the most out of the Pro Q.

But once you have your heat source sussed, it’s really only matter of filling the water bath to moderate
the heat, adding your chosen smoking agent (such as soaked chips) and monitoring the internal
temperature of whatever it is you are cooking with smoky heat. A temperature probe is essential.

The Pro Q has the added flexibility of being able to operate as a straight grill, or as a kettle-style
barbecue without the water bath, for roasting.

If you have the patience, the slow, smoke-roasting method produces lovely meats, particularly chicken,
although the imagination could run wild.

Page290of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It comes with hooks for hot smoking fish hung from the roof of the device, and can be expanded to
create more tiers for smoking a variety of meats and vegetables.proqsmokers.com.au

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141128eabt0004d

Page291of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.