Glencore seen preparing for tilt at Rio Tinto

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

popular
Glencore seen preparing for tilt at Rio Tinto

JAMES CHESSELL AND SARAH THOMPSON- The Australian Financial Review
1,073 words
6 October 2014
Singleton Argus
FSINGA
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

This story first appeared in the Australian Financial Review

Glencore is crunching the numbers on a potential merger with Rio Tinto next year that would create the
world's largest mining company but is likely to face opposition from regulators and the Rio board.

Bloomberg reported on Monday that Glencore had "reached out" to Rio's largest shareholder,
Chinalco, to gauge its interest in a potential deal. The discussions with the state-backed Chinese
company, the biggest shareholder with a 9.8 per cent stake in Rio, took place in recent weeks, the
report said.

The Australian Financial Review has reported Glencore chief executive Ivan Glasenberg believes a
$US160 billion ($182 billion) combination merged mining giant " with market-leading position in iron
ore, copper, nickel, zinc and coal " makes sense and that corporate advisers at Standard Chartered
were doing preliminary work on a deal.

In recent weeks, Glencore executives have made no secret of the fact it is frustrated that Rio will not
push ahead with negotiations over a thermal coal joint venture in NSW's Hunter Valley north of
Sydney.

While Mr Glasenberg has made it clear in private meetings with investors that a merger with Rio is a
preferred option for the Swiss miner and trader, sources said no talks are underway between the two
companies, no final decision has been made and any formal approach would not take place this year.
Bloomberg reported Glencore views Chinalco as potentially supportive of a change in control after the
Chinese company failed to secure a board seat at Rio Tinto and has seen little progress on a joint
iron-ore project in Guinea.

Glencore is also gauging the views of other Rio shareholders, and studying the tactical, financial, and
regulatory obstacles to the deal as it considers its next steps, the news report said.

Rio's American depositary receipts rose as much as 20 per cent in New York on Monday.
Rio's is the world's lowest cost producer of iron ore but a prolonged slump in the price of the key
steel-making ingredient could give Glencore leverage, according to analysts at Bernstein.
"A Rio Tinto-Glencore combination would create market leading positions in iron ore, copper, nickel,
zinc and coal as well as significant optionality around a number of lesser metals and minerals,"
Bernstein said in a note to clients. "Moreover, it would create the biggest and most diversified mining
company on the planet."
Bernstein argues a more aggressive approach to borrowing against Rio's Pilbara iron ore operations
could allow a combined company to return as much as $US49 billion to shareholders.

"Rio shareholders currently have the delivery of the Pilbara 360 [expansion] to look forward to but what
happens beyond this? No amount of growth from the non-iron ore elements of the Rio portfolio will be

Page86of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.able to compensate for the fact that iron ore is essentially ex-growth and that attempting to force more
tonnage into the market is an increasingly zero sum (or negative sum) game," Bernstein says.

"In a combined portfolio there is a sense in which current Rio shareholders would get the best of both
worlds. They get both the growth optionality that comes with the Glencore portfolio as well as
Glencore's conversion of the Pilbara into the most prodigious cash machine that the mining world has
ever seen."
IRON ORE WEAKNESS DRIVES TIMING

The arguments for a deal a deal ignore the complexities involved.
It is understood that Rio board members believe their company is performing better and would be
unlikely to embrace a merger of equals proposal, meaning Glencore would have "to go hostile". It is
also likely Chinese regulators, who earlier raised concerns about a potential iron joint venture between
Rio and BHP Billiton, would oppose aspects of a deal.
Spokesmen for Glencore, Rio and Chinalco declined to comment.
Due in large part to falls in the price of iron ore, Rio's London-listed shares have declined 12 per cent
this year, giving the company a market value of about -56 billion ($102.7 billion). That brings it within
striking distance of Glencore's -45 billion ($82.6 billion) market capitalisation , which has risen almost
12 per cent in 2014, Bloomberg said. A combined miner would be worth about $185 billion.

The agency reported that Rio's managers were not implacably opposed to a tie-up with Glencore, they
believe the slump in iron-ore prices would put the company at a disadvantage in negotiations. For that
reason, their first response to an offer will almost certainly be a rejection.

They"re also eager to ensure Rio executives would remain in key roles in a merger that would probably
be billed as a combination of equals, especially after Glasenberg largely ejected Xstrata Plc managers
after Glencore agreed to buy that company in 2012, one of the people said.

Through a series of deals over the last decade, South African-born Glasenberg " an accountant by
training " has transformed Glencore from a little-known commodity-trading house into a diversified
global mining group.
His largest deal so far, the $29 billion acquisition of Xstrata in 2012, turned Glencore into the world's
fourth-largest mining group at the time. With significant operations in copper, nickel, and coal, the
only major commodity it doesn't figure prominently in is iron ore, which Rio offers in huge quantities.

Rio's record of recent strategic decisions has been mixed. Former chief executive Tom Albanese
resigned unexpectedly last year after the company was forced to drastically write down the value of a
coal project it had acquired in Mozambique. Under the current chief, Sam Walsh, company has
embarked on a cost-cutting drive and increased payouts to investors.

The time could be right for Glasenberg to move toward a deal because of persistent weakness in the
market for iron ore, which accounts for almost half of Rio's revenue and is weighing on its share price,
Bloomberg said. Iron ore has plunged about 41 per cent this year.

Additionally, with Rio CEO Sam Walsh likely to retire by the end of next year, Glencore sees an
obvious opportunity to avoid a battle over who would run the combined company, Bloomberg reported
two insiders as saying.

with Bloomberg

CO

IN

RE
PUB
AN

almcor : Aluminium Corporation of China Limited | craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd | march : Glencore PLC | rtz :
Rio Tinto PLC | rtzcra : Rio Tinto Group
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying | i22 : Primary Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | i2245 : Aluminum | i8396 :
Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FSINGA0020141007eaa60000e

Page87of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.