Fast-tracked fresh milk exports to China a breakthrough for the Australian dairy industry

Fast-tracked fresh milk exports to China a breakthrough for the Australian dairy industry

Miranda Saunders

HD
BY
WC 422 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

30 April 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) News
ABCNEW
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

TD

There's been a breakthrough in the time it takes Australian fresh milk to be available to consumers in
China.
After a year-and-a-half of negotiations between Chinese quarantine authorities and the Australian dairy
industry, Dairy Co-operative Norco, in northern NSW, will now be able to send fresh milk to Chinese
consumers within seven days.

Until now, it's taken between 14 to 21 days for Australian milk to pass quarantine protocols before it could
be sold in China. Those protocols have in the past dramatically reduced the milk's shelf life overseas.
As a result of the negotiations and a successful trial shipment last month, Chinese quarantine authorities
have acknowledged the testing regimes in place in Australia are a duplicate of their own, and they are
willing to fast-track the quarantine process.
Norco now has the potential to export up to 20 million litres of fresh milk to the Chinese.
"When we first started this project, it was thought it would be impossible to get the milk into China without
losing too much use-by-date," Norco chairman Greg McNamara said.

"Originally we thought it was going to be 14 to 15 days before it would actually be cleared, and there
would only be a three to five day potential for it to be used, which was too short."
Last month, Norco undertook a successful trial shipment of almost 1,000 litres of fresh milk.
Mr McNamara says Norco will be building on that trial and hopes to export 20 million litres of fresh milk
to China in the next 12 months.

"It's an exercise of 'don't take it too fast', let's work it slow and make sure we deliver on our promise and
everyone is satisfied," Mr McNamara said.
"We're not talking about a product that's going to be sold cheaply on the market.

"It could be somewhere between $7 and $9 (a litre).

"It's going to high-end consumers that are actually worried about the health of their children and trying to
ensure they consume healthy products."
Between potential growth in the Chinese market and the company's new contract to supply Coles, Mr
McNamara says Norco has already had to bring on 54 new farmers to keep up with demand, and will
need more in the near future.

"Any additional sales increases will need to be supplied by new farmers," he said.

IN

NS

i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i01001 : Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco |
i413 : Dairy Products | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
c314 : Pricing | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter

Page95of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

china : China | austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries
| dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

IPD norco
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCNEW0020140430ea4u0005n

Page96of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.