DATA ROOM

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
DATA ROOM

EDITED BY BRIDGET CARTER
1,092 words
27 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
18
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Morgan Stanley and UBS set for MYOB MORGAN Stanley and UBS are expected to be named as the
advisers for Bain Capital ’s exit of its $2.5 billion accounting software business, MYOB, via an initial
public offering or a trade sale, according to sources.
Bain executives flew back to the US and Hong Kong at the weekend after holding a beauty parade for
investment banks in Sydney last week.

Those thought to have been vying for the appointment alongside UBS and Morgan Stanley were Citi,
Macquarie Capital , JPMorgan , Deutsche and Bank of America Merrill Lynch .
Bain plans to list the company in May, should it not be sold to a private equity buyer beforehand.
While the pricing on the MYOB business is unclear, it is thought the price tag will be about $2.5bn.
This would mean Bain would come close to doubling its money after outlaying $1.35bn to purchase
the company in 2011 from Archer Capital .
Archer took MYOB private for about $350 million in 2009.

All eyes on Medibank A $2.5BN float of MYOB will be one of the largest in the next 12 months, but the
deal now grabbing most of the market’s attention is one double the size — the float of Medibank
Private for up to $5.5bn.

The initial public offering of the government-owned insurer will happen before Christmas after
marketing to retail brokers got under way recently.

But global institutions such as BlackRock, Fidelity , Wellington Management and London-based
Newton are expected to be given a great deal of attention from Medibank advisers, given the advisory
fees they will receive for locking in offshore investors are understood to be almost three times as much
as they would receive for securing locals.
Among the joint lead managers are Goldman Sachs , Macquarie and Deutsche , while Lazard is
advising the government.

Retail investors are allowed to bid first for the shares, offered at a range of $1.55 to $2 each.

Brokers will be allocated about 60 per cent of the stock.
It is believed that retail shareholders are likely to wind up with about half the allocated shares on offer,
with the remainder owned by local and global institutional investors.

Investor feedback on Medibank has been largely positive, but some sources are arguing institutions
are nervous about speaking out on the deal for fear it could jeopardise their chances of winning share
allocations.

Page168of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.But government privatisations are usually popular with investors, offering opportunities to boost
earnings by stripping out costs.
Amid all the excitement surrounding Medibank, construction software businessAconex starts its
bookbuild today, raising between $232m and $264m through Macquarie Capital and UBS . The
company is expected to have a market value of between $356m and $412m.

QBE picks Goldman INSURANCE giant QBE has hired Goldman Sachs to float its mortgage
insurance business, QBE LMI , according to sources.
The decision by QBE to spin out the business as an IPO prospect comes after larger rival Genworth
floated its mortgage insurance business in May — a deal also run by Goldman.

Sources estimate QBE LMI is likely to have a market capitalisation of about $1bn when it lists next
year.
The insurer confirmed it would float the business in August as part of plans to raise $1.5bn from asset
sales following a string of profit downgrades.
Genworth Australia ’s shares closed 13 per cent higher than their issue price when the company
staged its debut on the Australian Securities Exchange , taking its market value to $1.95bn. It appears
the company is thriving on investor appetite for businesses exposed to Australia’s booming housing
market. Its market value is now $2.3bn.
Goldman was one of the lead banks on the Genworth Australia deal, working alongside Macquarie,
UBS and Commonwealth Bank. The listing pricing equated to 6.2 to 8.2 times forecast annual net
profit for financial 2014.
Look before you leap QBE LMI isn’t the only company to stand on the sidelines and watch how its
industry rival performs on the public market before launching in itself.
Private equity firm Quadrant has now redrafted plans to list aged care business Estia before
Christmas through advisers Morgan Stanley , UBS and Deutsche after watching its $1.2bn rival,
Regis, perform strongly amid choppy market conditions on its ASX debut this month.

Regis listed after its major competitor Japara, with a market value of $631m, soared 35 per cent on its
first day of trade in April.

Plans by Quadrant to float Estia were first flagged by The Australian in May, and while initially slated
to happen before Christmas, were later pushed back until 2015.

However, it is now believed attempts will be made to launch the initial public offering within coming
weeks, offering a third competitor to Japara and Regis on the public stage.
Meanwhile, the high price Quadrant has locked in for the float of its APN Outdoor billboard business
— $425m — is thought to be motivating other media rivals to opt for the public market when it comes
to staging exits.

The APN deal has been handled by Morgan Stanley and UBS , and following its listing the next is
expected to be Ooh! Media, although no definitive plans for a listing, through advisers Macquarie
Capital and Highbury Partnership, have yet been announced.

It is understood that apart from television networks Seven and Nine, the potential buyers that looked at
Ooh! Media included French billboard giant JCDecaux , although it walked away in the initial stages of
the process.

Rothschild adds Howell INVESTMENT bank Rothschild is boosting its consumer and industrials team
in Melbourne, hiring former Goldman Sachs executive director Mark Howell.

Mr Howell reports to Sam Prentice, co-head of the consumer and industrials practice and head of
Rothschild’s Melbourne office.
Rothschild recently acted for Saputo, helping the Canadian dairy giant secure highly sought- after
Warrnambool Cheese & Butter.

It also aided South Africa’s Woolworth in bidding for David Jones and Country Road, and R&R Ice
Cream ’s acquisition of Peters Ice Cream from Pacific Equity Partners .

Page169of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Meanwhile, Danny Bessell also started formally this month as managing director and head of
infrastructure, utilities and transport, as the bank prepares for multi-billion dollar infrastructure
privatisations.

Mr Bessell comes from the position of commercial director at the Linking Melbourne Authority, a
government body responsible for managing complex road projects in Victoria. He fills the vacancy left
by Bruce MacDiarmid, who was poached by Deutsche earlier this year.

carterb@theaustralian.com.au

CO

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

boasl : Bank Of America Merrill Lynch International Ltd | grtsam : Archer Capital | bainca : Bain
Capital, LLC | dwitd : Morgan Stanley | myob : MYOB Group Ltd. | ncnbco : Bank of America
Corporation
i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302021 : Applications Software |
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150203 :
Private Equity | i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | ialtinv : Alternative
Investments | ibnk : Banking/Credit | icomp : Computing | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv :
Investing/Securities | itech : Technology | iventure : Venture Capital
c1711 : Initial Public Offerings | c14 : Stock Listings | c02 : Corporate Changes | c17 : Corporate
Funding | c171 : Share Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia
Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141026eaar00029

Page170of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.