MIRAGE PLAN NO TALL TALE

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
MIRAGE PLAN NO TALL TALE

QUENTIN TOD
504 words
1 September 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
42
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Two Gold Coast hotel sites are proving real gems with international firms that are keen to raise the
stakes, and the roof, to capitalise on their unique potential.

THE late Christopher Skase might well have been appalled, but there’s a chance the glamorous
Sheraton Mirage Hotel he built on The Southport Spit could have a taller future.

The beachfront hotel was put on the market last month by its Indian owner, Pearls, which is aiming to
capitalise on what agents handling the sale have described as a “red hot’’ market for hotels. It is
believed at least two potential Sheraton buyers are looking at the feasibility of greatly expanding the
hotel by going higher.
There’s one big problem – there is a three-level height limit on the Sheraton site and any major extra
development might be unviable if the limit were not lifted. That said, the Skase-built Marina Mirage
across the road effectively is, thanks to its sails, more than five levels high.

There’s also one smaller problem for any expansion-minded Sheraton buyer – they might not be able
to move forward for eight years.

Sheraton’s management agreement expires in 2017 but it has an option to renew until 2022. That
might not be a major worry for a buyer with long vision as the hotel’s income could go a long way to
covering holding costs.
The Sheraton sits on a 4ha leasehold site, one that dwarfs the 1.3ha parcel on the southern side of
Surfers Paradise for which the Jewel project is earmarked. China’s Ridong group bought the Jewel
site, which also is absolute beachfront, for $81.8 million in 2009.

It doesn’t take an Einstein to work out that the Sheraton, if height limits were raised even modestly,
could be worth well north of $200 million.

With both the mayor and the State Government very ‘pro’ on the development front, anything is
possible.

An indication of the thinking is the towers that be could come across the road at Mariner’s Cove,
where the Sunland group is mooting a redevelopment that would provide 370 apartments. It is
believed they are intended, if approvals can be gained, to be in two buildings that would be at least
medium rise in height.
The Mariner’s Cove site, like the Sheraton land, has a three-level height limit. It seems there has been
major offshore interest, much of it Chinese, in the Sheraton since it was put on the market on August
13.
That’s great news for Pearls, which bought the 295-room hotel for $62.5 million in 2009, gave it a $26
million facelift, and at one point was considering adding another 300 rooms.

Page172of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Marketing material describes the property as an “unquestionable development opportunity’’ and
raises doubts over whether a 4ha beachfront site could ever be assembled on the Gold Coast again.If
buyers agree, the Sheraton investment could become a real gem for Pearls.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020140831ea910007m

Page173of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.