Australian Equities Roundup -- Market Talk

Australian Equities Roundup -- Market Talk

HD
WC 3,999 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

5 August 2014
15:06
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

TD

0716 - The Australian dollar should be capped in the upcoming session by the Australian trade balance
and its central bank's policy stance, says ANZ. "While the June headline for retail sales was stronger than
expected, retail spending increased only 0.1% in Q2, keeping markets subdued. This adds to reasons for
the RBA to maintain their neutral bias today," firm says. ANZ adds that the Australian trade deficit is
forecast to remain at AUD$2B. NZD/AUD currently trading at 0.9134. ANZ expects the pair to trade in a
short-term range of 0.9100 to 0.9160. (lucy.craymer@wsj.com; @lucy_craymer)

0722 - NZD/USD, AUD/USD should break higher during the session on better global sentiment, which
saw US equities halt a week-old slide, says Westpac currency strategist Imre Speizer. "There were few
catalysts to point to (for improved sentiment) apart from the Portuguese central bank bailing out the
country's largest lender, containing fears of contagion." Speizer says the highlight of the session will be
the RBA meeting, while trade is also due. NZD/USD at 0.8524 vs 0.8513 late Monday in Wellington.
Westpac expects the pair to break above 0.8535 during the next day. AUD/USD at 0.9334 vs 0.9315 late
Monday in Sydney. Westpac expects a move above 0.9335 in the next day. (lucy.craymer@wsj.com;
@lucy_craymer)

0853 - CSL's (CSL.AU) FY14 NPAT growth should meet or beat guidance for 10% growth in constant
currency and before adjustment for legal settlement, according to UBS. It also sees scope for a new share
buyback program and guidance for 10% profit growth in FY15. UBS is keeping a buy rating and A$80
target. CSL last at A$64.94. (david.rogers@wsj.com; Twitter: @DavidRogersWSJ)

0907 - Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens has talked extensively in recent times about
how readers should interpret the bank's language or guidance. Michael Blythe, chief economist at the
Commonwealth Bank of Australia, said there will therefore be much analysis of the final paragraph of the
post-meeting statement when it is published at 0430 GMT. Blythe says the most likely outcome is that the
previous reference to a likely "period of stability" in rates remains. But if the reference is dropped it
shouldn't be construed as a signal that the RBA is preparing to raise interest rates, he adds. Stevens said
recently a wording change would still be consistent with low rates. (james.glynn@wsj.com; Twitter
@JamesGlynnWSJ)

0907 - Credit Suisse cut Crown Resorts Ltd. (CWN.AU) to Underperform from Neutral on valuation after
the stock hit its A$16.30 ($15.17) target last week. CWN last A$15.82. (david.rogers@wsj.com; Twitter:
@DavidRogersWSJ)

0919 - Credit Suisse ups its target price for Gryphon Minerals (GRY.AU) by 8% to A$0.27/share, retains
an outperform call, after becoming more confident about the miner's Banfora gold project in Burkina Faso.
Monday's release of a definitive feasibility study into Banfora confirms it to be a viable project. A negative
is that an earlier study pegged the net present value of Banfora at US$154 million, but this has now fallen
to US$81 million. Gryphon is targeting an 18-month construction period, with the first gold to be poured
in 1Q 2016. The project is fully permitted. GRY last traded at A$0.185. (david.winning@wsj.com;
@dwinningWSJ)

0922 - Bank of America Merrill Lynch sees a strong earnings growth outlook for JB Hi-Fi's (JBH.AU)
across FY15 and FY16 as well as increased capital management potential. The broker says JBH could
sustainably increase its dividend payout ratio to 85% from 60% currently, triggering a potential share price
rise of up to 15%. It also says JBH could undertake an A$85 million share buy-back in FY15 and FY16.

Page361of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."This would lead to up to 6% EPS accretion in FY16 providing an attractive supplement to the 10%
organic earnings growth we have forecast," BAML analysts Michael Courtney and David Errington say.
JBH last A$19.75. (david.rogers@wsj.com; Twitter: @DavidRogersWSJ)
0922 - For Australia's Aristocrat Leisure (ALL.AU), a frenzy of M&A in the slot-machine industry means the
odds of continued market share gains are improving. And that's a good thing, says Credit Suisse, because
the prospects of U.S. slot-machine gambling remain poor. The broker notes that an aging baby-boomer
population and squeeze on incomes aren't being offset with younger players. The result is that industry
players are trying to grow via M&A instead, the latest example being Scientific Games's (SGMS) US$3.3
billion takeover bid for Bally Technologies (BYI). Credit Suisse models a 10% decline in U.S.
slot-machine demand to 67,000 units for 2014, adding there's downside risk to its assumption of flat
demand in 2015. It rates Aristocrat at neutral with a A$6.00 price target. ALL last traded at A$5.54.
(david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

0930 - Australian consumer confidence fell a modest 1.0% to 115.0 in the week ended Aug. 3 to sit a
touch above its long-run average, according to a survey by the ANZ Bank. ANZ expects that
consumer-spending growth will remain moderate this year, amid only modest wages growth. Weakness in
household perceptions about economic conditions in a year's time, pulled confidence lower over the week.
"Consumer confidence appears to have stabilised at or just above long-run average levels reflecting
strong asset price gains, better job prospects and an improving world economy," said Warren Hogan,
chief economist at ANZ Bank. (james.glynn@wsj.com; Twitter @JamesGlynnWSJ)

0930 - Activity in Australia's services sector showed some improvement in July from June, but overall,
activity continues to contract. The Australian Industry Group Australian Performance of Services Index
was up 1.7 points to a mildly contractionary level of 49.3 (readings below 50 points indicate contraction).
Sales and new orders improved, but found some offsets in supplier deliveries, stocks and employment
conditions. AIG said businesses are still unwilling to commit more working capital or to hire more staff due
to the relatively flat economic outlook. Only three of the nine services sub-sectors expanded in July, as
was the case in June, it added. (james.glynn@wsj.com; Twitter @JamesGlynnWSJ)
0930 - Citi lifts Treasury Wine Estates (TWE.AU) to neutral from sell as the shares are now trading in line
with a raised bid from KKR and Rhone Group. The brokerage says although TWE's earnings are
depressed by short-term challenges and management's vision for the future is compelling, the risks in the
wine industry suggest shareholders are unlikely to reject the higher offer. The timing for the offer is
excellent given conditions in Australia and New Zealand are still suffering from TWE's decision to pull
back on promotions in November, while in the U.S. the company is struggling to keep pace with the
market and excess inventory issues are still to be resolved. Citi raises its target price on TWE to
A$5.20/share from A$4.70. TWE last traded at A$5.15. (robb.stewart@wsj.com; Twitter:
@RobbMStewart)

0939 - Citi's target for Navitas Ltd. (NVT.AU) rose to A$5.80/share ($5.40) from A$4.95 after the
company signed a 10-year agreement to establish a university pathway program with Florida Atlantic
University, Navitas' sixth U.S. partnership. The brokerage has a buy stance, arguing the market's worries
about recent contract loses should, in time, switch to renewed enthusiasm for its U.S. growth strategy as
student numbers grow. "At the current share price, little is being factored in for U.S. growth despite the
significant opportunity ahead in that market." NVT last traded at A$4.95. (robb.stewart@wsj.com; Twitter:
@RobbMStewart)

0944 - Another steady Reserve Bank of Australia rate decision is anticipated at 0430 GMT, with a neutral
bias intact, says Elsa Lignos, senior currency strategist at RBC Capital Markets. The RBA will repeat that
"a period of stability" in rates is likely. Ms. Lignos says Friday's Statement on Monetary Policy from the
RBA will be watched for any changes to the RBA's macro forecasts, but RBC doesn't think they'll be
substantial. The RBA's core inflation forecast will be broadly unchanged at 2.5% over the next 18 months,
with GDP forecasts remaining slightly below trend. (james.glynn@wsj.com; Twitter @JamesGlynnWSJ)
0953 - Scientific Games's (SGMS) recommended US$3.3 billion takeover offer for Bally Technologies
(BYI) will make Australia's Aristocrat Leisure (ALL.AU) a distant third in the North American slot machine,
with around 15% market share. But Citi analyst Michael Goltsman sees a silver lining. "Near term we see
industry consolidation as a positive tailwind for Aristocrat's market share as competitors are inevitably
disrupted," Goltsman says. Issues facing Scientific Games include a heavily geared balance sheet, which
could impact its ability to invest in innovation, benefiting rivals such as Aristocrat. Citi rates Aristocrat a
buy, with a A$6.00 price target. ALL last traded at A$5.54. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

0957 - S&P/ASX 200 is likely to be flat to higher before the RBA meeting concludes at 0430 GMT.
Economists unanimously expect the RBA to keep interest rates on hold this month. However, while most
expect interest rates to stay on hold before a rise in late 2015, Goldman Sachs still expects a September
2014 cut, so although a cut this month is unlikely, sellers may hold their fire before the interest rates

Page362of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.decision. Overnight, the S&P 500 rose 0.7% after falling 3.8% last week, and BHP (BHP.AU) ADR's rose
to A$38.54, up 0.6% on BHP Australian close. Also, the Shanghai Composite closed up 1.7%. LME
copper rose 0.6%, Nymex crude oil gained 0.6% and spot iron ore rose 0.2%. Thus the S&P/ASX 200
has mostly positive offshore leads after Monday's 0.3% fall to 5540.9. (david.rogers@wsj.com; Twitter:
@DavidRogersWSJ)

5 Aug 2014 01:06 ET Australian Equities Roundup -- Market Talk -2-

0959 - The pipeline of prospective initial public offerings over the next 12 months in Australia looks fairly
full, with investment managers receiving a steady stream of pre-IPO research from sponsoring investment
banks. Hugh Dive, head of listed securities at Philo Capital Advisors, says his Philo currently receives
about two to three 80- to 100-page research reports a week. The two biggest IPOs expected to list in the
coming year are government-owned Medibank Private and share registry company Link Market Services,
he says, adding he anticipates taking a very close look at the former. "Typically when the government is
the vendor of the IPO, they have an incentive to price the new issue to allow it to perform well after listing
as this is positive for retail investors and voters," Mr. Dive says. As well, he says private health insurance
is easily understood and profitable, and under private management Medibank Private should be able to
raise profits in the near term by reducing the higher cost base normally carried by state-owned
enterprises. (robb.stewart@wsj.com; Twitter: @RobbMStewart)

1008 - Westpac Banking's (WBC.AU) appointment of Dave Curran as chief information officer is positive
as the lender and the industry in Australia grapple with rapidly changing technology and the increase risk
of "digital disruption" to the very profitable market dominance of the major banks, says Morningstar
analyst David Ellis. "Westpac continues to invest heavily on technology and business simplification," Mr.
Ellis says. Mr. Curran, who takes up the new role Monday, earlier led Commonwealth Bank's (CBA.AU)
five-year banking modernization project. Morningstar has a hold recommendation and A$35/share fair
value estimate for Westpac. WBC shares are flat at A$33.85 in early trading. (robb.stewart@wsj.com ;
Twitter: @RobbMStewart)

1017 - High-yield Australian blue chips including ANZ (ANZ.AU), CBA (CBA.AU), NAB (NAB.AU), Telstra
(TLS.AU), Westpac (WBC.AU), Woolworths (WOW.AU) and Woodside (WPL.AU) are vulnerable to
profit-taking from retail investors as volatility increases, Bell Potter Executive Director Charlie Aitken says.
"If this happens at the same time as global investors start locking in multi-year profits in yield compression
trading strategies, which has already started, then it will be hard for a period to find the marginal new
buyer of these names." (david.rogers@wsj.com; Twitter: @DavidRogersWSJ)
1025 - Deutsche Bank has offered a rather sobering assessment of KKR and Rhone Group's
A$5.20/share bid for Treasury Wine (TWE.AU), saying they appear to be offering too much and could
walk away once they've had a good look at the vintner's books. "In our view, an acquisition at A$5.20
would be a very good outcome for shareholders given it would represent a price much higher than where
we believe fundamental value lies," the broker says. At that price, Deutsche Bank reckons the buyers
would only be able to generate an internal rate of return of below 10%, even if they tip in very high levels
of debt.(Ross.Kelly@wsj.com)
1035 - If you want to take the pulse of the Australian mining sector then an annual pilgrimage to the
gold-rush town of Kalgoorlie in Western Australia state for the Diggers & Dealers conference is in order. A
check on the bald attendance statistics would suggest that the mood in the industry is glum. According to
Deutsche Bank analyst Brett McKay, attendance at this year's conference is down 5% on year at 1,850
delegates. It's also well below the peak attendance of 2,500 in 2012. However, McKay reports that the
conference crowd "appears relatively upbeat and enthusiastic." Gold and nickel miners have most to
cheer, with prices ahead of where they sat at the start of January. In contrast, prices of iron ore and
thermal coal--Australia's two largest exports--have fallen 29% and 19% so far this year.
(david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

1041 - The significant capex needed plus the likely relatively low returns means Crown Resorts'
(CWN.AU) Las Vegas push is negative for the company, says Deutsche Bank. Crown is forming a
majority-owned company to buy a vacant site on the Vegas strip, with costs to date for Crown estimated
at about US$280 million. The brokerage estimates the project will cost roughly A$3 billion-A$4 billion
and Crown will struggle to generate a return on capital above 10%. The cost may have implications for
future dividends and may mean Crown doesn't continue to pursue the Queen's Wharf project in Brisbane,
Australia. Still, Deutsche Bank retains a buy recommendation and A$19.40/share target on CWN. CWN is
trading down 2.5% at A$15.43. (robb.stewart@wsj.com; Twitter: @RobbMStewart)

1109 - The NZD/JPY would have more room to advance than the AUD/JPY as New Zealand has already
entered a tightening cycle, says Marito Ueda, director at FX Prime by GMO Corp. "A rate cut cycle in
Australia appears to be over, but the economy isn't strong enough to raise rates. It is still subject to
energy prices and the Chinese economy," he says. Meanwhile, the NZD/JPY could eventually rise to

Page363of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.90.00, he adds. It is at 87.41. Traders are mindful of the RBA's verbal intervention to rein in the AUD's rise
when the central bank will announce the outcome of its policy meeting later in the day. Ueda says the
market has priced in the lack of any policy change and a possible statement checking the AUD's rise. The
AUD/JPY is at 95.68, down from its session high of 95.78. (tatsuo.ito@wsj.com)

1121 - Australia's S&P/ASX 200 falls 0.3% to 5526.2 before the RBA meeting concludes at 0430 GMT. "It
was good to see a rebound in the U.S. market on the bank of stronger earnings reports," Macquarie
Private Wealth division director Martin Lakos says. "I think markets are comfortable that there's no risk of
contagion either out of Argentina or Portugal (in relation to their debt problems). Crown (CWN.AU) falls
3.2% after Credit Suisse cut its rating to Underperform from Neutral. Major banks fall 0.2%-0.4% and BHP
(BHP.AU) declines 0.5%. Cochlear (COH.AU) jumps 7.4% after expressing confidence in its FY15
outlook, following record 2H14 sales despite a regulatory delay in the launch of its Nucleus 6 hearing
implant. (david.rogers@wsj.com; Twitter: @DavidRogersWSJ)

1128 - The outlook for Australia's banking system remains stable, a reflection of anticipated sustained
economic growth and stable asset quality over the coming 12-18 months, says Moody's Investors Service.
Frank Mirenzi, a Moody's vice president and senior analyst, says growth in resource-related exports
should underpin headline economic growth of about 3% for 2014 and again for 2015. At the same time,
while rising house prices are being watched, developments aren't yet a threat to banks' credit profiles
since the rise hasn't been fueled by excessive credit growth or loosening lending standards, he says.
Indeed, he finds that low interest rates have allowed a high level of mortgage prepayments, which should
provide a buffer against any borrower stress. The banks' capitalization levels, which Moody's says are
already at high levels, are likely to improve further as lenders ready themselves for additional Basel III
capital requirements that will be implemented in 2016. (robb.stewart@wsj.com; Twitter: @RobbMStewart)

1204 - The Aussie dollar jumped as high as 1.0963 from 1.0946 against its New Zealand counterpart
Tuesday after Australia's June trade deficit came in at A$1.68 billion, narrower than the consensus
forecast of a A$2.0 billion deficit. But the cross quickly pulls back as caution prevails ahead of the
Reserve Bank of Australia's cash rate decision due at 0430 GMT. Spot AUD/NZD was last at 1.0950
versus 1.0947 in late New York trade Monday. (jerry.tan@wsj.com)
1218 - Australia's S&P/ASX 200 continues to fall, hitting a 3-week low of 5517.6 after disappointing China
services sector data. HSBC Markit's China services PMI fell to 50.0 in July vs 53.1 in June, the lowest
reading in the nearly nine-year history of the release. The data are weighing on iron-ore miners, with BHP
(BHP.AU), Rio Tinto (RIO.AU) and Fortescue (FMG.AU) down 0.7%-1.4%. Financials remain weak, with
the four major banks down 0.4%-0.6%. The index is down 0.4% at 5518.7. (david.rogers@wsj.com;
Twitter: @DavidRogersWSJ)
1236 - The China-sensitive Australian dollar slipped as low as 95.54 from 95.68 against the yen Tuesday
after the HSBC China services PMI fell to 50.0 in July from 53.1 in June, in contrast with the Markit Japan
services PMI which rose to 50.4 in July from 49.0 in June. Further downside in the Aussie/yen cross may
encounter support at 95.37--the Monday low which is currently near the 55-day moving average. Spot
AUD/JPY was recently at 95.57 versus 95.73 late Monday. (jerry.tan@wsj.com)

1252 - A deterioration in Australia's trade performance over the second quarter may see 1.5 percentage
points cut from GDP, Deutsche Bank chief economist Adam Boyton says. But that will be shortlived,
Boyton says. Second-quarter capital imports won't continue as mining investment retreats. Combined
with continuing growth in nonrural exports should see net exports contribute to growth beyond the second
quarter, he adds. Boyton forecasts quarter-over-quarter GDP growth of 0.5% in the second quarter.
(james.glynn@wsj.com; Twitter @JamesGlynnWSJ)

1259 - Macquarie reiterates its underperform rating on Cochlear (COH.AU) due to slow growth in unit
sales. "Our fundamental concern for Cochlear however (sales growth) remains unresolved, with new
patient growth (unit sales) for the year of only +1.4%, something we find incongruous with the company's
1-year forward PE multiple of 28 times," the broker says. COH last up 8.3% at A$67.71.
(david.rogers@wsj.com; Twitter: @DavidRogersWSJ)

5 Aug 2014 01:06 ET Australian Equities Roundup -- Market Talk -3-
1310 - Transurban's (TCL.AU) operating profit of A$934 million beats Macquarie's expectation of A$927
million, while free cashflow surprises even more on the upside, helping to justify the broker's "outperform"
recommendation on the toll road operator's stock. Solid progress on road upgrades, including a widening
of the M5 in Sydney, will likely start contributing to profits in 2Q15, Macquarie says. "(The) growth outlook
remains strong, and the continuing fall in funding costs gives Transurban capacity to grow into new
projects like NorthConnex." Work on the NorthConnex project in northwestern Sydney is due to start next
year. Transurban was last down 1 cent at A$7.64 vs. Macquarie's price target of A$8.26.
(Ross.Kelly@wsj.com)

Page364of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.1319 - Australian fixed-income markets rarely care for monthly international trade data, but the string of
large deficits in April, May and June have lead some analysts to ask, "Where is the growth coming from?"
said Annette Beacher, Singapore-based Head of Asia-Pacific Research at TD Securities. The Australian
yield curve is flat ahead of the central bank policy meeting outcome at 0430 GMT, she said. The
Australian overnight indexed swap curve is "dead flat" at 2.5%, she added, not even pricing in a plus 25
basis points by 2015-end. Beacher is forecasting two rate increases over this time.
(james.glynn@wsj.com; Twitter @JamesGlynnWSJ)
1457 - Las Vegas would round out Crown Resorts' (CWN.AU) portfolio of operations but the high-profile
gambling market is mature and highly competitive, which limits the potential return on investment, says
Goldman Sachs. The size, scale and scope of the project have yet to be disclosed but the company
expects to break ground in late 2015 and complete work in 2018. Goldman Sachs estimates Crown will
spend about A$1.6 billion on Crown Las Vegas, on top of the roughly A$300 million spent so far. The
brokerage retains a buy recommendation and A$20.80/share target. CWN is trading 3.9% lower at
A$15.21. (robb.stewart@wsj.com; Twitter: @RobbMStewart)

1502 - Australia's central bank has blamed higher 2Q inflation on last year's fall in the exchange rate, but
it believes low wages growth will keep inflation in check, even if the exchange rate were to fall. "Growth in
wages has declined noticeably and is expected to remain relatively modest over the period ahead, which
should keep inflation consistent with the target even with lower levels of the exchange rate," the RBA said
after its board meeting. With economic growth still expected to be "a little below trend" in the year ahead,
and wages growth remaining low, the RBA is betting that a lower exchange won't push up import prices.
(david.rogers@wsj.com; Twitter: @DavidRogersWSJ)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

August 05, 2014 01:06 ET (05:06 GMT)

NS

RE

e1118 : Trade Figures | ecat : Economic News | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial
Market News | namt : All Market Talk | nsmcm : Stock Market Commentary | nrmf : Routine
Market/Financial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South
Wales

PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020140805ea85000fa

Page365of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.