Pernod buy good for local labels

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Pernod buy good for local labels

BLAIR SPEEDY, WINE
472 words
2 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
22
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Liquor giant Pernod Ricard has acquired its first US winery in a move the company says will accelerate
sales of labels including Australian-made Jacob’s Creek in the world’s largest and most profitable wine
market.

Jean-Christophe Coutures, chief of Pernod Ricard Winemakers, said the purchase of Kenwood
Vineyards of California from US wine company F Korbel & Bros would rapidly expand Pernod’s reach
in the US via Kenwood’s distribution network across 50 states.

“We are only No 16 in the US wine market, whereas in every other large wine market in the world we’re
in the top three wine companies,” Mr Coutures said.

“The big issue we have is access to distribution, and Kenwood gives us larger and stronger distribution
access which will benefit the rest of our brands.” In a system dating back to the repeal of alcohol
prohibition in the US in 1933, liquor producers can sell to retailers only via state-based distribution
companies.

But rather than preventing liquor manufacturers from gaining excessive market power as planned, the
system has more recently acted as a barrier to entry for competitors seeking to crack the US.

Kenwood produces more than 500,000 cases a year, with an average retail price of $US10 ($10.77) a
bottle, although its “super premium” range sells for up to $US45 a bottle.

The acquisition, which includes about 100ha of vineyards, a winery and the rights to the Kenwood
brands, is believed to have cost about $100 million but the final price will not be revealed until
settlement next month.

In addition to being a conduit for Pernod’s Australian, New Zealand, Spanish and Argentinian wines, Mr
Coutures said Kenwood would also be targeted for growth with an increase in marketing spend and a
push into the unexplored export market.
“It has a lot of growth potential. The brand has heritage, it’s always had consistent quality, and we think
it can double its case sales in three to five years,” he said.
“We have big ambitions in China and the US — but we didn’t have any brands in the US, and US-made
wine represents 80 per cent of consumption there, so in order to be credible and reach our goal of
doubling our business in the US, we needed to make an acquisition.” Mr Coutures said Pernod would
be interested in buying the US assets of Australian wine major Treasury Wine Estates, which owns
several wineries including Beringer, Stag’s Leap and Chateau St Jean.TWE boss Mike Clarke last
month said the company’s US business was too important to give up, despite suffering a series of
writedowns including a $160m hit on excess inventory that last year cost his predecessor David Dearie
his job.

CO

prnod : Pernod-Ricard SA

Page165of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

i426 : Wine | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge :
Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods | i424 : Distilling
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North
America
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140501ea520008t

Page166of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.