Our food producers on top of the global menu

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Our food producers on top of the global menu

PAUL GILDER
463 words
22 November 2014
The Advertiser
ADVTSR
Advertiser
79
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

AUSSIE food companies remain a global target after the local arm of a Brazilian-owned meat processing
giant brought home the bacon by gobbling up smallgoods producer Primo Group in a billion-dollar deal.
JBS Australia, a division of Brazil’s JBS SA, the world’s biggest food processing company, yesterday
announced it had signed a $1.45 billion deal to acquire the 29-year-old family business. Primo, which
is Australia’s biggest ham, ba-con and smallgoods producer, had been 70.1 per cent owned by the
Asia-Pacific based pri-vateequity groupAffinity Equity Partners since 2011.

The NSW company’s brands include Primo Smallgoods, Hans and Beehive, and it boasts a
3000-strong workforce and five processing plants across Australia and New Zealand.
The deal comes hot on the heels of a $1.3 billion Singaporean-Hong Kong joint offer for breadmaker
Goodman Fielder and bookends a year in which Canadian dairy group Saputo waged a fierce battle for
control of Warrnambool Cheese and Butter, falling just short of a full takeover in February. A separate
$3.4 billion attempt by US agribusiness Archer Daniels Midland to take over grains handler GrainCorp
was blocked by Treasurer Joe Hockey on national interest grounds late last year.
IG Markets strategist Evan Lucas said the recent signing of a free-trade agreement with China, our
biggest trading partner, had helped to put Australian agribusinesses front of mind among global
investors.

“These sort of deals are probably going to be a fairly regular thing over the next year and a bit,” Mr
Lucas said.
“China has put the Australian foodbowl at the front of peoples’ minds and this brings a company like
Bega Cheese into play.” It also comes as local movers and shakers Andrew Forrest, chairman of
Fortescue Metals, and billionaireGina Rinehart invested millions in beef and milk producers
respectively to cash in on the expected boom in demand from China’s increasingly affluent middle-class.

JBS Australia chief Brent Eastwood said the acquisition provided a great opportunity for JBS to expand
Primo’s sales into offshore markets, including China, adding: “JBS intends to position Primo Group as
the platform for exports in smallgoods to Asia. There is a vast opportunity for the export of Australian
pork related smallgoods . . . that has thus far gone largely untapped.” Primo Group chief Paul Hitchcock
welcomed the sale to JBS. He said: “While it will remain very much business as usual for our
employees, suppliers and customers, this transaction offers tremendous opportunities for a producer of
high quality products like Primo.
“We look forward to being part of JBS and capitalising on its international distribution network.”The sale
is subject to regulatory approvals.

CO

fdgl : Goodman Fielder Ltd | fribol : Grupo JBS SA | afipp : Affinity Equity Partners Pte Ltd

Page231of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

ifood : Food Products | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods | i412 : Animal
Slaughtering/Processing | i4122 : Meat Processing | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150203
: Private Equity | ialtinv : Alternative Investments | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document ADVTSR0020141121eabm0007i

Page232of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.