Saved by the fat of the land

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Saved by the fat of the land

Trevor Paddenburg
910 words
13 July 2014
The Sunday Times (Perth)
SUNTIP
SundayTimes
14
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

FERTILE SOIL IS THE NEW BLACK GOLD AS WA FARMERS CASH IN ON ASIAN APPETITES
FOR SUSTAINABLE FOOD

THE fat of the land is cutting WA’s reliance on the mining boom, with farmers entering a new golden
age in agriculture.

Production is being ramped up from the Kimberley to the Wheatbelt and the South-West as the need to
feed two billion soon-to-be middle-class Chinese citizens drives a boom in wheat and grain, beef and
livestock, dairy, seafood, fruit and vegetable production.

In an interview with The Sunday Times, Agriculture Minister Ken Baston said it was more than a boom
because “a boom is followed by a bust’’.
“We’re only scratching the surface. China and our markets in Indonesia, Vietnam and the Middle East
are accelerating very quickly. The numbers are astronomical,’’ Mr Baston said.
“The amount of sheep eaten in China is 2.8kg per person per year. If we pushed that up to 10kg, we’d
be looking for 60 million lambs.’’ Land use maps show almost two-thirds of the state is now being
used for pastoral farming, cropping, intensive livestock grazing, dairy, horticulture or viticulture. Only
the arid interior of the state is unused.

And WA’s farming bonanza is about to spread from dry land to aquaculture as well.

Giant “industrial estates’’ off the coast of WA are being set aside for big-scale aquaculture.

It means businesses can bypass many of the costly and lengthy environmental approvals to launch a
commercial fish farming or aquaculture project because the Fisheries Department will already have
them in place.

An aquaculture industrial zone in the Kimberley is close to being approved and a second one at the
Abrolhos Islands off Geraldton is in the planning stages with approval likely for 2016.

Latest Department of Agriculture figures shows exports to Iran jumped 500 per cent in a year and
exports to Iraq (276 per cent), Philippines (254 per cent), Vietnam (158 per cent) and Pakistan (131
per cent) also soared.

Mutton exports jumped more than 60 per cent in a year, animal product exports leapt 50 per cent and
wheat jumped 46 per cent. Cattle exports to China are up 400 per cent in one year.
Four-fifths of the food grown in WA is feeding overseas markets in a $5.5 billion annual windfall for the
state and West Australians.

Page154of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.WA Farmers president Dale Park said the export figures were nothing compared to the expected boom
years ahead.

While it was only 5 per cent of WA export earnings and was dwarfed by minerals and energy exports,
he said the “gap is closing’’.
“It’s started. It’s for real. Keep watching this space,’’ Mr Park said. “China can’t be over-estimated. The
market is just huge and the potential growth is even bigger.
“We’re going to have two billion extra people in the middle class in China and ... Asia. All our
production is a drop in the ocean for China but what we have is incredibly good, clean, green
credentials.’’ Billionaire Andrew Forrest recently spent more than $35 million to buy Harvey Beef and
to triple the size of his Pilbara cattle grazing land to tap into the industry’s “holy grail’’ – selling
processed beef and live cattle to China.
Australia’s richest woman, Gina Rinehart, has also moved into beef production for the Chinese market
after buying into two West Kimberley cattle stations. Dairy firm Mundella was sold to a company
backed by China’s Bright Foods, while WA’s biggest red meat producer, V&V Walsh, this month
signed a deal worth $1 billion over five years to sell meat to a big Chinese supplier.

A bumper grain crop last year is expected to be followed by another in 2014, with the latest monthly
crop snapshot by the Grains Industry Association of WA reporting “above average yield potential’’. The
total area of grain now covers 7.3 million hectares in WA.
Dairy farmers are being promised unprecedented bonuses to boost milk production by tens of
millions of litres in a industry-changing deal offered by global dairy giant Parmalat this month, which
bought Harvey Fresh to launch an offensive on markets in China and South-East Asia. Live cattle
exports to Iran have also resumed after a 25-year hiatus.

Chamber of Commerce and Industry WA president Deidre Willmott said an end to the construction
phase of WA’s mining boom was freeing up workers for the boom in agribusiness, which was “big
already but going to be a lot bigger in this state’’.
Carrot grower Francis Tedesco said he couldn’t keep up with demand. Mr Tedesco’s family business,
Sun City Farm, exports an average of 120 tonnes of carrots a day to China, South-East Asia and the
Middle East.

“We could grow a lot more and still not meet the demand,’’ Mr Tedesco said. “Our biggest problem is
trying to find more available land and water. “Everybody has to eat and some of these overseas
markets are very, very big and they’ve realised WA has some very good produce that can fill that niche
at the premium end of the market.’’The Conservation Council WA cautioned farming growth would
come at a cost to the environment, but Mr Baston said the industry was sustainable and would
maintain world-leading environment standards.

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming |
ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
c312 : External Markets | c21 : Output/Production | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
china : China | perth : Perth | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr :
Australia | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries |
dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | waustr : Western Australia
News Ltd.
Document SUNTIP0020140712ea7d0002h

Page155of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.