Restaurant rort or fair play?

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Restaurant rort or fair play?

Julie-anne Sprague
610 words
12 July 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
3
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Credit card fees Hefty surcharges are a big controversy around the dinner table.

It's the little sting at the end of your restaurant meal: calculated to get more money out of you and a
hot topic among restaurateurs today. Should you be charged for the ease of using your credit card?
And how much will you bear?

John Kanis, general manager for The Lucas Group's hit Melbourne restaurants Chin Chin, Baby and
Kong, said credit card surcharges are currently one of the most debated issues across the restaurant
industry.

"It's been a massive topic of controversy for us," Mr Kanis said.

For years, only American Express and Diners Club cards attracted surcharges. Now the practice is
spreading to Visa and MasterCard purchases, and thousands more diners are incurring fees on
everything from a cup of coffee to expensive restaurant meals.

Says Mr Kanis of the temptation: "We at one stage pulled the trigger and we were going to do it. In
the end, we didn't. We didn't think our guests would like it."

But Perth's hip American whiskey bar and restaurant, Varnish on King, began charging consumers a
1 per cent surcharge for MasterCard and Visa payments about six months ago.

Owner Andy Freeman said it was an equitable way to recoup transaction costs, which add up to tens
of thousands of dollars a year. Customers paying cash, or using debit cards, are not hit with the fee.

"I don't think it's unfair," Mr Freeman said. "Costs for our industry keep going up. We never have the
luxury of things going south. We are not making money on it [surcharges]."

In Sydney, Biaggio Cafe charges customers using tap-and-go credit card payments for coffee
purchases.

Manager Francis Nastasi said consumers are charged a 20¢ surcharge when they spend less than
$10 and use a credit card. "A lot of people have business credit cards. They have meetings here and
buy two coffees and use the credit card to pay for them. We incur the fees," he said.

The trend for increasing numbers of restaurants to charge credit card fees comes amid attempts by
government regulators to clamp down on excessive surcharges which are often applied in industries
with little competition such as airlines, taxis and utilities companies. Customers are regularly charged
much more than the transaction cost.

Merchants themselves can be charged fees by payment providers and banks, ranging from about
0.82 per cent of the transaction's value for Visa and MasterCard and 1.5 per cent for American
Express, to a 12¢ flat fee for eftpos.

Page189of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Freeman, who also owns Luxe Bar and Darlings Supper Club, said he could put food or alcohol
prices up but felt the surcharge, which is advertised on Varnish's menus, was the fairer way.
"I guess I could hide it," he said. "I know other restaurants do that. I guess I'm damned if I do and
damned if I don't. I think I'm doing it in an honest way."

MWE Consulting director Mike Ebstein said restaurateurs may be short-sighted in applying
surcharges as it could prompt more consumers to switch to cash. "Credit card customers typically
spend more than other customers," he said. "If they don't have the exact dollars in their wallet they
are more likely to splash out on a more expensive bottle of wine because they're putting it on the
card."
Mr Ebstein said transaction costs were simply a cost of doing business. "Do you apply a surcharge
for advertising? For staff overtime?"

lcsrxs : Lucas Group
i6611 : Full-service Restaurants | i8150108 : Credit Cards | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i66 :
Hotels/Restaurants | i661 : Restaurants/Cafes/Fast Food Places | i81501 : Credit Types/Services |
ifinal : Financial Services | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality | iplastic : Plastic Cards | i8395404 : Human
Resources/Executive Searching | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140711ea7c00008

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

Page190of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.