JLL puts value on city

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
JLL puts value on city

JENNY ROGERS JENNY.ROGERS@NEWS.COM.AU
427 words
20 June 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
61
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

GLOBAL real estate services firmJones Lang LaSalle is making its presence felt on the Gold Coast,
recruiting two of the city’s leading valuers to its ranks.

The move comes ahead of an influx of Australian and foreign investment into the Gold Coast which will
see the city’s property sector surge.

John Muchall and Lisa Murdoch, both former directors of LandMark White on the Gold Coast, will head
up Jones Lang LaSalle’s new Gold Coast office at 64 Marine Parade, Southport.
The property firm is making an aggressive push into the valuation sector, recently almost doubling its
valuation and advisory business in Queensland.

It also appointed industry figures Troy Linnane and Dennis Morgan to its Brisbane office, a move which
saw virtually the entire Queensland residential development valuation team from Colliers International
join JLL in Brisbane.

Mr Muchall and Ms Murdoch have a wealth of experience in the Gold Coast market. Mr Muchall valued
most of the city’s highrise projects including the Hilton, Ephraim Island, The Sovereign Islands and unit
projects from Coolangatta to Hope Island.
Ms Murdoch has valued virtually every commercial office building and local shopping centre in the
city.

The pair said they planned to leverage the strength of JLL’s international brand to tap into the flood of
Chinese investment set to flow into the city.
“The Chinese will be major players in the Gold Coast, massive,” Mr Muchall said. “There is huge
money coming from China; they already have footholds on a number of sites.
“They are also here to stay. I learnt through 15 years working in Hong Kong that they look long term.”
Ms Murdoch said confidence had returned to the city’s commercial property sector.

“The investment market has definitely improved and there are a lot of high net worth individuals looking
to invest in the Coast again,” she said.

“The syndicates and smaller level funds are also here looking for returns. “Our high vacancy rate is
dropping and investors are able to buy many blue chip buildings for less than replacement cost.” Mr
Muchall said while the banks remained wary of risk they were no longer shunning the Coast and were
starting to fund developments projects.

However, Mr Muchall said he hoped the development was rolled out at a pace that ensured the city did
not return to a state of oversupply.“We’d like to have steady sustainable growth to see the Gold Coast
return to form,” he said.

Page166of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO
IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

lasp : JLL
i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest : Real Estate
gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | queensl :
Queensland
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020140619ea6k0001u

Page167of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.