Mindax aims for survival

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Mindax aims for survival

Jarrod Lucas
335 words
2 May 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
First
89
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

A $52 million deal that could have set Yilgarn iron ore hopeful Mindax on the road to ship out of
an expanded Esperance Port collapsed yesterday, claiming several casualties.
Mindax defied gloomy markets in October by signing a deal with Hong Kong’s Perpetual Mining to
develop its Mt Forrest project, 165km north-west of Menzies.

But the joint venture failed to comply with Australian Securities Exchange listing rules.

The fallout was evident yesterday as Mindax axed several executives and most of its Perth staff.

Long-serving chairman Gilbert George will retire and managing director Steve Ward will go, along
with chief financial officer and company secretary Chris Pougnault and exploration boss John
Vinar.

“It’s frustrating and disappointing because we know we’ve got good projects,” Dr Ward said.

“We are in a set of circumstances economically which are very challenging but we’re not alone in
that regard.
“The company has to survive and will survive and re-emerge again in the future.”
Perpetual Mining was reviewing its position on Mindax last month and Dr Ward hopes to resurrect
talks before he leaves on May 31.

The new-look Mindax, which held $651,000 in cash at the end of the March quarter, will be headed
by chairman-elect Benjamin Chow, Yonggang Li and Andrew Tsang, whose personal and
company holdings amount to a 19 per cent stake.

Eric Loh sits on the board as the representative of Mindax’s single biggest shareholder,
Singapore-based The Lion Group, which holds 12.5 per cent.

Delays over the long-awaited multi-user terminal at Esperance have not helped Mindax’s cause.
Junior iron ore companies have been waiting since March for a deci sion from Transport Minister
Dean Nalder on the preferred proponent picked by Esperance Ports Sea and Land.
Yilgarn Iron Producers Association chief executive David Utting described Mindax’s “hibernation”
as a wake-up call to the State Government.

Mindax shares last traded at 6¢.

NS
RE

ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

Page122of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140501ea5200049

Page123of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.