Global coal roundup: A weekly review of top international stories

Exclusive

Rohan Somwanshi

SE
HD Global coal roundup: A weekly review of top international stories
BY
WC 1,697 words
PD
12 May 2014
SN
SNL Daily Coal Report
SC
DCOAL
VOL Issue: 80473
LA
CY
LP

English
Copyright 2014. SNL Financial LC

A roundup of international coal news from April 30 to May 9.

Europe

TD

United Kingdom: The U.K.'s Advertising Standards Authority has kicked off a probe into an allegedly
misleading online advertisement by U.S.-based Peabody Energy Corp., which claimed that coal could be
used as a way to curb energy inequalities in the developing world, EurActive.com reported. The brochure
is titled "Let's brighten the many faces of global energy poverty."
The oldest coal-fired power plant facility in the U.K., operated by Renewable Electricity and gas supplier
SSE Plc, will be shut down, which could put 83 jobs at risk, BBC News reported. Built about 50 years ago,
the Uskmouth facility was U.K.'s least efficient coal plant, according to SSE.
Poland: Poland-based coal miner Bogdanka posted an 11% year-over-year decline in its first-quarter net
profit due to depressed coal prices, Reuters reported. The company is expecting coal prices to decline
further in 2014. Some analysts expect coal prices in Poland to decline 11% in 2014.
Turkey: Turkey is engaged in talks with China to develop a massive lignite coal deposit and a coal-fired
power plant, a deal that will require investments in the range of $10 billion to $12 billion, the South
China Morning Post reported May 7, citing Turkish Energy Minister Taner Yildiz. Yildiz said he was not
sure when a deal could be finalized with China. However, Yildiz said the "big project" includes building an
8,000-MW coal plant as well as developing the Afsin-Elbistan coalfield. The Afsin-Elbistan region
accounts for up to 45% of Turkey's lignite coal reserves.

Russia
Russian Railways plans to gradually increase the coal tonnage that each train hauls over the east-west
Baikal-Amur Mainline (BAM) by up to one-third, to improve throughput volumes of the raw material. The
vertically integrated company plans to eventually transport from 6,000 tonnes to 6,300 tonnes of coal per
train from 4,800 tonnes now, a source within RZhD told SNL Metals & Mining on May 8.
Russian Railways President Viktor Yakunin said recently that the company will be unable to acquire
metals and mining group Mechel OAO's rail link to its Elgin coking coal deposit, a company source told
SNL Metals & Mining on May 8. Yakunin said the federal government is unwilling to provide the funding
required, which RZhD itself does not have, the source added. The rail link, which is about 300 kilometers
long, connects Elgin with the east-west Baikal-Amur Mainline and allows access to ports in Russia's Far
East.

Asia
A new study predicts that coal demand will remain strong in Asia, with coal continuing as a crucial fuel in
the global energy mix in the foreseeable future despite increasing environmental pressures, The Globe
and Mail of Canada reported May 4. The study by Shoichi Itoh, an analyst at Japan's Institute of Energy
Economics, predicts robust Asian coal demand in the long term, even as current global coal markets are
depressed due to a supply glut.

Page65of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.India: Global coal export projects that see India as the next big coal-importing country after China could
face financial risks as the dependence of Indian utilities on expensive imported coal is expected to further
stress their financial positions, according to a briefing note issued by the Institute for Energy Economics
and Financial Analysis. According to the report, importing coal into India from Australia would be
"prohibitively expensive" for the domestic power sector.
Sufficient coal stockpiles available to India's electricity and steel producers drove down the country's coal
imports in April from the year-ago level, Reuters reported May 7, citing provisional data from an Indian
research firm. India imported 15.2 million tonnes of coal in April, down 6% from a year ago, posting the
first decline in three months, according to OreTeam.
Coal India Ltd., which has been falling short of its annual coal production targets in the past few years,
has been asked to boost its output by 9.6%, or 45 million tonnes, during the 2015 fiscal year, a goal that
experts believe would require "an extraordinary effort from the company," the Business Standard of India
reported April 30.
China: The major coal-producing province of Shanxi in China was hit with the sharpest economic growth
slowdown in the first quarter of 2014 as coal demand slipped in light of government plans to reduce
overcapacity and curb air pollution in the country, according to Chinamining.org. In the first quarter, the
Shanxi province posted a 0.13% year-over-year growth to reach 219 million tonnes of coal production,
but declining coal prices had a negative impact on the local economy, the report said.
Indonesia: Indonesia's PT MNC Investama Tbk is planning to develop a $25 million coal terminal in the
country, company executive Darma Putra said, according to a May 1 report from local publication Kontan
as cited by Reuters. The location of the prospective coal terminal was not disclosed and no other details
were given. The project will be financed by a bank loan, according to the report.
ASX-listed Waratah Resources Ltd. has shipped the first 50,000-tonne export cargo of thermal coal from
South Kalimantan, Indonesia, as it continues to develop its commodities trading division. Executive
Chairman Ben Kirkpatrick said May 7 that the company expects to undertake more commodities
transactions in 2014 and is aiming to establish a steady revenue stream from commodities trading. The
first cargo is bound for Shanghai.
Singapore: Singapore Exchange Ltd. is set to launch thermal coal and coking coal contracts in July, a
move to meet demand for hedging tools in Asia amid a weak coal pricing environment, Reuters reported
May 8. The SGX will be the latest Asia-based exchange after Bloomberg News reported that Hong Kong
Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. will start trading in thermal coal futures in 2014. China's Zhengzhou
Commodity Exchange started thermal coal futures trading in September 2013.

Australia
The Queensland government has given the go-ahead to India's Adani Group to develop the A$16.5 billion
Carmichael coal and rail project in western Queenland's Galilee Basin region, Reuters reported May 8.
The operation has the potential to become the largest coal mine in Australia, according to Queensland
Deputy Premier Jeff Seeney. The mine is expected to produce 60 million tonnes per year.
International diversified miner Glencore Xstrata Plc said it is turning away from high-cost coking coal
production in Australia due to a massive decline in prices in recent years. In a production report issued
May 6, Glencore said its first-quarter coking coal output in Australia was down 17% year over year in light
of "a decision to move away from certain high costs mines and areas, [based on] the current weak coal
price environment, and focus on higher margin thermal coal production."
An Australian coal producer denied a news report that suggested it withdrew its proposal to build a coal
export facility at Bunbury in the Western Australia due to weak coal prices and growing debt, Australia's
Collie Mail reported May 6. According to a May 5 report from India's Live Mint, Griffin Coal withdrew its
proposal for the development of the Bunbury Port Berth 14 at the Bunbury Port Inner Harbor. According to
the Mail, Griffin spokesman David Trench said the company withdrew and resubmitted a particular
environmental proposal, in line with its plans to reduce required sea dredging.
Private equity firmDenham Capital Management LP has agreed to commit US$200 million in equity
financing to Australia-based Pembroke Resources to acquire and develop metallurgical coal assets in the
Asia-Pacific region. Newly formed Pembroke Resources is led by the former CEO of Australian coal
producer Gloucester Coal Ltd., Barry Tudor.
Waratah Coal Pty. Ltd., a subsidiary of the Clive Palmer-led Mineralogy Pty. Ltd., has applied for
"preferred developer" status for the A$3 billion Terminal 2 expansion of the Abbot Point coal terminal in
Queensland, The Australian reported May 6. The Terminal 2 development is part of a planned A$9 billion

Page66of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.expansion of Abbot Point, which had become controversial due to the need to dredge and dump spoils
within the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park.
Australian coal markets have continued to struggle, with no signs of recovery in sight after an Australian
coal producer slashed its metallurgical coal contract prices for the quarter ending in June by 16%.
Australia-listed Wesfarmers Ltd. settled its met coal contracts for the April-June quarter 16% below the
previous-quarter levels, the company announced in a May 6 news release. The coal will be supplied from
Wesfarmers' Curraghcoal mine in the Bowen Basin of Queensland.

North America
Mexico: A private company is in the final stages of the permitting process to develop a terminal capable
of exporting 30 million tonnes of U.S. coal per year from northwest Mexico, the top executive of the
company said at the Coaltrans West Coast conference in Vancouver, British Columbia. Daniel Suarez,
CEO of MEXPORT Coal & Minerals Terminal, said the $700 million project is intended to serve Powder
River Basin and Colorado/Utah coals and could be operational by 2017 or early 2018. The coal would be
exported to Asian markets, Suarez said. Suarez said he gauged the interest of several U.S. coal
producers at the Coaltrans West Coast conference in June 2013 and eventually signed confidentiality
agreements with "some of them," though he declined to name the companies.
Canada: A pre-feasibility study undertaken by Australia-listed Atrum Coal NL suggests its Groundhog
anthracite underground coal operation project in British Columbia could produce 5.4 million tonnes of
run-of-mine coal over a 16-year mine life, Mining Weekly reported. The coal deposit contains an
estimated Joint Ore Reserves Committee-compliant coal resource of 1.57 billion tonnes.
This feature was updated as of 2:30 p.m. ET on May 9, 2014. Some external links may require a
subscription.

CO adstds : UK Advertising Standards Authority | nsheb : SSE PLC | pbdy : Peabody Energy Corp | lehbro :

IN

NS
RE

Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc
i1 : Energy | i111 : Coal Mining | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16101 : Electric Power Generation | ibasicm
: Basic Materials/Resources | ieutil : Electric Utilities | imet : Mining/Quarrying | iutil : Utilities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
russ : Russia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
austr : Australia | bric : BRIC Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | eeurz : Central/Eastern
Europe | eurz : Europe | ussrz : CIS Countries

IPD Industry News
PUB SNL Financial LC
AN Document DCOAL00020140515ea5c00003

Page67of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.