txt the editor

News
txt the editor

SE
HD
WC 1,293 words
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG 22
LA
CY
LP

15 October 2014
Townsville Bulletin
TOWNBU
Townsville

English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

TD

Saw something interesting and its left me wondering. A learner was towing a boat and although he had an
L plate displayed on the back of the car there was nothing on the back of the boat! Was the learner within
his rights or should he have had to display the L plate on the boat as well? Jeannie Kelso Bea WE - I too
was surprised and so were two lollipop ladies, to see someone cycle straight through the zebra crossing
on gulliver st. They think they own the road. Muz kwn If the LNP want to sell assets then sell the huge
golden trough the pollies have their snouts in. What a windfall. M J R Mt Louisa Ajith, unfortunately a
certain percentage of ATV drivers have, by acting irresponsibly, cruelled it for the rest. Police have to act
to try and stop accidents and complaints. If you feel that your mobility is limited, apply for a disabled
parking permit and make arrangements with the council for limited access to the beach.

Deejay Rass Glad to see that my mums solar rebate will continue and our bill will go down. Christine of
West End TEL should just be scrapped, it does nothing for the region except cost us money. BH4817 How
great is the Salvation Army and McDonalds. Giving kids between 17 and 23 30 hours of part-time work at
McDonalds restaurant each week. Connie, Kirwan Rate payers footing 1.9 million bill for developers.
What’s the big deal, rate payers have been paying developers ways for the past 7 years. Why do you
think our household rates have doubled. Kranky Kev. Mt Low I support the cost of living idea because
rather than the poor subsidising those with solar, we all benefit. Caitlyn H, Kirwan To bs rosslea bombing
of dresden was in retaliation for continual bombing of london! allan heatley Tony abbott take putin on, he
is a judo expert, you are a boxer, box him - don’t let him grab you, box him - you will show him what
aussies are made of, then shout him a cold beer. sam.cranbrook More stupidity from the idiot greens re
singlets at woollies. “If you don’t love it leave” signs should be posted up everywhere. Bill Wulguru Why is
anyone whingeing about money off our electricity bills? I like keeping my money in my pocket. TT Railway
Estate $115 a year might not be much to those with solar power but it will make a big difference to me.
Obviously those complaining are better heeled. Will Aitkenvale As a solar owner I am over the moon that
the govt is planning 2 safeguard my investment. KW Alice River The only people who think the solar
rebate is stupid are those who don’t receive it! Ags C’jong Thank God for a bit off the electricity bills, a
good win for us in the North. Lecky, Heatley I cant believe Woolies are so weak and unaustralian as to
recall the patriotic singlets that say “if you dont love it, leave”. Every country in the world is rightly patriotic
so why should australia be any different? Ian Bald, Cranbrook I try do my part for Australia and buy
Australian made when I can. Not happy when I pay little more and buy reinforcing bar from an Australian
reinforcing company. Only to find a “made in China “ tag. That’s a rip off.

Good thing that Australia can see raw talent when they see it. Brothers 3 on X Factor are the new IT for
this country. Great singing and lovely genuine nice boys with it. Good luck boys you have earned it. Sue
Rasmussen JCU’s talk about bacteriophage therapy is timely given that it rated a mention in the season
premiere of The Walking Dead as a possible zombie cure! Steve, North Ward Breast feeding mothers, its
simple, you either cover baby with light blanket or you can buy a breast pump and use a bottle. But if
you’re one of those women who have to show everything go to the parents room, its that easy. Gary J Mt
Louisa Anyone who thinks “If you don’t love it, leave”, is racist, doesn’t understand what racism is! There
is no mention of race in this slogan, it can apply to anybody. And I agree with the sentiment! Ags C’jong
Your western lions farewell coach story states defeating every team in last few years what about their 34
to 4 loss to united suburbs on the 30/7/14? T from kirwan To Jeff Williams r.e. Vote 1. You ask what the
alternatives are and left out the only real viable alternative we have, Katter’s Australia Party. If we give

Page184of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.them a go, we wont be sorry. Wes 4812 To the halfwit suggesting babies be fed in public toilets. He/she
must enjoy eating in public toilets. Disgusted! Ingham Pdog 4812. First of all, it’s ‘phone’ not ‘fone’.
Second, I’d trust the dramatised tests of engineers over the crap found on you tube. BP 4814 In bulletin of
Monday we have sue belinda expert in English language using plural pronouns with singular nouns today
Ms johnston now a great font of knowledge on the bible and all things theological what are to think about
all this tom cbrook Wow! 770 million for the Bruce this year and for all Qld. The SE will get what? Oh yeah
5 billion for a tunnel more for a fast train, etc. Mr Cripps we are not fools, cut the spin and give us in the
North a fair go. All pollies give their loyalty to their Party not their electorate. M J Reynolds Mt Louisa Have
to love this government. Wanting to cut wages of the defence force. How about they lead by example. And
take cut of their government jobs benefit & lurks & perks. Yeah, like that would happen. Rod69 Need any
more proof of just which self interested parties are running this city? Not the people that’s for sure. Mr
Lancini says “we all agree” (on the CBD site). Do we? What’s happened to the original site the Cowboys
named at the top of Thuringowa Dr at Mt Louisa? It was much more practical with loads of parking & more
exit routes. Still as long as Lord Laurence & his developer mates get their share. GC Mt Low Kids should
not be pawns. The system is robbing non-custodial parents. Single mums (usually) need only deny access
to the child & they get full child support. If the child doesn’t stay the night it is not counted either. The
caring dads hang in there, fight depression, anxiety attacks and untold grief to one day be together with
their child. Aurora 4812 How do we give 1.5mtr distance to bike riders when they take up the whole lane
without consideration for drivers dc tsv Jessica J believes that the world would be a more peaceful place if
everyone was an atheist. I beg to differ and I would bet that there are more atheist criminals than Christian
criminals in the world and in our jails. Pete at Douglas 4816 - That stretch of highway always has seemed
to be a high road kill zone. But it really is the property owners who need to step up and fix the fencing.
Marko4810New entertainment centre. We don’t need a new one with parking for 5000 cars we need one
with public transport facilities for 20,000 people and parking for disabled elderly and babies the rest of us
can do what they do in every other place. N4811

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

NS
RE
PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document TOWNBU0020141015eaaf0000m

Page185of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.