Mitsubishi upbeat about new Aussie coal mine despite tough market

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Mitsubishi upbeat about new Aussie coal mine despite tough market

695 words
15 October 2014
Nikkei Report
NKRP
English
© Copyright 2014. Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Inc. All rights reserved.

KAORI TAKAHASHI, Nikkei staff writer
MORANBAH, Australia -- Half of Australian coal mines are operating at losses due to low prices, but
Mitsubishi Corp. is taking the long view, confident that its new coking coal venture with BHP Billiton
here will prove a winner over time.

The Japanese trading house and the Anglo-Australian resources giant celebrated the opening of their
Caval Ridge coal mine Monday in a ceremony attended by Prime Minister Tony Abbott. This is the
eighth mine to go into production among the interests the partners own in the Bowen Basin region in the
eastern state of Queensland. BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance, a 50-50 venture between the two, is
looking to produce 5.5 million tons of coking coal annually for 60 years at the new mine.

Quality edge
Australian coal miners are struggling due to prolonged weakness in the market. Just last month,
Japanese trader Sumitomo Corp. announced it was closing a coal mine in the resource-rich nation.
But Prime Minister Abbott painted a bright picture of the country's coal industry at Monday's ceremony,
saying demand for coal will continue to increase in the long run because the Chinese economy will
remain on a growth trajectory and India's economic development will accelerate.

BMA is also optimistic about the future of its latest operation. Located to the north of the Peak Downs
mine, which is known for its high-quality coal, the coal at Caval Ridge is of relatively high quality.
"It is not as high-quality as Peak Downs', but Caval Ridge's coal is on the second-highest tier on the
four-grade quality scale," a BMA official said.
The company believes the quality is good enough to ensure sufficient profit margins.

It also helps that BMA is good at keeping costs down. Its workers are trained to minimize fuel use when
operating equipment. And the company's coal mines have high yields because they use
state-of-the-art machines to sort coal and rocks.

Mitsubishi President Ken Kobayashi said he was not worried about the current market conditions
because he is confident about the quality of its coal and the cost competitiveness at the Caval Ridge
mine. He also stressed that his company looks at its natural resource-related businesses from a
long-term perspective.

"We do not assess [natural-resource investments] by short-term conditions," Kobayashi said. "We look
at them across a 20-year span."

"The important thing," he said, "is to own a lot of mines that are competitive and hold large volumes of
high-quality reserves. The rest is a matter of calculating their values over a certain amount of years."

Seeing double
Mitsubishi has set a goal of doubling its equity-method coking coal production volume from fiscal 2012
levels by around 2020.

Page169of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."The Daunia mine, opened last year, and the mine we opened today will be the key [to achieving that
goal]," Kobayashi said. "We are well on our way toward producing 40 million tons in 2020."
The Mitsubishi president said he and Abbott discussed China's decision to reinstate coal-import tariffs
as of Wednesday. "I told him resolving this kind of issue requires the prime minister's involvement,"
Kobayashi said.
Still, he said China's reintroduction of coal-import tariffs will have only a small impact on his company's
coal mining business, even though BMA exports the material to the country.
"You will not be affected much as long as you own highly competitive mines with high-quality coal
reserves," Kobayashi said.
BMA's annual output has reached 60 million tons. It is also the biggest coking coal exporter in the
world. But Mitsubishi's main focus in Australia right now is business opportunities in infrastructure
projects that are expected to stem from the recent signing of an economic partnership agreement
between Japan and Australia.
"We plan to build a light-oil production base in southern Australia and expand the business to eastern
Australia," Kobayashi said. "We will own light-oil tanks and begin delivering imported light oil to mines
and other customers in 2016."

CO

IN

NS

RE

IPC
PUB
AN

bhpbma : BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance | mtsubc : Mitsubishi Corp | sumtom : Sumitomo Corp | bkhlp :
BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i111 : Coal Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i1 : Energy | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i211 :
Metal Ore Mining | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
reqrmm : Suggested Reading Metals/Mining | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr :
Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | jap : Japan | miyaz : Miyazaki | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | easiaz : Eastern Asia
EG00A000
Nikkei Digital Media Inc.
Document NKRP000020141015eaaf0005s

Page170of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.