Lenovo Completes Acquisition of Motorola Mobility from Google

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Lenovo Completes Acquisition of Motorola Mobility from Google

1,064 words
30 October 2014
21:39
Business Wire
BWR
English
(c) 2014 Business Wire. All Rights Reserved.

Becomes World's #3 Smartphone Maker; Prepares for Even More Growth

SYDNEY--(BUSINESS WIRE)--October 30, 2014--

Lenovo (HKSE:992) (ADR:LNVGY) and Google (NASDAQ:GOOG) announced today that Lenovo's
acquisition of Motorola Mobility from Google is complete.

The acquisition of the Motorola brand and Motorola's portfolio of innovative smartphones like Moto X,
Moto G, Moto E and the DROID(TM) series, as well as the future Motorola product roadmap, positions
Lenovo as the world's third largest maker of smartphones.

Lenovo will operate Motorola as a wholly-owned subsidiary. Motorola's headquarters will remain in
Chicago. With the completion of the acquisition, Lenovo welcomes the addition of a new portfolio
company with nearly 3,500 employees around the world -- including about 2,800 in the U.S. -- who
design, engineer, sell and support Motorola's outstanding devices.

"Today we achieved a historic milestone for Lenovo and for Motorola -- and together we are ready to
compete, grow and win in the global smartphone market. By building a strong number three and a
credible challenger to the top two in smartphones, we will give the market something it has needed:
choice, competition and a new spark of innovation," said Yang Yuanqing, chairman and CEO, Lenovo.
"This partnership has always been a perfect fit. Lenovo has a clear strategy, great global scale, and
proven operational excellence. Motorola brings a strong presence in the U.S. and other mature markets,
great carrier relationships, an iconic brand, a strong IP portfolio and an incredibly talented team. This is a
winning combination."
"Motorola is in great hands with Lenovo, a company that's all-in on making great devices," said Larry
Page, CEO, Google.
Liu Jun, Lenovo executive vice president and president of Lenovo's Mobile Business Group, is chairman
of the Motorola Management Board. Rick Osterloh, a Motorola veteran, will remain president and chief
operating officer of Motorola.

"Motorola has already built solid momentum in the market, and their recent results show consumers are
excited about their exceptional products that stand out for their design and simplicity," said Liu Jun. "With
the complementary strengths of our two companies, we expect to sell more than 100 million mobile
devices this year -- including smartphones and tablets -- by leveraging the Lenovo brand's leading market
position in China, our shared momentum in emerging markets, and Motorola's strong foothold in mature
markets like the U.S."

Motorola already has strong momentum in the marketplace led by highly successful new product
launches and groundbreaking innovations, which have provided solid growth. Beyond smartphones, the
Moto 360 watch has captured consumer attention and established Motorola as a company expanding
into emerging mobile device areas. As previously stated, Lenovo expects to make the Motorola business
profitable in four to six quarters.

"This acquisition empowers Lenovo to enter the Australian and New Zealand smartphone markets under
the Motorola brand," said Matt Codrington, Managing Director, Lenovo Australia and New Zealand.

Page350of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."Motorola has a strong heritage, both globally and locally, and we aim to build on that knowledge and
expertise as we develop new products with the brand. At Lenovo ANZ, we're looking forward to
expanding existing relationships with our current retail partners JB Hi-Fi and Harvey Norman and enabling
new partnerships in the future."

Google will maintain ownership of a majority of the Motorola Mobility patent portfolio, while Motorola will
receive a license to this rich portfolio of patents and other intellectual property. Motorola will retain over
2,000 patent assets and a large number of patent cross-license agreements, as well as the Motorola
Mobility brand and trademark portfolio.
The total purchase price at close was approximately US$2.91 billion (subject to certain post-close
adjustments), including approximately US$660 million in cash and 519,107,215 newly issued ordinary
shares of Lenovo stock, with an aggregate value of US$750 million, representing about 4.7 percent of
Lenovo's shares outstanding, which were transferred to Google at close. The remaining US$1.5 billion will
be paid to Google by Lenovo in the form of a three-year promissory note. A separate cash compensation
of approximately US$228 million was paid by Lenovo to Google primarily for the cash and working capital
held by Motorola at the time of close.
The transaction has satisfied all regulatory requirements and customary closing conditions, including
clearance by competition authorities in the U.S., China, EU, Brazil and Mexico, and by the Committee on
Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS). This is the fifth time since 2005 Lenovo has been
cleared by CFIUS to acquire a U.S. business.

Supporting quotes from partners:

"We have a strong partnership with Lenovo and have already achieved some success together.

With this acquisition, Lenovo & JB Hi-Fi will expand the relationship into the mobile space" said Richard
Murray, Chief Executive Officer, JB Hi-Fi.
"As Lenovo's new retail partner, we are thrilled with the company's acquisition of Motorola Mobility.
Motorola has been a trusted brand for many years and with the support of Lenovo, one of the most
innovative technology companies in the world, we're confident the current and future products in the
Motorola range will resonate well with our shoppers," said John Slack-Smith, Chief Operating Officer,
Harvey Norman.

ABOUT LENOVO
Lenovo (HKSE: 992) (ADR: LNVGY) is a $39 billion global Fortune 500 company and a leader in
providing innovative consumer, commercial, and enterprise technology. Our portfolio of high-quality,
secure products and services covers PCs (including the legendary Think and multimode YOGA brands),
workstations, servers, storage, smart TVs and a family of mobile products like smartphones (including the
Motorola brand), tablets and apps. Join us on LinkedIn, follow us on Facebook or Twitter (@Lenovo) or
visit us at http://www.lenovo.com.au.

ABOUT GOOGLE

Google is a global technology leader, focused on improving ways people connect with information.
Google's innovations in web search and advertising have made its website a top Internet property and its
brand one of the most recognized in the world.

*DROID is a trademark of Lucasfilm Ltd. and its related companies. Used under license.

# # #

For More information

A press kit is available here: http://news.lenovo.com/MotorolaAcquisition

CT

Lenovo Press Contact | Spandas Lui | Text100 | spandas.lui@text100.com.au | (02) 9956 5733 |
SOURCE: Lenovo

IN

CO mrolho : Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. | goog : Google Inc. | letech : Lenovo Group Ltd | legndh : Legend

Holdings Ltd
ismart : Smart Phones | i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | i3441 : Telecommunications
Equipment | i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | icellph :
Cellular/Mobile Phones | ielec : Consumer Electronics | ihandaps : Handheld Electronic Devices | itech :
Technology | i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online

Page351of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

cacqu : Acquisitions | c133 : Patents | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers
| npress : Press Releases | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cgymtr :
Intellectual Property | cinprp : Industrial Property Rights (Patents/Trademarks) | ncat : Content Types |
nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
TAP

RE
IPC
PUB Business Wire, Inc.
AN

Document BWR0000020141030eaau0002m

Page352of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.