Gu nets $60m in Footscray

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Gu nets $60m in Footscray

Exclusive
395 words
23 July 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
33
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Melbourne developer Richard Gu has sold the west Melbourne site he paid $17 million for in 2011
for $60 million.
The prime development site sale followed a recent buying spree by Mr Gu's AXF Group in
prominent Sydney and Melbourne locations.

Shanghai-born but Melbourne-based Mr Gu paid $17 million for the Kinnears Rope Factory, a
four-hectare site in Footscray, about six kilometres west of Melbourne's CBD.
Industry sources confirmed an offshore investor paid about $60 million for the site in an off-market
deal brokered by CBRE director Mark Wizel, who declined to comment on sales details.
Mr Gu won approval for a 1500-apartment project with retail space on the site and tt is understood
the buyer will proceed with the development.

While offshore development has spiked in Melbourne, it is uncommon for an offshore developer to
sell sites, particularly with approved plans.

Speaking to The Australian Financial Review, Mr Gu confirmed he had entered into contracts of
sale for the Ballarat Road site.

"It was not an easy decision to sell Kinnears, however we weighed up seriously the direction in
where I see our group heading in the next 24 months and felt that the decision was the right one to
part ways," he said.
AXF took a 70 per cent stake in a $3 billion residential development in Melbourne's west this year,
partnering with Hyde Property.
The group also teamed up with Ever Bright Group to buy and redevelop Fairfax House at
Sydney's Circular Quay for $55 million.
The group will soon begin marketing Sovereign Tower, the tallest building in the Box Hill activity
centre, about 35 kilometres east of Melbourne's CBD.
"My responsibility to our company is to continue not only to look for well-priced properties to
acquire, but also to recognise when strong value is seen for our existing assets from outside
parties," he said.

Mr Wizel who said the deal followed the emerging trend of offshore developers buying sites outside
Melbourne's CBD, Docklands and Southbank area.

Page112of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."The doomsayers will continue to compare this run of off shore interest to other cycles over the
past 40 years, the difference in this run is that for many driver of Chinese investment specifically
relates to a structural change, not a cyclical one," Mr Wizel said.

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140722ea7n00009

IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page113of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.