Hills alive with iron ore potential

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Miner
Hills alive with iron ore potential

788 words
6 March 2014
Kalgoorlie Miner
KALGOO
First
13
English
(c) 2014 West Australian Newspapers Limited

A chain of iron ore-rich hills in remote bushland in the Northern Goldfields shapes as the most likely
pathway to realising the untapped potential of the emerging Yilgarn province.

That is the view of Shire of Menzies president Greg Dwyer, who says the neighbouring Mt Mason, Mt
Bevan and Mt Forrest have the potential to generate crucial investment in infrastructure for WA’s third
iron ore province.

The three projects north-west of Menzies are in the same neighbourhood where Fortescue subsidiary
FMG Resources staked out vast tracts of the minerals-rich, but largely undeveloped, Yilgarn last
October.

Mt Mason is being developed by Brian Gilbertson’s Jupiter Mines.

India’s State-run NMDC is the biggest shareholder in the Perth explorer drilling at Mt Bevan and
Mindax has put a $177 million price tag on Mt Forrest, where it hopes to begin mining in mid-2015.

Mr Dwyer described Jupiter and Mindax, along with TSX-listed Macarthur Minerals which priced its
Ularring project at $226 million in January, as the “major players” with the best chance to succeed by
sharing infrastructure.

“It’s not so much the dream scenario but I do think it is the most likely scenario,” Mr Dwyer said.
Mining in the Yilgarn has the potential to make Menzies a regional rail hub and triple the town’s
population from about 110, according to Mr Dwyer. “It’s a major change for the town, it’s a major
challenge for our infrastructure and services – and services don’t happen overnight,” he said.

The major stumbling block has been the long-awaited Esperance Port upgrade, with the successful
bidder for the promised multi-user iron ore facility expected to be confirmed this month.

But there are concerns from some quarters that Treasurer Troy Buswell’s decision to take three
weeks’ personal leave during the lead-up to the State Budget may delay an announcement. “We
would expect there would be no delay in the completion date,” Yilgarn Iron Producers Association
chief executive David Utting said.

“It is a very simple case of two highly-qualified proponents and it’s not rocket science to get this
decision made on time by late March.” Junior miners have been lining up for the facility, with
cashed-up Jupiter expecting to receive approval for its mining proposal from the Department of Mines
and Petroleum in April.

Jupiter, which delisted from the ASX in January, had $48m cash at the end of the December quarter
and has linked with Mindax over areas of common interest, including a shared haul and rail siding
option.

Page98of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Cazaly Resources would argue it has the most advanced project for the Esperance expansion with the
only published definitive feasibility study among those jostling for a new berth. Its Parker Range
project, 40km south of Southern Cross, has had environmental approvals in place for almost two
years, with plans to export 4.2m tonnes per annum of direct shipping ore.

“Small miners just can’t sit around and wait,” Mr Dwyer said of frustrating delays for the port upgrade.
On the funding front, NMDC claims to be the world’s eighth-largest iron ore producer and props up Mt
Bevan with a 48 per cent stake in Perth-based Legacy Iron Ore. Legacy boss Sharon Heng says Mt
Bevan – a 60:40 joint venture with Hawthorn Resources – is a “potentially world-class commercial
deposit” and the explorer is stepping up drilling this month.
Mindax would appear to be the frontrunner after last year inking a $52.3m deal with Hong Kong’s
Perpetual Mining to ramp up Mt Forrest.
Not everyone is as lucky. Cash-strapped Cashmere Iron talks up an initial eight-year DSO mine at its
Cashmere Downs deposit, but has gone virtually nowhere for two years.

In a letter to shareholders last week, Cashmere chairman Derek La Ferla said access to infrastructure
– its nearest railhead is 180km south-east at Menzies – and a clear pathway to port continued to
hamper the company.
He said recent talks with Chinese investors had broken down but the company “continues to have
discussions with a major Korean entity and others”.

Mr Dwyer has faith in Cashmere Downs, which neighbours Mt Forrest, and said it would be a “great
spot” for a rail spur.
“There is more than one company, it is a large area and might be well serviced by a spur in future
years,” he said. According to a DMP map listing WA resources projects, the Yilgarn had 14 iron ore
projects operating or under development in 2013 with actual or anticipated value of annual production
of greater than $10m.

This compared with at least 76 in the Pilbara.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

jpmine : Jupiter Mines Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i2112 : Gold
Ore/Silver Ore Mining
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document KALGOO0020140305ea360000v

Page99of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.