DONT BUY INTO THE CHINA CRISIS

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Features
DONT BUY INTO THE CHINA CRISIS

DAVID UREN
879 words
13 March 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
10
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

We should ignore suggestions foreigners are pricing locals out of the housing market
AT the dinner parties of inner Sydney, the supposed role of Chinese investment in real estate is the hot
topic. "Pat's daughter Ruby is trying to buy a house and she's been outbid by Chinese bidders at the
last four auctions."

It's somehow unfair that they're prepared to pay a higher price. There's a sense the government ought to
be doing something about it.
The conversations are whipped along by media reports of real estate agents alleging Chinese residents
are illegally buying property on behalf of non-resident relatives, and broking analysis claiming Chinese
buyers are snapping up one in five new properties in Sydney and one in seven in Melbourne.

It was only four years ago that we were having identical conversations. In early 2010, the level of
anecdote about Chinese buyers reached such a pitch that the Rudd government acted, and reversed a
liberalisation of the rules governing foreign investment in real estate that it had pushed through little
more than 12 months beforehand. Pauline Hanson had made waves declaring she would not sell her
Queensland home unless her agent, LJ Hooker (itself founded in the 1920s by a great
Australian-Chinese entrepreneur), could guarantee it would be sold to a white Australian. Coalition
spokesman Kevin Andrews blamed foreign buyers for putting housing out of the reach of young
Australian-born families. "Foreign investment should be in the productive capacity of Australia, not
residential housing," he said. Labor strategists feared it might become an election issue.
In late 2008, the thought that Asian investment might support property prices had been the express
intent of government policy. The financial crisis had generated an alarming collapse of house prices in
the US and Europe. Treasury feared a similar collapse in Australia.

Assistant treasurer Chris Bowen announced he was implementing recommendations of a 2006
deregulation taskforce to the Howard government, led by former Productivity Commission chair Gary
Banks, that called for a relaxation of the Foreign Investment Review Board reporting requirements for
temporary residents purchasing property.
The rules over foreign investment in new property were also liberalised so foreign developers were not
penalised if all property was not sold within two years.
As it emerged that Australia was not plunging over an economic precipice, residential property prices
started to rise, boosted by record low interest rates. In 2009-10, they soared 27?per cent in Melbourne
and 15?per cent in Sydney. Announcing that the easing of rules would not only be reversed but
tightened further, ensuring temporary residents faced crippling penalties if they failed to sell a property
after leaving the country, the assistant treasurer Nick Sherry conceded the government was acting in the
absence of firm evidence. "We don't know how much these investors were affecting the market in the
first place. There was evidence that investors are buying it, but to what degree we don't know apart from
anecdotal evidence."

Page175of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.During the next 20 months, there was a 25 per cent fall in new building approvals. The problem was
particularly severe in NSW which, with a third of the population, was building just 20 per cent of new
dwellings. It was less than Victoria or Queensland and little more than Western Australia. The
crackdown on foreign investment in real estate was not the only cause, but it contributed.
Lost in the current debate is that foreign investment in real estate adds to supply. There is a difference
in the rules regarding foreign purchase of established and new property.
Temporary residents may purchase a single established property while they are here but must sell on
departure so, with relatively stable inflows and outflows of temporary residents, there is no net effect on
the property market. However, foreign residents may purchase newly built property.
There is no doubt their interest is supporting the revival of new residential property construction,
particularly of apartments.

In NSW, the number of new apartments gaining council approval each month has more than doubled
since the end of 2012 and is now at a record high.

Testifying before the House of Representatives economics committee last week, Reserve Bank
governor Glenn Stevens noted foreign investors in real estate were generally confined to newly built
accommodation.

"It cannot be beyond our capacity over time to meet that demand and to meet the legitimate demands of
our own citizens for structures as well, can it?" he asked, adding if it were, then we should ease the
constraints to lifting supply before choking the demand.

One of Tony Abbott's best appointments was putting Andrew Robb in charge of trade and investment.

There is no doubt he sees the benefit of financing additions to our housing supply and the merit of
foreign investment in bringing needed funds into the country.
The FIRB records in the last financial year, it approved investments in residential and commercial real
estate totalling $51.9 billion (of which China provided about 10 per cent).

Not every investment that gets approved occurs, but that is enough to finance Australia's annual current
account deficit. Both the government and the opposition should ignore the real estate tattle.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

ereal : Real Estate Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | china : China | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New
South Wales
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140312ea3d0001j

Page176of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.