Queensland's CSG backlash

HD Queensland's CSG backlash
BY Mark Willacy
WC 2,238 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

31 October 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation Transcripts
ABCTRS
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

TD

As the Queensland Government faces a Palmer United Party-inspired Senate Inquiry over Coal Seam
Gas mining, farmers outline the impact the industry has had on their daily lives.

EMMA ALBERICI, PRESENTER: Queensland's Liberal National Party Government has denounced it as a
political witch-hunt, but some of those who voted for Campbell Newman's team at the last election have
welcomed the Senate inquiry into the administration of the Queensland Government. The Palmer United
Party-inspired probe will look into the approval of coal seam gas projects under both the LNP and the
former Labor governments.

Farmers have told Lateline that the CSG industry has been allowed to run rough-shod over landholders,
with more than 5,000 production wells now operating across Queensland.

Mark Willacy reports from the gas fields of the western Darling Downs.

MARK WILLACY, REPORTER: It's another hectic morning in the Nothdurft household. There are lunches
to be made, teeth to be brushed and hair to be done. But for Narelle Nothdurft, the daily scramble to get
her seven children off to school is nothing compared to the stress of dealing with the gas company that
has sunk wells on the family's farm.

NARELLE NOTHDURFT: Nobody believes what we go through out here for the noise and the people and
everything like that, so.

MARK WILLACY: So what would you like to see happen?

NARELLE NOTHDURFT: Them go away. That's it. I want to stay here where we are.
MARK WILLACY: The Nothdurfts moved out of Chinchilla so they could raise their kids on the
land.Things went well for a couple of years, but then came the Big Dry, and so the couple agreed to let
QGC sink its first well on their land. For the Nothdurfts, it was a matter of sheer survival.
ALLAN NOTHDURFT, CHINCILLA FARMER: In 2005 we had no water. We were to the stage of having to
buy water just to - so we can bath the kids. Dams were all running dry. So, yeah, they said, "How would
you like a well? All the water you want?" So, we said, "Yeah, bring it on." That was first mistake, I
suppose, not knowing - I don't even know whether anybody knew about coal seam gas back then.

MARK WILLACY: One well would turn into seven, and for each, the family is paid $265 a year, with
another 12,000 paid for land access and usage.

ALLAN NOTHDURFT: It adds up to bugger all, especially for the amount of drama we have to go through
and the time we spent on it.

MARK WILLACY: According to the Nothdurfts, that drama includes having gas vents about 100 metres
from the family home, which they say give the children headaches.

ALLAN NOTHDURFT: We complained about them venting all the time and they decided that they'd come
and shut them off and only vent it when the kids are at school.

Page199of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.MARK WILLACY: QGC says each of its vents releases an average of 2.5 kilograms of methane a day,
adding that none of the company's employees has experienced any health issues while working in the
gas fields.
Coal seam gas supplies 80 per cent of the Queensland market, while more than $60 billion has been
invested in gas projects in the state and about $800 million a year is generated in state royalties.
Many people out here understand that coal seam gas is a lucrative industry and one that's important to
Queensland's economy. But they argue that for too long the industry has been allowed to ride rough-shod
over landholders, with CSG companies giving unfettered access to land and what lies beneath it.

But some are holding out, resisting the temptation of an endless water supply. Miles grazier Joe Hill
breeds Angus stud cattle and he wants nothing to do with the gas companies.

JOE HILL, MILES GRAZIER: Once you take anything off them, that's a contract, so you're then locked in.

MARK WILLACY: Joe Hill's key concern with CSG is contamination of water and his animals, so four
years ago he put up a sign out the front of his property warning the gas companies to keep away.

JOE HILL: Nobody's come on the place that we don't want since we've had that up.

MARK WILLACY: With Joe Hill holding out, QGC put its gas pipeline just outside his boundary.

Filming the clearing work for the pipeline was Joe Hill's friend, Darryl Bishop, who's been fighting another
gas company to stop it coming on to his property upstream. He says he put his faith in the Liberal
National Party Government of Campbell Newman reining in the gas companies.

DARYL BISHOP, MILES FARMER: When we vote people in we expect them to look after us, but they're
not, they're looking after the gas companies, they're looking after coal companies. The last people they're
looking after are the Queensland people.

MARK WILLACY: These disillusioned Liberal National Party voters now plan to lodge a submission to the
Palmer United Party-inspired Senate inquiry into the Queensland Government which will probe CSG
project approvals under both the LNP and the previous Labor government.

JOE HILL: There's a lot more going to come out of this inquiry than what the Government thinks. They
think that it's just a witch-hunt, but it's not. We hope that the truth will come out and we'll all get our say.

LARISSA WATERS, QUEENSLAND GREENS SENATOR: The Greens have been really concerned for a
long time at this trend of every single coal seam gas approval getting the tick.

MARK WILLACY: Larissa Waters will be the Greens representative on the inquiry committee. She wants it
to look into what she calls the revolving door between the CSG industry and the Queensland Government.
LARISSA WATERS: You see folk who've been quite senior in the various gas or mining companies
suddenly on the payroll of either the Premier or Department of Natural Resources and Mines or even the
Coordinator-General's department and then they're back working for industry and then they're back as
staffers and it's just a back and forth of industry and government. Is it any wonder that the mining industry
is getting everything that they want?

MARK WILLACY: Among those who've crossed over from industry to government are Premier Campbell
Newman's chief-of-staff and one of his senior media staffers, while the director of the Department of
Premier and Cabinet only this year divested himself of his stake in a company that touted for business in
the CSG industry.

The office of Queensland's Premier refused to directly answer detailed questions about the links between
staff and the CSG industry, instead firing back at the Senate inquiry, calling it a political stunt.

Back out on the plains of the western Darling Downs, grazier Joe Hill is looking forward to heading along
to the hearings of the Senate inquiry when it heads bush.
JOE HILL: We know what's going on. We're right at the coal face. We see it every day. So - we're not that
big a fools that we don't know right from wrong.

MARK WILLACY: Submissions to the Senate inquiry are due by 18th November.

Mark Willacy, Lateline.

Page200of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.EMMA ALBERICI: And Lateline repeatedly approached APPEA, the body representing gas companies. It
declined request for interviews and comment, as did the Queensland Resources Council and Queensland
State Development Minister, Jeff Seeney. Our questions to the Queensland Premier's office and QGC and
their responses are on our website.

Lateline's questions to The Queensland Premier's office:

The Queensland Greens Senator Larissa Waters says she wants the Senate Select Committee on Certain
Aspects of Queensland Government Administration related to Commonwealth Government Affairs to
inquire into possible conflicts of interest involving former CSGcompany staffers who now work in the LNP
Government. Does the Government consider there are any actual or potential conflicts of interest involving
these government staff members?Senator Waters says there's evidence of these former CSGcompany
staffers attending meetings relating to CSG projects before the government. Is this correct and does this
present a possible conflict of interest?Is it true that the Premier's chief of staff, Ben Myers, and one of his
department's media operatives, Mitch Grayson, are former employees of CSG companies?Senator
Waters says not a single CSG project or proposal has been knocked back under the LNP Government. Is
this statement correct?How many applications have been received by the Queensland Government for the
development of CSG wells? How many have been approved?What is the LNP Government's position on
this Senate Inquiry?

Queensland Government spokesman's response:"This inquiry will be seen for what it is: a political stunt by
Labor, Clive Palmer and the Greens. The Queensland government will not be distracted from the real
issues of growing the economy and delivering better frontline services and a lower cost of living for
Queensland families."

In relation to approval processes, please direct your questions to the Department of Natural Resources
and Mines or Kate Haddan from Minister Cripp's office.

Lateline's questions to QGC with the responses from a QGC spokesperson:

Q. The Nothdurft family complains that it has a QGC gas vent approximately 110 metres from the family
home. What gases or elements are released from these vents?

Each day, QGC's high-point vents progressively release an average of 2.5 kilograms of natural gas (or
methane), which is an odourless, non-toxic gas which dissipates rapidly. This is about the same amount of
methane released by six cows in a day. The Nothdurfts have two high-point vents on their property and
run 40 to 50 head of cattle.

The natural gas being vented by QGC is trapped in water that has been produced from QGC's wells. The
gas is released from water pipelines at the vents, which are a safety feature.CSIRO released a
comprehensive study of fugitive emissions in June this year which confirms that the level of emissions by
the CSG industry is low. QGC publicly reports its emissions every year through the National Greenhouse
and Energy Reporting Scheme.

Q. The Nothdurfts say the emissions from this vent give them and their children headaches. What is
QGC's response to that?

In March 2013, Queensland Health released a report based on clinical and environmental monitoring data
that did not identify any link between health complaints from some residents in the Wieambilla estates and
the gas industry.

In a separate study, Monash University researchers have been monitoring the long-term health of 20,000
past and current employees in the petroleum industry for 33 years. These employees have much higher
exposure to gas industry emissions than the general community. Their November 2013 report states:
"Overall, the study clearly shows that petroleum industry employees have better health than the general
Australian community and are less likely to die of the diseases commonly causing death - including
cancer, heart disease and respiratory conditions."

Our own workforce has experienced no health issues related to gas emissions while working in the gas
fields.

Q. What measures have QGC taken to alleviate the Nothdurft family's concerns about this particular gas
vent?QGC has had agreements with the Nothdurfts for more than nine years and has regular engagement
with the family.

We have actively responded to every phone call we have received from the Nothdurfts.

Page201of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Our operators and other staff regularly inspect our infrastructure, including vents, to ensure it is operating
in line with approved conditions.

QGC works to minimise all our impacts. For example, we have been replacing older equipment with new
technology when available.
The Nothdurfts receive $265 a year for each QGC well on their property. Does QGC regard that as
adequate compensation for having a gas well on a landholder's property?While confidentiality provisions
of our agreement mean we can't comment on specific dollar values, we are compensating the family with
many times this figure.

The Nothdurfts decided on the compensation amount they receive and entered into a voluntary agreement
with QGC. The compensation included an upfront payment as well as annual payments for operation of
wells on their property and factored in reduced earning capacity from those parts of the property where
QGC infrastructure is located. QGC has also entered into commercial arrangements with the Nothdurfts
for the supply of gravel from their property that was used to build access tracks and sites for the wells.
Q. The investigation of coal seam gas project approvals under the former Labor and current LNP
Queensland governments is included in the terms of reference of the recently announced Senate Select
Committee inquiry. The LNP has labelled the inquiry a "political witch hunt". What is QGC's opinion of the
inquiry?

Like all Australians, QGC respects the proper parliamentary process of our Federal government.

Q. Can you detail the benefits of CSG to the Queensland economy?

We are helping to establish a new industry for Queensland. We employ thousands of people, we have
invested up to $150 million with local communities to date and our activities are expected to add A$32
billion to the Queensland economy over 10 years.

IN
NS

RE

i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas Upstream Operations | i1 : Energy
gpol : Domestic Politics | gvuph : Upper House | gvcng : Legislative Branch | ntra : Transcripts | gcat :
Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gvbod : Government Bodies | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | niwe :
IWE Filter
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania

IPD Queensland
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN Document ABCTRS0020141031eaav000b7

Page202of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.