Chinese group snaps up icon in $425m deal

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Chinese group snaps up icon in $425m deal

Carolyn Cummins
474 words
22 December 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
31
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Property- Apartment conversion looms

An office block will be turned into apartments with arguably the best views of Sydney Harbour after it
was snapped up by China's Dalian Wanda Group for $425 million.

The sale of Gold Fields House, at 1 Alfred Street, Circular Quay, comes as more Chinese investors
are tipped to enter the Australian market in the coming year. They are cashed up and very large
insurance and pension funds that like this country's transparent regulations and ease of doing deals.

CBRE head of research Australia Stephen McNabb said investors are expected to remain risk
averse and this will ensure that, in most cases, there will continue to be a wide spread between the
yields that can be achieved for prime versus secondary assets until there are signs of stronger
economic growth.
It is expected the Goldfields site will be redeveloped into upmarket apartments. The harbourside
building, controlled by Blackstone and a group of pension funds, was sold by JLL and CBRE.

Another 1960s-era building nearby, 275 George Street, is understood to be close to being bought by
Charter Hall. More large-ticket sales are due to be completed in the last business week of 2014.

Neil Brookes, Knight Frank's head of capital markets Asia Pacific, says investors are shifting their
focus towards sustainable returns in the long term.
"The key factors for Chinese investors are the policy push from the Chinese government to
diversify into other countries; a softening domestic market; and the pull from higher returns
achievable in overseas markets. Australia, the US and the UK are the top three markets most
Chinese investors are looking at.
"We saw five times as much capital outflow from China into these three markets in 2013 alone
compared to the previous year. We expect the transaction volumes from Chinese investors into
these three markets this year will match or even exceed that of last year.
There has been a tremendous surge of Chinese outward investment in overseas real estate in
recent years. From 2009 to 2014, the total value of Chinese overseas investment volume has
skyrocketed from $US600 million to hit an estimated US$15 billion ($18.45 billion).

"So far the thrust of this investment has been focused in gateway cities of Australia, the US and the
UK. In 2014, Australia has seen the strongest growth in inbound real estate investment from China
at over 60 per cent increase year on year," Mr Brookes said.
The Goldfields house sale comes as Circular Quay is set for a $1 billion revamp after a plan for a
striking angular office building was approved for the site of the AMP building at 50 Bridge Street.
3XN, a Danish architectural firm, has been appointed to the project.

Page50of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO
IN
RE

PUB
AN

dwgrcl : Dalian Wanda Group Company Limited
i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
china : China | austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020141221eacm0001n

Page51of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.