(AECDU) Cudeco Limited: Ore supply agreement with Glencore

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

(AECDU) Cudeco Limited: Ore supply agreement with Glencore

342 words
14 October 2014
Ralph Wragg Australian Business News
AAPRAW
English
Copyright 2014 RWE AUSTRALIAN BUSINESS NEWS PTY LTD. All Rights Reserved.

Sydney - Tuesday - October 14 (RWE) - Cudeco Limited (ASX: CDU) has entered into an agreement
with Glencore International AG for the supply of an initial 20,000 tonnes of primary sulphide ore for
toll-treatment in the Ernest Henry Mine (EHM) processing plant, located approximately 50 Km from
CuDeco's Rocklands Group Copper Project.
The trial shipment is to evaluate the suitability of Rocklands primary ore for treatment in the EHM
mineral processing plant, and the general handling and processing characteristics in a large-scale
processing situation.

At the completion of, and/or during the processing of the Rocklands ore, both parties may consider a
long term supply of ore from the Rocklands operations.
Any future agreements for ore supply and concentrate purchase, will be based on increased mining for
supply, in addition to the 3mtpa to be processed at CuDeco's Rocklands mineral processing facility.
Delivery of the ore to EHM site will commence this week.
CuDeco is in the final stages of construction of its 3 million tonne per year, mineral processing facility
under a turnkey EPC contract with China State- owned Sinosteel Corporation.
Current mining at Rocklands is over 30,000 tonnes per day.
CuDeco has the capacity and ability to accelerate the mining from 3mtpa, to supply a further 2-3
million tonnes of ore per annum to third parties.
CuDeco only utilises a portion of its 100% owned earthmoving/mining fleet, and at present is mining on
a 12-hour, day shift only basis to achieve its required mined tonnes.
By early November approximately 1.2 million tonnes of +3% CuEq ore is anticipated to be stockpiled
for processing.
Future toll processing at EHM will be the subject of a further ore supply agreement between CuDeco
and Glencore.
Under the 20,000 tonne trial ore supply agreement, Glencore has agreed to purchase the copper
concentrates under an "Offtake Agreement", based on the ore supplied by CuDeco and processed at
Glencore's Ernest Henry Mine processing facility under this agreement.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB

ausmi : Cudeco Limited | march : Glencore PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150203 : Private Equity | i8396 :
Diversified Holding Companies | ialtinv : Alternative Investments | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services |
ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd

Page246of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document AAPRAW0020141014eaae0000a

Page247of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.