Foreign investor buys Molendinar site

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Foreign investor buys Molendinar site

Sales wrap Mercedes Ruehl
687 words
6 February 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
48
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

A freehold industrial property on the Gold Coast has been sold to an overseas investor for
$2.9 million. The 23 Jade Drive property in Molendinar has a 1914-square-metre warehouse,
140 sq m reception and 99 sq m mezzanine level. It also has a rear office and 36 on-site car parks.
Ashton Removals signed the three-year lease in 2012 for $240,000 per annum gross. The deal was
negotiated by Steve Macgregor and John Kyriazis of Ray White Industrial Gold Coast.

Falconbridge Pty has sold an inner-city office freehold in Melbourne for $2.55 million. A local investor
picked up the 54-58 Smith Street property, which is a three-storey building spanning 350 square
metres. Zoned Commercial 1, the property was sold subject to a new three-year lease with a
two-year option to Andrew Long and Associates, returning $121,667 per annum plus GST. Agents Chris
Kombi and James Gregson negotiated the transaction. Mr Kombi said the purchaser was attracted to
the property by its prominent position on the Collingwood strip, in a highly sought after and rapidly
evolving city fringe location.
Wakefield Properties Pty has sold a strata office in Perth's CBD for $1.4 million. Lot 1, 41 St Georges
Terrace, was sold on a net yield of 7.14 per cent and is leased to LJH Commercial Perth under a
five-year lease. The property is a two-level ground and mezzanine strata suite and the tenant will
benefit from direct access to the ground-floor foyer and separate access to each level facilitating
possible future division into two tenancies. The sale was handled by Sean Flynn of Jones Lang LaSalle.
Mr Flynn said the property was within Perth's legal and financial district, a short walk from Hay Street
Mall and close to big new projects such as Elizabeth Quay.
Casaview Homes has secured a warehouse at 1 Avalli Road in Prestons in Sydney for $2.455 million
via a private treaty. The 1285-square-metre industrial property has 275 square metres of office
accommodation. Colliers International director Fab Dalfonso said Casaview bought the property from a
couple to occupy the site given it is vacant. "The is yet another example of an owner-occupier taking
advantage of current low interest rates to purchase their premises," Mr Dalfonso said.
A Sydney-based Chinese legal firm has purchased an office floor in Melbourne's CBD for
$1.45 million. Situated at 256 Queen Street, the 14-level strata office building is located between
Lonsdale and Little Lonsdale Streets. The CBRE city sales team of Tom Tuxworth, Chris Pharr and Ed
Wright sold the sixth floor property on behalf of a local investor. Mr Tuxworth said at just over $5000
per square metre for the 288 sq m office, the price set a record for the building. "Activity within the
Melbourne CBD strata office market has been exceptionally high over the past five months, with
offshore groups now joining mum and dad self-managed super fund investors in purchasing
commercial office space."

A private investor has secured adjoining office warehouse facilities in Sydney's south-east for
$5.1 million from Ricketty Street Pty. Located at 30-34 Ricketty Street, in Mascot, the property has a
total building area of 2405 square metres across two lots. Mascot is aboutseven kilometres from the
CBD and is a mixture of residential, commercial and industrial hubs. Artie Kalpidis from Link Property
Services negotiated the sale.

Page98of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.A vacant industrial block in the south coast region of NSW has been sold by Ray White Commercial
Shoalhaven for $760,000. A local developer bought the property at 14 Jellicoe Street in South Nowra,
which is located about one kilometre from the Nowra CBD. Ray White Commercial Shoalhaven
principal Scott Baxter handled the deal. He said the 2.48-hectare site adjoins an industrial plot. "The
purchaser intends to redevelop this substantial site for an adjoining business in the South Nowra
industrial precinct," Mr Baxter added.

Submissions to mruehl@fairfaxmedia.com.au

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

i8500021 : Office Real Estate | ireest : Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icireal :
Commercial/Industrial Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | waustr : Western Australia | apacz :
Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140205ea2600030

Page99of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.