Three pillars investors love now look ‘shaky’

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Three pillars investors love now look ‘shaky’

Neale Prior
634 words
21 April 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
First
6
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

If you were to look at the favoured fare of many Australian investors, residential property,
Australian banks and cash in the bank sit high up the pecking order.

After all, our banks have gone from strength to strength over the past two decades, powering
through the global financial crisis while their American and European counterparts floundered.

Australian property also was relatively unharmed by the GFC and has enjoyed solid gains in recent
times thanks to resurgent investment interest in big cities.

However, Sydney-based fund manager Paul Moore has given a relatively dismal view of our
investment staples and sees more value in assets smashed by GFC.

Mr Moore, the investment chief of PM Capital, said the yield on defensive investments such as
government bonds, residential property and bank deposits had fallen to very low levels and had
become three of the most expensive assets classes on the market.

“Yet I will guarantee you here is three of the most over-invested areas for Australian investors at the
moment,” he said.

And his view of Australian banks is not that much better, particularly after recently visiting banks in
Europe hit by the post-GFC shake-out and revisiting some not-so-distant Australian history.
He pointed to the Australian property crisis in the early 1990s that forced our banks to become
more domestically focused.

Investor interest in banking stocks was boosted by franked dividends and the banks steadily
increasing the size of these tax-paid returns to shareholders.
Mr Moore said that two decades ago, investors could buy bank shares for a price that was between
about six-times and eight-times the institution’s earnings-per-share, compared with today’s 15-times
ratio.

Supporters of investment in Australian banking stocks point to our banks being virtually protected
from competition from Australia’s tight regulatory regime, whereas European and American
counterparts faced far more competition.

The value and convenience to Australian investors of franked dividends was something that was
difficult for overseas institutions to match, Australian bank investment supporters argue.

However, Mr Moore said he saw it as a time to sell and he had cut PM’s Australian bank holdings.

He said there was better value in US and European banks.

Page144of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.While Commonwealth Bank was trading around 2.6 times its book value, Wells Fargo in the US was
trading around 1.6-times, Britain’s Lloyds Bank was 1.4-times and Dutch groupING was trading at
0.9-times.

Mr Moore said he considered Wells Fargo a better franchise than Commonwealth Bank. ING was
becoming domestically focused and stood to become the “CBA to Europe and selling at book value”.

“We came back from Europe, spent a bit of time with these banks and they all reinforced their capital
is under control and they are going to higher payout ratios,” he said. PM Capital operates funds
focusing on Australian, Asian and global shares as well as a fund investing in credit instruments.
It is also launching a listed investment company focusing on Asia.
Mr Moore said he was nervous about China and took the view that a lot had been built based on low
investment returns.

“Eventually that comes home to roost, but I don’t know when,” he said. “Is it a little shock, or is it a
big shock?”

His Asian investment lieutenant Kevin Bertoli said there were opportunities with consumer-focused
companies, such as in gaming, selected infrastructure providers, non-discretionary retail and
consumer goods providers.

Mr Bertoli said Asian internet portal operators could be bought at far lower prices than their
Australian counterparts.

We came back from Europe, spent a bit of time with these banks . . . they are going to higher
payout ratios. ” Paul Moore

NS
RE
PUB
AN

ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140420ea4l00025

Page145of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.