Dog day afternoon on a real SA meat ’n’ greet

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

BusinessJournal
Dog day afternoon on a real SA meat ’n’ greet

NIGEL AUSTIN
551 words
21 October 2014
The Advertiser
ADVTSR
Advertiser
29
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

SOUTH Australia’s largest food exporter, Thomas Foods International, has increased its ability to supply
fast growing international meat markets by building a new livestock handling lairage at the company’s
Murray Bridge plant.
Chief operating officer David McKay said that with exports exceeding $900 million a year to more than
80 markets, the company needs to be able to use an increased throughput more efficiently.

It is handling more than 120,000 sheep and lambs and 5000 cattle a week and planning to boost those
numbers in coming years, he said.

“The worldwide demand for protein is at its highest level and we are confident in the future of meat
exports,” Mr McKay said. “We are contemplating a further upgrade of the Murray Bridge plant.

“The new lairage provides numerous benefits including greater plant efficiency, it sets the benchmark for
animal welfare and is compliant with all regulations by helping to reduce dust, noise and odour from our
facility. In traditional lairages, the livestock are unloaded on to a concrete floor, but this is raised and the
animals walk on mesh, reducing water and increasing animal hygiene.” The new facility has three
unloading docks, providing for faster unloading – and animals can be quickly transferred into raised
pens, which are out of the elements.
Mr McKay said the new multi-million dollar livestock handling facility is part of TFI’s strategic plan to
continue expanding the business.

“We’re processing about 55,000 sheep and lambs and 5000 cattle a week at Murray Bridge each week
and more sheep at Lobethal and Tamworth and Wallangara, (near Tenterfield in far northern) NSW,” he
said. The business has grown from a $100 million turnover in 1999, when the Rowe and Thomas
families bought it, to a total of $1.3 billion in 2013-14 following the Rowe family’s sale of its 50 per cent
share in 2008.
Mr McKay said the company employed about 2500 people in Australia and internationally – 1400 of
those at Murray Bridge. Ensuring adequate supply of stock was one of its biggest challenges and
business was looking at every available option to provide livestock including feedlotting and buying
stock in all markets and direct from farmers, he said.

“We’re keeping a close eye on the weather because a good northern season would put short-term
pressure on prices, but longer term create more opportunities and good prices,” he said. “We’ve got a
dedicated team of buyers spread across Australia helping to keep our plants at full capacity.” Mr McKay
said the company had just opened a new cold store near Philadelphia to give it more control over its
supply of food to its markets in the United States.

“We send frozen and chilled beef and lamb to the US east coast and the cold store will help us service
that market,” Mr McKay said. “The Chinese market has also grown significantly and is taking a greater
share of our lamb and beef products.” He added that the lairage was part of a major environmental

Page43of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.improvement strategy at Murray Bridge.Other improvements have included development of a major
wastewater storage treatment facility and implementation of a sustainable energy program to
substantially reduce CO2 emissions.

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

tarppl : Thomas Foods International Pty Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i412 : Animal Slaughtering/Processing | i4122 : Meat Processing | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
c312 : External Markets | c31 : Marketing/Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document ADVTSR0020141020eaal0003a

Page44of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.