TNG and Woojin sign offtake deal for Mt. Peak

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
VOL
LA
CY
LP

TD

News Stories; Commodities
TNG and Woojin sign offtake deal for Mt. Peak

Marnie Hobson
406 words
31 March 2014
Platts Metals Daily
METLSDLY
ISSN: 2325-0658, Volume 3, Issue 63
English
© 2014 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

Australia's TNG has signed a non-binding memorandum of understanding with South Korea's Woojin
Industrial that will include the purchase and marketing of future offtake from TNG's Mount Peake
vanadium-titanium-iron ore project in Australia's Northern Territory.

The deal will also allow TNG to raise direct or third-party financing to underpin the development of
Mount Peake, the company said in a statement. Mount Peake is at an advanced feasibility study stage
and the company told Platts it was likely to be operational in 2016. Mount Peake will consist of a mine
and a processing plant that will use TNG's own TIVAN processing technology.

The agreement with ferrovanadium producer Woojin allows TNG to provide samples of its vanadium
pentoxide for potential future offtake agreements. It also includes the potential for TNG to add a Woojin
ferrovanadium plant to its TIVAN plant, which is expected to be developed in Malaysia, TNG said.

TNG recently said it was considering developing its TIVAN processing plant in Malaysia rather than
Australia, due to lower startup and operational costs. The plant is expected to produce 110,000 mt/year
of vanadium pentoxide as well as 290,000 mt/year of titanium dioxide.

TNG developed the TIVAN process for the treatment of magnetite-hosted vanadium ores, citing lower
costs compared with conventional pyrometallurgical processing.
TNG intends to produce magnetite ore at Mount Peake that would then be railed to Darwin port and
exported to the east coast of Malaysia to be processed at the TIVAN plant.

"A degree of uncertainty exists regarding long-term competitive [natural] gas pricing in the Northern
Territory, so we believed it would be prudent for TNG to look at all options, including an offshore
location for the TIVAN processing plant," the company said recently.

Malaysia's east coast hosts large-scale chemical and heavy industry, with several associated industries
including steel mills and titanium dioxide processing.
The Mount Peake mine is scheduled to start production in 2015-2016 at a rate of 2.5 million mt/year
before increasing to 5 million mt/year by year four, the spokesman said.

Woojin is based in Seoul and supplies ferrovanadium to south Asian and European steel mills, and also
has offtake agreements with Glencore and Evraz. It operates four plants in South Korea and two in
China.

Marnie Hobson

CO
IN

srscor : TNG Limited
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying

Page50of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

IPD
PUB
AN

malay : Malaysia | skorea : South Korea | austr : Australia | nterry : Northern Territory | apacz : Asia
Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Contracts
The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Document METLSDLY20140428ea3v0000l

Page51of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.