Sino-Australian ties on the upswing

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Sino-Australian ties on the upswing

Tim Harcourt
736 words
20 November 2014
China Daily-Hong Kong Edition
CHNDHK
9
English
Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Company. All rights reserved.

China and Australia signed a preliminary free trade deal on Monday that will make 85 percent of all
Australian exports to China tariff-free from the outset and raise it to 93 percent before 2019. The deal,
once takes effect next year, would give Australia's service industry greater access to the Chinese
market and its agricultural sector advantage over competitors such as the United States.
The importance of the deal can be gauged from the volume of trade between China and Australia, which
grew from $86 million in 1972 when the countries established formal ties to $136 billion last year.

China and Australia have gone from strength to strength over the past more than four decades and
China is now Australia's largest trading partner, largest export destination and largest source of imports.
And President Xi Jinping's visit to Australia has not only boosted Sino-Australian ties, but also taken it to
a new high level.
China and Australia have gone through different phases in their economic partnership. First, they had
the commodities' trade phase, where Australia exported "rocks and crops" (resources and agriculture) to
help China's industrialization and urbanization as it pulled millions of people out of poverty. For
Australia, it was both a "mining boom" and a "dining boom".

Then they developed, and advanced manufacturing and professional services and foreign investment
started to flow both ways. The second-and third-tier cities of China such as Chengdu, Chongqing and
Wuhan started attracting Australian builders, architects and designers as they invested in infrastructure
to meet the needs of the rapid rural-urban migration and growing middle class consumers. Now
Brisbane architects like Place Design are based in Chengdu to build landscape gardens.

Now we are seeing a new phase with the development of financial services and other forms of
cooperation, such as the conversion of the Chinese yuan to Australian dollars, a new free trade
agreement (FTA) and potential Australian support for the China-led Asian Infrastructure Investment
Bank, following in the tradition of Canberra's strong support to Beijing on major international issues since
former Australian leader Edward Gough Whitlam visited China in 1971. Australia supported China's bid
to join the World Trade Organization, and has been backing it in the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation
and G20.
But what of the future? Recently, Australia was surprised to see China, under pressure from domestic
producers, increase the tariff on coal imported from Australia. While this won't derail the FTA, it has
alarmed foreign observers, some of whom have urged the Australian government to leverage its support
for the China-led Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank to get the tariff decision reversed. But it's likely
the two issues will remain separate.
There are some more controversial measures such as allowing Chinese nationals to "purchase"
permanent residence in Australia via real estate investment, which may provide incentive for some
Chinese officials to invest (and thus entice corruption).

On the other hand, Australia has supported the strong anti-corruption campaign launched by the
Chinese leadership and bolstered by the Fourth Plenary Session of the 18th Central Committee of the
Communist Party of China. Canberra also has vowed to cooperate with Beijing on extradition of corrupt

Page150of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.officials. These measures are directed at strengthening mutual trust because China knows now that to
succeed in the 21st century, the country's progress is as much about corporate governance as it is about
growth.
In conclusion, these are issues Australia and China both have dealt with since Whitlam landed in Beijing
in 1971. Indeed, Whitlam was often criticized for his lack of interest in economics, compared with his
interests in foreign policy, constitutional reform, urban issues, equal pay structure, the rights of
Aboriginal Australians and support for Asian immigration.
But ironically his brave call to go to China in 1971 (just before former US secretary of state Henry
Kissinger's visit) and subsequent recognition of China was perhaps the most important economic
decision made in Australian history in the past half century. The fruits of that historic visit are benefiting
both sides, and their relationship is bound to reach new heights in the future.

The author is the J.W. Nevile fellow at the University of New South Wales Business School, Australia,
and has the book Trading Places - The Airport Economist's Guide to International Business to his credit.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

e512 : Physical Trade | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News
china : China | austr : Australia | beijin : Beijing | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
China Daily Information Company
Document CHNDHK0020141119eabk0003h

Page151of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.