Spring in Phoenix’s step after Norton nod to project offer

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

WestReg
Spring in Phoenix’s step after Norton nod to project offer

Jarrod Lucas
244 words
7 August 2014
Kalgoorlie Miner
KALGOO
First
12
English
(c) 2014 West Australian Newspapers Limited

Chinese-controlled gold miner Norton Gold Fields will proceed with plans to mine the Mick
Adams and Wadi projects, north-west of Kalgoorlie-Boulder, after taking up an offer from Phoenix
Gold.

It represents a double dose of good news for Phoenix, which marked the opening day of this
week’s Diggers and Dealers Mining Forum with the start of mining at its Kintore West
mine.orth-west of Kalgoorlie-Boulder.

The nearby Mick Adams and Wadi developments are expected to produce 142,800 ounces and
could potentially add $17.5 million cash to Phoenix’s coffers over two years.
Phoenix and Norton are now proceeding to a formal licence to mine and ore sale agreement.
Mining should begin within three months of the agreement being finalised, pending fleet
availability.

“We welcome the potential contribution the projects could make to Norton’s vision to increase
annual production to 300,000 ounces of gold in the near to medium term and to our strategy to
focus on cost reduction,”

Norton managing director Dianmin Chen said. Norton will fund upfront capital development while
taking responsibility for mining, haulage and milling at its Paddington plant. Rehabilitation works
also fall on Norton.

Phoenix managing director Jon Price said the deal with Norton would complement Kintore West
and the company’s recent $2 million acquisition of a heap leach plant from Gold Fields St Ives.

nogofe : Norton Gold Fields Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document KALGOO0020140806ea870000m

Page20of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.