Australians debate foreign impact on high home prices

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Australians debate foreign impact on high home prices

646 words
2 July 2014
Nikkei Report
NKRP
English
© Copyright 2014. Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Inc. All rights reserved.

ED BYRNE, Contributing writer
SYDNEY -- Australia has benefited greatly from closer ties with China, which is a major source of
prosperity as its biggest export market. But now there are growing fears over China's role in a market
that is much closer to home: real estate.

Increasing Chinese investment in Australian residential property has triggered a debate over whether
foreign buyers are pushing up property prices, making homes less affordable for locals.
After a series of purchases of top-end properties by wealthy Chinese investors, fears that foreigners
are to blame for expensive homes have even triggered a parliamentary inquiry into the issue.

The Reserve Bank of Australia's assistant governor, Christopher Kent, appeared before the inquiry last
week. He said foreign investment made up about 5-10% of market turnover, or over 17 billion
Australian dollars ($16 billion), last year.
"The data clearly show an increase in the level of approvals for foreign residential purchases over
time, but it is difficult to know how much this has boosted net demand for Australian housing," he said.

While Kent was reluctant to assess the impact of foreign investment on prices, he did note that foreign
buying had increased in the first nine months of the fiscal year through June 2014.

Indeed, UBS economist Scott Haslem reported official data showing the total value of approvals for
overseas real estate purchases had surged 93% in the first nine months of the financial year, to
A$24.9 billion.

As a share of total housing turnover, Haslem said foreign buying was now at a record high of 13%,
compared with a long-term average of 8%. Most of this money is flowing into newly built homes rather
than existing properties, so it should help to increase the supply of property and limit price rises. But
he said the overall effect of foreign investment was that it will still push prices slightly higher.

Different purposes
The increase in foreign real estate investment is being led by China. In the fiscal year ended June
2013, China overtook the U.S. as the biggest source of real estate investment approved by the
Foreign Investment Review Board, with approvals of A$5.9 billion.
In Sydney, there have also been reports of wealthy Chinese business owners purchasing luxurious
harbor-side properties. For instance, the most expensive property sold this year in Sydney, worth
about A$30 million, was sold to a Chinese buyer.

The increase in foreign buying is a sensitive issue in Australia because many younger people are
finding it harder than ever to afford a first home.
Despite the property market showing signs of cooling off recently, first-time home buyers' share of loan
approvals was at a record low of 12.3% in April, the Australian Bureau of Statistics reported last month.

However, economists say that although foreigners may be pushing up some house prices, this is not
the main reason why homes are so expensive for young people.

Page33of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The RBA's Kent told the parliamentary inquiry that foreign investment had "probably not had a large
direct effect" on the properties bought by first-time home buyers, because overseas buyers typically
bought houses that were priced above the national average. In contrast, most people buying their first
house can only afford cheaper properties.

The Treasury, which advises the federal government on economic policy, also played down the impact
of foreigners on pushing up property prices. With the key cash rate at a record low of 2.5%, it said
cheap debt was a much more likely cause of expensive property prices.

"While foreign demand has recently risen, the increase in domestic investor and owner-occupier
demand across both established and new dwellings in response to low interest rates has likely been
much more significant," Treasury said in a submission to the inquiry.

IN
NS

RE

IPC
PUB
AN

icre : Real Estate/Construction
ereal : Real Estate Markets | e1121 : Home Sales/Housing Affordability | emhpr : Housing Prices |
reqrcr : Suggested Reading Construction/Real Estate | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat :
Economic News | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry
News
austr : Australia | china : China | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales
EG006000
Nikkei Digital Media Inc.
Document NKRP000020140702ea720005s

Page34of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.