Media Release: TMT Group

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Media Release: TMT Group

385 words
21 August 2014
AAP MediaNet Press Releases
AAPMPR
English
© 2014 Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

AAPMEDIA RELEASE PR57620 TMT Chairman and CEO Hsin-Chi Su Files US$100 million IP Suit
over Vessel Sale
HONG KONG, Aug. 21, 2014 /PRNewswire-AsiaNet/--

Hsin-Chi Su, Chairman and CEO of Today Makes Tomorrow Group ("TMT") launched a suit in Texas
federal court on July 28, 2014, alleging that a planned bankruptcy sale of three company ships,
including M.V.D Whale, M.V.G Whale and M.V.H Whale, to Mega International Commercial Bank Co.
Ltd. (Mega Bank) will strip him of intellectual property worth more than US$100 million for each ship.
According to Ken Liang's deposition at the court, Mega Bank is the agent for vulture fund Oaktree
Capital Group.
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Marvin Isgur recently signed off on a sale of the ships to Mega Bank without
adequately protecting Su's interest in the boats' patented technology. For this reason, Su wants the
federal district court to either issue a declaratory judgment clarifying that Judge Isgur's order approving
the sale of the ships "free and clear" of any liens did not extinguish his rights under several Asian
patents he holds, or force Mega Bank to immediately compensate him for the loss of his intellectual
property, over US$100 million for each ship.

Judge Isgur declined to adjudicate his patent rights, but left open the possibility that the TMT executives
could pursue infringement claims against either Mega Bank or TMT if it is later determined that Su's
intellectual property was improperly transferred.

Su said "I deeply regret that Judge Isgur declined to adjudicate the patent rights. The practice of selling
the ships of TMT to a US company without securing the permission of patent rights owners is
tantamount to selling pirated copies. This reminds me of the Asian financial crisis in 1997, when foreign
funds aggressively acquired Asian companies at low prices. "
Su designed an underdeck piping structure for the ships, which he patented in Japan, Korea and China,
but allowed TMT to use it without a license.
In this case, the sale orders did not determine ownership of the Asian patents. Hence, Su owns the
Asian patents and retains his rights to enforce the Asian patents by, among other things, suing infringers
regardless of the sale orders.
SOURCE: TMT Group

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

oaktcm : Oaktree Capital Group LLC
i831 : Financial Investments | i83107 : Portfolio/Fund/Asset Management | ifinal : Financial Services |
iinv : Investing/Securities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c133 : Patents | npress : Press Releases | cgymtr : Intellectual
Property | cinprp : Industrial Property Rights (Patents/Trademarks) | ncat : Content Types
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd
Document AAPMPR0020140821ea8l0005l

Page45of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Page46of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.