Housing demand drives record settlements

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Housing demand drives record settlements

331 words
28 August 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
37
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Lend Lease has ridden the wave of the hot housing sector in Australia, reporting a record year for
residential settlements – up 32 per cent on last year.
More broadly, residential pre-sales increased to $2.5 billion for the 2014 financial year for the
business.

Chief executive Steve McCann said he believed the demand for housing would remain strong along
the eastern seaboard and particularly in the near cities.
He said prices in places such as China had increased a lot and residential opportunities in cities
such as Shanghai were not cheap.
"There is a significant desire for Chinese businesses and business people to invest capital into
Australia and elsewhere. There doesn't seem to be any signs of that slowing, in fact in the last six
months it has picked up," Mr McCann said.
"The Chinese developers have a thesis that the demand they see coming out of Asia is what makes
it attractive for them to develop here."
In Australia, Lend Lease launched its first residential units at Barangaroo South during the period,
which all pre-sold in three hours. The first release of 538 apartments at the company's Darling
Harbour project also sold out. At Victoria Harbour the group has reached pre-sales of more than 90
per cent.

Mr McCann said proximity and lifestyle played a big role in luring foreign investment in Australia.

"We are lucky in a way that our proximity to Asia means that we would get the attention of the
merging Asian economies," he said.

"They look at safe havens, and at cities where the flow of capital is likely to always be there and they
think about scarcity value. They would rather have their money in a city which is unlikely to go
backwards too much, compared to what they are used to at home which is much more volatile." Lend
Lease also reported strong pre-sales in its latest London residential projects.

Mercedes Ruehl

IN
RE

PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140827ea8s0002f

Page23of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Page24of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.