Developers stalk riverside land

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PrimeSpace
Developers stalk riverside land

Rosanne Barrett
415 words
20 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
30
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

PRIME riverfront land planned for major residential and mixed-use development is being targeted by
dozens of major international developers and listed Australian companies.
Two land parcels for sale in South Brisbane’s Kurilpa precinct are understood to have attracted the
attention of developers including Australian Securities Exchange-listed companies Lend Lease and
Leighton, and internationals Greenland Holding Group, Chinese Overseas Holdings, R&F and others.

Known as the Parmalat and Hanson sites, the riverside industrial areas have strong government
support to be transformed into high-density residential zones supporting up to 8000 residents. Towers
of up to 40 storeys are permissible under a proposed new local plan.
Chinese state-owned company Greenland has plans to focus on southeast Queensland after investing
$1.6 billion in Sydney and Melbourne in the past year. It is also a joint venture partner with James
Packer’s Crown Resorts in a bid to develop the Queens Wharf casino in Brisbane.

Yesterday development director Kang Xue said he was aware of the Kurilpa precinct but Greenland
would not comment on tenders. “We know the project, we understand there is development there,” he
said.
The Australian was unable to contact R&F and Chinese Overseas Holdings. The Parmalat site spans
2.5ha on the Brisbane river, 600 metres from the city central business district and is for sale through
Colliers International’s Brendan Hogan and Pat George, along with Knight Frank’s Justin Bond and Ben
McGrath.

Mr Hogan declined to comment on any specific interest in the sites, noting the tender process was
ongoing. “They’re both outstanding development opportunities and will be the catalyst for the Kurilpa
riverfront renewal,” he said.
The adjacent 12,921sq m Hanson site across two lots is also for sale. The concreter will move to the
former Brisbane city council bus depot in Bowen Hills.

Leighton and Lend Lease declined to comment on the industry speculation. Prominent private
developer David Devine, who leads Metro Property Development, said the company had cast its eye
over the area but warned of excessive prices. “A lot of the vendors have got the idea that they’re
probably worth a lot more money than they really are.” Brisbane-based developer Consolidated
Properties has also indicated its interest in the sites.Brisbane has a raft of development sites including
the Fortitude Valley State School, the former Dental School at Turbot Street and the former Children’s
Hospital at Herston.

CO
IN

sgregc : Greenland Holding Group Company Limited
i501 : Building Construction | i5010021 : Land Development/Subdivision | iconst : Construction | icre :
Real Estate/Construction

Page183of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS
RE

PUB
AN

ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141119eabk00042

Page184of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.