Almighty US New Year hangover afflicts Asia

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Almighty US New Year hangover afflicts Asia

489 words
4 January 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
First
112
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

Asian markets were a sea of red yesterday as the outgoing tide of foreign investor liquidity flowing
back to the US and Europe knocked regional equity markets and emerging market currencies.

The Australian sharemarket lost ground as the prospect of less US Federal Reserve stimulus saw
US stocks fall on the first trading day of the year for the first time in six years.

Sentiment was hit by a drop in US weekly jobless claims and firm ISM manufacturing data that
raised the prospect of the Fed again trimming its bond buying program from the $US75 billion it was
reduced to this month.

The S&P-ASX 200 index was down 0.8 per cent at its worst but bargain hunters pared the loss,
leaving the index 17.8 points, or 0.33 per cent, down at 5350.1 as investors largely shrugged off
another weak session for Chinese and Hong Kong stocks.

The Australian dollar also dodged regional currency weakness, rising US0.7¢ to US89.90¢ despite
broad US dollar strength against most major currencies.

National Australia Bank currency strategist Emma Lawson said the overnight session was marked by
a “series of relatively random market moves overnight; each not quite gelling with one another”.

She said there was potentially “some signal in the general wash”, but it might take an increase in
market participation, liquidity and news flow to “parse out”.

Many of the moves suggested there was major position unwinding in the major currencies, such as
short positions in the yen, which led to a strong rebound.

“Countries that require capital may find things a little harder in 2014,” she said.

Australian government 10-year yields rose 1.4 points to 4.343 per cent while US 10-years dropped 4
points to 2.99 per cent on the first bout of risk aversion since the Fed’s taper announcement.

The Shanghai composite index fell 1.2 per cent to near five-month lows as the initial public offering
pipeline was increased to 16, sparking fears of buying power dilution after a 14-month break.

Sentiment was hit by data showing growth was also slowing outside the manufacturing sector,
stoking fears that soaring borrowing costs were crimping demand in China. The country’s
non-manufacturing PMI index dropped 1.4 points to 56.
Japanese markets were closed again for a public holiday but Hong Kong’s Hang Seng index fell 2.2
per cent.
Gold bucked the US dollar strength, rising $US8 to $US1235 an ounce on physical demand in India
and China ahead of the Lunar New Year.

Page50of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“Chinese demand for physical gold rose sharply in December, particularly through the last five days
of 2013,” ANZ commodity strategist Victor Thianpiriya said. “Amid continued ETF outflows, which
accelerated in December, the downtrend remains in place but near-term dynamics still support a
bounce if prices retest recent lows.”

fed : Federal Reserve Board
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
china : China | hkong : Hong Kong | austr : Australia | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North
America
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140103ea1400005

CO
NS
RE

PUB
AN

Page51of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.