Falling iron ore price threatens Pilbara

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Falling iron ore price threatens Pilbara

Jenny Wiggins
645 words
18 September 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
27
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The viability of Aurizon's plans to build a new rail and port network in the Pilbara to transport iron ore
is being questioned as weaker iron ore prices raise fears over costs.

Aurizon's shares have fallen 7 percent since the start of August to trade at their lowest levels since
December as investors worry about the cost of the company's Pilbara investment and increased
capital spending on its existing operations.

The company told investors at its annual results last month it would lift spending on IT, track
maintenance and fleet upgrades to about $600 million annually between fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2017,
from $350 million annually, giving it less cash to fund new projects.

But Aurizon is pushing ahead with plans to develop a new 430-kilometre rail line to Anketell Point in
the Pilbara to export iron ore from the west Pilbara after teaming up with China's Baosteel to buy
Aquila Resources' 50 per cent stake in the West Pilbara Iron Ore Project.
When the companies made their initial approach in May, spot iron ore prices were trading at about
$US105 a tonne but have now fallen to about $US85 a tonne.
Analysts say the project was highly sensitive to iron ore prices. Merrill Lynch estimates that while
BHP Billiton's Pilbara iron ore production costs run at about $26 a tonne and Rio Tinto's at $22 a
tonne, Aurizon's and Baosteel's costs will run as high as $80 a tonne, making it difficult for the
companies to profit from their venture.Chinese keen to export
Although Baosteel is keen to export its own iron ore to send to its steel plants in China, the project's
other investors – US private equity firm American Metal & Coal International and Korean steel giant
POSCO (which jointly hold 50 per cent) could pull out if iron ore prices fall further.
Aurizon was expected to fund about 20 per cent of the $4.7 billion project, and has already signalled
it is considering selling a minority stake in its central Queensland coal network to raise cash.
Investment bank UBS has estimated Aurizon could generate up to $2 billion by selling 49 per cent of
the Queensland track business.
Aurizon's board was expected to come under pressure to explain the company's pursuit of the West
Pilbara iron ore project at the company's annual meeting in Perth in November.

Analysts have already expressed surprise at the decision of Aurizon's 73-year-old chairman, John
Prescott, to stand for re-election at the annual meeting.

Aurizon's remuneration report last year received a "first strike" with some 28 per cent of proxy votes
cast against the report in protest at the rail group's executive pay packages.

Proxy groups are still formulating their recommendations ahead of Aurizon's annual meeting this year
but some were expected to raise concerns about Mr Prescott's re-election.

Page73of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Australian Shareholders Association last year called for Mr Prescott to resign, saying it was
"disappointed" with his handling of remuneration issues in recent years, including permitting
accounting changes that gave management bonus payments they may not have otherwise received,
and adjusting performance targets.

Analysts had also expressed concerns Mr Prescott was "not particularly engaged" with the financial
community and it would be timely to refresh the board as Aurizon moved into an expansion phase
after several years of cost cutting following its float in late 2010.

Investors also believe Aurizon needs a strong and engaged chairman to monitor its expansion plans
in the Pilbara and Queensland's Galilee Basin.
Key points Investors worry iron ore prices could affect planned port and rail construction. Company
spending on IT, track maintenance and fleet upgrades, increases to $600m, leaving less to spend on
other projects.

qrntnl : Aurizon Holdings Limited
i5020017 : Harbor Construction | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i502 : Heavy
Construction | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | iconst : Construction | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | i71 : Railroads | icargo : Freight/Cargo Transport | irailtr : Road/Rail Transport |
irfrght : Railroad Freight | itsp : Transportation/Shipping
c314 : Pricing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c31 : Marketing | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140917ea9i00033

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page74of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.