REA shares hit record as profits jump 37%

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

REA shares hit record as profits jump 37%

Property Madeleine Heffernan
430 words
5 February 2014
Canberra Times
CANBTZ
B008
English
(c) 2014 The Canberra Times

REA shares hit record as profits jump 37%
Property Madeleine Heffernan

'The market is just so excited about what they're doing.'

Ivor Ries, Morgans
Shares in REA Group have reached a record high after the real estate classified company exceeded
analyst expectations in the six months to December, driven by growth in more expensive advertising for
residential property. Morgans analyst Ivor Ries told BusinessDay the result was "clearly above what the
market was expecting" and despite challenges in its overseas business, notably Hong Kong, "the market
is just so excited about what they're doing with revenue in Australia".

REA, owner of market-leading portals realestate.com.au and realcommercial.com.au, is switching from a
reliance on subscription fees from real estate agents to selling premium advertising slots. Revenue from
these "depth" products grew by 67per cent, a result Mr Ries said was "well in advance of what the market
was looking for". The company did not provide guidance on who would replace its chief executive, Greg
Ellis. CCZ Statton Equities analyst Roger Colman said he held little hope for shareholders seeking
generous dividends or big acquisitions in the short term. "REA has got an illogical balance sheet with
current [low] interest rates," he said . REA has made a couple of small purchases in the past few months
- the $15million purchase of onlinerental application service 1Form.com, and Italian property site Attico
- but its growth over the years has been largely organic. Shares in REA rose 5per cent on Tuesday to
$43.78, taking its year- to-date rise to just under 16per cent and defying the worst day on the sharemarket
in six months. REA was similarly a star performer in 2013, despite news Mr Ellis and chief financial officer
Jenny Macdonald would depart.

REA reported a 37per cent rise in net profit to $70.7million for the six months to December 31. Annual
revenue grew by 30per cent to $209.4million, and earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortisation rose by 38per cent to $106.8million - about in line with Commonwealth Bank forecasts.
Analyst Mark McDonnell of BBY said REA's results were impressive. "The question is, how long will that
be sustained?" REA's offshore operations - in Italy, Luxembourg, Germany, France and Hong Kong -
comprise just 10per cent of revenue. The company did not say when it would replace Mr Ellis, but
chairman Hamish McLennan - also the chief executive of Network Ten - told analysts he was very
pleased with the calibre of candidates.

RF
CO
IN
NS

53865971
rlesta : REA Group Limited | newsli : News Limited | nnewz : News Corp
i834 : Real Estate Agents/Brokers | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest : Real Estate
c151 : Earnings | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter

Page177of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

canbrr : Canberra | apacz : Asia Pacific | auscap : Australian Capital Territory | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
| austr : Australia

PUB Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty Ltd
AN

Document CANBTZ0020140204ea2500012

Page178of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.