Chinese tour our dairies

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Chinese tour our dairies

ROGER HANSON
346 words
18 September 2014
Hobart Mercury
MRCURY
Hobart
5
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved

A DELEGATION of 31 Chinese investors will spend the next two days in Tasmania looking for
opportunities in the state’s dairy industry.
DairyTas executive officer Mark Smith said yesterday the mixed business group was due to arrive
in Launceston last night and would be looking at a combination of processing plants and dairy farms
in the state’s North.

The group is expected to visit Ashgrove cheese factory at Elizabeth Town today followed by
Fonterra’s processing plant at Spreyton and irrigation developments and a dairy farm for sale in the
Deloraine area.
Before flying out, the group will also visit an irrigated farm in the Northern Midlands operated by a
former national dairy farmer of the year.
“The delegation chose to come to Tasmania because they have a strong interest in dairy farms. It is
an exciting time for the industry,” Mr Smith said.
The industry aims to unlock potential for major expansion, increasing capacity by 350 million litres a
year or 40 per cent with its IntoDairy program.
The state produced about 800 million litres last year.
“They [the Chinese delegation] will look at a dairy farm on the market and two more farms that offer
potential for dairy conversion,” Mr Smith said.
Earlier this week a $3 billion Chinese agricultural fund to invest in local dairy farms was announced.
Trade and Investment Minister Andrew Robb said the Beijing Australia Agricultural Resource
Co-operative Development Fund would supply Australian agricultural products and services to China,
the world’s biggest dairy importing market.
And one of China’s biggest milk companies, Ningbo Dairy Group, said this week it was keen to
produce as much milk as it could to fly from its Victorian farms.

Tasmanian Irrigation, which has developed a major water scheme infrastructure program, will give a
presentation on how Tasmania is droughtproofing itself by providing surety of water through its
schemes.The tour has been organised with Austrade and Department of State Growth and Harcourts
Real Estate, which is marketing properties to Chinese investors.

IN

NS

i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 :
Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy Products | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
gcat : Political/General News

Page56of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

PUB
AN

china : China | tasman : Tasmania | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
austr : Australia | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document MRCURY0020140917ea9i00024

Page57of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.