Sinking Yields in Asia Spur a Property -Buying Shift; Investors Are Modifying Their Strategies and Taking on More Risk

SE
HD

BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
ED
LA
CY
LP

TD

Real Estate
Sinking Yields in Asia Spur a Property-Buying Shift; Investors Are Modifying Their Strategies
and Taking on More Risk
By Jason Chow and Gregor Stuart Hunter
995 words
25 June 2014
03:15
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Commercial real-estate yields in Asia are the lowest in the world, forcing investors to pay top prices
for the highest-quality buildings, take on more risk or consider property investments outside of their
regions for the first time.
Yields for centrally located office buildings are just 2.2% in Taipei, 2.8% in Hong Kong and 3.5% in
Tokyo and Singapore. By comparison, they are 4.7% in New York and 3.8% in London's West End,
according to CBRE Group Inc.

Pension funds, sovereign-wealth funds and other institutional investors have been willing to accept
such low returns because they look attractive in a low interest-rate environment. But it also means that
buyers are exposed to a loss in value if interest rates rise and demand for such low yields cools.

Yields have fallen so far in Taiwan that financial regulators last year instituted a new rule that limits
domestic insurance companies' investments to properties that offer a rental yield of 2.875% or above.
Authorities also have allowed insurance companies to buy real estate outside the country's borders for
the first time.
Investors are modifying their strategies. Terence Loh, executive director at China-focused investment
fund CDH Investments, said he has been investing in development projects in cities such as Beijing,
Hangzhou and Xi'an rather than buying existing buildings. "The risk-reward is more compelling," he
said.
Yields are an important measure of commercial-property values because lower yields typically mean
higher prices. They are calculated by dividing the annual income by the price.

Traditionally, yields in Asia are lower than they are in Europe and the U.S. because often there are
more buyers chasing fewer properties. Pension funds, sovereign-wealth funds and other institutional
investors favor fully leased, well-located buildings and there are fewer of these in Asia. Also, many of
these investors, until recently, have been reluctant to venture outside the regional markets they know
best.

But lately yields in Asia have fallen to unusually low levels, along with the rest of the world. Buyers can
tolerate smaller yields partly because they can borrow at lower costs and the lower returns still look
attractive compared with the debt market.

Yields also have been falling in many countries because the annual incomes of properties aren't
keeping up with rising prices. Prime office rents in Beijing and Shanghai, for example, have stayed flat
over the past two years, according to CBRE, while those in Hong Kong and Taipei rose 2.3% and
1.1%, respectively, in the past year.

Page228of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In some Asian cities, including Taipei and Beijing, yields are at or near historical lows, according to
CBRE. In Hong Kong, they are at similar levels to the last major property boom in 1997. In Tokyo, the
yields are at their lowest levels since 2005, CBRE says.

In Taipei, for example, Mercuries Life Insurance Co. Ltd. in April bought almost 8,000 square meters of
retail space in the podium at Taipei TiT Tower Square for 3.95 billion New Taiwan dollars (US$131.5
million), with a rental yield of 3%, according to Real Capital Analytics, a real-estate data firm. The
seller, Homax Group, acquired the same property in June 2011 at a price of NT$2.8 billion for a yield
of 4.5% at the time.
In Singapore, a group of local companies in May bought a 93% stake from Keppel REIT in the
Prudential Tower in the city's central financial district for 512 million Singaporean dollars (US$409.3
million). The deal boasted a 3.5% yield, according to Real Capital. By comparison, Keppel REIT in
2011 bought the Ocean Financial Centre, also in the heart of Singapore, for S$2.0 billion in a deal that
offered a 5.3% yield, Real Capital says.

Investors have started to leave their comfort zones to find higher yields. Some have targeted Australia.
Yields are at 6% in Sydney's and Melbourne's main office districts. Singapore-based real-estate
company Hiap Hoe Group bought an office building in Perth for 90 million Australian dollars (US$84.8
million), at a yield of 8.3%, according to research by property firm JLL.

Other investors are seeking distressed properties, hoping to boost yields by increasing revenue. Gaw
Capital Partners, a Hong Kong-based private-equity real-estate firm, earlier this year paid US$30
million for the Hyatt Regency Osaka in hopes of turning around a hotel that lost US$10 million in the
year ending March. "We saw a lot of quick fixes that we could do and cost-cutting that would make the
hotel cash-flow positive right away," said Christina Gaw, managing principal and head of capital
markets at the firm.
Some real-estate experts say investors are willing to accept low yields because they feel that property
incomes are poised to rise after years of stagnation, especially in Japan as it emerges from a long
slump. They point out that commercial property often benefits from rising inflation because it allows
landlords to raise rents. "Investors are going into Tokyo with the expectation of rising rents," said
Alistair Meadows, international capital group head at JLL.

But others say investors accepting low yields are walking a thin line. Many of them have been trying to
boost returns by adding leverage, a risky formula that exposes investors to default if rents or values
decline.

Also, if interest rates rise faster than inflation, owners could get squeezed, especially if they have
floating-rate debt, experts say. "These tight [yield] rates will have a very small margin of error," said
Nicholas Wilson, research manager for capital markets in Asia Pacific, at JLL.

Esther Fung in Shanghai and Aries Poon in Taipei contributed to this article.

CO
IN

NS
RE

IPD
PUB
AN

coldb : CBRE Group, Inc.
i815020602 : Real Estate Investment Trusts | ireest : Real Estate | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial
Vehicles | i8150206 : Investment Trusts/Funds | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ifinal : Financial
Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | i8500021 : Office Real Estate |
icireal : Commercial/Industrial Real Estate
greest : Real Estate/Property | gcat : Political/General News
taiwan : Taiwan | austr : Australia | singp : Singapore | hkong : Hong Kong | taipei : Taipei | apacz : Asia
Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | china : China | chinaz :
Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz :
Eastern Asia | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Real Estate
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document WSJO000020140624ea6o0086j

Page229of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.