Four Mile uranium mine becomes Australia's newest

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Four Mile uranium mine becomes Australia's newest

562 words
25 June 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) News
ABCNEW
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

Another uranium mine has been officially opened in outback South Australia but might lose money
because of the current low uranium price.
Quasar Resources and Alliance Resources are operating the Four Mile project as a joint venture and ore
is being processed at the nearby Beverley uranium mine site.

Quasar director Dave Roberts says the current cost of production at the mine might be higher than the
world uranium price.

Premier Jay Weatherill and Treasurer Tom Koutsantonis have flown to Four Mile, 550 kilometres north of
Adelaide in the northern Flinders Ranges, for the official opening.
Another uranium mine has been officially opened in outback South Australia but might lose money
because of the current low uranium price.
Quasar Resources and Alliance Resources are operating the Four Mile project as a joint venture and ore
is being processed at the nearby Beverley uranium mine site.

Quasar director Dave Roberts says the current cost of production at the mine might be higher than the
world uranium price.
The Four Mile mine is projected to produce about 1.6 million pounds of uranium this year.

Premier Jay Weatherill and Treasurer Tom Koutsantonis have flown to Four Mile, 550 kilometres north of
Adelaide in the northern Flinders Ranges, for the official mine opening.
Mr Koutsantonis says it is an important day for South Australian mining and the local economy.

"The most significant deposit found anywhere in the world in the last 25 years is coming into operation,"
he said.

"It has a secure future. I mean the deposits are world-class, the deposits are being brought out in the
most environmentally sustainable way. I think it has a long-term life.
"South Australia is cementing its place as the capital of uranium mining in Australia and it's a good thing
for our state, it's a good thing for our economy and it's a good thing for jobs."
Much higher grade ore than Olympic Dam
The Government says the ore deposit is of a much higher grade than at outback Olympic Dam, where
BHP Billiton is mining.
It says South Australia has most of Australia's uranium mining, with Four Mile joining Olympic Dam and
Beverley in SA.
The other active uranium mine is Ranger in the Northern Territory, while the SA Honeymoon mine has
been mothballed.

Page205of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Most of the Beverley workforce is transferring to the Four Mile operation for now, but Mr Roberts says
Beverley still has a future.
"There is remaining ore at Beverley. It can and will be extracted at a future point in time but today we are
dedicating the full processing capacity of Beverley to the production of Four Mile uranium," he said.

The Four Mile operation will employ about 140 workers.
The Government says the uranium will be vital to the nuclear technology which delivers China and
India's energy needs.
Four Mile hit a hurdle when there was a legal dispute over native title and mining between the parties,
but an agreement for the area finally was signed.
Another issue now has arisen; Alliance Resources is selling its 25 per cent stake in Four Mile and is
about to go to court accusing Quasar of misleading and deceptive conduct.
The deposit at Four Mile was discovered almost a decade ago and the mining lease application made in
2008.

IN

NS
RE

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | iuran : Uranium Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
gpol : Domestic Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations
austr : Australia | adelai : Adelaide | saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
uranium

IPD
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCNEW0020140625ea6p0008d

Page206of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.