A star among thorns

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

FARM MAGAZINE
A star among thorns

Tony Fawcett
2,094 words
5 February 2014
The Weekly Times
HERWEK
1 - FIRST
21
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

With a background in broadacre cropping, Judy Barrett has turned her farming skills to save Morning
Star Estate, with an orchard, vineyard, olive grove, Angus cattle and one of the country's biggest
collection of roses. Tony Fawcett reports
"I'm absolutely a blood and guts farmer ... I'm out at 6am and I don't come in until I drop," says Judy
Barrett, fresh from a morning's toil in the paddocks.

Yet don't confuse this country-loving and highly affable workaholic with your normal farmer. No way.
For starters, Judy's farm is not conventional. It's the 38-hectare Morning Star Estate, a former
delinquent boys' home run by Franciscan friars, nestled in rolling hills overlooking Port Phillip Bay at Mt
Eliza.

And rather than sowing crops or crutching sheep, Judy spends much of her time caring for a rainbow of
more than 75,000 roses (up to 900 different varieties) stretching between the historic 1867 mansion and
the bay.

When not tending roses, this dynamo of a woman, who admits with a little coaxing that she has just
turned 70, might be found out tending vines - the property has 12 hectares of pinot, chardonnay and
cabernet grapes as well as the more than 80-year-old and "rather beautiful" one-hectare vineyard
planted by the Franciscans in 1932.

Or cleaning out the four old pig pens for some new incumbents.

Or readying the 800 olive trees in preparation for pickling the fruit and also making olive oil.

Or generally looking after the hectares of lemon trees, kaffir limes, tamarillos, boysenberries,
blueberries, cumquats, figs, quinces, persimmons, apricots, plums and peaches and goodness knows
what else.

With so much produce, you would assume Judy had plenty of markets. Not so.

Apart from the buckets of rose blooms she sells in season to visitors ($50 for as many roses as you can
get in a bucket), nearly all produce ends up in the restaurant she runs in the mansion, or for the
nourishment of guests staying in the B&B accommodation with its stunning views over the roses and
the bay.
You see, Judy is a self-sufficient type - and is in love with this intriguing property and its rambling
mansion, built by Londoner Francis Gillet after he arrived in 1853 (back then it was called Sunnyside).
And she will do all it takes to keep it going.

On the day I visit, a three-month location shoot around the mansion for the movie Partisan, starring
French actor Vincent Cassell (he was a lead with Natalie Portman in Black Swan and recently

Page142of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.separated from his Italian-born actress wife Monica Bellucci), is about to wrap. Upstairs, a fashion
parade for local women is under way.

Last year the mansion was the location for the Kath and Kim movie spin-off Kath & Kimderella. And
currently Judy is preparing for a country and western music concert (she holds about six entertainment
events here a year).

For this daughter of "a great farmer and a good produce merchant", who gained her love of the land
while helping her father sow oats and barley in the Riverina, such diversity is just par for the course,
what's required these days to make a go of things on the land. And besides, she loves every second of
it.

"I've always loved the land, always," she assures.

Judy bought Morning Star 20 years ago, soon after her husband, Charles, died of a heart attack. It was
at the height of an economic downturn, and the property, which had been a horse stud, was in the
hands of receivers and had gone to auction seven times in five years but had not sold.

Judy admits she got it at a good price, yet the Victorian-era mansion was in a dilapidated condition
through lack of occupation.

For Judy though, anxious to get back to her rural roots, it was a dream in the making. "It was derelict
and unkempt yet I knew what I would do with it the moment I saw it," she says.
While waiting to get approvals from various authorities to renovate the double-storey 930sq m mansion
with its soaring chapel, slate roofs, gymnasium (now a ballroom) and courtyards, she filled in time
planting roses in the old cow paddock. And she just planted and planted.

The actual mansion renovation was one massive, torturous journey for she and her family (today son
David and daughter Christine both work at Morning Star), with the former dormitory wing becoming a
boutique B&B hotel and the woodwork room becoming a restaurant.

Lure of the grape

Morning Star has about 12 hectares under vines, including pinot, chardonnay and cabernet.

Recently Judy has been leasing out much of this area, apart from the one-hectare original vineyard, but
is considering taking it back under her own Morning Star label again.

CONTINUED PAGE 23

FROM PAGE 21

Currently she buys Mornington Peninsula wines for the restaurant and accommodation but feels guests
would appreciate the wine more if they knew it was grown on the estate.

Besides, being a perfectionist, she likes to be in charge of how the grapes are being grown and cared
for. "I'm fussy, I want my grapes, not anyone else's grapes."

For a time Judy also leased out the restaurant but that came back under her control early last year and
has been winning rave reviews since for its seasonal dishes and breathtaking views over the roses.

Most of what she produces from her enormous orchard and vegie garden is used in the restaurant, with
the 800-plus olive trees meaning Judy never has to buy olive oil.

She maintains a small herd of Angus cattle and has enough chooks to keep the kitchen in supply of
meat and eggs. And five or six pigs are soon to arrive, both for recycling kitchen scraps and, after
fattening up, for the table.

Coming up roses

When Judy first started ploughing her cow paddock for roses, she had no idea where her passion would
end.

Now with 75,000 roses, she has possibly the biggest rose garden in Victoria (as a comparison, the
Victoria State Rose Garden at Werribee Mansion has about 5500), including romantic old heritage
blooms, original species roses and newer varieties.

Page143of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."People like to come and sit and smell the roses," she says in explanation of why the rose garden
exists, adding, "I suppose I've made a rod for my own back, haven't I?" Certainly the many brides who
like to be married among the blooms aren't complaining.

Maintaining it requires a giant effort. Judy would like to mulch her row upon row of roses with lucerne
hay but, because it is expensive on such an enormous scale, opts for the cheaper rice straw. She also
grows roses at the ends of the rows of grapes (red blooms for pinot and white and yellow for
chardonnay), both for aesthetics and as an early indicator of fungal disease. Apart from the rose
garden, she has what she calls "The Wilderness", a romping and wonderfully wild area filled with her
favourite plants.

"I've put everything I love in here, and they're all doing exceptionally well prunus trees, crepe myrtles,
rugosa roses and many more."

In here is a particular favourite, a Morning Star rose, a white rugosa bloom, which Judy had patented.
With her own hothouse and large nursery area, she has an ongoing propagation production line and
grows most of her own plants from cuttings.

CONTINUED PAGE 24

FROM PAGE 23

Diversify or else

Diversity is the key to succeeding in a rural venture, insists, Judy.
"You can't make money today without doing it. It is such a hard business, especially down here on the
Peninsula. The doctors and accountants thought they were going to be Collins St farmers with their
grapes but it doesn't work like that, it's too labour-intensive. A lot of them have sold up or sold to the
bigger wineries.

"Plus, chemicals today are just so expensive. You've got to keep spraying and using them, especially
down here, or you get downy and powdery mildew because we're so close to the bay." In her case,
Judy sprays both roses and vines at the same time.

And in order to remain diversified, she says, you also need to be aware of just what opportunities are
out there.

"You have got to have an open mind, because if you can't make money one way, you have got to turn
to another."

Yet as Judy has found, diversity also makes extreme demands on your time and energy. You can't be
afraid of hard work. "If you suspect you might not have the energy for such a job, find something else,"
she advises. "People think I'm mad with all I do. In the country you work from daylight to dusk. But I
love it. I'm passionate about it. And there are just so many more things I would like to do, because this
property lends itself to so much. You can do anything with it."

On with the show

Part of Judy's diversification program has seen her move into hosting concerts and other events at
Morning Star, despite no prior experience in the field.
"I had been to Spray Farm (the Bellarine Peninsula property that previously hosted concerts) and I
loved the way they did things. I thought 'well if they can do, it so can I'. I love music, I go to the opera,
ballet and symphony concerts and the people down here love culture and they love to be outdoors."

To date, Morning Star has hosted performances with everyone from Jimmy Barnes, an Abba revival
group and INXS to the Three Chinese Tenors, Marina Prior and opera.

She would like to do more but currently is restricted to six shows a year by the local council.

One of her most successful and enlightening shows to date was a blues concert. "It was fantastic. I had
thousands here, interesting people, some tattooed all over. But when it was over, there was not one
cigarette butt on

the grass.

"We went through pallets and pallets of Jim Beam cans but there was not one can left on the ground.

Page144of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."When they left you would not have known we had had a concert. They were tough, rough knockabout
fellas - and the girls were too - but they respected everything here. They enjoyed the music, loved the
day, and kept everything so clean and pristine. It was wonderful. I would do that again tomorrow. They
were superb."

The future

With so much on the go, it seems almost inconceivable that Judy would want to take on more of a load.
Yet she does.

She would love to add some sheep to her stock if she can sort out the shearing (shearers are
notoriously scarce on the Mornington Peninsula), she hopes to improve the property's pasture areas,
and if the opportunity ever arose she would consider buying some land for broadacre farming
enterprises.
Three years ago, she sold her late father's stud, Park North sheep station, at Jerilderie, and yearns to
get back to owning something similar. "I love the broad acres and miss them terribly," she says.
Then there is the spot set aside as a home site at the bay end of Morning Star. With magnificent views
across the water back to Melbourne, it has been a dream of Judy's to one day build a house here. Until
now, she has just always been so busy with other projects.

"But who knows, one day soon I might build that house."

Farm facts
MORNING STAR ESTATE, MT ELIZA
Judy Barrett runs the 38-hectare Morning Star Estate, with the help of her daughter Christine and son
David, as a boutique accommodation centre, restaurant and events venue.
The property has 12 hectares of pinot, chardonnay and cabernet grapes and Judy grows about 75,000
rose bushes (tours available), along with hundreds of fruit trees.
The 20-room B&B accommodation, Morning Star Estate's Country House Rooms, is located in the
transformed dormitory wing of the Morning Star boys' home.

Judy employs managers and staff in the restaurant and accommodation, along with two workers who
help her outside and another who works with David.

The restaurant and accommodation are open Wednesday to Sunday.

morningstarestate.com.au

IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

i0 : Agriculture
glife : Living/Lifestyle | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News
| ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
News Ltd.
Document HERWEK0020140204ea250004w

Page145of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.