McGrath looks at public listing

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PrimeSpace
McGrath looks at public listing

TURI CONDON, PROPERTY EDITOR
296 words
18 September 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
25
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

EXCLUSIVE High-profile real estate agent John McGrath is considering a float of his agency and
property business with talks understood to have been held with at least one investment bank.

Discussions had taken place with JPMorgan and possibly other investment banks on an initial public
offering of the McGrath Estate Agents business, however, no appointment had been made, according
to market sources.

McGrath chief operating officer Geoff Lucas said the company was considering all options to further
grow the business for the benefit of customers and stakeholders. “Listing is one of several options that
the McGrath board is exploring and (is) yet to determine as the company continues its expansion.” Mr
Lucas declined to comment further, but sources said consideration of a listing was at an early stage and
McGrath may pursue other growth options. McGrath would not be alone among the real estate agency
groups in having looked at floats over the years. The once-listed LJ Hooker, privatised in 1989, has
considered the public bourse under the chairmanship of former Mirvac managing director Greg Paramor.
Mr McGrath started the company in 1988. Its website says more than $10.1 billion of residential
property was sold in the year to June 30, with 3334 properties selling for $1 million or more. In
September last year, the company launched a China desk for Asian property inquiries. Earlier this
month, Mr McGrath told The Australian he was keen to expand nationally.
The group has about 61 offices in NSW, southeast Queensland and the ACT. Most of the offices are
franchises with about 10 owned by the McGrath business.The McGrath group also includes an
extensive rent role — its property management business — and a home loans business.

IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

i834 : Real Estate Agents/Brokers | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest : Real Estate
c411 : Management Moves | cslmc : Senior Level Management | c1711 : Initial Public Offerings | c02 :
Corporate Changes | c14 : Stock Listings | c17 : Funding/Capital | c171 : Share Capital | c41 :
Management | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types |
nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140917ea9i0001a

Page79of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.