Bankers ready pitchbooks for Santos gas pipe

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Market Wrap - Street Talk
Bankers ready pitchbooks for Santos gas pipe

Edited by Sarah Thompson, Anthony Macdonald and Jake Mitchell
388 words
16 December 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
14
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

It appears to be a matter of when, not if, investment banks will be asked to pitch for a role in selling
Santos's Queensland gas pipeline.

While Santos and its GLNG project partners are yet to formally seek pitches on the 420-kilometre
gas transmission pipeline, bankers are working on their pitchbooks and expect a request for
proposal not too far into the new year.

The GLNG project is 90 per cent complete and due to start exporting gas in the second half of
2015. It would make sense to copy BG Group 's successful strategy and time the sale along with
the first gas shipment.
The derisking strategy helped BG net $US5 billion ($6 billion)for its 540-kilometre pipeline to
Gladstone only last week.
Fund managers and analysts have been crawling over Santos in the past fortnight, with falling oil
prices and a postponed European hybrid raising causing ratings agencies to take a second look at
the company.
While Santos has ruled out an equity raising in the near term, starting the pipeline sale could
demonstrate Santos is serious about finding ways to bulk up its balance sheet and stare down
doubters tipping a giant rights issue.

Santos would be expected to turn to house adviser Deutsche Bank for help, although its
infrastructure and utilities team will be tied up for much of the next two years working through the
NSW electricity privatisations.

Goldman Sachs ran the BG deal, while Macquarie, Morgan Stanley and Deutsche were involved
on the buy side. Citi, JPMorgan and Barclays Capital were involved with the underbidders.

The underbidders would also prefer to see the GLNG pipeline come to market sooner rather than
later.
The likes of infrastructure funds QIC, IFM Investors and AMP Capital, and China Investment Corp
spent plenty of time considering Queensland LNG in the past six months, and are now looking for
somewhere to apply the new-found knowledge.

Of course, Santos would have to convince its joint-venture partners that it was also in their best
interest to start the sale.

Santos owns 30 per cent of GLNG, while Petronas and Total own 27.5 per cent each and Kogas
has the remaining 15 per cent.

CO

brgas : BG Group PLC | rnlp : Royal Dutch Shell PLC

Page44of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

i1300006 : Pipeline Transportation | i1 : Energy | imidstr : Oil/Natural Gas Midstream Operations |
i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300014 : Natural Gas Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141215eacg00020

Page45of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.