Press Release: ZBB Energy Corporation Announces Successful Completion of Public Offering of Common Stock

HD

WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Press Release: ZBB Energy Corporation Announces Successful Completion of Public Offering of
Common Stock
714 words
28 August 2014
01:50
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

ZBB Energy Corporation Announces Successful Completion of Public Offering of Common Stock
MILWAUKEE, WI--(Marketwired - Aug 27, 2014) - ZBB Energy Corporation (NYSE MKT: ZBB) today
announced that it has completed its previously announced underwritten public offering of common stock
at a price to the public of $1.12 per share.

Due to the exercise in full of the underwriters' option to purchase additional shares of common stock, the
company sold a total of 13,248,000 shares of its common stock in the offering for aggregate gross
proceeds of approximately $14.8 million. ZBB Energy Corporation received approximately $13.5 million
of net proceeds from the offering, after deducting the underwriting discount and estimated expenses of
the offering payable by the company. Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC acted as sole book-running
manager for the offering.

A final prospectus supplement describing the terms of the offering has been filed with the SEC. Copies of
the final prospectus supplement and the accompanying base prospectus may be obtained by contacting
the book-running manager at the following address:

Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC

222 South Ninth Street, Suite 350

Minneapolis, MN 55402

Telephone: (612) 334-6300
About ZBB Energy Corporation
ZBB Energy Corporation (NYSE MKT: ZBB) designs, develops, licenses and manufactures advanced
energy storage and power electronics systems, as well as engineered custom and semi-custom products
targeted at the growing global need for distributed renewable energy, energy efficiency, power quality,
and grid modernization. ZBB's portfolio includes integrated power management platforms that combine
advanced power and energy controls plus energy storage to optimize renewable energy sources and
conventional power inputs for grid connected and off-grid applications. ZBB's innovative platforms solve a
wide range of electrical system challenges in global markets for utility, governmental, commercial,
industrial and residential customers. In addition, the platforms ensure optimal efficiencies today, while
offering the flexibility to adapt and scale to future requirements. ZBB's corporate offices, engineering and
development, and production facilities are located in Menomonee Falls, WI, USA with a research facility
also located in Perth, Western Australia. ZBB has a joint venture with Meineng Energy, a provider of
leading-edge energy storage systems and solutions to the greater China market. For more information,
visit: www.zbbenergy.com.

Safe Harbor Statements

Certain statements made in this press release contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of
Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended that are intended to be covered by the "safe harbor" created by those sections.

Page74of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Forward-looking statements, which are based on certain assumptions and describe our future plans,
strategies and expectations, can generally be identified by the use of forward-looking terms such as
"believe," "expect," "may," "will," "should," "could," "seek," "intend," "plan," "estimate," "anticipate" or other
comparable terms. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties which could
cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements, as a result of
various factors including those risks and uncertainties described in the Risk Factors and in Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations sections of our most recently
filed Annual Report on Form 10-K and our subsequently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. We urge
you to consider those risks and uncertainties in evaluating our forward-looking statements. We caution
readers not to place undue reliance upon any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of
the date made. Except as otherwise required by the federal securities laws, we disclaim any obligation or
undertaking to publicly release any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement contained
herein (or elsewhere) to reflect any change in our expectations with regard thereto or any change in
events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
27 Aug 2014 11:50 ET *ZBB Energy Corp Announces Successful Completion Of Public Offering Of
Common Stk
27 Aug 2014 11:51 ET *ZBB Energy: Sold 13.2M Shares For Aggregate Gross Proceeds Of
Approximately $14.8M >ZBB

(MORE TO FOLLOW) Dow Jones Newswires (212-416-2800)

August 27, 2014 11:51 ET (15:51 GMT)

CO
IN

NS

zbbec : ZBB Energy Corporation
i342 : Electrical Components/Equipment | iindstrls : Industrial Goods | iindele : Industrial Electronics |
i3432 : Batteries
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | npress : Press Releases | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020140827ea8r002fr

Page75of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.