(AELAT) Latin Gold to acquire mig33 social entertainment platform

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

(AELAT) Latin Gold to acquire mig33 social entertainment platform

612 words
23 January 2014
Ralph Wragg Australian Business News
AAPRAW
English
Copyright 2014 RWE AUSTRALIAN BUSINESS NEWS PTY LTD. All Rights Reserved.

Sydney - Thursday - January 23: (RWE Australian Business News) - Latin Gold Ltd (ASX:LAT) has
entered into a heads of agreement to acquire 100pc of the mig33 social entertainment platform through
the issue of 720m shares to the various shareholders of mig33 and its operating entities.

Relaunched as a "beta" in August 2013, mig33 is a social entertainment platform featuring miniblog,
chat, chatrooms, virtual gifts and games, is available on Android, WAP and Web, and has more than 3m
monthly active users.

The platform is tailored for emerging markets across Southeast Asia, South Asia, Middle East and Africa
which represent a population of over 3.5bn people, and monetises not through advertising, but primarily
through the sale of virtual gifts and games.
Part of this business model was developed to build on the success of the Chinese-based Tencent
Holdings (HK:700), which now has a market capitalisation of more than $US120bn.

Early results indicate that artists and celebrities using mig33 in Indonesia and South Asia are achieving
levels of engagement comparable to and exceeding that of their equivalent presence on Facebook and
Twitter.

With these results, the mig33 team is focused on broadening and polishing the service offering and
growing the user base in 2014.

*****
A significant attraction of the mig33 business model to Latin Gold is that, even at this early stage of
commercialisation, income is being generated through the company's monetisation model, which is
based around surety of payment through the purchase of mig33 prepaid credits.

The development of mig33 has been spearheaded by Mr Steven Goh, who achieved considerable
success in the late 1990s by developing Sanford Securities, Australia's first online stockbroking
company.
This operation grew to 160,000 customers with over $2.4 billion in customer assets , before being taken
over in 2003. Steven is Managing Director and CEO of mig33 and is recognised as an authority on
contemporary IT issues and serves on a number of advisory panels throughout the Asian region.

*****

Key terms to the proposed transaction are:
(a) the combined Latin Gold and mig33 Group will have net cash resources of at least A$5 million;
(b) all necessary shareholder approvals are obtained, including:

(i) holders of shares in the mig33 Group approving the transaction and the merger agreement, and
(ii) Latin Gold shareholders approving the transaction in accordance with applicable ASX Listing Rules
including a change in the nature and/or scale of Latin Gold's activities in accordance with ASX Listing

Page57of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Rule 11.1.2, the allotment and issue of the Latin Gold shares, the election of new directors, share
consolidation, and a change of company name;

(c) all necessary ASX, governmental and regulatory consents and approvals being obtained for
completion and for the continued listing and quotation of Latin Gold shares on ASX following
completion; and
(d) Latin Gold complying with any requirements of ASX including, if necessary, receiving conditional
approval to have its shares re-admitted to trading on the Official List of ASX and those conditions being
satisfied to the reasonable satisfaction of the parties (as required by ASX Listing Rule 11.1.3).
On completion of the transaction, Latin Gold shareholders will own approximately 30.5pc of the merged
group.
Latin Gold has further agreed to provide the mig33 group with a fully-recourse loan of $US500,000 that
will become immediately repayable if completion of the transaction does not occur within five months.
It is anticipated a detailed notice of general meeting will be available to Latin Gold shareholders by
mid-March with the meeting to consider the proposed transaction to be held by late April.

rx

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

tenchl : Tencent Holdings Ltd | wstmag : Latin Gold Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining | i7902 : Telecommunications | i79022 :
Wireless Telecommunications Services | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd
Document AAPRAW0020140123ea1n0015q

Page58of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.