Walk on the wow side in Sydney

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

JOURNEYS
Walk on the wow side in Sydney

INGRID K. WILLIAMS
1,714 words
22 January 2014
MyPaper
MYPAPR
FIRST
A16,A17
English
(c) 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited. All Rights Reserved

Aussie adventure

BY INGRID K. WILLIAMS

The New York Times

IN EVER-SUNNY, easy-going Sydney, don’t let the famous attractions circling the handsome harbour
consume all your attention.

Focus instead on the evolving neighbourhoods where art spaces are cropping up beside train tracks, and
innovative, chef-driven restaurants are opening at a rapid clip.

If you’re searching for flash, look to Darling Harbour, where celebrity chefs like David Chang and Luke
Nguyen have opened outposts in the Star, a ritzy casino and entertainment complex that reopened in
2011 after an US$800-million (about S$1-billion) renovation.

For more discreet indulgences, seek out the diminutive drinking dens that now pepper the city, the result
of a change in local liquor-licensing laws that finally made business viable for small bars.

Then, when it’s time to dry out, the natural beauty of Australia’s most populous city will be waiting along
the sandy beaches that lie just minutes from downtown.

And don’t worry, you’re bound to pass a certain opera house along the way.

DAY 1

1. Modern Masters: 3pm

Sydney is the pre-eminent place for art on the continent, in part because of the city’s soaring multi-storey
arts spaces.

First, hop over to the White Rabbit Gallery (free admission), which focuses exclusively on contemporary
Chinese art. Rotating exhibitions draw from the gallery’s vast collection, which includes stunning pieces
like a life-size wire motorbike by Shi Jindian, a pile of Ai Weiwei’s sunflower seeds and Tu Wei-Cheng’s
reproduction of a chocolate shop stocked with tank- and bomb-shaped confections.

Then head uptown to the Rocks precinct, where the renovated Museum of Contemporary Art reopened
in 2012 with a new five-storey wing. Most interesting are the temporary exhibitions, like last year’s
captivating Anish Kapoor retrospective and, now, a thought-provoking collection from Yoko Ono.

2. Duck, Duck, Dumplings: 6pm

In a city flush with excellent Asian restaurants, one of the most exciting is Mr. Wong, a two-level,
Chinese-inflected establishment hidden in a narrow lane.

Page71of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The restaurant’s elegant interior features wood-beam ceilings, bamboo-framed chairs and rows of plump
ducks hanging in the kitchen window. After seeing the fowl, it will be difficult to pass up the Chinese
roasted duck (half an order for A$34, or S$38) or the Peking duck pancakes (half an order for A$45), but
save room for a platter of delicious steamed dim sum (A$32).

3. Culture Carriage: 8pm

Near the ascendant Redfern area, a 19th-century industrial complex where railroad cars were once
constructed, is a cavernous cultural hub called Carriageworks.

Located at the old Eveleigh Railway Yards, the venue hosts myriad contemporary arts events –
everything from offbeat plays to large-scale art exhibitions – in its multiple performance and exhibition
spaces. Look out for an ambitious installation by Christian Boltanski this month, and performances from
the Samoan choreographer Lemi Ponifasio’s company of Maori dancers, Mau, in May.

4. Basement Bars: 11pm

Finding Sydney’s most atmospheric bars is no easy task. For example, to reach the Baxter Inn, you walk
down an unmarked alley, through an unkempt courtyard and down a flight of industrial-looking steps to a
nondescript basement door.

While you’re mumbling “This can’t possibly be right”, heave the heavy portal open to enter an attractive,
dimly lit saloon with vintage boxing posters on the walls and hundreds of fine whiskeys lined up behind
the bar.

Another hip hang-out squirrelled away from view is Frankie’s Pizza. The front half of the bar is a kitschy
homage to a pizzeria, with plastic chequered tablecloths and Chianti-bottle candleholders, while the rear
half houses a rollicking American dive bar circa 1987, with pinball machines flashing and obscure tunes
from Guns N’ Roses blasting. There are also tasty sausage pizzas and craft beers from around the
world, so plan for a very late – and fun – night.

DAY 2

5. Seaside Salutations: 9am

Greet the morning with a series of sun salutations in stupendously scenic environs.

About a mile south of the more famous Bondi Beach – along a breathtakingly beautiful waterfront
walkway – is Bronte Beach, a boomerang of golden sand nestled between wind-worn cliffs, a verdant
public park and the Tasman Sea.

Here, in full view of the aquamarine water, Yoga by the Sea holds restorative hatha classes in a
beachfront studio (A$23). Sessions are also held at Bondi and Tamarama beaches, but finding your
centre amid the sea breezes and rhythmic crashing of waves in Bronte is hard to top.
After class, cool off with a dip in the sea or stake out a spot on the beach for a blissful, extended
savasana.

6. Bronte Bites: 12.30pm

From the beach, it’s a short – albeit steep – uphill walk to Three Blue Ducks, a casual restaurant opened
by three surfer friends.

The vibe is laid-back – colourful murals painted across the walls, fresh air wafting through open doors
and windows – but the organic-focused menu reflects a fine-dining sensibility. During the Antipodean
summer, try a bright salad from the ever-changing menu; a recent standout included spicy duck, green
mango and bean sprouts.

Then scope out the backyard garden that most likely supplied some of the produce that graced your
plate. Lunch for two will cost about A$50.

7. Neighbourhood Shops: 3pm

Spend the afternoon strolling through Surry Hills, a tranquil neighbourhood where the tree-lined streets
are home to organic markets, sidewalk cafes and stylish shops.

Give your wandering purpose with a shopping tour beginning at Mushu, an eclectic boutique brimming
with vintage-inspired clothing, delicate jewellery and bright leather bags.

Page72of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Then cross the road to the Standard Store, an airy shop stocked with printed sundresses, striped sailor
shirts and polished brogues for dapper ladies and gents.

Afterwards, head to Workshopped, a cool houseware store packed with Australian-designed products,
from copper pendant lamps to amber-glass jam jars.

8. Grill Guys: 7pm

Stick around Surry Hills for supper at Porteno, a lively Argentinian restaurant owned by the chefs Ben
Milgate and Elvis Abrahanowicz. Dine on a whole suckling pig and milk-fed lamb, roasted over an open
flame for eight hours, or try a steak cooked on the smoking parrilla.

Should you find yourself waiting for a table, head upstairs to Gardel’s Bar, where you can whet your
appetite with a Fernet Branca and cola – a popular tipple in Argentina. Dinner for two will cost about
A$100.

9. Little Darlings: 10pm

After dinner, head north to Darlinghurst, a slightly scruffier area dotted with great watering holes.

Start at Red Lily, a tiny Indochina-inspired cocktail bar that serves creative concoctions like the Pham
Fatale (kaffir-lime-leaf vodka, lychee and ginger liqueurs, lemon and coconut water for A$18).

Continue the bar crawl at Shady Pines Saloon, a basement bar that could double as a taxidermist’s lair.
It’s easy to settle in here, shelling peanuts, listening to honky-tonk, petting the stuffed bull head and
drinking beer all night.

But if you tire of the tongue-in-cheek Americana, head out for a nightcap at Hinky Dinks. At this
1950s-themed bar, claim a seat on the banquettes and order one of the irresistibly cutesy cocktails, like
the Hinky Fizz: Strawberry-and-prosecco sorbet, gin, St Germain, peach bitters and grapefruit juice
served in a sorbet cup (A$18).

DAY 3
10. Bread and Brett: 10am

Start the morning mingling with the many neighbourhood pooches that accompany their owners outside
Bourke Street Bakery, a local institution that recently opened a fifth location. At one of the original cafe’s
sidewalk tables, linger over a short black and a pear-and-berry muffin or sweet pistachio creme brulee
tart.

Then grab a loaf of sourdough and walk up the block to the Brett Whiteley Studio (free admission), the
former home and workplace of the prominent Australian artist. Now an exhibition space under the
auspices of the Art Gallery of New South Wales, the studio contains some of Whiteley’s abstract and
surrealist pieces, as well as his well-preserved loft workshop, complete with unfinished works, reference
books and inspiration wall.

11. Harbourside Hideaway: 12.30pm

Seaside beaches like Bondi can get crowded, so soak up the sun harbourside instead.

One secluded swath of soft golden sand on the harbour’s eastern edge is Camp Cove Beach, where
clear turquoise water laps the shore. It’s the sort of secret spot where Sydneysiders go for a picnic, a
swim and a reminder of the fantastic nature that lies so close to their concrete metropolis.

To reach this hidden beach, take the ferry from Circular Quay to Watsons Bay, a relaxing ride that also
affords a fine view of the white wedges of the iconic Sydney Opera House backed by the steel arch of
the Sydney Harbour Bridge.

myp@sph.com.sg

ART

TAKE A DIP: Visitors and Sydneysiders alike regularly enjoy sunbathing and swimming at Bronte Beach,
which lies about a mile south of the more famous Bondi Beach. It is a boomerang of golden sand nestled
between wind-worn cliffs, a verdant public park and the Tasman Sea. HIDDEN GEMS: Attractions like
the Sydney Opera House are popular haunts, but you can take a ferry ride past the opera house – from
Circular Quay to Watsons Bay – to a secluded beach that isn’t crowded with tourists. DISCREET
DRINKING DEN: Sydney’s bursting with atmospheric bars like the Baxter Inn. The attractive, dimly lit
saloon features vintage boxing posters on its walls and hundreds of fine whiskeys lined up behind the
bar. FOR DAPPER CUSTOMERS: The Standard Store is a stylish and airy shop in the tranquil

Page73of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.neighbourhood of Surry Hills that is stocked with printed sundresses, striped sailor shirts and polished
brogues. FOR MEAT-LOVERS: Dine on milk-fed lamb roasted for eight hours or steak cooked on a
smoking parrilla from Porteno, a lively Argentinian restaurant in Surry Hills. REFRESHING: Red Lily in
Darlinghurst serves cocktails like the Pham Fatale (kaffir-lime-leaf vodka, lychee and ginger liqueurs,
lemon and coconut water).
gart : Art | gcoart : Contemporary Art | gcat : Political/General News | gent : Arts/Entertainment
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South
Wales

NS
RE

PUB Singapore Press Holdings Limited
AN

Document MYPAPR0020140123ea1m0000n

Page74of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.