Equity firms eyeing big dairy

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Equity firms eyeing big dairy

Jared Lynch
467 words
25 June 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
23
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Farming - Offer for Murray Goulburn's float
Australia's biggest dairy exporter Murray Goulburn has already fielded an approach from a private
equity firm looking to snap up the co-operative's entire $500 million partial float that it is crafting with
farmers.

Murray Goulburn hopes to seek funding from outside its farmer shareholder base for the first time in its
63 years to fund ambitious growth plans aimed at securing a slice of the Asian "dining boom".
Private equity firms, which have been traditionally reluctant to invest in the sector, are circling
Australian food companies to look for an entry into Asia.

Murray Goulburn managing director Gary Helou declined to comment on investor interest, but Fairfax
Media understands there is a strong appetite for the planned float, with several private equity firms
approaching the co-operative, including one that expressed interest in acquiring the entire $500 million
offer.
Investors have few listed options for dairy exposure in China. New Zealand's Fonterra, the world's
biggest dairy exporter, only opened its capital-raising to outside its farmer shareholders in 2012 and
NSW's Bega Cheese raised $35 million when it listed in 2011.

But a float of Murray Goulburn is far from a sure thing. The proposal hinges on a vote among its farmer
shareholders, which is expected to be held next January or February.

Murray Goulburn has been working with farmers to draft a model that will not breach the co-operative
structure and retain 100 per cent farmer control.
Mr Helou said it has held two "extensive roadshows" in dairy regions this year and incorporated farmer
feedback into the proposal. It will speak with farmer shareholders again in September and if successful,
the partial listing will be launched early next year.

The float will be similar to Fonterra's "trading among farmers" scheme launched in 2012.
This allowed farmers to buy or sell Fonterra shares among themselves instead of through the co-op.

Murray Goulburn also plans to follow Fonterra in issuing non-voting scrip to non-farming investors,
ensuring that farmers retain control of the company.
Although the equity raising is being designed to fund its expansion plans - which involve upgrading
factories to focus more on making higher-margin products such as nutrition powders to cash in on
China's seemingly insatiable appetite for baby formula - Mr Helou said the co-operative would fund the
investment even if the partial float is unsuccessful.

Page217of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."We have to do it regardless," Mr Helou said. "The worst case scenario is we will borrow the lot.

Mr Helou said by increasing production of high-value, high-margin goods, farmers would see an
increase of $1 a kilogram for milk solids, which is expected from 2017.

CO
IN

RE
PUB
AN

mryglb : Murray Goulburn Co-operative Company Limited
i0 : Agriculture | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy Products | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood
: Food Products
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140624ea6p0004p

Page218of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.