Prime Perth units

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Prime Perth units

Mercedes Ruehl
309 words
21 August 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
38
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Chinese residential developer Zone Q Investments will make its first offshore play in Perth, building
a $100 million apartment and commercial project overlooking the Swan River.

The project, known as Pinnacle South Perth, has received development approval from the City of
South Perth for a $70 million 20-storey apartment tower and a $30 million seven-storey commercial
tower. Located on the corner of Charles Street and Labourchere Road, Pinnacle is the tallest
residential building to receive development approval in South Perth in more than four decades.

Zone Q is the Australian arm of Chinese developer JiaHe JianAn Group. It bought the two lots of the
site for Pinnacle in 2013 for $10.7 million and has purchased two other sites in WA's capital, which it
will develop in the future.
The apartment launch will be in several weeks and all 102 apartments will be offered. In Perth,
developers are generally required to have around 70 per cent precommitment for bank financing.
"That they have selected Perth as the site of their first overseas investment and development, and
are already planning more, speaks to the confidence they have in our market and the opportunities
they see for quality residential offerings here," Colliers International director Jo-Anne Chin said.

The units, a mixture of one and two bedroom apartments as well as penthouses, will be offered for
sale through Colliers and Dempsey Real Estate. Architects Hassell are the designers.
The commercial precinct, which will include retail on the ground floor along Charles Street, will be
offered for sale through KnightFrank and Ron Farris Real Estate. Zone Q's parent company JiaHe
JianAn has 20 years experience in residential development and is privately owned.The developer
has delivered more than 7000 apartment in the past decade, the majority in the Chinese city of
Shenzhen.

IN

RE

PUB
AN

i5010022 : Residential Building Construction | ireest : Real Estate | i501 : Building Construction |
iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction
austr : Australia | perth : Perth | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140820ea8l00031

Page82of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.