Daws plan to inject life into MMG’s Avebury

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Daws plan to inject life into MMG’s Avebury

486 words
16 April 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
Second
2
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

The dust is yet to settle on MMG’s transformational $US5.85 billion ($6.23 billion) acquisition of
Glencore Xstrata’s Las Bambas copper project in Peru but the collateral corporate deals are flowing
thick and fast.

Within hours of Glencore on Monday securing the higher-than-expected price, the Swiss-based giant
forked out $US1.35 billion on Chad-focused oil and gas play Caracal Energy while MMG struck a
deal to recoup $40 million from the sale of its mothballed Avebury nickel mine in Tasmania.

Avebury’s sale will not even put a dent in the cash MMG has to stump up for Las Bambas but
highlights the transformation going on at the Andrew Michelmore-led, Chinese-controlled miner from
bits and pieces to big, world-class assets.
But beauty lies in the eye of the beholder and one of the Goldfields’ most opportunistic mining
investors, Doug Daws, obviously sees more joy in Avebury than an otherwise preoccupied MMG.
Late yesterday Daws’ private company QCG Resources said it would buy Avebury.
As impressive as the headline price tag sounds, QCG will only have to cough up a $1.75 million
deposit within the next 15 business days. It then has about six months to secure a $33.25 million
closing payment and will also owe MMG two tranches of $2.5 million on Avebury production
milestones.

“QCG has received commitments in regards to the deposit and is currently in advanced discussions
with a number of finance organisations both in Australia and internationally regarding the sources of
funding associated with the closing payment,” the company said yesterday.

QCG’s shareholders include Mr Daws’ son Chris and a gaggle of individuals.

It may seem a big ask for a group of private individuals to raise the required cash.

MMG must be sufficiently comfortable while the nickel price is showing signs of finally exiting the
malaise that caused Avebury to close in 2009.

The two Daws have a history in buying unloved assets before cashing in on improved market
sentiment.

The listed Poseidon Nickel is a point in case.

It was the Daws team that bought the shuttered Windarra nickel mine from WMC Resources in 2005
before handing control of their vehicle Niagara Mining to Andrew Forrest in 2008 when nickel prices
were booming, earning them a tidy profit. Niagara has since become Poseidon but is yet to deliver its
(modern-era) maiden tonne of nickel.
Mr Daws also had a crack at buying BHP Billiton’s old Mount Goldsworthy iron ore mine in the
Pilbara and looked at manganese off Groote Eylandt in the Northern Territory.

Page88of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“We believe the diligence to which (Avebury’s) care and maintenance program has been conducted
means mining could recommence within a short time frame once we are able to make necessary
modifications to the milling circuit,” Mr Daws said yesterday.

geiic : Caracal Energy Inc. | march : Glencore Xstrata PLC | orieml : MMG Limited | cminmc : China
Minmetals Corporation | imreht : Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel Rare-Earth (Group) Hi-Tech Co Ltd |
lawspr : Minmetals Land Limited
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2114 : Copper Ore/Nickel Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
| imet : Mining/Quarrying | i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300005 : Support Activities for
Oil/Gas | i22 : Primary Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | i2245 : Aluminum | i8396 : Diversified
Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140415ea4g0000g

CO

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

Page89of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.