$1bn makeover for troubled resort

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PrimeSpace
$1bn makeover for troubled resort

LISA ALLEN, tourism
405 words
26 June 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
32
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE Brisbane real estate agent who bought the failed Kooralbyn Resort built by Peter Abeles plans to
turn it into a $1 billion golfing, residential and retirement complex over the next 20 years.
Yong Real Estate founder Peter Huang says the first stage renovation of the 333ha resort on the Gold
Coast hinterland will cost about $10 million and he hopes it can be open by Christmas, with room
numbers extended from 100 to 108. Eventually Mr Huang wants the sprawling resort, built in 1973, to
accommodate up to 300 rooms. He has already signed Ramada to run the property as a four-star
resort.

The vendor was Asset Resolutions which took over the Kooralbyn resort from Wellington Capital.
Costa Nicodemou, a director of corporate advisory firm Castlereagh is assisting ARL to finalise the
transaction.

The resort, which includes an 18-hole championship golf course and private airfield, has been closed
since 2008 when it was owned by the collapsed Gold Coast financier MFS.
Mr Huang, the president of the Australian Chinese Chamber of Commerce, paid $6.5m for the resort,
according to notes from the ARL’s annual general meeting. The manger’s residence had earlier sold
for $433,000.
Mr Huang will tap the Chinese mainland tourist market to fill the resort and will also sell 423
residential lots around the golf course. He also plans to develop a major retirement village at the
Kooralbyn resort.

He has been approached by financiers keen to partner with him on the ambitious project but says the
resort is presently 100 per cent owned by him.

“We are still negotiating and I have been approached by the Quarter Horse Racing Body and polo
events managers given the resort has two polo fields and a race track. Kerry Packer used to fly to
Kooralbyn to play polo,” Mr Huang said.

In other moves to entice tourists, Mr Huang says he will plant a vineyard, build a hot water spring,
construct a flower and vegetable farm and even a mini zoo, with koalas, crocodiles and kangaroos
sourced from DreamWorld on the Gold Coast. He is presently restoring Kooralbyn’s golf course and
plans to build a four-wheel-drive track and offer mountain biking.Mr Huang said he had not run a hotel
before and was therefore happy Ramada would operate the resort. “We will be under their guidance.”

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140625ea6q0002y

Page173of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Page174of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.