From cafe, exports grow

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
From cafe, exports grow

Alyssa-Jane Tucker
430 words
5 February 2014
East Torrens Messenger
EASTTM
EastTorrens
3
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE nerve centre of SA’s trade links with China operates from the back of a Campbelltown
restaurant.

Va Bene Cafe owners Pasquale Catania and Domenic Clemente have been made the state
presidents of the China Australia Entrepreneurs Association, an international trade organisation.

They are planning to grow local exports to China from a freshly minted office behind their restaurant.

“We normally just store things out the back so it’s funny to think we will be working on export deals
out there now,” Mr Clemente, 27, of Paradise, said.

“I think a lot of people would be shocked to know their local cafe is running an international trading
office.” Three staff will promote SA produce from the back of the cafe on Lower North East Rd,
replacing the old state office at Glandore.
“In SA we’ve got the best wine and seafood and locally we have so many fantastic food
manufacturers so why not use it to grow our economy?” Mr Clemente said.
“Our food and wine should be just as precious to us as oil in Dubai.” The friends bought Cafe Va
Bene in 2011 and began exporting wines, olive oil and honey to China in 2012.
In early 2013 they started their exporting company Red Lion Australia. They travelled to China five
times last year and in August signed a $4.6 million export contract with a company based in the
Chinese province of Fujian.

Last May they joined 30 other businesses on a three-day Primary Industries and Regions SA
conference in McLaren Vale where they met China Australia Entrepreneurs Association president
Raymond Wang.

“Raymond organised a second meeting with us and it just grew so we are very honoured to be the
presidents of the SA branch,” Mr Catania, 28, of Teringie, said.

“We used to work here (at the cafe) as teenagers and we always said one day we would come back
and buy the place and we did.
“But we never imagined we would own an international export company.’’ They now export more
than 10 products and want to help manufacturers from the northeast and across the state do the
same.

“We’ve both grown up in the area and always lived here so we really want to get our local community
involved in international exports,” Mr Clemente said.

Page198of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“The opportunities for our local area and SA are endless.” They plan to travel to China every couple
of months.Businesses interested in joining email contact@redlion australia.com or visit red
lionaustralia.com

NS

RE

PUB
AN

c312 : External Markets | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types |
nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
china : China | adelai : Adelaide | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | saustr : South Australia
News Ltd.
Document EASTTM0020140204ea250001a

Page199of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.