FED:Forrest, Rinehart benefit from trade deal

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

FED:Forrest, Rinehart benefit from trade deal

359 words
17 November 2014
Australian Associated Press Financial News Wire
AAPFIN
English
(c) 2014 Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

CHINA Eds: Reissues to remove extraneous word from first par

By Kim Christian

PERTH, Nov 17 AAP - Mining tycoons Andrew Forrest and Gina Rinehart stand to reap major benefits
from Australia's free trade deal with China, thanks to their recent beef and dairy investments.
The billionaires, who have made their fortunes through iron ore, recently boosted their involvement in
the agricultural sector as China's demand for high quality beef and dairy products surges.
Australia's agricultural exports are set to increase under the free trade agreement (FTA) with China, as
beef and dairy producers benefit from a reduction in tariffs.

A boost to agriculture is also anticipated to counter the downturn in the mining sector.

Fortescue Metals chairman Andrew Forrest said the FTA would become the most significant trade deal
Australia has ever done.
"We can offer Chinese consumers the highest quality produce and Chinese consumers can be
confident in the reliability of supply and food safety," Mr Forrest said in his role as chairman of the
Australian Sino Hundred Year Agricultural and Food Safety Partnership.

Last week he said he did not want to see the Australian agricultural sector forgo export revenue as local
iron ore miners did 30 years ago when Brazil entered the international market.

"We should engage in these huge markets for the benefit of the standard of living of every Australian,"
he said.

Mr Forrest recently bought Harvey Beef, Western Australia's largest beef processor and the state's only
accredited exporter to China.
His private company Minderoo has also worked to restore a Pilbara cattle station which runs 3,000
head of cattle on a 240,000 hectare pastoral lease.

Ms Rinehart, Australia's richest person and the chair of Hancock Prospecting, is looking to expand her
business empire to take advantage of booming demand for baby formula in China.
Ms Rinehart's Hope Dairies wants to acquire about 5,000 hectares of farmland in Queensland to create
one of Australia's largest dairy farms, producing an estimated 30,000 tonnes of infant formula for export
to China every year.

AAP krc/dmc/bt

NS

RE

c312 : External Markets | e512 : Physical Trade | c31 : Marketing/Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial
News | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

Page21of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd
Document AAPFIN0020141117eabh000p5

Page22of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.