TPG Asia's quiet over-achiever

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
TPG Asia's quiet over-achiever

Simon Evans
757 words
14 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
36
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Profile Aussie Ben Gray has carved out a stellar career under the radar.
Ben Gray, the 42-year-old supremo of private equity firmTPG Capital's Asian operations, controls
businesses in Australia which employ 35,000 people.

They include Australia's second-largest private hospital operator, Healthscope, gas and electricity
retailer Alinta, and the nation's biggest poultry company, Inghams. TPG also has a large stake in pet
supplies retailer Petbarn, and is also involved in intense negotiations for a potential $1.2 billion buyout
of DTZ, a property services group owned by ASX-listed UGL.

Gray, who grew up in Launceston in Tasmania, is intensely private, despite wielding enormous clout in
the corporate world and pulling the strings at household brands such as Inghams, which sells
$2.2 billion worth of chicken and turkey products each year.
TPG also owned department store group Myer from 2006 to 2009 and had a bruising encounter with
the tax office over the $1.5 billion in proceeds when it sold out in a public float.

Being able to attend AFL matches in the flesh is an added bonus.Gray relocated to Melbourne in
March this year after 2½ years based in Singapore in his role as joint managing partner of Asia for
TPG. Despite the geographic shift, he still holds the same title in the same structure, where he and
TPG Asian co-head Tim Dattels, who is based in Hong Kong, oversee all TPG deals in the
region.Gray, who at 191cms towers above most people in boardrooms, travels extensively throughout
the region on business.

The Gray household is full of razor-sharp thinkers. Ben's wife, Paulette, trained as a speech
pathologist and completed a Masters in Public Health at Columbia University in New York when he
was working in the mecca of capitalism as an investment banker. The couple have two children, an
11-year-old girl and an eight-year-old boy.

Their election parties are the stuff of legend in their inner circle. Gray flew back from Singapore to keep
the tradition alive on September 7 last year in a "Don's Party" theme at the family's East Melbourne
house. Among the guests was Macquarie's powerful investment banker, Robin Bishop. It was a
rip-roaring evening with extra gusto as Tony Abbott took the keys to The Lodge.Emphasis on
excellence

Gray's lineage extends deep into Liberal Party history. He is the son of former Tasmanian premier
Robin Gray, who led the state from 1982 to 1989.

But there are broader themes at play also, and Gray is passionate about the pursuit of excellence. He
funds an annual scholarship for a bright student from a government school in Tasmania to attend
Melbourne University and live at the renowned Ormond College, where 400 students from all walks of
life reside on campus. Gray's own time at Ormond College more than two decades ago was a strong
influence.

Page237of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Ormond College's current master, associate professor Rufus Black, who worked at McKinsey & Co for
almost a decade before taking up the role in 2009, was a contemporary of Gray's at Melbourne
University. He says Ormond College, which has educated 32 Rhodes scholars, focuses on academic
excellence and producing well-rounded individuals. He says Gray had an enormous intellect, but was
also interested in "a bigger vision", and the annual scholarship reinforced that.

"He always had a great ability to get on with people," Professor Black says.

Gray's success as an investment banker at Credit Suisse, and then at TPG which he joined in 2004,
has brought him immense wealth. Award-winning St Kilda-based architect Allan Powell is overseeing
the construction of a cutting-edge home complete with tennis court across two large blocks in Avoca
Street, South Yarra for the Gray family.

The sheer volume of deals means spare time is precious. Gray is a devoted family man who enjoys a
succulent steak and a glass of red wine. But his membership at the Royal Melbourne Golf Club isn't
getting much use, and his appearances on the greens are rare.

Gray was applauded across the whole of TPG in 2013 with the "best turnaround" gong for the strong
revival in profits at Alinta Energy after TPG engineered a debt-for-equity swap in 2011 to take control.
The TPG United States-based mothership is ever-hungry for a repeat in another sector.

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

hesco : Healthscope Ltd | tpgpar : TPG, Inc.
i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences | i95107 : Hospital Care | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv :
Investing/Securities | iphhp : Healthcare Provision
guni : University/College | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gedu :
Education
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | tasman : Tasmania | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia
Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140613ea6e00012

Page238of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.