Prepare for China 's next wave: CBRE

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Prepare for China's next wave: CBRE

Nick Lenaghan and Michael Bleby
556 words
13 March 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
46
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The flood of Asian investment into the Australian property market – from China, especially – will
soon shift from development sites to commercial assets and passive investment, guests at an
industry breakfast were told on Tuesday.

Mark Wizel of CBRE, which hosted the event, said regional investors had outlaid more than
$1.3 billion for residential development sites in the Melbourne CBD and fringe over the past two
years.

"We're almost through the last cycle of Asian capital and moving into a different cycle of Asian
capital," Mr Wizel said.
In Melbourne's busy development site market, Chinese buyers, mostly private, have been
outspending their rivals, such as pension funds and listed players from Malaysia and Singapore.
"The Chinese are really going to start to move over into that traditional core-plus market and they
are going to move away from pure development," Mr Wizel said.
"The majority of capital that we've seen from China has all been from the private market. What we
haven't seen yet, which is the game changer, is the depth of the Chinese pension funds and
Chinese institutions.

"The pioneers have been privates. They've given a lot of confidence to the institutional investors to
follow suit."
China is the largest source of foreign demand for Australian real estate, with the Foreign
Investment Review Board granting approval for $5.9 billion in purchases in 2012-13.Insurance
groups
Chinese property investment rose 44 per cent in the year to replace the US and Singapore as the
top origin of foreign investment in the sector, according to figures last month.
CBRE's Mark Granter said the first signs of the next wave were emerging with Chinese insurance
groups, such as China Life and Ping An, and other institutional investors making inquiries every
one or two weeks.
"Why are foreign investors and offshore purchasers so interested and have got such an appetite
for our real estate?
"Look at all markets around the world. The returns coming out of prime real estate in Australia,
particularly Melbourne and Sydney, are more attractive."

Prime office yields in Melbourne are at 6.7 per cent, one of the highest returns in Asia-Pacific.

Page179of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.However, Australia's relative attractiveness for global capital will be challenged as Asian markets
stabilise, stronger growth emerges in the US and the Australian dollar retreats, according to CBRE's
research head, Stephen McNabb.

The Melbourne market has its own challenges, with supply of space well in excess of demand.

On CBRE's base case for jobs growth over the three years, office vacancy could peak at 14 per
cent by 2016.

Even with strong jobs growth, it is expected to rise to 11 per cent within two years.

Within the office leasing market, CBRE's Andrew Tracey noted the trend for activity-based working
had increased the demand for better-equipped buildings.

"That's going to throw up some challenges for the existing stock in the market today as well in terms
of relative obsolescence of buildings that aren't particularly old buildings.

"And that's probably the really big question that we need to deal with. The next generation of
buildings will be very much tailored to the way that people are going to work in the future."

coldb : CBRE Group, Inc.
ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | i8500021 :
Office Real Estate | icireal : Commercial/Industrial Real Estate
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | china : China | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific
| asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140312ea3d0003f

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

Page180of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.