FED:Telstra says call centres must improve

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

FED:Telstra says call centres must improve

356 words
14 October 2014
Australian Associated Press Financial News Wire
AAPFIN
English
(c) 2014 Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

TELSTRA MELBOURNE, Oct 14 AAP - Telstra admits it still has a lot of work to do when it comes to
improving the quality of service out of its international call centres.

However, it will continue to increase the use of global providers at the expense of its Australian call
centres.

Speaking to shareholders at the company's annual general meeting in Brisbane, chief executive David
Thodey said that was for economic reasons.

He said shareholders had raised the issue of the quality of the service offered by international call
centres.

"As a business, we have a responsibility to consider the economies of scale offered by global providers
along with the flexibility that gives us in managing fluctuating call volumes at different times of the
year," he said.

"This means that our contact centre work here in Australia is declining and will continue to do so.

"We have implemented many initiatives to improve the service we offer our customers, though we still
have much to do."
Mr Thodey said the company was "committed to building Telstra into a business that has the customer
at the centre of every decision, every action, every opportunity, every day".

Telstra has attracted controversy by asking the competition regulator for compensation for falling
demand on its copper network, as the national broadband network increases the migration of
customers away from the service.

Mr Thodey said Telstra "remained committed to acting in the best interests of you, our shareholders,
and to maintaining the value of the current agreements".
Telstra's rivals, such as Optus, argue it is already being compensated through an $11.2 billion deal
with NBN Co and the government to rent out its infrastructure to build the broadband network.

He also said Telstra expected continued low single-digit income and earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortisation growth as demand for connectivity in Australia and overseas grew.
That would offset the loss of income from the sale of its CSL Hong Kong business.
The company increased net profit by 14.6 per cent in fiscal 2014 to $4.3 billion.

AAP gr/cdh

CO
IN
RE
PUB

tcoma : Telstra Corporation Ltd
i7902 : Telecommunications
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd

Page250of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document AAPFIN0020141013eaae003pe

Page251of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.