$US130m backing for WA mining venture

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

$US130m backing for WA mining venture

Mark Beyer
688 words
3 November 2014
Business News
WABN
English
© Copyright 2014 Business News Pty Ltd.

Global private equity group Denham Capital has teamed up with former Karara Mining chief
executive Steve Murdoch to establish a venture that will invest in a handful of new and established
mining projects.
Denham has agreed to make an initial equity commitment of $US130 million ($A145 million) in the
new venture, called Auctus Minerals.

Auctus will be based in Perth and will target new mining projects requiring capital to develop or
existing projects that need to be restructured to lift their performance.

Mr Murdoch, who left Karara in July 2013, told Business News he has been working with Denham
since March this year.

"We've been working intensely for months on our business model and our pipeline management and
our interaction with Denham," he said.

Mr Murdoch said Auctus would probably invest in just a handful of projects.

"If you have a look at our project assessment and where we think there are opportunities, you are
probably talking two to three projects; that's what we're budgeting and planning on at this stage."

He said the investments could be across a broad range of sectors.
The one sector it will not invest in is coal, and "we're not really keen on something that sparkles;
gold, silver and to a certain extent diamonds".

"If it sparkles, we're not all that interested because it's not an industrial metal; they are the broad
exclusions, everything else is in."

Mr Murdoch said he has been working closely with KPMG partner Greg Evans and director Matt
Pedley, who heads the accounting firm's miningM&A practice.

"They've been helping us with research analysis, particularly financial modelling, and tactics and
strategies around deploying this sort of business model.

"They've got a really strong team over there and have been very helpful while we've been
developing a business model."

The Auctus investment is the second big Australian deal announced this year by Denham, which
transferred its Asia Pacific office from Singapore to Perth in 2013.
Denham has also committed to invest $US200 million in Pembroke Resources, a company led by
former Gloucester Coal chief Barry Tudor that is developing a portfolio of metallurgical coal assets
in the Asia-Pacific region.
Mr Murdoch's most recent role was chief executive of iron ore producer Karara Mining, which is
owned by China's Ansteel and Perth companyGindalbie Metals.

Page11of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.He has also run the Australian operations of UK-based scaffolding group Cape, after it made a
series of big acquisitions in the region, and was chief operating officer at shipbuilder Austal.
Earlier in his career, he was general manager of metallurgical operations for Mount Isa Mines.

Mr Murdoch has been joined on Auctus' management team by two former colleagues, finance
director Paul Sims (ex Karara CFO) and commercial director Terry O'Connor (ex Cape).

"Our executive team has a highly regarded pedigree in delivering value enhancement outcomes in
the Australian resources space," he said.

"Partnering with Denham, which provides deep entrepreneurial culture and extensive knowledge of
the global resources industry, has resulted in the formation of a powerful mining endeavour in
Australia."

Denham's Perth-based managing director and head of the Australasian region Bert Koth said
"Stephen and his team have a long and successful track record of implementing savings to
operating and development costs in both base metals as well as bulk minerals".
"During the mining boom, Australia has become a high cost environment with productivity decline,"
Mr Koth said.
"Thus, the key to value creation in Australian mining projects today is the ability to achieve cash
flow fast and reduce cost rigorously. Partnering with Stephen and his team will allow us to realize
that opportunity."
Denham is among a handful of private equity groups focused on the resources sector.

These include Resource Capital Funds, run jointly from Perth and Denver, Colorado. It has backed a
wide array of mining companies, including MZI Resources, Wolf Minerals and India Resources.
Other private equity investors active in the local mining industry include Sydney-based Pacific
Road and The Sentient Group.

CO
IN

RE
PUB
AN

denhc : Denham Capital Management LP
i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150203 : Private Equity | ialtinv : Alternative
Investments | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Business News Pty Ltd
Document WABN000020141103eab30002t

Page12of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.