BP , Philip Morris Scale Back Australia Operations; Oil Firm , Cigarette Maker Are Likely to Eliminate a Total of 535 Jobs

SE
HD

BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
ED
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
BP, Philip Morris Scale Back Australia Operations; Oil Firm, Cigarette Maker Are Likely to
Eliminate a Total of 535 Jobs
Ross Kelly
788 words
2 April 2014
15:10
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

SYDNEY—Just two months after Toyota Motor Corp.—the last major car maker in
Australia—announced plans to pack up, oil company BP PLC and cigarette-maker Philip Morris
International Inc. said they also intend to scale back their Australian operations.
For BP, its decision will mean closing one of the company's two oil refineries in the country. Philip
Morris said it plans to shut down its sole Australian factory while keeping some administrative and
other office roles in its Melbourne location. The closures are expected to eliminate a combined 535
jobs.

The coming layoffs add unease to the world's 12th-largest economy, where the cooling of a
decadelong mining-investment boom has driven the unemployment rate to a 10-year high of 6%,
compared with a peak of 5.9% during the throes of the global financial crisis. Manufacturers' flight
from Australia, often for cheaper operations, only exacerbates the unemployment woes.

BP's closure of its Australian refinery follows other international energy companies' moves to cut back
on their smaller facilities, which have difficulty competing with the cheaper sales and production of
bigger operations in places such as India and Singapore.
The British company's decision to stop refining at the Bulwer Island facility, in the city of Brisbane, by
mid-2015 will cost as many as 355 jobs. BP said it is considering converting the site into a fuel-import
terminal. The refinery currently supplies gasoline to pumps and businesses on Australia's East Coast.

Andy Holmes, BP's Australian head, said in a written statement Wednesday that buying from other
companies' refineries would be the best way for BP to strengthen its business in that part of the
country.
Royal Dutch Shell PLC has also sold and idled refining assets to invest in more lucrative oil and
natural-gas projects, as growing competition squeezes margins. Shell and Caltex Australia Ltd. have
sold or closed Australian refineries recently.

Philip Morris said it would stop making cigarettes in Australia by year-end, concluding nearly 60 years
of manufacturing in Melbourne. The closure could result in the loss of as many as 180 jobs as the
company shifts production to South Korea.
The U.S. company blamed tighter regulation of cigarette exports by the Australian government for
dwindling shipments and factory production. It said its factory in Australia is "significantly underutilized,
operating at less than half of its currently installed capacity." Philip Morris's Australian business was its
first outside the U.S.

Australia is in the midst of its 23rd consecutive year of growth, but the country faces a
mining-investment slowdown that is weighing on the economy.

Page164of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.As a result, most of the layoffs over the past two years have been in the resources sector, where
companies such as BHP Billiton have reduced investment in mine-building and transport infrastructure
to focus on selling their newly dug-up commodities to China, Australia's biggest trading partner.

But manufacturing has suffered too, mostly because of a stubbornly high Australian dollar that has
made imports less expensive and exports less competitive for several years. Additionally, labor and
production costs, which tend to be a lot higher than in developing Asia, where competition is fierce,
have stung local manufacturers.

The expansion in developing countries of production capacity for mass-market goods is also putting
pressure on Australian manufacturers to make more advanced products that are harder to replicate.

"Manufacturing in Australia is challenged and it'll continue to be the reality," said John Phillimore,
executive director of the Perth-based John Curtin Institute for Public Policy, a university research
body. "If there is a future for manufacturing in Australia it is probably at the high end."

Although last year's steep declines in the Australian dollar helped manufacturers regain some of their
earnings momentum, the sector has yet to experience anything like the recovery in the housing or
retail industries as a result of the nation's record-low interest rates.

The central bank has been trying to revive all three sectors to help offset the mining-investment
downturn, but manufacturing has been among the slowest to react to the so-called rebalancing
efforts—which last year included trying to push down the Australian dollar to give local exporters a
boost.
Toyota signaled the death knell of the nation's auto-making industry when the company said in
February that it would close its production facility in Melbourne over the next three years. Ford Motor
Co. and General Motors Co. have also announced plans to halt manufacturing in Australia over a
similar time frame.

bp : BP PLC | pmintl : Philip Morris International Inc. | toyta : Toyota Motor Corp.
i14001 : Petroleum Refining | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1 : Energy | i14 : Petroleum/Coal Products
| iindstrls : Industrial Goods | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | i351 : Motor Vehicles | i35101 :
Passenger Cars | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i429 : Tobacco Products | i4291 : Cigarettes | iaut :
Automotive | icnp : Consumer Goods | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cprdcl : Facility Closures | c42 : Labor/Personnel Issues | c24 :
Capacity/Facilities | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Asian Business News
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document WSJO000020140402ea41000m9

CO
IN

NS

RE

IPD
PUB
AN

Page165of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.