IT Newsletter- November 3-7, 2014

HD IT Newsletter- November 3-7, 2014
CR India Infoline News Service
WC 2,772 words
PD 7 November 2014
SN Indiainfoline News Service
SC INFOIN
LA
English
CY Copyright © 2014. Indiainfoline Ltd.
LP

TD

Top News Tech companies raise record US$24.8bn globally in Q3 2014: PwC A record US$24.8bn was
raised by technology companies in the third quarter of 2014, with 18 technology companies from six
different countries completing their initial public offerings (IPOs) during this time frame, a 50% increase in
volume over last year. Third quarter proceeds also exceeded the US$17.8bn raised in the second quarter
of 2012 when Facebook completed its IPO of US$16bn, according to PwC's Q3 2014 Global Technology
IPO Review. Raman Chitkara, Global Technology Industry Leader, PwC, said: "Record IPO proceeds in
the third quarter reflect the continued economic recovery and underlying optimism prevailing around the
world.

While the final quarter of the year has started with rising market volatility, investor faith in the future of the
technology sector remains strong, meeting and even exceeding historical norms." China dominates third
quarter technology IPO activity Chinese companies accounted for over 50 percent of the volume and 93
percent of proceeds from technology IPOs during the quarter. Of the 18 tech IPOs completed during the
third quarter, 10 were Chinese companies. Eight Chinese companies completed IPOs on Chinese
exchanges compared to five in the second quarter, with two listing on the Shanghai exchange, four on the
Shenzhen exchange and two on the Hong Kong exchange. Two Chinese companies listed outside China
on US exchanges, Alibaba on the NYSE and iDreamsky Technology on NASDAQ. IPO proceeds from
Chinese exchanges rose 41 percent from $US767mn in the second quarter to US$1,085mn in the third
quarter. Subsector activity: More of the same As with the past several quarters, Internet Software &
Services and Software maintained their positions as the most active subsectors for tech IPOs. Internet
Software & Services had six IPOs and raised US$22.8bn in the third quarter compared to 20 IPOs and
US$5.1bn in proceeds in the second quarter, and six IPOs with US$0.6bn in the third quarter of 2013.
Alibaba's US$21.8bn IPO dominated the sector in the third quarter. The Software sector also had six IPOs
and raised US$1.3bn compared to 11 IPOs and US$3.1bn in proceeds in the second quarter and three
IPOs with US$411mn in the third quarter of 2013. Together, these two subsectors comprised 67 percent
(12 IPOs) of the total number of IPOs and 97 percent (US$24.0bn) of the total funds raised. The
Semiconductor subsector had four IPOs in the third quarter compared to one in the same quarter of 2013.
Proceeds increased to US$533mn from US$71mn the previous year. All four semiconductor IPOs were
Chinese companies--two listing on the Shanghai exchange and two on the Shenzhen exchange. Infosys
to hire Over 2,100 in US Infosys, a global leader in consulting, technology, outsourcing and
next-generation services, today announced a major recruitment drive in the US to support the growth of its
business and enhance its capabilities. The company plans to hire 1,500 professionals for consulting,
sales and delivery during the current financial year. In addition, it will hire close to 600 Bachelors and
Masters graduates from US Universities over the next twelve months. With this program, Infosys will
bolster its expertise in client relationship management, consulting and technical delivery. The addition of
these employees will help Infosys provide its clients local market insights, industry-leading technology
expertise, and timely responsiveness to critical issues. Infosys will recruit up to 300 management and
technology graduates from leading US universities. They will work across multiple technology domains
including digital, big data, analytics and cloud. Up to 180 graduates will be recruited into the Infosys
consulting practice in the US. They will join existing teams advising clients on business and technology
transformation strategies. Infosys will also continue its global recruitment program of hiring MBA graduates
from leading business schools, and will recruit 100 Masters graduates for its sales teams under this
initiative. Cognizant Q3 revenue at $2.58bn Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation,announced its
third quarter 2014 financial results. Revenue for the third quarter of 2014 rose to $2.58 billion, up 11.9%
from $2.31 billion in the third quarter of 2013. GAAP net income was $355.6 million, or $0.58 per diluted

Page69of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.share, compared to $319.6 million, or $0.53 per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2013. Non-GAAP
diluted earnings per share was $0.66 compared to $0.59 in the third quarter of 2013. GAAP operating
margin for the quarter was 17.7%. Non-GAAP operating margin was 19.5%, within the Company's target
range of 19-20%. "There is a tremendous opportunity in the marketplace as the advent of new digital
technologies, global economic pressures, and an evolving regulatory environment force businesses across
all industries to change and adapt faster than ever before," said Francisco D'Souza, Chief Executive
Officer of Cognizant. "Cognizant is ideally positioned to help clients worldwide address these competitive
challenges with end-to-end solutions that address their dual mandate of improved efficiency and of
innovation using the latest social, mobile, analytics, cloud and sensor technologies." Domestic News
Infosys Finacle Bets Big on Mobility, Big Data and Analytics Infosys announced that its Finacle Mobile
Banking and e-Banking solutions have been rated 'Best-in-Class' for security and authentication
capabilities and enterprise support. In the report titled 'Mobile Corporate Banking Technology Analysis',
CEB TowerGroup analysts quantitatively ranked Mobile Corporate Banking solutions across 19 attributes
to arrive at the best-in-class rankings. Infosys Finacle's leading position in the industry was reinforced by
several other recognitions last quarter. It was named a leader in 'The Forrester Wave: Customer-Centric
Global Banking Platforms, Q3 2014' report. The solution was recognised among the top nine global
banking platforms, which were evaluated on a comprehensive set of 74 criteria focusing on functional
breadth, agility, and strategy. Infosys Finacle was also adjudged a winner by Juniper Research in their
2014 Future Mobile Awards in the mobile banking category. In another assessment, CEB TowerGroup
analysts rated the Infosys Finacle Trade Finance solution as the 'Best-in-Class' for bank user services and
enterprise support. Infosys Finacle continued its business momentum last quarter with 18 wins and 16
go-lives across Europe, Middle East, Africa and Asia Pacific. With over 450 installations globally, this
flagship banking product of Infosys is today serving 451 million customers across 84 countries - this is
nearly 18 percent of the world's adult banked population. Financial Technologies sells entire stake in
Indian Energy Exchange Financial Technologies (India) Ltd has announced that the Company on
November 05, 2014, entered into a Share Purchase Agreement (SPA) with M/s. TVS Shriram Growth
Fund 1, Mr. S. Gopalkrishnan, Mr. Lakshmi Narayanan, Mr. Rajeev Gupta, M/s. Dalmia Cement Bharat
Power Ventures Limited, M/s. Kiran Vyapar Limited, M/s. TVS Capital Funds Limited and M/s. Agri Power
and Engineering Solutions Private Limited for sale of 25.64% equity stake on a fully diluted basis in IEX
for an aggregate consideration of Rs. 576.84 Crores. The said transaction is subject to fulfillment of certain
condition precedents including buyout of the application software and other technology for its own use only
by IEX and regulatory approvals, if any. As per the SPA, the transaction will close within 30 days, unless
extended by all the parties. Post completion of the above said transaction, the Company would have
completely exited IEX. Infosys and DreamWorks Animation join hands to Engineer New Solutions Infosys,
a global leader in technology, consulting, outsourcing and next generation services, today announced a
strategic engineering partnership with DreamWorks Animation. The two companies intend to work together
to further develop DreamWorks' technologies to bring them to wider use. Infosys will deploy its global
talent pool available across cloud, big data, Java and open source capabilities to develop next generation
solutions based on the DreamWorks technology. Jeffrey Katzenberg, Chief Executive Officer and Director,
DreamWorks Animation said "Infosys is a world leader in enterprise solutions and can deliver engineering
talent at a massive scale to help us develop our technology for wider use." Gartner recognizes TCS as a
"Leader" in Magic Quadrant for Worldwide Oracle Application Management Service Providers Tata
Consultancy Services announced it has been recognized by Gartner, Inc. in the "Leaders" quadrant of the
"Magic Quadrant for Oracle Application Management Service Providers, Worldwide." Gartner evaluated 14
service providers, including TCS, on their ability to execute and completeness of vision. The Gartner
analysts note that providers designated as Leaders, "are performing well today and gaining traction and
mind share in the market. They have a clear vision of the market's direction and are actively building
competencies to sustain their leadership position in the market." In its latest "Critical Capabilities for Oracle
Application Management Service Providers, Worldwide" report, Gartner, the leading provider of research
and analysis on the global information technology industry, has also given TCS the fourth-highest Product
Score in two Use Cases - Large-Scope and -Scale Deals and Midsize-Scope and -Scale Deals, and the
third-highest Product Score in Small-Scope and -Scale Deals - scoring a 3.07, 3.06 and 3.10 out of 5,
respectively. Infosys appoints David D. Kennedy as Executive vice-president Infosys announced the
appointment of David D. Kennedy as Executive Vice President and General Counsel for the company
with effect from November 1, 2014. David D. Kennedy will also be the Executive Officer of the Company
for the purposes of SEC Reporting. He will be based out of Palo Alto, California. Prior to joining Infosys,
between 2012 and 2014, David D. Kennedy was JDA Software Group, Inc.'s Executive Vice President,
Corporate Secretary and Chief Legal Officer. Prior to JDA Software, he was General Counsel and
Corporate Secretary at Better Place Inc., a company that built infrastructure networks for electric vehicles.
From 2007 to 2009, Mr. Kennedy served as the General Counsel and Secretary for Business Objects S.A.
From 1998 to 2007, Mr. Kennedy served in various leadership roles within the legal department of a
number of IBM business units, which included responsibilities in IBM's PC, sales, services and networking
groups. He received a Bachelor of Science degree in Business Administration and has his Juris Doctor
(J.D) from The University of Connecticut School of Law. Esprit selects Mindtree as a strategic IT Partner
Mindtree, a global technology services company, today announced that it is working with international
fashion brand Esprit to deliver IT solutions that will make Esprit more competitive. In the first phase of this

Page70of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.relationship, Mindtree will monitor and support Esprit's SAP applications suite for more than 300 directly
managed retail stores and over 7,500 wholesale points of sale in Europe. As part of this multi-year
contract, Mindtree will ensure the stability of Esprit's SAP systems through early detection and resolution
of system, functional and process issues. In addition, Mindtree will maintain on-time availability of Esprit's
data and provide flexibility to IT management to meet their business needs. Most importantly, Mindtree will
improve the processes service quality, allowing Esprit's IT team to focus on their strategic business needs
without having to worry about the reliability of their SAP systems. Infosys Finacle sets new Global
Benchmark for Processing Inter-Bank Payments Running on Oracle SPARC T5 servers Infosys
announced that the Finacle Payments solution, an enterprise payment services hub, running on Oracle
SPARC T5 servers with Oracle Solaris 11.2 has set a new global benchmark for the volume of inter-bank
payment transactions processed. In a test that was validated by the professional services firm EY, the
solution processed over 100 million payments in 79 minutes, which translates to over 75 million
payments per hour or over 21,000 payments per second. This was achieved with stable performance and
near linear scalability, underlining Finacle's ability to manage continuous increases in volumes, with simple
hardware additions and no changes in the underlying application. With this, the Finacle Payments solution
demonstrated the capability to process a high volume of inter-bank payment transactions, more than what
is currently processed by the entire US banking system, based on estimates. At an average of 21,000
payments per second, the Finacle solution is able to process almost five times the known volumes
processed by the entire US banking system, which is estimated to be about 4,233 transactions per second
on average. This capability supersedes known inter-bank payment transactions volume requirements of
banks of all sizes. International News The processing, sensing and communications semiconductor device
portion of IoT set for rapid growth: Gartner The processing, sensing and communications semiconductor
device portion of the Internet of Things (IoT) will be a rapidly growing segment of the total semiconductor
market, growing 36.2 percent in 2015, compared with the overall semiconductor market growth of 5.7
percent, according to Gartner, Inc. Processing will be the largest revenue contributor to the IoT "things"
semiconductor device forecast, at $7.58 billion in 2015, while sensors will see the strongest growth, with
47.5 percent growth in 2015. The processing semiconductor device segment consists of microcontrollers
and embedded processors, while the sensing semiconductor segment includes optical and nonoptical
sensors. "The demand for billions of things will ripple throughout the entire value chain, from software and
services to semiconductor devices," said Alfonso Velosa, research director at Gartner. "These 'things' will
drive huge demand for individual chips. VMware to Continue vCloud Air Global Expansion with New
Service Location in Australia VMware, the global leader in virtualization and cloud infrastructure, today
announced that it will extend VMware vCloud(R) Air(TM) (previously VMware vCloud(R) Hybrid
Service(TM)) to Australia. Complementing the VMware vCloud Air Network(TM) of service provider
options, the new Australian service location will provide customers with a hybrid cloud option operated by
VMware that addresses local compliance and data protection concerns. The service is expected to be
available in Australia in the first half of 2015. Additionally, the company announced vCloud Air will be
generally available in Japan in the coming weeks, after completing a successful beta program that began
in July of this year. "VMware vCloud Air, combined with the VMware vCloud Air Network of service
providers makes VMware the largest hybrid cloud network in the Asia Pacific region with more than 40
service locations in Asia," said Bill Fathers, executive vice president and general manager, Cloud Services
Business Unit, VMware. "The new vCloud Air location provides the highly virtualized Australian market
with a hybrid cloud service that extends existing investment in VMware vSphere to the public cloud."
Microsoft partners with Dropbox for file-sharing Microsoft Corp said it teamed up with online file-sharing
companyDropbox Inc to allow Office software users to manage and share files through Dropbox's website
and mobile app. The company said the functionality would be included in the next updates to the Office
mobile apps, to be rolled out in the next few weeks, and online accessibility would be available in the first
half of 2015. Microsoft already has a file-sharing service called OneDrive, but partnering with Dropbox will
allow it to tap more than 200 million users of the Silicon Valley startup's services. Netgear rolls out
nighthawk X6, industry's first tri-band wireless router NETGEAR, Inc. a global networking company that
delivers innovative products to consumers, businesses and service providers, has once again set a new
industry standard for router performance by adding to its award-winning Nighthawk(R) family of 802.11ac
routers. The new Nighthawk X6 AC3200 Tri-Band WiFi Router (R8000) is the first tri-band WiFi router
available for purchase incorporating the powerful new Broadcom(R) 5G WiFi XStream platform. With six
high-performance antennas and three network bands, one 2.4GHz and two 5GHz, the Nighthawk X6
delivers the industry's fastest combined WiFi speed, up to 3.2 Gbps. It balances the network load to
ensure the best WiFi performance for each device and deliver the maximum wireless range available
today. As per the press release, today's homes that combine many new and old WiFi devices need
tri-band routers such as the Nighthawk X6 to optimize the speed of each device, whether it is an old laptop
or the newest smartphone. Nighthawk X6 intelligently segments slower and faster devices into the most
appropriate WiFi band. This network load balancing and segmentation enables the X6 to mitigate
interference and more effectively support all WiFi devices.

IN

iappsp : Cloud Computing | i8394 : Computer Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services

Page71of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE

c14 : Stock Listings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c1711 : Initial Public Offerings | c02 : Corporate
Changes | c17 : Funding/Capital | c171 : Share Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types |
nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
china : China | usa : United States | austr : Australia | usca : California | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America | usw :
Western U.S.

IPD Infosys
PUB India Infoline Ltd.
AN Document INFOIN0020141107eab70005p

Page72of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.