letters continued

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

letters continued

2,177 words
8 May 2014
The Chronicle (Toowoomba)
APNCHR
Main
26
English
Copyright 2014 APN Newspapers Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

letters continued

History

Top Mayor

SPEAKING at the 70th birthday party of the former Toowoomba Mayor Nell E Robinson OBE former
Alderman Miss Rona Davies proposed the toast to her friend of 55 years.
Council named a park in her honour— the Nell E Robinson Park in Ruthven St.
It is one of the most popular and much-used parks in Toowoomba, a park which will always be a
reminder of our lady Mayor of Toowoomba, Nell E Robinson.

Born in Toowoomba and educated at North State School, Glennie Memorial School and St Hilda’s at
Southport, Miss Robinson went to the United Kingdom with her parents in the 1930’s.

While in London Miss Robinson studied at the Royal Academy of Art and Speech and Dramatic Art.

However she returned to Toowoomba when her mother became seriously ill.

Whilst travelling back she met Dame Florence Codell-White, Minister for Supply in the South
Australian Government who told her she should be up and doing something.

In 1961 she became an Alderman and in 1967 was elected the ﬁrst woman mayor in Queensland.
We’re checking to see if this is a first for Australia. Nell was the first woman to speak by satellite.

This was to NASA in the USA from the tracking station at Cooby Creek.

Her most nerve —-wracking moment was also in that year and she blamed the Governor-General,
Lord Casey who was making an official visit to Toowoomba.

She had full confidence that the council staffers would play their part: I had to welcome him and l was
terrified. However Lord Casey apparently enjoyed his visit and they corresponded afterwards.

One of her proudest moments was when she named and flew in the Qantas jet, City of Toowoomba.

We all need someone to talk to, but not everyone will listen.

Thus she encouraged any citizen to stop by the Mayor’s office for chat. Sometimes it is a young girl
anxious to sound off about her problem parents, or a senior citizen complaining about the weather.

Whatever the problem the Mayor would listen.

LAN YEATES, Rangeville

Politics

Page60of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Strong Choices

THE LNP Government’s Strong choices poll is one sided and is deliberately designed to give
Treasure Nicholls an agenda to sell assets and especially electricity assets.
According to the government web site 500,000 people have visited the site yet only 25,000 have
completed the survey to reduce the speculative and projected debt figures.
The site is geared to give the LNP the answer they want and if you don’t agree with their line of
thinking then you can’t complete the survey.

The important things to remember is that in the first case the amount of debt is based on a report by
former LNP federal treasurer Peter Costello who at best could never be considered unbiased and is
disputed by many independent and respected commentators and professor’s.

The majority of the real debt was in fact a consequence of some of the biggest natural disasters this
country has ever seen. If indeed the debt was so critical why are politicians receiving such generous
pay increases and why is Nicholls selling Government owned buildings well under their market value
and against the advice of his own Auditor General?

Current electricity assets return around $1.188 billion into the state coffers this in turn is used to build
roads schools hospitals and provide services and assistance to all Queenslanders just where will the
funds come from if the LNP are allowed to sell of our assets?

You don’t sell the family home to avoid paying interest if you do you end up with nothing. The case of
Queensland is we own far more than we owe and if I remember correctly the LNPs forecast to
surplus was no different than the previous governments.
The sale of electricity assets to a private consortium will only deliver higher prices and reduced
maintenance on the network which in turn means more blackouts and for longer periods.

The privately owned Victorian network has the highest electricity prices in the world and all profits go
overseas to shareholders and boards instead of building infrastructure and providing services to the
people of Victoria. The LNP’s real agenda is to sell profitable public assets to their big business
backers and supporters and look after their own futures after politics.

Look where the likes of Costello and co are working now a fact that cannot be denied.

CHRIS MCGAW, Toowoomba

Politics

A pipedream

WE still hear the nonsense about the “recognition of local government” and that the states should be
“abolished”, because three tiers of government is too many.

Actually, there is no such thing as local government, they are local state authorities. They were
created by the states, they are adjuncts and auxiliaries of the states, and were set up to decentralise
the delivery of services to urban and regional communities.

As for the abolition of the states, it will never happen. Without the states, there is no Commonwealth,
nor would there be a Federal Constitution.

It is all a pipedream of those Mayors and Councillors who have gotten carried away with themselves.

It is high time they were reigned in by their State Government superiors, and told to cut-out all of the
“overseas trade missions” and fact-finding junkets that they could find on Google in ten minutes.

Worse, they even link their salaries to that of State Ministers and Backbenchers! Then there are the
ilk of Ipswich’s Mayor Paul Pisasale and Councillor Paul Tully.

These two upstarts shun electoral reform of Local Authority Mayors and Councillors elections, on the
grounds that the current elitist system elects only those who know what is best for everybody else.

The latter gentlemen is also on record as stating that the true democracy electoral system of
proportional representation, would allow riff raff to be elected to councils.

Page61of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.He has never told us to whom he was referring, and it’s time that he did so. Councils such as the
Lockyer and Somerset Regional councils have also expressed their fears of diversity in
representation.

How could anyone even think about giving Constitutional recognition to such arrogant buffoons?

GRAHAM WESSLING, Gatton

Motorists

Use mirrors

ISN’T it strange how on the Thursday before Easter a percentage of cars were passing at the speed
of light but on Friday, most it would seem, were doing the legal speed.

However on Monday it was back to ‘normal’.

Strange - must have had something to do with not wanting to contribute those extra points and hard
earned dollars to the state’s black hole. (I’ve contributed enough myself)

Now that vehicles have to keep one metre from cyclists, (most always tried - fixing a flat car tyre is
worse) where and/or what do we do, particularly large trucks etc. when we pass oncoming traffic,
especially of the same elk, (eg the Toowoomba Hampton section) between the nanny state’s guard
rails.

It proves that the bureaucratic left and right hand don’t talk to each other as these ‘rails’ should’ve
been at least another metre to the left.

Pull them up and construct them on roads such as the Maleny to Nambour sections, then we’ll
believe that the Main Roads Department really does have concerns about saving lives and not about
saving saplings and farmers crops.

We’ll take our chance in missing 200 year old gums and power poles and bikers would have
somewhere to head bush.

What does one do regarding a flat tyre? Our standard alloy rim was biting the bitumen by the time I
could get off the other day re a large nail sending it flat very quickly.

Sending the bill to the MRD would be a laugh, let alone having to stop in the middle with B-triples
passing 30cm away.

However, having had first hand experience as 11 to 13-year-old riding a one speed Melvern Star
along the Condamine Hwy to catch the school bus in the 60s, I had a rear vision mirror (like many
others) and knew when B61 Macks loaded with wool or any other vehicle was coming a mile behind.

I therefore had time to get off the 10 to 12 ft. bitumen.

It taught me from this early age to know what was going on behind as much as in front. Where and
why aren’t mirrors used today? I’ve seen experienced riders looking back and they sometimes
wobble. All one needs is a rut (and there’s plenty of them) and anything can happen.

Incidentally, I was asked the other day about the condition of the road from Laura to Bamaga. I
replied that even though it is mostly gravel, it’s not as rough as the Warrego ‘Track’ from Brigalow to
8ks west of Chinchilla.

MORRIE KINGSTON, Oakey

Development

Master plan

THE Chronicle’s report (April 29) of several new developments which will transform Toowoomba’s
CBD may be heartening news for the city’s populace but one of those proposals is more likely to have
a negative effect.
The proposed Bunnings Warehouse in Ruthven St would occupy a large site which in the
Toowoomba Central City Master Plan 2010 is earmarked for residential development, just the type
of development needed for the CBD to be competitive with suburban shopping malls.

Page62of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Urbis Consultants, the professional planners who devised the TCCMP after extensive engagement
with the Toowoomba community, would be well aware of the crucial role that a higher CBD
residential population would have on strengthening the economy of the CBD. This is a strategy
known to planners everywhere.

The Bunnings proposal would contribute significantly to traffic congestion and is not needed as there
already a Mitre 10 Hardware directly opposite which serves the community well.

When I recently wrote to Mayor Antonio expressing my concern that the Bunnings proposal was in
conflict with the intent of the TCCMP his reply included information that as the application for council
approval was Code Assessable public consultation was not applicable.

If the community is precluded from having a say about a development of this magnitude then
democracy as once existed is now dead.

The Chronicle article to which I previously referred quoted the mayor as saying “We need to consult
with people and we will definitely do it, there is no question about that, we will make sure we do it.”
So Mr Mayor, on behalf of Toowoomba’s Community Engagement Group, of which I am secretary,
we invite you to convene a public meeting to consult with the people and explain exactly what status
does the $800,000 Toowoomba Central City Master Plan have with your council.

TERRY RYAN, East Toowoomba

Politics

Take a stand

TO MY Member of Parliament. When will you take a principled stance against asset sales and unfair
work contracts?

I note with interest and applaud the actions of two Liberal National Party Members’ of Parliament who
have taken a principled stance and promised to cross the floor on issues around privatisation and
unfair work contracts.

The actions of Sean Choat the MP for Ipswich West, who on the front page of his local paper The
Queensland Times promised to cross the floor on the issue of asset sales by stating “I am opposed to
the sale of electricity, water and transport related utilities…” should be a wake-up call to all MPs
sitting out there playing the small target.

Asset sales are a huge issue for me and I am sure from polling conducted on the issue, I’m in the
vast majority of Queenslanders.

We will not be silenced and you as our MP should make your position crystal clear on the issue and
represent the views of your constituents not march lock step with your masters.

In another instance that gave me hope that MPs will once again represent the needs and aspirations
of their constituents, Assistant Health Minister Dr Chris Davis wrote a letter to fellow MPs about the
controversial individual contracts for the states’ senior doctors.

In the letter, Dr Davis stated in no uncertain terms that “contracts that could harm patients and be
detrimental to the broader community make my position in this Government untenable” and further
when asked to discuss the issue Dr Davis said he “absolutely” stood by his letter and had written it
after speaking with specialists whose opinion he trusted, as he felt an “absolute obligation to share
that information”.

Given that the Treasurer is embarking on a state-wide tour that excludes me, I rely on you as my MP
to represent my interests.

Workplace rights and functioning hospitals are massive issues for me and I am in no doubt that many
in my community feel the same way.

As our representative you have an obligation to represent our views in Parliament, when will you do
this?

JULIA RITSON, Mt Molar

NS

gcat : Political/General News

Page63of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE
IPD
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Crime - Law
APN Newspapers Pty Ltd
Document APNCHR0020140507ea58000m9

Page64of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.