What $10m will buy you

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

APlus
What $10m will buy you

LISA ALLEN, ROSANNE BARRETT, GREG BROWN
1,907 words
22 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
APlus
11
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

In an overheated market the race is on around the country for elite property at a ‘bargain’ price

SEVEN opulent homes in Sydney and three luxury properties in Melbourne made the list of the 10
most expensive house sales this year.

Topping the list was a $37 million waterfront mansion in Sydney’s Point Piper, offloaded by a property
developer who had originally wanted $50m. Coming in at 10th on the list was a mansion in Toorak —
arguably Melbourne’s most elite suburb — which sold for $15m.
But what about the next tier down? What will $10 million get you for a house or apartment in the major
capital cities in an overheated property market?

As always with real estate, things are complicated.

“For $10m in Sydney you would get a cheeky steal,” says architect Kevin Fitzgerald, chief executive
officer of global design firm HBO+EMTB.

“You would get a lot more on the North Shore of Sydney than you would in the Eastern Suburbs.

“But in the Eastern Suburbs you would get a damn good house with views.” Property developer
Fabrizio Perilli, chief executive of Toga development and construction disagrees.

Perilli says $10m buys a penthouse style apartment on the waterfront or in the Sydney CBD on a high
floor, covering more than 250sq m and close to amenities.

But $10m for a house in Sydney would see you out in the suburban sticks forced to drive to public
transport and shopping.

But it differs from city to city.
Adelaide agent Rick Harcourt says there is nothing for sale in Adelaide worth $10m. The highest price
paid for a house was four years ago when a couple paid more than $7m for an 1880s house in
Medindie. That record is yet to be smashed.
Prices are not yet topping the $10m mark in Darwin or Hobart either. But in Perth, the Gold Coast and
Byron Bay sales at the $10m mark are well established.

RP Data senior research analyst Cameron Kusher says there are more properties selling in Melbourne
and Perth for around the $10m mark than since before the financial crisis.

“If you are looking at that ultra top end you are talking about Toorak, South Yarra, Brighton in
Melbourne,” Kusher says.

“In NSW, there are more opportunities in Point Piper, Vaucluse, Bellevue Hill and Mosman at that
level. Really any of those areas in Sydney have the ability to reach those high prices. The higher

Page246of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.priced stock will generally be located in Sydney particularly the harbour front.” But Kusher says there’s
still the odd sale above $10m in Perth, where the housing market is slowing quite rapidly.

“The properties that sell for $10m are in Peppermint Grove, Dalkeith and Nedlands, properties on the
river also tend to go for $10m plus,” he says.
“You occasionally get sales above $10m on the Gold Coast in Albatross Avenue, but they are
generally few and far between.”
BRISBANE TEN million of your hard-earned cash will buy you one of Brisbane’s best properties
including a large residence with significant land holdings and city and river views, or a sky-high
penthouse in a brand new apartment block.

Veteran agent Patrick Dixon says the $10m mark is about the high-water of sales in the Queensland
capital housing market, a bargain compared to a home of equivalent stature in Sydney at $40m or
Melbourne at $30m.
The city’s property industry is abuzz with Gina Rinehart’s soon-to-settle purchase of the $14m-plus
riverfront mansion across five lots in the eastern suburb of Hawthorne. Brisbane’s only on-market
$10m-plus transaction was the sprawling 5500sq m residence of the Anglican archbishop in Ascot for
$11.2m in 2007. Other sales were to businesswoman Lorna Jane Clarkson, for a $10.3m Hamilton
stately five-bedroom home, and the $10.35m sale of a Paddington heritage home on 6000sq m in
2009.
Ten million will buy you a Brisbane inner city, well-maintained historic residence with at least five
bedrooms, an equal number of bathrooms and all the mod-cons. A pool will be a given, as will
impeccable grounds and, often, a tennis court.

Agent Gail Havig has the impressive Lochiel on her books. The seven-bedroom, five-bathroom colonial
has more than 2200sq m of manicured lawns overlooking the city on Hamilton Hill. “It’s rare for a
colonial with so much land still available and with the stunning and city views,” she says.

Dixon is also overseeing bids for the 4.5ha White Waltam estate, understood to be owned by Terry
Peabody, that offers three homes, two tennis courts and grounds described as akin to Augusta golf
course. One could also buy the penthouse of the proposed Skytower high-rise for about $15m,
complete with glass walls, incredible views across Moreton Bay and your choice of fitout.

ROSANNE BARRETT
MELBOURNE MOST $10 million Melbourne houses won’t have a world-beating view of the city, but
they make up for it by being perched on huge blocks of land a short distance from the heart of the
central business district.

Leafy eastern suburbs of Toorak, Brighton and Kew host the lion’s share of Melbourne’s $10m homes,
while the odd penthouse in the CBD will also make the cut.
One $10m Toorak home, at 15 Linlithgow Road, is being sold by its Hong Kong-based owners who
first bought the property to house their children while they studied in Australia. On a 1926sq m land
parcel, the 1930s-built grand residence includes five bedrooms, four bathrooms and a study.

Outdoors it has a swimming pool, a tennis court and an entertaining area. It is about 20 minutes’ drive
from the CBD.

Sotheby’s International Realty selling agent Phillip French said Melbourne mansions rarely offer
Sydney-like beach or harbour views. French says that a $10m home would usually yield a block of
more than 1000sq m.

“Generally it comes down to the land size which brings the price up. The land parcels are large and the
home size is large. They will generally have pools and tennis courts as well,” French says.

“Some do have views but it’s more about the lifestyle: the home itself, the street and how picturesque it
is with the tree-lined streets.” GREG BROWN
PERTH A SLUGGISH Perth mansion market since the global financial crisis means $10 million can
get you much more than it used to.

A home in Perth’s affluent Mosman Park, at 10 Hill Terrace, was recently bought by a local for about
$10m.

Page247of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The house is on a 1639sq m block right on Swan River in the city’s west. The newly built three-level
property has five bedrooms, five bathrooms, three powder rooms, a study and a gym. It also has a
resort-style outdoor pool.

Prominent Perth-based mansion seller William Porteous said the home would have sold for about
$15m before the GFC.

“(Houses at this price are) selling but it’s slow and everything is selling a lot below vendors’
expectations,” Porteous says.
“The oil and gas (sector) is booming and Perth is a bright area to buy but it’s probably another 12
months before people realise it.” In another recent $10m sale in Mosman Park, a local buyer bought a
“derelict” home on the river, at 35 Saunders Street, and plans to knock it down and build a new one.
Porteous says that the value was in the location: more than 1200sq m of land fronting the Swan River
and the city.

Homes in the $10m range have highly sought after river and city views. GREG BROWN
SUNSHINE COAST IN the Sunshine Coast celebrity playground of Noosa, $10 million buys a
magnificent modern waterfront estate in a prestige position, or a significant beachside land holding
with uninterrupted views.
Multi-million dollar properties on the Sunshine Coast are always in short supply because of the local
council’s development cap. The upheaval following the GFC added to the shortage with few owners
choosing to sell their luxury properties.

In Noosa, two adjacent absolute beachfront apartments in the Sandpiper complex off the main
thoroughfare, Hastings Street, sold for $14m last year.

The strip is the home of ultra-luxury apartment blocks, where owners look over popular Main Beach.

Noosa agent Tom Offermann says the prestige market guarantees water frontage and impressive
views.

“People pay a premium for a front-row position and for the guarantee that for as long as they own it
people will always get that ocean view without looking over other roofs,” he says.

From the modern five-bedroom, four-bathroom, waterfront home on Webb Road at Sunshine Beach,
for sale for $9.5m, one can walk from the front garden on to the sand and it’s just 100m to the patrolled
beach.

ROSANNE BARRETT
GOLD COAST TEN million dollars on the Gold Coast will buy a beachfront house on a double block
or a modern house on the river on Paradise Waters or the Isle Capri, McGrath Estate Agents prestige
property specialist, James Ledgerwood says.
Or it would buy you the best penthouse on the Gold Coast at either Main Beach, Southport, Surfers
Paradise or Broadbeach. It would be a modern, contemporary penthouse with a new fit out.
The Gold Coast reached a crescendo of high-priced property sales just before the GFC when
businessman Charlie Caltabiano was preparing to pay $16.85m for the penthouse atop the Soul
Tower.

Simultaneously property developer Tony Smith was building a $60m beach house on Hedges Avenue.
The Caltabiano deal did not proceed and the penthouse, which has never been occupied, will be
auctioned through McGrath Estate Agents next year.
After getting caught in a financial crash, Smith sold the Gold Coast land and moved to Bali where he
has carved a career as a hotelier and developer.

A modern riverfront home at 117 Commodore Drive, Paradise Waters (pictured above) is expected to
fetch at least $7.5m, according to agent James Ledgerwood.

LISA ALLEN

SYDNEY PERHAPS hotelier and resident of the wealthy Sydney suburb of Vaucluse, Jerry Schwartz,
puts its best: “$10 million would buy a pretty nice house in Sydney, but not water frontage, it would be
a good size house in Sydney’s Eastern Suburbs,’’ he says.

Page248of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Sydney-based architect Kevin Fitzgerald agrees: “If you were in the Eastern Suburbs you would get a
damn good house with views.” Fabrizio Perilli of Toga Development and Construction argues that if
you have $10m to spend in Sydney you would be better buying an apartment, because at that price it
will have luxury high-end finishes, amazing views and it will be close to good amenities.

“People these days want to be connected and be able to walk to good amenities be they great
restaurants, cafes, work and transport if they wish,” Perilli says.

Fitzgerald notes homes in the $10m range are not selling strongly in Sydney, unless it’s the odd trophy
home in the east.

Ray White Double Bay agent Donna Mauthner is expecting at least $9.5m for this beauty (pictured
above) at 51 Fitzwilliam Road, Vaucluse, in Sydney’s Eastern Suburbs when it is auctioned on
December 4. The Parsley Bay waterfront is easily accessible from this lifestyle property, which
features bespoke internal finishes.LISA ALLEN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

c182 : Asset Transactions | ereal : Real Estate Markets | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate
Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic
News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | melb : Melbourne | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) |
waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South
Wales | queensl : Queensland
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141121eabm0003t

Page249of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.