RWE (CM) Orbite Announces Completion of 10M$ Equity Investment by the Government...

HD
WC 401 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

RWE (CM) Orbite Announces Completion of 10M$ Equity Investment by the Government...

28 May 2014
Resources News (RWE)
RESNEW
English
Copyright 2014 RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved.

TD

RWE (CM) Orbite Announces Completion of 10M$ Equity Investment by the Government of Quebec

Sydney - Tuesday - May 27 (RWE) - Orbite Aluminae Inc [TSX:ORT], announces that, following its press
release of March 3rd, the Corporation has completed the $10,000,000 equity financing with Ressources
Quebec, a subsidiary of Investissement Quebec.

As part of the financing, Ressources Quebec purchased 35,714,286 units of the Corporation at a price of
$0.28 per unit, each unit being comprised of one class A share and one half of one class A share
purchase warrant.
Each full warrant entitles RQ to purchase one class A share of the Corporation at a price of $0.33 for 36
months from the date of closing.

"We are very pleased to welcome the Quebec Government as an important shareholder in Orbite" said
Glenn Kelly, Orbite's President and CEO "We believe this investment shows confidence in the future of
our HPA production facility and recognizes the importance of Orbite as an employer in the region.

The shares and warrants issued pursuant to the financing will be subject to a four month hold following
the closing date.

The net proceeds of the financing will be used towards the current construction of Orbite's HPA production
facility in Cap-Chat, Quebec.
About Orbite Orbite Aluminae Inc is a Canadian cleantech company whose innovative and proprietary
processes are expected to produce alumina and other high-value products, such as rare earth and rare
metal oxides, at one of the lowest costs in the industry, and in a sustainable fashion, using feedstocks that
include aluminous clay, kaolin, nepheline, bauxite, red mud and fly ash.
Orbite is currently in the process of finalizing its first commercial high-purity alumina production plant in
Cap-Chat, Quebec and has completed the basic engineering for a proposed smelter-grade alumina
production plant, which would use clay mined from its Grande-Vallee deposit.
The Corporation's intellectual property portfolio contains 15 intellectual property families, and the
Corporation owns the intellectual property rights to 11 patents and 66 pending patent applications in 10
different countries and regions.
The first intellectual property family is patented in Canada, USA, Australia, China, and Russia.

The Corporation also operates a state of the art technology development center in Laval, Quebec, where
its technologies are developed and validated.

ENDS

CO expord : Orbite Aluminae Inc. | gquebc : Government of Quebec
IN

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ialomin : Aluminum Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
c133 : Patents | cwarr : Warrants | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c17 : Funding/Capital | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | cgymtr : Intellectual Property | cinprp : Industrial Property Rights
(Patents/Trademarks) | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter

NS

Page165of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

caqc : Quebec | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia |
cana : Canada | namz : North America | nswals : New South Wales

PUB RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd
AN

Document RESNEW0020140527ea5s0004h

Page166of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.