Kagara’s liquidators struggle to sell assets

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Kagara’s liquidators struggle to sell assets

537 words
7 May 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
Second
2
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

It is just over two years since the spectacular collapse of one-time market darling Kagara and the
company’s liquidators are still struggling to finalise asset sales and close out the company’s
elongated wind-down.
The vexed issue of its North Queensland assets, where the closely intertwined gold and base metals
deposits posed a problem ever since the spin out of Mungana gold mines in 2010, was solved late last
year. Mungana took on the lot, though there may still be some way to run on the issue, with Mungana
calling a trading halt yesterday ahead of a ruling from the Queensland Government over $12.4 million
in stamp duty dating back to the 2010 spin out.

That decision left Kagara with only two assets. Liam Twigger’s PCF Capital is handling the hard-to-sell
Thalanga assets in Queensland and Rothschild has retained responsibility for offloading the massive
Admiral Bay lead-zinc-silver project south east of Broome.
First discovered in 1981 by Meridian Oil, Admiral Bay has long been slated as the project to put WA at
the forefront of global base metals production. Big development costs and an uncertain market have
combined to make it a difficult prospect, however.

There is little doubt Admiral Bay is a quality project. Its 2010 pre-feasibility study was based on a
relatively small portion of Admiral Bay’s inferred maiden resource of 72 million tonnes grading 3.1 per
cent zinc, 2.9 per cent lead, 18 grams a tonne silver and 11.6 per cent barite. It still returned solid
figures.

And there’s little doubt there’s a monster deposit down there, with Kagara having estimated its total
mineral endowment at about 500 million tonnes.

The problem is it’s 1.4km below the surface. That means a bankable study would cost big dollars, as
the proponent would need to sink a shaft down the deposit and drill out a reserve from there. The
capital wouldn’t be wasted, as the shaft would also form the basis of the mine. But in a tight market for
exploration dollars, the estimated $185 million BFS price tag has left the market cold.

But base metals are coming back into fashion and sources suggest interest has again picked up in the
Rothschild sale. Previous thinking was that capital costs would require a big player such as MMG or
Canada’s Teck to take it on.
But predictions of a shortfall in the zinc and lead markets are strengthening and that, combined with
suspicions Kagara’s liquidators would rather get the matter sorted sooner rather than later, has
industry sources suggesting the most likely buyer will be a speculator rather than a developer. Whether
that would be a listed junior hoping to buy cheap and attract Chinese money later or private equity
money prepared to wait for the inevitable market panic if a serious zinc shortfall looms remains to be
seen.

Page76of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Rothschild is understood to be considering a number of bids on the project but with Admiral Bay
already having been on the market for more than two years, there’s little sense that an outcome is
likely soon.

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
c182 : Physical Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140506ea570000b

Page77of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.