Taj Group sells BLUE Sydney to the Ovolo Group

HD
CR
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Taj Group sells BLUE Sydney to the Ovolo Group

Distributed by Contify.com
372 words
10 July 2014
HospitalityBiz
ATHOSB
English
Copyright © 2014. Saffron Synergies Pvt Ltd

Samsara Properties Limited, an offshore wholly owned subsidiary of The Indian Hotels Company Limited,
announced the execution of a share sale deed for the divestment of 100 per cent of its shareholding in
BLUE Sydney, a Taj Hotel, in favour of Australia Hotels & Properties Limited. The buyer is the Hong
Kong based Hind Hotels & Properties Group, which operates hotels and serviced apartments under the
Ovolo brand. Subject to fulfilment of certain conditions, the transaction is scheduled to be completed by
October 31, 2014. The transaction value is AUD 32 million.

The divestment has been undertaken as part of the Taj Group's strategy to focus on markets which are
core to Group's operations, and to create liquidity to fund the company's ongoing expansion in such
markets. Asia Pacific and particularly China have been identified as targets for expansion.

Raymond Bickson, Managing Director and CEO, The Indian Hotels Company Limited said, "We are
committed to the sale of BLUE Sydney to its new owners, Hind Hotels & Properties Group. The hotel has
a wonderful track record of high occupancy, a stellar list of industry awards and has set new Australian
benchmarks for environmental practices. This decision is in line with our Group strategy to focus on key
markets for now, that are critical to the Groups operations."
The sale of BLUE Sydney, does not reflect any diminution of the group's interest in the Australian
market; Australia is the fifth largest source market for Taj Hotels Resorts & Palaces, and outbound
Australian business in particular remains a high priority for the Group. Taj Hotels Resorts and Palaces is
proud of its record in managing BLUE Sydney. The property was acquired by the Taj Group in 2006 and
was operated with excellent occupancy rates, as well as accumulating a raft of industry awards.

BLUE Sydney, A Taj Hotel has also been a leader in environmental stewardship and sustainable
hospitality practises, and in February this year, the hotel was awarded EarthCheck Gold Certification,
making it the only hotel property in Australia to have ever achieved gold status.

Copyright Saffron Synergies Pvt Ltd StatCounter - Free Web Tracker and Counter

CO
IN

NS
RE

tajgrp : Indian Hotels Co Ltd | tata : Tata Group
itourm : Tourism | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality | i66 : Hotels/Restaurants | i665 : Lodgings | i6651 :
Hotels (except Casino)/Motels
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South
Wales

PUB Saffron Synergies Pvt Ltd.
AN

Document ATHOSB0020140712ea7a00008

Page250of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.