Bets on the best start-ups

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Enterprise
Bets on the best start-ups

Agnes King
305 words
13 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
33
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Institutional investors are keeping an eye on which technology start-ups make it through to the
final round of the federal government's illustrious accelerator program and competition.

More adventurous speculators are placing bets, hoping for a repeat of last year's 62 per cent
jump in the share price of ASX-listed winner, semiconductor maker BluGlass Limited.

BluGlass's share price jumped from 15¢ to 23¢ last October on news of the win. The win
attracted a number of institutional investors to the stock, according to chief executive
Giles Bourne.
Boston-based Wellington Management Company has taken a 10 per cent stake in the
company.

A record number of 228 companies have entered this year's contest, a 50 per cent increase on
last year's pool.

Roughly 20 per cent of entrants are public companies with sophisticated investors. Six are listed
on the Australian Securities Exchange.

Mr Bourne said the competition significantly expanded BluGlass's investor base by raising its
profile and validating its business plan through a rigorous vetting process.
Solar energy company RayGen Resources – a finalist in last year's competition – signed a
$60 million investment and distribution deal in China with ZhuoZhou Intense Solar in April.

RayGen chief executive Bob Cart said the deal "would never have happened" if not for the
competition.
Austrade officials invited RayGen on a trade mission to China last November on the back of its
participation.

Money is not the big draw card of this contest, said Mr Cart. Rather, it's the mentoring and
participation in high level trade missions with senior government officials.

"Investors see the competition as a validating process," he said.
This year's 228 entrants have collectively invested over $300 million in their technologies and
employ more than 850 people.

CO
IN

blugls : BluGlass Limited
i32 : Machinery | iindstrls : Industrial Goods

Page52of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS
RE
PUB
AN

ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140512ea5d00002

Page53of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.