TasInvest shows off our best

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
TasInvest shows off our best

NICK CLARK and HELEN KEMPTON
226 words
18 November 2014
Hobart Mercury
MRCURY
Hobart
5
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved

OVERSEAS investors and delegates descended on Tasmania’s North and North-West yesterday to
kick off the long-awaited TasInvest site visits.
First cab off the rank was a potential $100 million eco-tourism development overlooking the Tamar
River.

Craggy Ridge, near Grindelwald, includes accommodation, a function centre, whisky distillery and an
abundance of open space.

The 63ha development is expected to incorporate activities that highlight the region’s strengths such
as food, wine tasting and guided nature walks.
Shanghai Strategical Investment Management company president Daniel Lee said his clients were
looking at agribusiness so that produce could be exported to China.
“This business model would be very good,’’ he said.
Mr Lee said Chinese visitors liked the clean environment in Tasmania. Meanwhile, Yunnan Tin
Australia Investment Holding Company managing director Qubo Li was one of 12 Chinese
delegates in Burnie to hear more about potential investment opportunities and tour Grange
Resources’ iron ore pellet factory at Port Latta.

After being introduced to some of Tasmania’s finest food and drink, including Hellyers Road whisky
and King Island and Lactos cheese at Burnie’s Makers’ Workshop, they were ready to learn more
about our mining and exploration sector.Mr Li’s company has a 50 per cent stake in Renison Bell
tin mine near Zeehan.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
china : China | tasman : Tasmania | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
austr : Australia | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document MRCURY0020141117eabi00009

Page132of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.