Savvy investors flock to agriculture assets

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Savvy investors flock to agriculture assets

397 words
13 August 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
First
14
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

Agricultural commodities have a positive outlook this year, with Australia’s poultry sector and New
Zealand’s dairy sector likely to be among the best-performing agribusinesses.

A Colliers International rural and agribusiness report found the businesses were showing significant
growth and stimulating the property market.

Tim Altschwager, national director of rural and agribusiness at the agency, said the change was
influenced by an improving global economy, increased food demand and better availability of finance.
Mr Altschwager said the dairy market was strong in New Zealand and improving in Australia, with
more than 40 per cent of Australian milk production exported, mainly as powder or processed product,
driven, in particular, by Chinese demand.
“There is good value in most dairy regions,” he said. “Lower asset values and higher milk prices will
ultimately support and drive profitability. We anticipate activity in the next 12 months as investors seek
to get a foothold in the Australian dairy industry.

“New Zealand is set for another bumper year, with continued domestic and offshore investment,
especially in the dairy sector.”
WA has had its share of major agribusiness transactions, including the Parmalat purchase of Harvey
Fresh for $117 million, Hancock Prospecting’s 50 per cent stake in the Liveringa and Nerrima cattle
stations in the West Kimberley for about $40 million, Andrew Forrest’s Minderoo Group snaring
Harvey Beef for a reported $40 million and the Macquarie Group’s purchase of Jameson Farm in
Wongan Hills for a reported $30 million.

Colliers International WA agribusiness manager Greg O’Meara said the sector had experienced
considerable activity in the first half.
“In addition to those major deals, there have also been a number of agri/industrial transactions where
processing plants, mills and the like have been sold on a leaseback basis, allowing food and
agribusinesses to invest and grow operations,” he said.
These included the sales of the Milne Feeds site in Welshpool to Charter Hall for $17 million and the
Brownes Dairy site in Balcatta for more than $50 million.

Interest in the sector in WA showed no signs of waning heading into the second half of the year, Mr
O’Meara said.
Nationally, Colliers International director of research Mark Courtney said wine industry assets were
still near the bottom of the cycle, presenting an opportunity for investors to take advantage of low entry
costs.

Page60of239©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

i413 : Dairy Products | i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i0 :
Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140812ea8d00049

Page61of239©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.