BG pulls megabucks out of pipeline deal

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
BG pulls megabucks out of pipeline deal

399 words
11 December 2014
Townsville Bulletin
TOWNBU
Townsville
71
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

GLOBAL gas giant BG Group has pocketed the first real benefits from the coal seam gas boom in
Queensland with a $2 billion profit from the sale of the QCLNG pipeline from the Surat basin to
Gladstone’s Curtis Island.
The pipeline services the QCG LNG project and was bought by APA Group, which surprised many in
the market who considered sovereign wealth funds and Chinese investors would be keen bidders.

The $US5 billion ($A6 billion) price was also well above initial estimates of $US3 billion to $US4
billion and is likely to stir the APLNG and GLNG to consider similar deals, according to analysts.

But the deal is a winner for APA. Not only does it get the benefit from take-or-pay contracts but it
expects pre-tax earnings from the pipeline to be about $464 million a year.

It will also benefit from expected synergies with its other Queensland assets which include the Moomba
to Brisbane pipeline. It has also signalled a $1.839 billion, 1-for-3 renounceable rights offer to fund part
of the deal.
BG said the pipeline had a current book value of $US1.6 billion but that would be partly offset by a
post-tax impairment of BG Group’s remaining QCLNG assets, expected to be around $US2 billion.
The sale is conditional on the start of commercial LNG deliveries from the QCLNG export facility at
Gladstone and on partner consent. BG Group and its partners have firm capacity rights in the pipeline
for 20 years, with options to extend, and first shipments are expected later this month.
BG executive chairman Andrew Gould said the company was happy with the deal, which was in line
with its strategy to focus on core assets.

“The timing reflects QCLNG’s advanced stage of development. We are now on the verge of delivering
the world’s first large-scale project using natural gas from coal seams as a feedstock for LNG,” Mr
Gould said.

Morningstar’s Adrian Atkins said APA’s lower cost structure made the deal attractive to them, as did the
company’s other Queensland assets. APA managing director Mick McCormack said the deal allowed
APA to get exposure to the east coast LNG sector and expanded the company’s revenue base. The
GLNG venture said it had no intention of selling its pipeline.

CO
IN

NS
RE

austpi : APA Group | brgas : BG Group PLC
i1300006 : Pipeline Transportation | i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300014 : Natural Gas
Extraction | i502 : Heavy Construction | i5020043 : Pipeline Laying | iconst : Construction | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
gcat : Political/General News
queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia

Page143of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

News Ltd.
Document TOWNBU0020141211eacb0002j

Page144of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.