Asian century will be key to Telstra’s growth

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Asian century will be key to Telstra’s growth

CHRISTOPHER RUSSELL BUSINESS EDITOR
829 words
12 July 2014
The Advertiser
ADVTSR
Advertiser
71
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

AFTER a stellar run increasing market share and lifting its customer numbers, Telstra is casting a firm
eye on Asia for the next phase of growth.

But there’s no rush about the strategy because only disciplined and considered moves will pay off, says
David Thodey, the telco’s chief executive.

“More Australian companies have got to look to grow and Asia is a great area,” he told The Advertiser
on a visit to Adelaide this week.
“We’re a wonderful country but we’re only 23 million people. I wish we were bigger but we’re not. So
we’ve got to go where markets are growing.

“All the projections are that Asia will be 50 per cent of the world’s GDP by 2030 – so it makes sense for
us to par-ticipate in that growth if we can find areas where we can offer a really great product and
differentiate.

“But just because there’s an opportunity, (that) doesn’t make you successful. You’ve got to be focused
on what you do.” Telstra is due to report its 2013-14 results on August 14, building on its first half-year
success – which included a 9.7 per cent increase in net profit after-tax to $1.7 billion on revenue of
$12.8 billion.
The full-year bottom line will be boosted by the sale completed in May of its Hong Kong mobile
business CSL, for a profit of about $561 million.
With a pile of cash at its disposal, analysts have speculated Telstra might instigate a buy-back to lift the
share price.
Mr Thodey said the board had clear guidelines to manage capital between acquisitions and returns to
shareholders.

“We’re being very disciplined,” he said. “Just because we have the money doesn’t mean we feel we
have to spend it. If we were to invest the money in acquisitions it would have to generate good cash,
good returns, very quickly.

“If we can’t find anything, then we have a whole capital management strategy about how we disperse
the cash.” But whatever the high-flying telco’s short-term decision, Telstra is determined to develop a
stronger international presence. Mr Thodey said: “I’ve not been specific on dates – but over the long
term, 30 per cent of our revenues could come from offshore.

“But we’ve got to find the right opportunities.

“We’ve got to make sure we’ve got the right executive team in place, we’ve got to have the right
infrastructure.

Page193of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“But we are looking at how we can become a great Aus-tralian company doing business in Asia.” It
knew the lie of the land, having been in Asia for 75 years as OTC, he added.
Telstra was the number one mobile phone operator in Hong Kong before selling the subsidiary and had
floated two companies in the Chinese on-line space – one in real estate and one in car sales.

CONTINUED PAGE 72 Telstra’s Asian century FROM PAGE 71 “We have points of presence for our
international network in about 25 countries in Asia, we have cloud facilities in Singapore and Hong
Kong and we’re looking to expand those further,” he said. “So we’re already a big player; we’d be up
there with some of the biggest in international connectivity.” Another cash injection or revenue source is
likely to come from negotiations on the national broadband network.

The first deal between Telstra and NBN Co provided for access to the ducts, pits and exchanges in the
roll-out of the fibre-to-the-premises model.
“But the actual copper was retained by Telstra,” Mr Thodey said. In the fibre-to-the-node model
favoured by the Coalition government, the copper would carry the signal to the home or business
instead of becoming redundant.
“So part of our renegotiation has been letting that copper asset go to NBN Co and then, secondly, who
will maintain that copper,” he said.
“It’s a commercial decision because if they take the asset they’ve got to maintain it. They could ask us
or somebody else to do that. We’re making good progress and we hope to conclude negotiations over
the next few months.” Telstra last month signed a deal with the NBN to connect 206,000 houses to
fibre-to-the-node boxes. Mr Thodey said NBN would decide where the trial sites would be located.

“They haven’t released the exact areas, we’re working through that now,’’ he said. “But they’re looking
at putting them in a pretty wide area and getting the experience of different states and locations.” When
the NBN was operating under Labor’s policy of fibre-to-the-premises, it also picked a variety of locations
for trial connections. In SA,Willunga was chosen as a near-city, thinly populated location.

CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

tcoma : Telstra Corporation Ltd
i7902 : Telecommunications
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document ADVTSR0020140711ea7c0009e

Page194of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.