From iron ore to cattle farming: Meat is a richer seam for miners

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Frontpage
From iron ore to cattle farming: Meat is a richer seam for miners

Rebecca Keenan
825 words
12 August 2014
06:15
Independent Online
INDOP
English
© 2014. Independent Print Ltd. All Rights Reserved.

In Western Australia, industry giants such as Rio Tinto are turning increasingly to cattle farming as beef
prices soar and iron ore goes the other way
The mining giant Rio Tinto is the world’s second-largest exporter of iron ore. It’s also one of Western
Australia’s biggest cattle ranchers, with room for a herd of 25,000 to graze on land spanning an area
larger than Connecticut.

Global demand for beef is surging, driven in large part by China’s expanding appetite. At the same
time, prices for iron ore are projected to slip. That’s making cattle more attractive to Australian mining
companies – a complementary business that generates revenue from land that would otherwise lie idle.
Also moving into the cattle industry is Hancock Prospecting, the mining company owned by Gina
Rinehart, Australia’s richest woman, and Andrew Forrest, the billionaire founder of Fortescue Metals,
the world’s fourth- biggest iron ore exporter.
“The trouble with iron ore is you have to dig it out and move it by truck, but the great thing about cattle
is they walk there for you,” said the Australian agriculture minister Barnaby Joyce. For mining
companies, “it’s just the movement of another commodity”.

Purchases of Australian food and agriculture assets have had the strongest first half in at least 12
years, with more than 20 deals announced this year worth at least $2.6bn (£1.6bn), according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.
They include Mr Forrest’s acquisition in May of Harvey Beef, Western Australia’s only licensed beef
exporter to China, and Hancock’s purchase of a 50 per cent share last month in two cattle stations, or
ranches, in Western Australia’s Kimberley region.
Mr Joyce expects more such deals by mining companies: “They are key people with the right expertise
to make this work.”

This year Mr Forrest, who once farmed alpacas and grew up on his family’s ranch, founded the
Australia-Sino 100-Year Agricultural and Food Safety Partnership to facilitate discussions between
Australian suppliers and Chinese consumers.
He held talks with the Chinese Premier Li Keqiang in April to discuss the partnership. The world’s most
populous nation is so desperate for good beef that Mr Forrest told Bloomberg News in May that he
would be taking steak samples in his luggage on his next trip. According to government figures, he
wouldn’t have much trouble finding takers:  beef and veal exports from Australia to China have  surged
76 per cent this year. 
China is already the biggest consumer of meat and may double beef imports by 2018 as the country’s
rising wealth drives changes in consumers’ diets, Rabobank International said in December.

Page8of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Rio Tinto has six ranches in the Pilbara region of Western Australia, covering more than 5,791 square
miles of land, providing scope for exploration, infrastructure development, water management and
future mining and production, according to its website.

With Australia’s vast expanses of land, said Sam Walsh, Rio’s chief executive, in Perth last month, “we
are conscious of an opportunity in relation to agriculture”.

Australia’s benchmark Eastern Young Cattle Indicator has gained 14 per cent this year after two years
of declines. That makes this a good time to move into beef, said Paul Deane, a senior agriculture
analyst at Australia and New Zealand Banking.

“You’re are buying at the bottom of the cycle and that’s attractive,” he added.

In the US, cattle  prices are up 26 per cent over the past year on Chicago’s futures exchange, and set
for a sixth annual gain as increases in consumer spending help the economy rebound. Prices rose to a
record last month as slaughter numbers declined.
By contrast, iron ore prices are expected to fall to $96 a ton in 2018, from a forecast of $102.50 in the
current quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Mining companies in Australia have long been associated with farming and have often bought
properties to ease access for exploration and mining. Many mines share the same name as the
stations where they’re located, including Rio’s Hamersley Iron and Fortescue’s Christmas Creek.

Ms Rinehart spent part of her childhood growing up on the Mulga Downs station. Her father, Lang
Hancock, discovered the outcroppings of iron ore in Western Australia that made the nation the world’s
biggest exporter.

BHP Billiton, the world’s biggest miner, which is based in Melbourne, Victoria, holds pastoral leases in
Queensland and Western Australia. A BHP spokesman declined to comment on whether the company
plans to add to its holdings of pastoral land.
Mining companies “have extensive cattle operations and they will look to maximise the return on those
investments,” said Rob McConnel, Deloitte’s national agribusiness leader. “The time is right for doing
exactly that.”

(c) Bloomberg News

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

hkpros : Hancock Prospecting Pty. Ltd. | craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd | rtz : Rio Tinto PLC
i010010501 : Beef Cattle Farming | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i412 : Animal Slaughtering/Processing |
i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i0 : Agriculture | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i01001 :
Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming |
imet : Mining/Quarrying
c312 : External Markets | mcattl : Beef/Dairy Cattle Markets | mlvstk : Livestock/Meat Markets | npag :
Page-One Stories | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | m14 : Commodity Markets |
m141 : Agricultural Commodity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Independent Print Ltd.
Document INDOP00020140811ea8b0050l

Page9of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.