China milk deal helps Bellamy's float rise like cream

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
LA
CY
LP

TD

China milk deal helps Bellamy's float rise like cream

Sally Rose
476 words
5 August 2014
BRW
BRW
First
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Launceston-based infant formula and baby food maker Bellamy's Australia has been embraced by
investors at debut on the Australian Securities Exchange.

The stock surged as much as 34 per cent after listing at 11am AEST on Tuesday, and shortly after
midday was trading 30 per cent above the $1 per share offer price at $1.30.

On the same morning the $25 million initial public offer began trading, the company announced it has
received accreditation to register a new company in China, Tatura Milk Industries.
"The recent certification of TMI will allow Bellamy's to immediately re-commence exporting to China and
strongly positions the company to effectively execute its growth strategies in China, being only one of a
handful of companies certified organic by both Australian and Chinese authorities," managing director
Laura McBain said.
Lead brokers Wilson HTM marketed the float as a way to gain exposure to the growing worldwide
fashion for certified organic foods and an increased appetite for dairy products in Asia.

Investors were also attracted by forecasts for an annual dividend yield of 1.6 per cent, based on a payout
ratio of 30 per cent. Shares were priced at 19x pro forma estimated earnings for the current financial
year.
Quality Life, the family company of BRW Rich Lister Bruce Neill , has emerged as a substantial
shareholder controlling 8.62 pert cent. Hobart based Mr Neill founded financial services company Select
Managed Funds, which he sold for scrip to the Australian Wealth Management in 2006. He made a
fortune when that company was acquired by IOOF in 2009. More recently he has been in the race horse
breeding business.

Fund managers that are understood to have signed up for a parcel of shares include Wilson Asset
Management, Schroders, Thorney Group, and Karara Capital.

The IPO allowed the previous majority shareholder, embattled retail entrepreneur Jan Cameron, to sell
down her 55 per cent stake. Ms Cameron is the entrepreneur behind outdoor adventure gear retailer
Kathmandu Holdings and embattled Discount Superstores Group.
There were 25 million shares made available in the initial public offer. With a total of 2.2 billion shares
out, the company is now trading with a market capitalisation of approximately $123.5 million.
The company, formerly Tasmanian Pure Foods, which trades as Bellamy's Organic is a wholesale
distributor of branded infant formula and a range of baby and toddler food products. The products are
also sold direct to retail customers via Bellamy's website.
Local stockists include Coles, Woolworths, Chemist Warehouse, Costco and Big W. The brand is also
distributed through select supermarkets in New Zealand, China, Singapore, Hong Kong, Malaysia and
Vietnam. It is estimated that in financial year 2014, 15 per cent of revenue will have been derived from
non-Australian markets.

Page357of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE

c1711 : Initial Public Offerings | c02 : Corporate Changes | c14 : Stock Listings | c17 : Funding/Capital |
c171 : Share Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types
| nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

PUB Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
AN

Document BRW0000020140805ea8500001

Page358of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.