Daily Agenda: New Paths to Global Trade Expansion

Daily Agenda: New Paths to Global Trade Expansion

17 November 2014
Institutional Investor Magazine
INVS
English
Copyright 2014 Euromoney Institutional Investor plc.

Andrew Barber

HD
BY
WC 844 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Japan sinks into recession; exports rebound in Europe; Halliburton and Baker Hughesmerge in massive
energy-sector deal.

TD

Are we moving into a new era for global trade? A push for change is indeed in the air. The Association of
Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) conference in Myanmar last week provided another platform for the
U.S. to advocate for an adoption of the 11-nation Trans-Pacific Partnership. This past weekend, Australia
and China announced a historic trade pact that will remove tariffs on agricultural, base metal and energy
commodities as well as pharmaceuticals, ultimately removing tariffs for sectors that accounted for more
than A$100 billion ($870 million) in total shipments last year. Critically, the accord will also allow
Australian insurers to enter third-party vehicle liability markets and will allow Australian banks to hold
deposits in local currency within the year and brokerages to trade securities abroad for Chinese citizens.
Finally, today's surprise upswing in exports for the euro zone in September was helped by increasing
demand from China, driving the year-to-date pace of exports to the nation to a growth rate of 10 percent
year-over-year. For now, regardless of geopolitical tensions or concerns over cooling growth in China, it
appears clear that emerging Asia is ultimately intent on expanding trade with the West as the nature of
demand there broadens, a long-term bullish signal from any perspective.

Japan is officially in recession. Recent optimism on rising activity measures is being rattled, as Japanese
third-quarter gross domestic product registered an unexpected contraction to confirm a recessionary
period. Headline growth contracted by 1.6 percent on a quarterly basis versus consensus forecasts for an
expansion, while second-quarter figures were revised to a 7.3 percent contraction. The accompanying
data registered weaker than anticipated across all segments of the economy. Most analysts now
anticipate that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will delay the next scheduled sales tax increase as the one
implemented this spring continues to weigh on momentum despite unprecedented easing measures by
the Bank of Japan.
Gold continues to lose its luster. The latest weekly trader sentiment data for U.S. gold futures contracts
confirmed a 14 percent reduction in outstanding net-long exposures, bringing the reduction in total longs
to almost 50 percent for the prior three weeks. With assets held in exchange-linked products reaching
multiyear lows, investor appetite for precious metals appears to keep waning as global demand cools and
the U.S. dollar remains resilient.

Exports jump in Europe. Aggregate euro zone trade data released today registered a record surplus of
€17.7 billion ($22.1 billion) for September, well above consensus forecasts as exports rose sharply.
August figures were also revised upwards by a significant margin. At 9 percent for the month, the surge in
exports more than offset a modest increase in imports as a weak euro helped spur shipments abroad.

U.S. industrial production data to be released today. In the U.S. industrial production and capacity
utilization data for October will be the most closely watched economic indicator for the day. Consensus
forecasts call for a more modest rise than the surprise 1 percent jump in activity in September on the back
of unusual utilities expansion, but for stronger activity nonetheless. Expectations are for capacity
utilization to remain at 79.3 percent after last month's uptick.

Halliburton buys Baker Hughes. Halliburton has announced a definitive agreement to acquire Baker
Hughes for $34.6 billion according to a company release, constituting a 31 percent premium to Baker
Hughes' share price at the close of trading on Friday. The newly created company will sell up to $10
billion worth of assets to clear potential regulatory hurdles.

Page209of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Portfolio Perspective: ECB Still Awaits Political Follow-Through — Derek Holt, Scotiabank

The European Central Bank's week starts off with bank president Mario Draghi's quarterly testimony
before the Committee on Economic And Monetary Affairs of the European Parliament on Monday. He
book-ends the week by reappearing on Friday at the 24th European Banking Congress on "Reshaping
Europe." Draghi will likely wag a finger at Europe yet again by noting that monetary policy is doing its part
but governments need to place greater emphasis upon regulatory and fiscal reforms. My view remains
that ECB policy is at least partly responsible for stalled progress on regulatory and fiscal reforms by virtue
of removing market pressures on governments to act. Unlike checks and balances in what outwardly
appears to be a highly dysfunctional U.S. Congress that has nevertheless achieved material deficit repair,
Europe's governments have proven less capable in this regard. German Finance minister Wolfgang
Schäuble is on a panel at the same conference as Draghi on Friday and could well repeat his recent
warnings to the ECB to respect limits on their powers and avoid straying toward sovereign bond
purchases that would be tantamount to funding governments.

Derek Holt is a vice-president at Scotiabank in Toronto.

CO hllbt : Halliburton Co | eurcb : European Central Bank | euruno : The European Union
IN

ibnk : Banking/Credit | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | i81401 : Central Banking | i1 : Energy | i13
: Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i814 : Banking | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction | ifinal : Financial Services |
i1300005 : Support Activities for Oil/Gas
e512 : Physical Trade | e52 : Euro Zone/Currency | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic
News
austr : Australia | jap : Japan | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | easiaz :
Eastern Asia

NS

RE

IPD Americas
PUB Euromoney Trading Limited - Delivery
AN

Document INVS000020141208eabh00003

Page210of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.