Sales pitch a winner with Chinese

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

TheNation
Sales pitch a winner with Chinese

Scott Murdoch China correspondent, Additional reporting: Wang Yuanyuan
467 words
23 June 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
6
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

AUSTRALIA’S real estate market is being underpinned by cashed-up Chinese investors who seek to
build a property portfolio to transfer cash out of China.
A property exhibition in Shanghai on the weekend, promoting apartments in the Darling Square
development in inner Sydney, was attended by hundreds of potential buyers.

The first stage of the Lend Lease project, consisting of 357 apartments ranging in price from
$700,000 to $3 million, was sold out on Saturday.

It is estimated that almost 25 per cent of the sales were to Asian buyers, primarily from mainland
China, who are inundating the Australian residential property market.

A number of the investors visiting the Shanghai event bought apartments straight away, although
construction is not due to be finalised until 2017.
Apex Investment Alliance sales director Bill Jiang said China’s capital controls meant a growing
number of investors were looking to invest cash in Australia’s property market.
“Most of the capital in China these days, there are a lot of entrepreneurs, they make their own
fortunate from scratch, we call it oracle money,’’ he said.
“China is reducing its restrictions on the use of capital for investment in all parts of the world. The rate
of property investment by the Chinese in Europe, the US and Australia has been rising. Australia is
part of that game.” Under the current government regulations, foreign investors are restricted to
buying off-the-plan properties and are not allowed to purchase established homes.
However, The Australian recently revealed that the Foreign Investment Review Board has not
enforced a single penalty for any breach.

A federal parliamentary committee is examining the current investment rules amid fears that young
Australians are being locked out of the market by cashed-up foreign investors.
Mr Jiang said he did not believe the rate of Chinese investment was hurting the Australian market. “I
don’t think so. Chinese investment in terms of the overall market is very small,” he said.
It is estimated that Chinese buyers spent $5.9 billion on Australian real estate last year, in a market
worth $270bn.
Liu Yunhuan, 53, bought her second Sydney apartment on the weekend and said Australia’s stable
economy and property protection laws made it attractive.
Under Chinese laws, property buyers do not purchase the land, which remains under state
ownership and leased out on a 70-year agreement.

Page122of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“In Australia, when you buy an apartment you have ownership of the land, you are not worrying
about the government taking it after 70 years,” Mrs Liu said.Another investor, Mrs Yu, bought in
Darling Square for her son, who is only six. Mrs Yu already owns one apartment in Sydney’s Olympic
Park area.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

c182 : Asset Transactions | ereal : Real Estate Markets | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat :
Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140622ea6n0003k

Page123of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.