Lang walks the talk on Malaysia mega project

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PrimeSpace
Lang walks the talk on Malaysia mega project

FLORENCE CHONG, Singapore
803 words
3 July 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
27
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

AT a time when some of Asia’s largest residential developers are investing heavily in Australia,
billionaire developer Lang Walker has gone against the tide, undertaking a development with a
potential end value of $5 billion in Johor, the southern most state in Malaysia.

The project, Senibong Cove, is the single largest for Walker Corporation and a major cash generator
for the company. It is being undertaken by Front Concept, Mr Walker’s Malaysian company.

“It is an exciting project. I can talk for hours about this project,” said Mr Walker, who visits the site
every two months and is intimately involved with planning, down to the design details of individual
houses.

Senibong Cove is being designed to incorporate the elements of his most successful projects in
Australia — Hope Island/Sanctuary Cove (on the Gold Coast) and Rhodes Waterside and King
Street Wharf (in Sydney).

So far, about $100 million has been spent on infrastructure, including reclamation works to create an
island, canals, a marina, landscaping and a network of boardwalks along the waterfront bordering
the estate.

The development has generated sales totalling 1 billion ringgit ($330 million) since the first stage was
launched in 2010.
Mr Walker’s vision is to build between 12,000 and 14,000 dwellings on the 89ha site in the exclusive
integrated waterfront community.
The development’s first 250 low-rise dwellings sold quickly 18 months ago. And prices for those
homes have since doubled.

About 80 per cent of buyers are from Singapore, and many are trading up to the bigger houses in the
second stage.
The first two 30-storey towers in phase three have also sold well. But the third tower is likely to face
competition from other residential projects.

First Concept’s advantage, however, will be price. Mr Walker bought what were then prawn farms
and swampland in 2005 long before a rush of developers from Singapore and China sent land prices
soaring.
China’s Country Garden is proposing to reclaim land in Johor for a waterfront project offering 30,000
apartments while another Chinese group, Greenland, is talking about an equally ambitious
residential development.

Page17of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Senibong Cove project is one third of the way to completion, due in about eight years. A
15,000sq m retail and restaurant precinct will front a wide boardwalk, as at Sydney’s King Street
Wharf, complete with a marina and a yacht club.

Continued on Page 30 Continued from Page 27 This phase is expected to be ready in two years. Mr
Walker has employed a team of 70 local staff, headed by project director Quay Chew Keong, who
had worked for Malaysian tycoon Robert Kuok, one of Asia’s wealthiest men, before Mr Kuok sold
his Malaysian operations in 2009.
Mr Quay, who was the Kuok Group’s project manager for the development of two Sydney inner-city
high-rise apartment blocks — Market City and Horizon — has worked on projects with Walker
Corporation, including on Collins Square in Melbourne’s Docklands.
Mr Walker said he was originally looking to partner the Kuok Group in retail projects in Johor Bahru,
but when Kuok changed its plans in the wake of the GFC he decided to continue on his own.

Although Walker Corporation has developed smaller projects overseas, including in the US, Mr
Walker said none would rival the size of Senibong Cove.
He has also formed a joint-venture with a Singapore company to develop an adjoining 16ha, known
as Senibong Hill.
“Senibong Cove ticks all the boxes from our point of view. You’ve got the (high) cost of property in
Singapore, the proximity (to Singapore), water frontage and security.” Mr Walker, who will celebrate
his 50th year in the development industry this year, noted that the price of Senibong Cove homes
were a quarter of comparable homes in Singapore.
The architectural firm, which designed the exclusive bungalows in Sentosa, a resort island off
Singapore, is designing waterfront bungalows in Senibong Cove.

Mr Walker said that about 100,000 people travelled to Singapore from Johor Bahru daily to work,
choosing to live in the Malaysian city because of its affordable housing.

But the overriding reason, Mr Walker said, was the Malaysian government’s and the state
government’s plan for Iskandar, which has attracted tens of billions of dollars in state and federal
funds to develop infrastructure, such as expressways, under the country’s Economic Transformation
Plan.
The blueprint for Iskandar, covering 2217sq km, includes educational, entertainment, residential,
commercial and industrial precincts, aimed at creating a dynamic Johor state that would benefit from
the economic strength of neighbouring Singapore.

Crucially, for developers such as Walker Corporation, are the Malaysian government’s plans to bring
a fast train from Kuala Lumpur to JohorBahru.

walcor : Walker Corporation Ltd
i5010022 : Residential Building Construction | i501 : Building Construction | iconst : Construction |
icre : Real Estate/Construction | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | ireest : Real Estate
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
malay : Malaysia | austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | nswals
: New South Wales | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140702ea730006e

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

Page18of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.