Split of mining giant lends hope to underperformers

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Portfolio
Split of mining giant lends hope to underperformers

Trevor Sykes
623 words
16 April 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
23
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Since BHP Billiton announced it may demerge some of its operations, the share price has jumped $1.

The knee-jerk reaction is to wonder why. BHP is already owned by its shareholders as a single unit.
Why should it be worth more if split in two?

The speculation is that BHP shareholders would simply be issued shares in a new company
containing the group's non-core assets.

The table, from an Ord Minnett research paper released last week, shows the BHP assets which will
probably be in the spinoff. The figures are Ord's estimates of the net present value (NPV) of the
assets.

Looking at the list, three points come to mind. Firstly, the spinoff comprises bits and pieces spread
across disparate geographic areas. Apart from some integration in the aluminium and manganese
businesses, they have little apparent connection. It's what you'd expect if BHP held a garage sale.

It is heavily weighted towards aluminium processing, a rather unfashionable business at present. The
Worsley refinery in WA enjoys the highest net present value of any of the assets, being one of the
largest and lowest-cost refineries in the world. Some of its alumina is exported to the Hillside and
Bayside smelters in South Africa and Mozal in Mozambique.
One of the most attractive assets is the Cannington mine, which produced 31 million ounces of silver
and 213,000 tonnes of lead last financial year. It's in outback Queensland, a long way from any of the
other assets.
The manganese assets look good. Mamatwan and Wessels in South Africa produce high-grade ore
which is processed by Gemco, one of the world's lowest-cost manganese producers.

Feedstock from the two mines goes to the Samancor Metalloys plant, one of the largest and
lowest-cost manganese alloy producers in the world.

Nickel West comprises nickel mines and processing plants left over from the WMC takeover. Mines in
WA sold by WMC are still contracted to have their ore treated at the Kambalda concentrator operated
by BHP.

Cerro Matoso is an open-cut lateritic nickel mine in Colombia, with a nominal capacity of 50,000
tonnes of ferronickel a year. The four thermal coalmines in South Africa produced 31 million tonnes
last year. A little over half sold to Eskom, the government-owned electricity utility. Most of the rest
went to China and India.

Ord Minnett believes BHP may not want to sell its one-third interest in the Colombian Cerrejón mine.
It's among the world's lowest-cost thermal coal producers. The best tactic would seem to be
auctioning it to one of the other one-third stakeholders, Glencore and Anglo American.

Page106of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Secondly, we're saying goodbye Billiton. All the South African and South American stuff came from
Billiton, as did Worsley. It looked then as if BHP paid way too much for Billiton and this list tends to
prove it.
Lastly, Ord Minnett has calculated an NPV of nearly $US20 billion ($21.3 billion) on the spinoff
assets. The BHP 2013 annual report shows that the nickel, aluminium, manganese and alloy assets
generated EBIT of $US164 million last financial year and a loss of $US24 million in fiscal 2012.
That's a poor result for some good-quality assets and makes the NPV look high, but we don't know the
EBIT for Cannington and the thermal coalmines.

So the spinoff might include under-performing assets capable of better results if well managed.
Alternatively, the assets are capable of being sold piecemeal, preferably after the metals markets
have improved. Either way, shares in the spinoff could be a bargain for shareholders in the medium
term.

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
cspin : Spin-offs | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate
Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140415ea4g00029

Page107of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.