Dough on the rise

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Dough on the rise

Jane Harper
455 words
29 April 2014
Herald-Sun
HERSUN
HeraldSun
25
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

FOOD

GOODMAN Fielder shares have soared as investors anticipate another takeover bid after the food
maker spurned suitors wielding a $1.3 billion cheque.

The breads and spreads maker, whose brands include Helga’s, Meadow Lea and Vogel’s, yesterday
revealed it had rejected the bid from two foreign companies.
Singapore agribusiness Wilmar International and Hong Kong investment firm First Pacific Company
approached Goodman over the weekend with an offer of 65c a share.

Goodman branded the conditional bid as “opportunistic” and too low, despite the fact it was an 18 per
cent premium to the group’s closing price last week of 55c.
The company’s shares reached an intraday high of 65.5c before closing at 63.5c, up 15.5 per cent for
the day.
First Pacific and Wilmar — which already owns a 10.1 per cent stake in Goodman — said they
remained keen to strike a deal, urging Goodman to open its books for inspection.

“This is a compelling all-cash offer for Goodman Fielder shareholders,” the suitors said, noting the
offer price was a 27 per cent premium on the average share price since Goodman issued a profit
warning earlier this month.

Goodman shares tumbled a record 22 per cent on April 2 after chief executive Chris Delaney warned
that pre-tax earnings for the year to June were likely to be 10-15 per cent below analysts’ expectations
of $180 million.
It came in the wake of a first-half loss of $64.8 million announced in February. Goodman yesterday
said directors had considered the takeover proposal over the weekend and met representatives from
Wilmar and First Pacific. “The board believes the current proposal materially undervalues Goodman
Fielder and is opportunistic,” the breads maker said. The group said it would continue with its
strategic plan, which includes 300 job cuts.

Analysts said Goodman’s prospects might not be strong enough to flush out other would-be buyers,
but Wilmar and First Pacific remained contenders. Wilmar has a foothold in Australia after buying
CSR’s sugar business — now known as Sucrogen — in 2010.
The group, which paid an average 58c a share to boost its stake in Goodman to 10.1 per cent in
2012, is believed to have made an unsuccessful takeover approach to the breads maker the same
year.

Page172of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Citi retail analyst Gino Rossi said a takeover also had strategic appeal for First Pacific, which could
potentially cut costs by aligning Goodman with its Indonesian food and dairy business, IndoFood.

“We think the current bid price is reasonable, but that is without taking into consideration the upside
from closer alignment with IndoFood,” Mr Rossi said.jane.harper@news.com.au

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

fdgl : Goodman Fielder Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document HERSUN0020140428ea4t000ak

Page173of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.