Indonesian, Australian thermal coal price recovery uncertain: market players

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
VOL
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Indonesian, Australian thermal coal price recovery uncertain: market players

Cecilia Quiambao, Mia Corazon Aureus
410 words
4 June 2014
Platts Coal Trader International
CLTRDI
1
ISSN: 1746-8914, Volume 14, Issue 106
English
© 2014 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

The slump in Indonesian and Australian thermal coal prices will likely continue, with market players
attending a major industry gathering in Bali unsure when a recovery will take place.

"There will still be a painful period. It will take time before a price recovery can happen," Hidayat Liu of
consulting firmMcKinsey & Co. told delegates attending the Coaltrans Asia conference Wednesday.

"We are still seeing this process of mine closing," he said.
Hiro Mizukami, general manager for the fuel purchase department of Japan's Hokuriku Electric power
utility, said prices would only start their recovery in 2016, citing slowing thermal coal import demand
growth in China as a core reason for the slump.

"It will take one-and-a-half years for the market to feel that kind of change," Mizukami said.

Noor Asihin Surani, senior manager for fuel and strategic planning at Malaysian utility TNB Fuel, said
the coal appetite of China and India will largely determine the pace of the recovery.

"It all depends on the two big brothers," Surani added.
Keisuke Sadamori, director for energy markets and security at the International Energy Agency, said
Tuesday he expected India, as well as the ASEAN countries, to emerge as "engines of growth,"
replacing China.

"Going forward, we see that prices will stay in the low price environment," said Marc Schmidt, a
Singapore-based executive of the Boston Consulting Group. "There is a lot of uncertainty."
A Taiwan-based coal trader told Platts on the sidelines of the conference he did not expect Australian
and Indonesian coal prices to recover in Q4, when prices traditionally rebound because of stockpiling
for winter demand.
"Some deliveries were postponed in China. They will be delivered in Q4. There is an oversupply of
coal at the moment," the trader said.
He said Australian and Indonesian coal prices would continue to be depressed next year, but could not
say when a recovery would start.
A Singapore-based coal trader said growth in coal demand in India would not compensate for the
slowdown in China's coal import growth.
In a May 23 report, Goldman Sachs forecast China's thermal coal imports this year at 146 million mt,
dropping to 125 million mt next year.

Page250of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Goldman forecast India's thermal coal imports this year and next at 160 million mt and 180 million mt,
respectively.

Cecilia Quiambao, Mia Corazon Aureus

IN
NS

RE

IPD
PUB
AN

i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | iutil : Utilities
mcoal : Coal Markets | npag : Page-One Stories | m14 : Commodity Markets | m143 : Energy Markets |
mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E
Exclusion Filter
china : China | indon : Indonesia | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Utilities
The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Document CLTRDI0020140625ea6400005

Page251of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.