Mostyn closes in on sealing deal for Harvey Beef

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Mostyn closes in on sealing deal for Harvey Beef

Brad Thompson
359 words
30 January 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
First
63
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

Family-owned Craig Mostyn Group is poised to add Harvey Beef to its stable of major
agribusinesses in a deal that will put the historic South West meat processor in local hands for the
first time since 2005.

CMG management were locked in meetings yesterday and unavailable for comment, but have
made no secret of their interest in WA’s biggest beef producer and exporter.

Harvey Beef was put on the market last year with an asking price of about $40 million.

WA-based CMG has been on the hunt for a major acquisition to add to its strength in meat and
livestock, seafood, processing, recycling and exports.
CMG turns over more than $300 million a year and is the biggest processor of pork in WA
through its Linley Valley operations.
Asian private equity fund Pacific Alliance Group had looked set to sell Harvey Beef to a company
with links to Japanese giant Marubeni in November.

It is believed negotiations broke down after weeks of number-crunching, putting CMG back in the
frame.

A deal to secure Harvey Beef would end the run of major food processing in Australia being
snapped up by overseas interests.
PAG and Elders sold Queens- land’s Kilcoy Pastoral Co to China’s New Hope Investment Fund
last month.

Industry sources said PAG was keener than ever to offload Harvey Beef in the wake of the Kilcoy
sale.

Harvey Beef employs about 300 staff and processes about 145,000 grass and grain-fed cattle
each year.

It is common knowledge among the Harvey Beef workforce that CMG has been running a rule
over the operations in the final stages of sale negotiations.

Founded in 1919, Harvey Beef remained in family hands for 86 years until the financial collapse of
EG Green Group.
A sale will focus attention on the future of family-owned dairy processor Harvey Fresh, which is
regarded as a prime target for Italy’s Parmalat.

Page14of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Federal Government yesterday named Harvey Fresh director Kevin Sorgiovanni as the only
WA representative on its new 10-member Agricultural Industry Advisory Council.

cmacp : Craig Mostyn & Co. Pty. Ltd.
i412 : Animal Slaughtering/Processing | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods |
ifood : Food Products | i414 : Food Preserving/Speciality Foods | i4141 : Frozen Food
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140129ea1u0002y

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

Page15of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.