Troubled United Dairy Farmers considers a number of takeover offers

Troubled United Dairy Farmers considers a number of takeover offers

1 December 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) News
ABCNEW
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

Sarina Locke

HD
BY
WC 396 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Dairy companies are circling Australia's largest private dairy processor/broker after its parent went into
receivership.
United Dairy Power was last sold to Hong Kong business Five Star Foods, owned by William Hui, in
February for $70 million.

But in November, financial partner Rabobank called in receivers of Five Star Foods and appointed new
management of UDP.
UDP is a broker and processor of milk in Victoria and South Australia, which has delivered premiums to
farmers supplying milk.
Managing director of UDP, Marcus Derwin, is meeting dairy farmers this week.

Insiders say UDP has received significant offers that it's obliged to consider, given the stakeholders -
suppliers, customers and staff - need the company to continue.
Analysts say the Australian processors, who are paying $5.60 to $6 per kg of milk solids, are struggling
with that price, given the fall in commodity prices globally.
But a shortage of milk is holding that price up.
President of South Australian Dairy Farmers, David Basham, says UDP has to pay these prices for at
least six months, for the 200 million litres of milk.
"My thoughts are a business will probably buy the milk supply as well, and it could be absorbed into the
existing supply base, like Murray Goulburn, they could become MG suppliers.
"So it's business as usual to a certain degree."
He says it's quite possible the premium will continue for dairy farmers who supply milk to UDP.

"Maybe some of the smaller companies might choose try to entice those current UDP suppliers to supply
them directly."

History of UDP
United Dairy Power was set up around 15 years ago by Tony Esposito to fill a gap in supplying milk as
top up to processors or to cheese makers in Victoria.

Mr Basham says UDP secured premiums from the big processors as a sweetener to get farmers on
board.
"He bought milk from farmers and traded it on between the different processors, which at that point in
time was Lion, or National Foods, Murray Goulburn and Warrnambool Cheese and Butter."
UDP also began to supply gourmet cheese producers around Melbourne to help them 'cut the middle
man out'.

Page193of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.UDP also bought the two older milk processing plants in South Australia in 2011 from National
Foods/Lion, at Jervois and Murray Bridge.

CO
IN

NS
RE

adryfl : Australian Dairy Farmers Limited | krnbrw : Kirin Holdings Co, Ltd | nfdaus : Lion Pty Ltd.
i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i413 : Dairy Products | i0 :
Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | saustr : South Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania

IPD united
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCNEW0020141201eac100032

Page194of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.