The South Coast Brekkie Wrap

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

news
The South Coast Brekkie Wrap

Glenn Ellard
1,807 words
10 June 2014
Milton Ulladulla Times
FMILUT
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

9.00am: Well, that's it for another South Coast Brekkie Wrap. I hope the day is good, wherever you
happen to be, and we will see you back here at the same time and place tomorrow for more news and a
few laughs.

So let's finish today with a cat tree.

8.55am: Almost $200,000 frozen during legal action can now be spent in the Eurobodalla Shire after the
full bench of the Federal Court dismissed a global financial crisis (GFC) appeal.

In a case attracting inter-national interest, Eurobodalla Shire Council was one of several local
governments which joined a class action against a global ratings agency.

The full details are here.

8.55am: Athletes from Nowra and Vincentia High exploded into action recently and took part their school
athletics carnivals, and you can see plenty of photos here.

8.50am: The Milton-Ulladulla district was a hive of activity over the long weekend, with something for
everyone from wine lovers to theatre-goers.
And we have galleries from the Milton Scarecrow Festival, Winter Wine Festival and Fabulous Threads
Exhibition here.

8.45am: The Merimbula Jazz Festival once again brought tourists into town for the long weekend filling
restaurants and accommodation and turning the town into a big musical party with 146 bands playing in
eight venues.

Find the full details here.

8.45am: Stan and Joan West have lived in the Bega Valley for many years, seeing many changes over
their time, and both agree there's nowhere else they"d rather be.

They have seen many changes over the years, and detail them here.

8.40am: Wollongong police are warning northern suburbs residents to be on the lookout for con artists
after two men and a woman offered to cut down a tree on an 86-year-old man's Douglas Road, Fernhill,
property.

The details are here.

8.37am: Eden Public School students have kicked off their very own kitchen garden program, with work
getting underway on Tuesday morning.

The full details and plenty of photographs are here.

8.35am: And just a quick look at the way I do washing.

Page254of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.8.30am: And while we're speaking of dogs, here is another look at the endless battle between dogs and
cats.

8.25am: Here's something a bit different. This region is home to many surfers who love nothing more
than catching a wave, but I wonder if they could look as good while doing it as this surprising wave rider.

8.20am: Kate Breen of Sussex Inlet decided to become a nurse while travelling through Cambodia and
seeing the help medical professionals were giving in impoverished communities.

You can read more of her decision and career here.

8.17am: Have you seen a whale?

Then the National Parks and Wildlife Service would like you to log the details on the Wild About Whales
smartphone app., which is the first official guide to whale-watching in NSW, and is available as a free
download from the Apple and Google Play stores.

Details are here.

8.15am: Unanderra's Zachary Matheson weighed a tiny 960 grams at birth, so when his mother's cat had
kittens he begged and pleaded to keep the runt of the litter.

Over the past three years Zachary, who has autism, has formed a strong bond with "Junior" and is
devastated after the cat went missing two weeks ago.

You can read more about his search for his pet here.

8.10am: NSW is banking on an untried centre-wing combination after Josh Dugan and Will Hopoate were
named to make their returns for the Blues for Origin II.

The full team and selection discussion can be found here.

8.05am: If you are heading out on the water today or looking to catch a feed of fish, check out the latest
on the local fishing scene here.

8.00am: For a different view of life and technology, here's an offering from Michael Leunig.

8.00am: NSW Premier Mike Baird has staked the re-election of the Coalition government on a plan to
use $20 billion from the partial sale of the NSW electricity network for projects that will "transform the
state from one end to the other".

The full details are here.

7.55am: He has been described as the thinking man's stand-up comedian, and after appearing at all the
world's major comedy festivals comic Tom Gleeson is taking part in Ulladullirious - the Milton Ulladulla
Comedy Festival.

To find out when and where Gleeson is performing click here.

7.52am: A project in South East Queensland managed by Kiama engineer and councillor Andrew Sloan
has won the highest honour the Australian water industry can present.

The full details are here.

7.50am: None of us like to think or talk about it, but death is inevitable for all of us.

To help people talk about the issues of life ending, the Demystifying Death and Dying "life event" was
held at the Cobargo School of Arts Hall as part of Eat, Think, Create (ETC).

Details of the event are here.

7.45am: Ever wondered what your pets would say if they could talk? I wonder if it would be something
like this.

7.40am: As many of us consider setting our alarms early to watch the FIFA World Cup, here is a frank
assessment of Australia's chances, and an answer to Australian star Tim Cahill's question on why this
team can't be the best to ever represent our nation.

7.35am: The hugely successful Shoalhaven River Festival is set to take on a new look this year, staging
its own mini Vivid light show.

Page255of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.You can read the full details here.
7.32am: We have all heard of the Da Vinci Code, but a group of eight enthusiastic Year 6 students from
Sapphire Coast Anglican College have travelled to Canberra to take part in the annual da Vinci
Decathlon held at Canberra Grammar School.

The full details are here.

7.30am: A family including a 10-month-old baby escaped harm after part of their house caught fire in
Ulladulla overnight.

Details of the breaking news are here.

7.25am: Time to lighten the mood with a different look at a fashion trend.

7.25am: Tathra Enduro 100km winner Andrew Blair has been named in the Australian Commonwealth
Games cycling squad.

Details of the announcement are here, and came only two days after Blair forged a path through the hills
of Tathra to complete the King Nelba 100km course in four hours and 29 minutes.

7.20am: After responding to many calls about domestic cats killing and injuring native wildlife, WIRES is
calling on cat owners to take steps top ensure their pets and native animals are able to coexist.

You can read their tips here.

7.15am: Ryan Jackson of Eden tries to look unfazed, but you can tell he's pretty chuffed about this
monster 10.5 kilo, 97 cm flathead he caught on the weekend at Wonboyn Lake, and who wouldn't be.

Read more about the catch here.

7.10am: Police are investigating whether wet weather was a factor in the death of a 28-year-old woman
who lost control of her car while driving south on Appin Road about 3pm on Tuesday.

You can find the full details of the road tragedy here.

7.10am: The Kiama Chamber of Commerce is inviting its local businesses to a breakfast networking
meeting at 7.30am on Wednesday, June 18, at Mosstique Restaurant in Manning Street, Kiama. The full
details are here.

7.05am: You can check out photos and video from a hugely successful Narooma HuntFest over the long
weekend here.

7.00am: Work on the new Old Punt Road boat ramp on the Clyde River at North Batemans Bay is
underway in earnest, and you can see all the details here.

6.30am: Homes were damaged and large sections of beach were washed away as torrential rain hit
Ulladulla on Thursday night, and you can read here how it was not helped by roads with inadequate
drainage.

6.30am: How is this to get you motivated to get up and moving today? Take a look at Jordan Tirekidis
here. He once weighed about 310kg, although it was difficult to measure his weight, but he now down to
140kg.

6.30am: It seems all too familiar, but we wake with news of another school shooting in the United States.

This time a gunman shot and killed a student on Tuesday at a high school in a quiet Columbia River town
in Oregon shortly after classes started and was found dead himself as police arrived, authorities said.

Read more here.

6.30am: Prime Minister Tony Abbott has used his visit to the United States to urge closer ties with major
Australian trading partner China. He was even pictured here with former political foe and now US
ambassador Kim Beazley.

6.30AM: Good morning and welcome to our regional morning report, the South Coast Brekkie Wrap!
Over the next few hours we will be bringing you as much information as possible from across the NSW
South Coast and nationally.

Page256of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Weather, road conditions, breaking news, we will have it all - and we'd love to have your help! If there's
anything happening in your part of the world - from Kiama to Eden, drop us a line! Email
glenn.ellard@fairfaxmedia.com.au.

WEATHER:

Wondering what the weather will be doing today? Click on your town for a full report.

Nowra,

Batemans Bay,

Bega,http://www.bom.gov.au/nsw/forecasts/merimbula.shtml

Merimbula,

Albion Park

A LAUGH TO GET YOU STARTED:

Let's start thew day with a bit of blatant man-bashing and stereotyping. Which is okay, because I know
how much I would love to do this.

TRAFFIC: Roads across the Far South Coast are open and clear.

TRAINS: There's a good service on the South Coast line this morning.

ANNIVERSARIES:

1509 - Henry VIII marries the first of his six wives, Catherine of Aragon.

1851 - Gold is found in Victoria for the first time.

1863 - New South Wales sees the first public demonstration of electric lighting, to honour the marriage of
the Prince of Wales.

1901 - New Zealand annexes the Cook Islands.

1987 - British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher wins a record third term.

1999 - Star Trek star, DeForest Kelley, who played "Bones" McCoy, dies.

BIRTHDAYS:

1776 - English Romantic painter, John Constable.

1935 - Actor Gene Wilder.

1939 - Racing driver and team owner, Jackie Stewart, nicknamed The Flying Scot.

1949 - PETA founder Ingrid Newkirk.
1959 - Actor Hugh Laurie, best known for his role on House M.D.

austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
AN

Document FMILUT0020140611ea6a00004

Page257of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.