Brand Australia must find voice

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News - Opinion
Brand Australia must find voice

Jennifer Hewett
930 words
23 October 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
2
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Jennifer Hewett
I am en route to Shenyang, a city of 12 million people, in north-east China. En route at about 300km/h,
that is. The high-speed train is as impeccably efficient and gleaming as the vast, all-white train stations
that shepherd passengers quickly in and out along the way. As my carriage glides past, I quickly lose
count of the man-made mountain ranges I see – row upon row of towering apartment buildings rising
out of the fields.

It's a view that's slightly chilling in its uniformity but staggering in the revolutionary transformation it
represents. Many of these apartments may still be empty or under construction that seems on indefinite
hold. Many more have workers busy on site or are already fully tenanted. However the financing of this
massive housing boom plays out over the next year or two, it still means mass urbanisation on a time
line and scale that defies any parallel. And mass change in the consumption habits of tens of millions
of those inhabitants.
The north-east of China – what used to be known as Manchuria – is often overlooked internationally
given the greater focus on cities like Beijing and Shanghai and the other great coastal regions of the
south-east. This area was the traditional centre for heavy industry that then turned into China's version
of the rust belt in the 1990s. It is now being "revitalised" under yet another central government
multi-year plan. Growth last year in Shenyang was considered slightly disappointing, although it still
came in at 8 to 9 per cent. (Even one of the four Louis Vuitton stores in town closed down, considered to
be another victim of Xi Jinping's assault on corruption and luxury gift buying for officials. Pass the
handkerchief.)

But, as usual, there's a better regional growth story told – via modernising agriculture and infrastructure,
developing high tech and clean industry and selling some state-owned enterprises. All this translates
into opportunity for Australia, particularly in the context of a free-trade agreement with China.
China Daily happily reports China is now the third largest consumer of beef behind the USA and Brazil.
Consumer demand for a higher protein diet is expected to continue growing exponentially with China
needing to import much of that.
Shenyang is the capital of Liaoning province and Australia already exports more than $US4 billion
($4.6 billion) a year in iron ore, coal, alumina, wheat and meat, according to the province's economic
bureau.Small representation

Given the extent of the resources base, as well as potential demand for high-quality food and
agricultural produce, it is surprising there is only a tiny Austrade office of two in Shenyang to service the
three north-east provinces of more than 100 million people. The Austrade office in Shenyang says it
does help Australian companies trying to break into new markets, usually on a fee for service basis. But
its primary role, it maintains, is promoting Australia generally by suggesting leads and assisting Chinese
companies wanting to invest in Australian or buy more goods and services from there.

Page191of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In terms of some of its recent successes, it cites a Chinese company that has imported 80,000 tonnes
of chilled Australian beef as well as an Australian architecture firm that is in negotiations with provincial
authorities about a pilot project for a "green roof" scheme. Via the Austrade connection, I also visit other
examples of Chinese companies importing Australian produce to the north-east. They include the giant
state-owned agribusiness COFCO Malt, which imports 400,000 tonnes of barley from South Australia
and Western Australia to make malt for various international and Chinese beer firms. Another is
Snowdragon Beef, a high-end cattle producer that now imports about $6 million worth of Australian
beef and is looking for more as well as possible collaboration with genetics technology from Australia.

In terms of specific cases, these are all commendable enough – and individual opportunities are
infinitely expandable in theory at least.

But what is more noticeable is the comparative lack of a concerted national focus on marketing a
whole-of-Australia brand of quality and reliability in food and agriculture and services. This is in contrast
to, say, New Zealand. It's easy to point to New Zealand's advantage in selling dairy products to China
as due to the free-trade agreement it's had with China since 2006, for example.Clean, green, fresh

But over many years, successive New Zealand governments and industries have also co-operated to
create a highly effective strategy to identify the country with high-quality agricultural produce and,
increasingly, as clean, green and fresh. That is particularly appealing to Chinese consumers and has
become a powerful marketing tool for all companies associated with brand NZ.

The gap in such a nationally oriented approach in Australia recently led Andrew Forrest to set up the
Australia-Sino Hundred-Year Agricultural and Food Partnership (ASA100). He says he is sick of strolling
the aisles of Chinese supermarkets and seeing food from everywhere – Brazil, New Zealand, Argentina,
Uruguay – but virtually nothing from Australia.
Three of China's largest agricultural and food businesses, including COFCO Group, New Hope and
Wilmar International, now support this initiative. Australian backers include federal government and
state governments, the Business Council of Australia and various Australian agricultural producers.
Perhaps more of Brand Australia should take a quick train trip to Shenyang together.
Jennifer Hewett is in China with the Asia Pacific Journalism Centre.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive
News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | shenya : Shenyang | liaon : Liaoning | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia
| ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141022eaan0004w

Page192of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.