Why you should consider gold

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Portfolio
Why you should consider gold

Brendan Swift
2,011 words
4 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
24
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Gold shares little in common with most popular investments: it performs no useful function, nor does
it generate future earnings or produce a yield. And yet the precious metal holds a special place in the
psyche of investors, even as much of its lustre has worn off in the past two years.

"Sentiment is bad – it's a tough place and very hard to get people interested," says Baker Steel
Capital Managers managing director David Baker, who manages a gold fund. "But this is where you
make the money – by buying now and putting it in the bottom drawer . . . I think if you've made some
money elsewhere in the market, now is a good time to diversify."

The price of gold peaked at almost $US1900 an ounce in 2011 but has since fallen to around
$US1200 to $US1300 as the global economy and the performance of sharemarkets has returned,
luring investors back to more growth-oriented areas of the market.
It was a sharply different case during much of the previous decade. The US dollar price of gold
surged by an annualised 15.4 per cent a year between December 1999 and March 2012, outpacing
the US consumer price index (up 2.5 per cent a year), US stocks (1.5 per cent) and bonds (6.4 per
cent).

The bubble burst later that year but investors remain attracted to the asset for its ability to act as an
inflation hedge, a currency hedge, and as a safe haven in times of economic stress. Another
investment rationale suggests that gold remains under-owned by institutional investors and central
banks in emerging markets.
However this remarkable range of distinctive properties attributed to gold are as difficult to prove as
they are controversial.Protection in tough times?
As the US economy continues to recover and lead the way out of the global financial crisis, gold has
lost much of its appeal. However, the recovery remains tenuous and a number of investors continue
to turn to gold for protection.

Frontier Investment Consulting consultant Justine O'Connell says a number of its super fund clients
raised the prospect of investing in gold just after the GFC. However, its research found that the
performance of gold was highly market-specific.
For example, during a low-growth, high-inflation period in the 1970s, gold acted as an effective
inflation hedge. "But then you get really long periods where that relationship just falls away and
actually becomes negatively correlated," O'Connell says, noting that super funds prefer to use assets
such as infrastructure and direct property, which tend to work in a broader range of inflationary
environments.
Similarly, it found gold, which has no counterpart risk when held in its physical form, could act as a
crisis hedge, but only in certain environments and, even then, during the tumultuous period from
2008-10, government bonds performed better.

Page35of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."It can have a place, but we think there are other ways [to hedge] which are more reliable with other
asset classes," O'Connell says, noting that the asset consultant has not changed its view on gold in
the current market conditions.
Globally, institutional investors are mostly underweight gold, the market of which is just a fraction of
the size of more established asset markets.

A research paper published by the Financial Analysts Journal in 2013, The Golden Dilemma, found
the total value of investable gold to be less than 2 per cent of the combined capitalisation of world
stock and bond markets.
"A widespread move to increase gold in diversified portfolios would lead to upward pressure on the
real and nominal prices of gold," the report said.
However, their research suggests little reason for institutional investors to support gold in the near
term after analysing the asset's long-term performance – the evidence left the authors largely
sceptical about gold's ability to act as a safe haven, as a currency hedge or as an inflation hedge.
"Gold may very well be a long-run inflation hedge," the paper said. "The long run, however, may be
longer than an investor's investment time horizon or lifespan."Gold-plated emerging markets
It may be obvious to suggest that a rise in demand for gold will spur an increase in its price, but it
remains a key driver for a precious metal whose primary use is ornamental. Enter emerging markets.
Since 2000, China, Russia, and Saudi Arabia have been enthusiastic purchasers of gold, while the
Netherlands, France and Switzerland reduced their holdings of gold, according to the World Gold
Council.
Gold reserves provide an important backdrop of confidence in emerging markets, which continue to
liberalise their financial controls and capital accounts.
Strong demand from China last year helped prop up the faltering gold price as exchange traded
funds (ETFs) were forced to divest about one-third of their total holdings when investors lost interest
in the asset.
Meanwhile, India – the world's second-biggest consumer of gold after China – has suggested it will
ease recent restrictions on importing gold under the country's new government led by Narendra Modi.

India placed tight curbs on bullion imports last year, including placing a 10 per cent duty on overseas
purchases and introducing an 80-20 rule that required one-fifth of all imports to be exported – moves
that were aimed at reining in the country's current account deficit.

Baker says it looks as if India will relax its import regulations, which would provide a surge in demand.
"That is something I would be watching in the near term," he says.
Emerging markets still hold substantially less gold than the US and other developed markets on
several relative measures.
The central banks of the BRIC nations (Brazil, Russia, India and China) hold substantially less gold
than the US, which holds the world's largest gold reserve.
If those emerging economies pegged their gold reserves at the same ratio as the US does relative to
GDP, it would prompt a more than 2½ times lift in their gold reserves to 6233 metric tons, according
to the Financial Analysts Journal.
"If a country pursues a 'keeping up with the Joneses' approach to owning gold, targeted holdings
based on the size of population or GDP [gross domestic product] will not be affected by changes in
the price of gold," the paper said.
Nonetheless, the price of gold remains under pressure, with ANZ commodity analyst Victor
Thianpiriya suggesting that it is set to head further south after China almost doubled its usual annual
inventory last year.

"A lot of demand has been brought forward and prices continue to slide further down – it's having a
negative impact on sentiment and people are now a little bit more gun-shy of buying gold on every
single dip.
"That is why we haven't seen the Chinese demand respond as strongly this year even though prices
[are down]."

Page36of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Central banks around the world hold almost 20 per cent of the estimated above-ground gold stock,
although a number of western countries spent years reducing their stocks (subject to central bank
gold agreements aimed at dampening liquidity issues). Thianpiriya says the GFC changed that.
"That is a shift that I don't think will reverse," he says. "Central banks globally still view gold as a key
part of their reserves, so we're not likely to see the same sort of liquidation of gold from that sector as
we did for a good part of the past 25 years."Access without the intermediaries
There are several more efficient ways to add gold to your portfolio than hiding bars under the
mattress, despite it being the method preferred by those keen to reduce the role of intermediaries.
The simplest exposure path is via ETFs, which are backed by physical gold bullion.
The ETF Securities Physical Gold established by Australian ETF pioneer and BRW Rich Lister
Graham Tuckwell that trades under the ASX code, GOLD, is a popular example and charges just 0.4
per cent a year in fees.

Investors concerned about the impact of currency fluctuations and want a purely directional exposure
may want to investigate the BetaShares Gold Bullion ETF Currency Hedged product, which charges
a management fee of 0.49 per cent and trades under the code, QUA.

The Perth Mint offers something slightly different: a listed call option on the ASX which entitles
investors to physically acquire gold (one hundredth of a troy ounce of fine gold per option). The
management fee is just 0.15 per cent and this may prove to be a suitable exposure for someone
looking for a portfolio insurance policy.
A number of managed funds also include gold in the mix, although its place is largely relegated to
commodity-focused or alternative asset portfolios.
Van Eyk Research chief executive Mark Thomas says the $200 million Blueprint Diversified
Alternatives Fund has about 15 per cent of its portfolio allocated to gold in fully hedged $US bullion
and BetaShares ETFs.

The fund charged total fees of 1.94 per cent last financial year and also trades on the ASX.

"It's at the riskier end," Thomas said. "It needs to be part of a diversified strategy."

He recommends investors opt for a fully hedged US dollar-denominated exposure because the price
of gold is linked to the trade-weighted US dollar: when the US dollar rises the Australian dollar falls
and so offsets any impact the investment may have.
The Baker Steel Gold Fund takes a different approach and instead invests in listed small to mid-cap
gold and precious metal companies around the world. It is sold through Select Asset Management
and charges total fees of 1.82 per cent (not inclusive of a 10.25 per cent performance fee that kicks in
for returns above the FTSEGold Mines Index return).
Managing director David Baker says gold companies have been excessively sold off by the market
and a rise in the price of gold would produce a significant and immediate earnings uplift.

"I think there's a huge amount of value in the market from some of the larger companies, but you've
got to be really careful playing some of the junior companies," he says.

"So I can see how I can quickly make 10 times my money on some of these assets even if we have a
small, 20 to 30 per cent uplift in the gold price, which isn't unrealistic."Producers over explorers
He nominates a number of gold producers (rather than gold explorers) such as South Africa's Gold
Fields, Hong Kong's G-Resources, and ASX-listed AngloGold Ashanti and Endeavour Mining
Corporation as representing significant value.
At last month's Global Metals and Mining conference in Miami, major gold producer Newmont
Mining said it is managing its business for a gold price of $US1200 but noted that every $US100
rise will generate a cumulative $1 billion in free cash flow over next three years.
Nonetheless, most gold companies at the conference were focused on getting to a position of
positive cash flow at the lowest possible gold price rather than focusing on increases in the price of
gold, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch analysts.
Baker is also supportive of recent moves by some gold companies to improve shareholder returns by
linking their dividend payments to the price of gold.

Page37of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Last year, Australian gold producer Evolution Mining pledged to pay 2 per cent of its gold production
in dividends – a move which should go some way towards curbing the recent underperformance of
gold companies relative to the price of gold.

"We like that business model because then we've got a direct link between what's in the ground and
what we're getting back as shareholders," Baker says.
"It's like a contract between shareholders and management and we know that if the gold price goes
up they're not going to clip our dividend – I've got a linkage into the higher gold price."

bscaml : Baker Steel Capital Managers LLP | bsrtld : Baker Steel Resources Trust Limited
i22472 : Precious Metals | i22 : Primary Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial
Services
m1421 : Gold Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals
Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mpcsmt : Precious Metals Markets | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140603ea6400001

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page38of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.