Taiwan Business Briefs

HD
CR
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Taiwan Business Briefs

Staff writer, with agencies
660 words
1 December 2014
Taipei Times
TAIP
English
© Copyright 2014 The Taipei Times. All rights reserved.

Property deals fell last month
Transactions of residential and commercial property fell about 10 percent nationwide between
Nov. 1 and Wednesday, amid cautious sentiment ahead of Saturdays nine-in-one elections,
statistics released by Sinyi Realty Inc showed.

A survey conducted by the realtor prior to the polls showed that almost 50 percent of buyers
planned to enter the market after the elections. Because of this, Sinyi Realty said that housing
transactions are expected to pick up this month, which would help boost the sluggish property
market.

Many homebuyers are also concerned that the government will continue to introduce measures to
curb rising home prices, Sinyi Realty said.

Food makers score big abroad

A delegation of 12 food manufacturers led by the Ministry of Economic Affairs secured almost US$5
million in orders during a visit to Indonesia and Vietnam last week.

The ministry said on Saturday that the food makers met with 105 potential buyers in Vietnam and
137 in Indonesia, during the trip.

According to the Taiwan External Trade Development Council, Vietnam and Indonesia are the sixth
and eighth-largest buyers of Taiwanese food products respectively.

For the first 10 months of the year, local food exports to Vietnam rose 68.9 percent from a year
earlier to US$176 million, while those to Indonesia fell 6.6 percent from a year earlier to about
US$108 million, the council said.

Taishin, CHB standoff drags on

Taishin Financial Holding Co chairman Thomas Wu on Friday paid a two-hour visit to the Ministry of
Finance in a bid to resolve the firms stalemate with the government over Chang Hwa Banks (CHB, )
board elections this month.

The Taishin side spent most of the meeting urging the ministry to honor a 2005 pledge to help the
conglomerate win majority control of the CHB boardroom, in return for a generous fund injection to
bail out the formerly state-run lender, Vice Minister of Finance Wu Tang-chieh said.

However, he said Taishin failed to propose solutions to fulfill the ministrys wish to win two of the
three independent directors seats so it can block attempts by Taishin to acquire CHB procedurally.

He also voiced concerns that CHB has failed to show due respect to its government-appointed
president by keeping him in the dark over personnel decisions.

CAL launches NZ flights

Page173of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.China Airlines Ltd (CAL, ) is to begin operating three flights per week from Taipei to Christchurch
New Zealands second-largest city via Sydney, Australia, for three months starting today.

The new service is to run on Mondays, Thursdays and Saturdays until Feb. 28 to meet seasonal
demand, CAL said.

The carrier currently runs eight flights per week that extend to Auckland, the largest city in New
Zealand, from Sydney or Brisbane, also in Australia.
New Desires on sale this month

New variants of HTC Corps mid-tier Desire smartphone series will hit the market this month, the
smartphone manufacturer said on Friday.

The new sets will be available at HTC, Chunghwa Telecom Co and Far EasTone
Telecommunications Co stores nationwide, it added.

The HTC Desire 620 and HTC Desire 620G, both of which have a dual-SIM card slot and a 5-inch
HD display, will be priced at NT$6,990 and NT$4,990 respectively, the company said in a
statement.

The first model is 4G LTE capable, while the latter supports 3G data connectivity, HTC added.

Central banks embrace yuan

More than 30 central banks across the world had yuan in their foreign exchange reserves as of the
end of October, while a total of 28 have signed bilateral currency swap agreements with the
Peoples Bank of China (PBOC), Chinas state-run Economic Daily reported last week, citing
Deputy PBOC Governor Hu Xiaolian.

Due to the closer ties being forged with other central banks overseas, trading volume through
currency swaps has topped 3 trillion yuan (US$489 billion), Hu said.

sinyir : Sinyi Realty Inc
i834 : Real Estate Agents/Brokers | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest : Real Estate
ereal : Real Estate Markets | gvtre : Treasury Department | ncdig : Corporate Digests | e11 :
Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir :
Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe :
Executive Branch | ncat : Content Types
taiwan : Taiwan | vietn : Vietnam | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | indochz : Indo-China | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Liberty Times Ltd.
Document TAIP000020141201eac100007

CO
IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page174of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.