ACCC probes Aquis $269m casino bid

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PrimeSpace
ACCC probes Aquis $269m casino bid

NICK DALTON, PRIMESPACE
446 words
17 April 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
27
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Takeovers: The Australian Competition & Consumer Commission is examining the pending $269 million
takeover of the Reef Hotel Casino in Cairns by the Aquis Group.

The ACCC is considering whether the proposal will reduce competition in the marketplace.

Aquis is behind the proposed $8.15 billion mega-resort at Yorkeys Knob in the north of the city that
includes two casinos and eight hotels.
As part of his strategy, Hong Kong billionaire Tony Fung has bid for the Cairns casino and its licence
and is negotiating with the Queensland government to split the licence to cover both the CBD site and
the Northern Beaches property.

As well, he has applied for one of two regional integrated resort developments and their gaming
licences, which the state government is offering.
The Reef Hotel Casino has 38 gaming tables, 519 gaming machines, a VIP gaming room, a TAB and
Keno.
The Aquis Group is seeking approval for 750 gaming tables and 1500 electronic gaming machines.

An ACCC spokeswoman said the review was not unusual, but she would not be drawn on whether it
had been requested by parties involved.
An Aquis spokesman said it was a standard investigation of the transaction. “Aquis does not anticipate
any issues that will affect the acquisition of Reef Casino Trust,’’ he said.

The ACCC’s merger investigations branch acting general manager, Tom Leuner, said the authority was
considering the proposed acquisition under section 50 of the Competition & Consumer Act 2010.
“Section 50 of the act prohibits mergers and acquisitions that substantially lessen competition in a
market,” he said.

Notice of the review is on the ACCC website, and in a letter Mr Leuner said: “The ACCC is seeking
comments from market participants and interested parties to assist with its review of the proposed
acquisition and would welcome any comments you have in relation to the competitive effects of the
proposed acquisition.’’ The ACCC is asking for submissions and answers to 10 questions, including the
likelihood of the Aquis Resort being developed and whether “your view might change depending on
whether or not Aquis acquired the Reef Casino’’, and competition between the Reef Casino and other
forms of gambling in Cairns and other casinos.

Other questions include: “If the proposed acquisition does not proceed, to what extent is the Aquis
Resort likely to compete with the Reef Casino and other casinos in Queensland, Australia and
overseas? ...

Page267of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“Please comment on the extent to which the opening of the Aquis Resort would affect the ongoing
viability of the Reef Casino (assuming that Aquis Group did not buy the Reef Casino).”Submissions
close on May 1.

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

auccc : Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
i6652 : Casino Hotels | i66 : Hotels/Restaurants | i665 : Lodgings | i97912 : Gambling Industries | ilea :
Leisure/Arts/Hospitality | itourm : Tourism
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c34 : Anti-Competition Issues | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 :
Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140416ea4h00059

Page268of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.