Interim 2014 Ansell Ltd Earnings Conference Call - Final

HD Interim 2014 Ansell Ltd Earnings Conference Call - Final
WC 8,543 words
PD 16 February 2014
SN CQ FD Disclosure
SC FNDW
LA English
CY © 2014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.
LP

Presentation

MAGNUS NICOLIN , CEO, ANSELL LIMITED : So good morning everybody. Great to be back in Sydney
even though the weather could have been nicer yesterday. But I guess you take what you get. It's a good
half and we're going to talk about today. Obviously I want to start by thanking all of my 13,000 colleagues
around the world for their contributions. It's been a lot of work and it's obviously a lot of extra work when
you get heavy into acquisitions, especially bigger ones.

TD

So let's go through this and get to our Q&A, because that's where we get some of the interesting
conversation going. First of all, obviously in terms of the disclaimer this time. I want to remind you that this
is the first time we report in US dollars only. So that obviously is the go forward mode for this Company.
We'll have the set up similar to what we usually do, provide a bit of a background, Neil provide some of the
specifics on financials and of course we'll come back to some of the outlook statements.
In terms of the results, pretty solid top line 9%, yes a lot of it's from M&A, but nevertheless good momentum
in the Company generally speaking. Very pleased with the EBIT growth and obviously that translates into
pretty solid PA and EPS. The relevant number to look at for EPS of course is to 15%, given that that is with
the old share count and we got no benefit for issuing all those shares until we actually closed in January 2.

We are taking up our dividend 8%, which is very consistent with past practice and we now have done this,
how many half years in a row David?
UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: It's about 10 years, so 20 or more.
MAGNUS NICOLIN : Yep, 20 times straight. So, clearly another indication of what this Company is able to
do. In terms of the environment we work and live in, it's as you know very mixed. We've chosen a couple of
representative countries here to, or regions to illustrate the mix that we see clearly. North America getting
slowly, but surely stronger. But on the other hand we've seen and we've all I'm sure read about some of the
weakness in selective emerging markets. Russia has taken a bit of a beating. Turkey, both political and
economic issues. Brazil, Argentina and yes, Australia, doesn't look to pretty over the last little while. So this
mix is obviously impacting on us everywhere. But we tend to view this as good enough for us to be
successful and that's essentially how we're directing our team.

In terms of the positives, a couple of really good things here. We're starting to see our new product
development program kicking in to gear. Solid growth in new product sales 20%. But it's early days and as
you will see in our commentary we're not entirely happy with all aspects of it. We think we can do better. So
we're going to keep driving that one. The Medical business, the biggest positive in the past half. Really
solid numbers. In fact probably the strongest medical numbers we've shown for as long as you -- most of
you have followed this Company. So we're quite happy about that and I think it's a good illustration on
what our innovation can do whilst on the medical side.

North America is showing a little bit more momentum, so that's a good thing. Acquisitions clearly two very
important ones. You might not think too much about the Korean acquisitions, but it's strategically very, very
important to us in that it gives us some new capabilities and allows us to make our high flex business way
more efficient. So we're very excited about Midas, BSSI, Substantial will add to our capabilities in North
America in a major way. Not just in terms of size and scale but also in terms of capability and we will talk
about that in a minute.

Page144of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Commodity prices remain pretty favourable. Emerging markets continue to grow. Yes some acquisition
effects there, but if you adjust out everything it's 5% growth in an emerging market -- market environment
that is getting a little bit more challenging.

Head winds. I talked about some of the countries that have been tough. Sexual wellness clearly had a very
mixed half. Some good things but also some things that we're not too happy about and obviously are
working to address. We have some refinements needed to our NPD and how we get into new verticals in
particular. It takes a long time to break into a space where you're not known. And we've spent a lot of time
focusing on that and that's now working, for example in oil and gas.
And the gloves you had on your seat when you walked in is a good example of our 9 or 10 strong oil and
gas glove range. And remember a year ago or a year and a half ago, we did not have any one of those 10
products in the market. Now we have all of them.
And then Hercules the Brazilian acquisition is progressing quite well. But given that we had an earn out
situation we were limited in how fast we could integrate the company and that meant that we couldn't take
price increase and various other things that we wanted to do. Now that's behind us. So we feel pretty good
about what we can do with that business. So that's the quick summary.

Our red and green charts clearly shows a lot of green. APAC here is very red, primarily driven by Australia.
Whereas the Asia part of the region is continuing to grow quite nicely. But across the board some good
numbers in most geographies.
In terms of acquisitions we explained this part of the BSSI acquisition that we have three things that we
look for in acquisitions. It's either scale, it's technology or it's new geography or new verticals if you want.
BSSI is primarily scale and geography, a little bit of technology actually which might surprise you. And we'll
come back and talk about that in a little bit. But you can see here how we view the various acquisitions and
where they fit into our overall strategy.
In terms of acquisition integration, very happy with how prior acquisitions are being integrated. Many of
them are now almost entirely integrated in company operations. So it's getting more and more difficulty to
distinguish what was what before the acquisition so to speak and that applies to Comasec for example of
APS. But nevertheless as we recreate our business cases and compare to it, we are very happy with the
performance of these now older, if I can call something that's 18 month ago old, old acquisitions really
solid.

The last two are full speed ahead right now. Midas as I said, very much an opportunity to leverage a strong,
very strong manufacturing capability, a strong technology platform that will primarily benefit the HyFlex
brand and portfolio. So a lot is happening on that one. And then on BSSI we have numerous taskforces
working on integrating BSSI and it's really a best of both worlds approach. This is not a takeover. We are
very much aware of the fact that we acquired a very, very strong company with some amazing skills and
capabilities and we're making the best of it. So you should expect to see a lot of former BSSI leaders in
leading roles in the combined company, because that's just how good they are. But clearly there are some
pretty amazing things that Ansell brings to the table as well and that will help BSSI product ranges grow
faster and penetrate international markets for example. So, all of that moving along well.

When it comes to NPD, we are now getting into gear quite nicely to get good solid growth from our NPD
portfolio. As you know we launched 48 products over the last 12 months or so and that's a dramatic
increase on past history for Ansell and we're starting to see the return on that investment. Really good
penetration of a number of new accounts and clearly starting to demonstrate that we can drive growth in
this Company, deliver sustainable, solid, organic growth with the help of NPD.

And we've given you a couple of examples on this page. TNT our single use range growing very rapidly,
using some of the same methodologies or learnings that BSSI had in terms of understanding their user and
then develop a variation of a relatively straightforward single use platform to fit with that end user. That's
precisely what we did with TNT. And that's why TNT is growing fast and with good profitability. So some
good developments there.

On the sexual wellness side, SKYN continues to grow rapidly. We've launched a number of new variants of
SKYN. A new softer version for example that is showing early promise.

Having said all that, we're not entirely happy with how quickly this is going. We have high ambitions for
NPD and therefore we are fine tuning launch methodologies and how we engage the sales force and how
we say focused on fewer verticals, but then use more resources if you will to really penetrate those
verticals. So we think that's going to allow us to make this even better going forward.

If we go to the individual businesses -- industrial. Here you see some of the growth in the Mechanical
protection, HyFlex not at the kind of growth we want to see, but accelerating through the half. Chemical,

Page145of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.there you start to see some really good things happening and the chemical business is not quite as big as
mechanical protection, but it's a very attractive segment in the marketplace that we haven't paid enough
attention to. Single Use some good results. And overall the business growing reasonably well and
profitability wise stable. And we've said this to you many times, we'd rather take stable profitability and
faster growth and we're going to see some of that as we go forward.

The products that are making it happen for this category are primarily a range of HyFlex's. They are starting
to make really things happen. And we also have a new range of gloves, primarily for the emerging markets
that we call EDGE. So we have a full range that we have taken into places like China, Russia, Mexico,
Brazil. So essentially all of the emerging markets, we see similar needs. So these are bringing if you will
HyFlex like capabilities, not quite, but like at a meaningfully lower price point which is critical to convert
accounts in those countries.

Specialist markets, some good progress across the board. That with the one big glaring exception of
military. And military of course is driven by the fact that we've had essentially no significant military
spending by our biggest customer the US military. For a variety of reasons including troop withdrawals and
whatever. We've seen similar things with the Australian defence forces and other smaller customers,
military customers around the world.
On the other hand, ActivArmr is also our oil and gas business and that's where you see a very solid
growth. And this is just the beginning of that. Consumer and clothing developing nicely. Clothing of course
very important range for us strategically and where we have placed some bets and we're expecting that
that will contribute in a significant way to Ansell. In here you see some of the examples on the oil and gas
range. We elected just to focus on oil and gas here just to give you the understanding of the commitment
that we're making to the oil and gas industry. As we all know it's one of the fastest growing industries in the
world and it's growing everywhere. So we now have a full range to service that industry. And I was trying to
dedicate sales resources uniquely for the oil and gas industry to make sure that we can capture that
opportunity.

Medical as I said in the intro, the star performer relative speaking in the past six months. Very solid
numbers, 8% up, clearly driven by the Synthetic ranges, both on the surgical and exam side. Two important
stories here, one is continued very rapid Surgical Synthetic growth, where we are taking market share
everywhere around the world. And on the other side, examination where we are growing again after five or
six years of managed reduction or decline. And part of the reason for that is that we have now a dedicated
team focusing on it and we have identified a couple of segments and product ranges where we can win,
and that's yielding good results.
Finally healthcare safety solutions, good solid growth aided by the tiny acquisition that we did in January
last year. But that tiny acquisition is now growing very rapidly, levering the Ansell sales for us. So we're
very happy about that. Primarily, single use sheets for surgical theatres, where we essentially are helping
customers turn surgical theatres faster for improved productivity.

So it fits very nice in with our guardian message of protection and productivity at the same time. Here also
on the medical side a number of good new products. Sensoprene, which is a totally allergy free surgical
product. It's taking off in a variety of markets.

All the way from Japan to North America and Russia and beyond. We've also done a lot of work on the
publication side, the education side. So the medical business focuses a lot on getting the message out and
training and educating users to achieve an infection free environment. Again, using our guardian approach,
we're able to get the message across on how our products and services can help eliminate MRSAs from
the hospital environment.

So clearly, a very important part of our communicate efforts. Sexual wellness, as I said, the business where
we weren't entirely happy. There were a number of reasons for this. Clearly, as you can see, the tender
business, which is always going to be lumpy, having a slower first half.

Expecting a much busier second half, based on committed orders. On the branded condoms, a bit of a
destocking situation in Europe, but we expect again a stronger second half also on the branded side. So a
lot of focus here, of course, is on SKYN, and on the next page, you now see the full range of SKYN
branded condoms.

That is allowing us to get more pegs, if you will, in retail and with more pegs, we see continued solid
growth. 17% in the half, which was in spite of some of that overstocking in Europe, where a couple of
countries actually did not grow in our sales in, although sales out continued to grow. So that's the story of
the different businesses.
I'm not going to turn over to Neil to cover some of the financials.

Page146of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NEIL SALMON , CFO, ANSELL LIMITED : Thanks, Magnus. So a few summary points on the P&L. First of
all, as Magnus mentioned, sales were up 9%, with a major contributor to that being consolidation of
recently acquired entities. If I normalize for population change and also for foreign currency movements,
organic growth was up around 1%.

We saw our higher rate of growth in our three B2B businesses. Just over 2% in the half and approaching
4% for the second quarter. But that was offset by lower sales in sexual wellness, as Magnus outlined.

We're happy to see improving GPADE margin, up around just over 1%, year-over-year. SG&A costs was
higher was higher, again primarily from the effect of consolidating the acquired entities. EBIT margin also
improved around 120 basis points and overall a 20% improvement in EBIT as Magnus mentioned.

Interest costs higher primarily on the debt put in place to fund acquisitions. Tax spent also higher, partly
because of higher profits, but also we had a lower benefit from increased deferred tax assets and other
non-operating tax items, as we had indicated in our guidance for the year. So overall, EPS growth at 14%
here, or if you pull out the effect of the higher share count in December, 15% EPS growth.

The notes below indicate the major one-offs affecting the half. So we released the earn out provision we
had originally put in place on the acquisition of Hercules, but that was offset by higher M&A transaction
costs relating to Midas and to BSSI, primarily. Also a higher than normal severance number and then a
small gain, in fact, on sale of properties.
Then the FX impact EBIT in the half was also negative by $2.1 million number indicated here. Breaking
out the sales in EBIT progression a little bit further and here you can see the acquisition contribution to
sales, looking at organic growth. There's just over 2% growth from the medical, industrial and specialty
markets businesses offset by the decline in sexual wellness, which was largely a result of destocking,
particularly in EMEA.
Looking at the EBIT progression and here again, M&A a significant contributor to EBIT growth, but also
strong improvement in GPADE. Looking at the balance sheet now and the main characteristic of the
balance sheet was that we had in place by the end of the half the funding needed for the BSSI acquisition,
which only concluded on January 2. So with our $900 million cash balance at the end of the half, $615
million was used a couple of days later to pay for that acquisition.
Also, that effect diluted our ROE metric for the half, as we had the equity in place, but will only begin to see
the benefit from that investment in the second half. Turning to cash flow, our measure of free cash flow
here was moderately lower against the prior period. Stronger EBIT, but that was offset by higher interest
expenses I mentioned. Also, a higher tax cash number that's partly a result of the higher profit, of course,
but also some timing differences in tax payments half-on-half.

Then working capital was a moderate use of cash in the half versus being a moderate source of cash in the
last half year, and that primarily related to higher inventory levels, which would put in place in advance of
the NPD roll outs that Magnus was talking about. Next, a comment on our new dividend reinvestment plan.
We decided to put this in place to give shareholders an option to receive their dividend in shares, rather
than cash, if they choose to do so. Every time we declare a dividend, we will retain the option to either
offset the dilutive effect by purchasing shares in the open market or issue new shares.

For this next dividend, we will issue new shares to satisfy any DRP requirement. Still, let me conclude with
a few key points on the half from a financial perspective. Very happy with our acquisition progress.

We believe Midas will bring a lot of value to the technology and manufacturing capability of the industrial
business. We're very positive on the BarrierSafe acquisition. We think it will be transformative to our North
American region and very happy with the EBIT growth that we've mentioned.
A word now on an event in second half, but one that I'm sure you'll be interested in. We did go live in
EMEA in the industrial and specialty markets business on our SAP system. As you can see, that was only
two weeks ago, so it's really too early to draw any definitive conclusion on how the system is operating.

But at this point, we're happy with the progress that EMEA is making. Challenges; variable and uncertain
economic environments. Generally, we were pleased with the development of our developed economies,
with the exception, primarily, of Australia.

But we hadn't anticipated softness in the emerging markets, Russia and Turkey being the ones that
underperformed versus our expectations. Then a final note on challenges. I think it's a credit in particular to
our European team that despite the challenge of their SAP implementation, they've nevertheless been able
to remain very focused on also delivering against our growth strategy. So the key elements to our second
half performance and beyond will be leveraging those acquisitions, realizing the synergy benefits and
making sure that we successfully integrate BSSI without any disruption to the business and then realize the

Page147of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.cash flow potential of the combined businesses and, of course, the improving returns that we expect to see
as we deliver the benefit that we envisage for these acquisitions.

So now, let me hand back to Magnus.

MAGNUS NICOLIN : Thank you, Neil. So as usual, we will talk a little bit about expectation here. I don't
think you're going to see too many surprises in what we have to say. Clearly we do expect continued
improvement in North America and we expect the Eurozone to also slowly improve.

Emerging markets will continue to be mixed. There will be emerging markets with amazing growth and
others will struggle a bit. So we just need to be quite nimble in how we service them and how we manage
individual countries. The MPD sales where we saw good growth in the half, we expect to accelerate further.

We base that expectation on conversions in the marketplace, competitive wins and just the rate of activity
based on 15 or 20 principle platforms that the sales force is focusing on. We expect the sexual wellness
business to go back to its -- how should I call it -- usual ways of growing nicely half-on-half or year-on-year.
So that's a big part of what we expect will come.

We expect medical business to continue to grow, but not at the same high rate that we saw in the first half,
so a little bit less than that. We do expect raw materials to continue to remain favourable and remember
raw materials are many different things at Ansell these days. Yes, latex is kind of important. Synthetics are
getting up there in size, but it's advanced fibres, it's yarns, it's packaging materials, it's plastics.

It's lots of different raw material categories, so it's not all that critical. We're not as dependent as we used to
be on latex. We have factored in the Marigold divestment to our partner FHP, which obviously has a couple
of one times and some ongoing effects on our accounts.
When it comes to BSSI, we -- as we said when we acquired the company, we expected it to be accretive
on an adjusted basis immediately, but obviously, with the significant one-time cost for a major acquisition
and also some of the integration costs, it will be dilutive or slightly dilutive in the first half. But accretive after
that. We have provided some guidance on that.

So if you translate that into our numbers, we essentially are reaffirming our guidance of the $1.10 to $1.16
range. Actually, now we continue to benefit from DTAs in the $0.03 to $0.05 range. So that in essence is
where we are.
All in all, we're quite pleased with the company and what it's doing. It doesn't mean that we do not have
areas for improvement and opportunity and acceleration. And we're obviously all over those. But
nevertheless, this is a Company that has been able to absorb now eight acquisitions over a relatively short
period of time and to make really valuable use of those acquisitions in terms of capability, scale, technology
and so forth.
So net-net, we are a much, much stronger Company and more balanced Company than we were three or
four years ago. We have some platforms now that will allow us to sustain growth in a more consistent way
and going into the future. So that is really what makes us so happy about where the Company is today.

So let's stop there and we will go into some question and answer.

Questions and Answers

MATTHEW PRIOR, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH : Thanks, Magnus. Matthew Prior from Bank of
America . Magnus, just talking to the tail of the first half and the two quarters within it.

MAGNUS NICOLIN : Yes.

MATTHEW PRIOR: The 4% in the second quarter implies 1% roughly in the first quarter.

MAGNUS NICOLIN : Yes.

MATTHEW PRIOR: Looking at what is within your control versus, I guess, being at the mercy of macro
factors--

MAGNUS NICOLIN : Yes.

MATTHEW PRIOR: --you showed that chart of PMI data. A lot of the uptick was actually from first quarter
onwards. So I guess what I'm asking is, of that 4% second quarter, do you attribute that more to new
product success from Ansell, or would you contribute that more to organic factors or maybe lagging in the
realization?

Page148of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.MAGNUS NICOLIN : Yes. I think your surmising is really on the spot here. So it's a combination of a delay
factor, but the -- perhaps the bigger one at this point in time is the NPD factor. The acceleration through the
half of the new product.

MATTHEW PRIOR: Great. Thank you. Just moving on to the 27% of the business that used to be emerging
markets--

MAGNUS NICOLIN : Yes.

MATTHEW PRIOR: --can you give us an update as to what that percentage would be roughly now, given --
I think you've given us that stat, 27%. Previously, you've talked to a sharp decline and--

MAGNUS NICOLIN : I think it's about flat at 27%. How do we reconcile that with the 5%? Currency
adjusted growth number.

NEIL SALMON : Rounding effect on that, it's similar at around that level. So yes.

MATTHEW PRIOR: No. That wasn't my question, to needle you for the detail. It was more that -- you talk
about obviously the sharp decline, how much sense that you have that that's the bottom going into the
second half in terms of further weakness that could be experienced.

MAGNUS NICOLIN : Well, you almost had to look at it country by country and Russia is heavily dependent
on the oil business, obviously. So where the oil business goes, that's where Russia goes, at least in short
term. Turkey is anybody's guess is what is going to happen from a political point of view.

But if you ignore those two as certainly most of the emerging markets are going to continue to grow at a
fairly rapid pace. We have a whole number of smaller emerging markets that are growing very nicely,
especially in Africa and some parts of Southeast Asia and so forth. So my personal belief is that emerging
markets is going to be a continued source for good growth on average, but with some big swings country to
country.

MATTHEW PRIOR: Great. Thank you.

DAVID LOW, ANALYST, DUETSCHE BANK: Thanks. David Low from Deutsche Bank . Magnus, could we
just talk a little bit about the Hercules business. I'm trying to understand 1) the provision that was taken out
and also the comment that you made in the presentation earlier that you held back on some issues there,
because of that performance outcome.
MAGNUS NICOLIN : Right. So when you do an acquisition with an earn out provision, you have some
pros and you have some cons with that kind of a deal construct. The pro is that you have a little bit of a
safety valve. If the business does not perform as well as the seller believes it will do in the future, the
negative is that it's an insulated entity that you cannot manipulate.

Because then the seller will argue, because you manipulated it, I didn't achieve my earn out. You need to
pay it anyway. So that's sort of a part of the story here.

But when he had limited opportunities to take price increase and various other things that needed to
happen, given the weakness of the Brazilian real and some of the raw materials being imported and so
forth. So those were some of the challenges that we had, but obviously from January 1, we have full control
of the business and have taken a series of steps to accelerate the development of the business.

DAVID LOW: Then the decision to unwind it, when did you make that decision? Because of course, that's
quite significant relative to the guidance.

NEIL SALMON : A final decision was taken with the half year results, but I think we knew that it was a likely
event through the first half. Yes.

DAVID LOW: Thank you. Just one other. The HyFlex sales results, so it's up 3% and you comment on
EDGE. Can you talk about what we could expect going forward from that range? Because of course,
historically, that was a nice double digit growth driver.
MAGNUS NICOLIN : Right. Our ambition is to get it up way north of the 3%. I'm not going to give you a
number here. But the market is such for mechanical protection is growing in the 2% to 4% range.

So if that's the market and we should be able to, as an organization, to do a little bit better than that, then I
think that gives you a little bit of a flavour for what's possible. I think to sustainability, organically grow at
double digit is not realistic, at least not in the short term. Because it would require a massive amount of
innovation and some real breakthroughs that competition could not match. Yes.

Page149of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CRAIG COLLIE, ANALYST, MACQUARIE: Thanks, Magnus. Craig Collie from Macquarie. To just -- on
seasonality, if you go back a few years, there wasn't a lot of seasonality in your business, but the last few
years, we've seen quite a big skew to the second half. Perhaps, can you talk to, I guess, what is driving that
and then how should we think about the business going forward?

MAGNUS NICOLIN : There's always been some seasonality, but you're right. It's been a little bit more in
the last few years. Some of it is related to the cycles of product launches and activities, if you will, in the
marketplace.

Some of it is related to the mix of countries where we're active. You have seen over the last few years
Europe becoming a bigger part of the mix. With Europe, you have a much higher slant to second half.

Why? Because as we all know, Europe pretty much shuts down in August, right? Whereas, in the United
States, people take a week of vacation. They're quite happy about that one week.

So it's a bit of a difference and we see that with BSSI, for example. Much, much less skew, half-to-half,
than Ansell has. So it's driven by the mix of countries, to a high extent.

CRAIG COLLIE: Then going forward, I mean, sort of, any guide as to what we should expect the split once
all acquisitions are -- once they've been done?

MAGNUS NICOLIN : My guess is that it's going to balance out a little bit more on the back of BSSI being
part of the portfolio. But it's still going to be slanted. It's always going to be slanted to a stronger second
half.

CRAIG COLLIE: Okay. Last question for me on sexual wellness. So that number's a little bit weaker. Can
you talk about competition and money competitors, I guess, sorting out some of the operational issues on
that.

MAGNUS NICOLIN : Yes. Obviously Reckitt is a more organized competitor these days than they were two
or three years ago. That clearly will have an impact.

But apart from that, it's very much driven by new product sales momentum and developing some of the
new markets. The other thing I wanted to add, perhaps, is in a country like Brazil, we're seeing a lot of
fierce competition at this point in time. For a couple of reasons.

We had three main competitors before Hypermarcas being number one and Ansell being number two.
Then a few other local players. Now we have Reckitt jumping into Brazil, as well, paying up big time to buy
pegs. So that tends to create a little bit of turbulence in the marketplace.

ANDREW GOODSALL, ANALYST, UBS : Andrew Goodsall from UBS . Magnus, could I just ask you just to
come back to HyFlex and just characterize what your sense of that lower growth rate is price versus
volume?

MAGNUS NICOLIN : Volume would be higher than the 3% and the reason for that is we're now a little bit
more aggressive on pricing, driven by a couple of things. Our plants are becoming increasingly efficient
through our (inaudible) and our (inaudible) programs, we're taking a lot of cost out of our facilities. So we're
able to be a little bit more aggressive in the marketplace.

In some cases to meet competitor price points or in some cases to convert big accounts and those kind of
things, so volume wise, I would expect slightly higher numbers than you're going to see dollar wise.
ANDREW GOODSALL: Perhaps just a question for Neil on just the one-offs and the acquisition costs. I
guess, just thinking into the second half, what you thought we'd see in terms of things like severance, which
I suspect could continue into the second half. Also, just the totals of M&A cost, just a sort of rough estimate
there.

NEIL SALMON : So I mean, plans on severance always can change somewhat, according to the timing of
actions, but included in my indication for moderate diluted effect of BarrierSafe is both the initial one time
integration cost there, plus also transactions costs. So we took about a million of the BarrierSafe
transactions costs in the first half, but the balance -- several million is all included in that net calculation of
a moderate dilution to UPS in the second half. So not giving you exact numbers, but that's where you sit.

ANDREW GOODSALL: Yes. But there will be some ongoing restructure costs to expect in the second?

MAGNUS NICOLIN : Yes. Clearly, it's a large organization and right now, we have eight different teams
looking at how we're going to integrate the organizations. So some of it will be driven off integration of
teams and organizations and so forth.

Page150of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Some of it, in the big part, actually is driven off sourcing better. Getting better rates on sea freights and
those kind of things, by leveraging in our significantly higher volume of containers flowing through the
system. So our expectation is that there will be some integration costs this year and maybe a little bit into
next year. But then, it should largely be done.

ANDREW GOODSALL: And just a final question on margin. Just if you could give me a sense of how much
of that margin improvement was actually the commodity costs or improved commodity costs and just, I
guess, the headline commodity cost coming to the second half of -- looking lower again, just your thoughts
(multiple speakers)
MAGNUS NICOLIN : So we have 120 basis points improvement in total as a Company. I'm not going to
give you a precise percentage, but raw material is a meaningful chunk of that. But equally important is mix,
a product range, product mix.

So you have a certain high profitability product ranges growing faster than others. So that obviously
contributed and to give you one concrete example, the military business wasn't as profitable as the Ansell
average. So the fact that it's declining and other oil and gas, for example, are growing will contribute to a
steady step up in profitability.

But there are hundreds of little examples like that and -- that will contribute to the 120 basis points.

STEVE WHEEN, ANALYST, JP MORGAN : Yes. Good morning. Steve Wheen from JP Morgan . Just with
regard to your guidance, could you just clarify what's included and if there is anything that's excluded from
that? As part of that explanation, could you comment on the way Marigold will look or contribute to that
guidance?

MAGNUS NICOLIN : Do you want to take that one?
NEIL SALMON : Yes. So Marigold will be again on the sale in the second half and you'll see in the
accounts that $14.5 million is listed as the cash value of the business and $10.5 million, I think, that
number is listed as the carrying value. But there are some costs also associated with that transaction. So
their overall net gain is a little less than that calculation.

That's factored into our second half guidance, specifically on the Marigold. It's a transaction we'd
anticipated. We knew that following the Comasecacquisition, that this was a likely scenario for us.

So it wasn't the part of the business within Comasec we wanted to focus on. So although it was only
finalized more recently, we'd nevertheless anticipated for some time an event, as it's panned out to be. So--

MAGNUS NICOLIN : Offsetting that then going forward would be a slightly lower level of sales and
profitability, since we now essentially have sold the brand and a lot of the of the expense to go drive sales
to our partner, if you will. Right.

STEVE WHEEN: Okay, and just also on that earn out, where was that allocated in terms of divisions; that
just go all into the specialty markets?

NEIL SALMON : Yes, I think we went -- no, has it gone through the second allocation, David, on the -- the
way we do the -- I'll have to check that and come back to you.
UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: I think we kept it corporate but...

NEIL SALMON : Yes.

STEVE WHEEN: Sorry, what was that?

NEIL SALMON : I think we kept it at corporate at this point.

STEVE WHEEN: Just not in -- it's not in the divisionals.
UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: I don't think so.

NEIL SALMON : Great. Yes.

STEVE WHEEN: Okay, thanks.

IAN ABBOTT, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS : Hi, it's Ian Abbott from Goldman Sachs . Just a question on
the cash flow. If you look at net receipts just in the cash flow statement, net receipts from customers about
$65 million, EBITA around 91%. Just wondering what the bridge to those amounts would be.

Page151of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NEIL SALMON : Sorry, can you say again the question?
IAN ABBOTT: Just in the cash flow statement, the net receipts is $65 million, I think, and the EBITA you've
reported is around 91%. I was just wondering what the -- how you get from those amounts, what would be
the balancing items?

NEIL SALMON : Well, I mean mainly it'll be the increase in working capital that we saw in the half and that's
primarily high inventory levels, as I mentioned. So now we do think the inventory level we have at the half
year is higher than the right sustainable level for the business and we have plans in place to address that
but on a gradual basis over the next -- well, some improvement in the second half and then, going forward,
optimising inventory levels remains the focus for the business.

IAN ABBOTT: And just to confirm the tax rate, would think would continue around the same rate for the
second half?

NEIL SALMON : Yes. I mean, underlying tax rate is 17%, 18% and then you adjust for the DTA that we've
indicated to get to the book rate, yes.

IAN ABBOTT: Great, thanks.
ZARA LYONS, ANALYST, CLSA: Hi, Zara Lyons from CLSA. I noticed in the sales there was $49 million
in acquisition revenue or acquired revenue. Can you explain what's included and what's not? Because I'm
just trying to understand, is Hercules all 100% in that one and not in the prior period versus Comasec , is it
half --

NEIL SALMON : Yes.

ZARA LYONS: -- a quarter and so on? Can you explain the numbers?
NEIL SALMON : Comasec , we acquired October 1 last year so we had one quarter of acquisition benefit
for Comasec and then Hercules we had six months and then the third piece is the PSP acquisition and
Medical much smaller, but that also we had a half year additional benefit from that.

MAGNUS NICOLIN : And then Midas.

NEIL SALMON : Yes, Midas actually yes. That closed November 1, so we had two months of Midas sales
as well. Yes, thanks Magnus.

MAGNUS NICOLIN : Portions of four acquisitions.

ZARA LYONS: Clear. Also, on the dividend payout policy, given that the EPS split first half/second half was
going to look like on your mid-point of guidance, 44%, 56% -- should we be thinking about the DPS split in
the same way going forward or -- and I suppose the question is what's the current guidance on dividend
payout ratio, please?

MAGNUS NICOLIN : We have a policy that we've had for many years and I think it says 30 to 35 or
something like that.
UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: (Inaudible - microphone inaccessible)

NEIL SALMON : We've generally maintained dividend growth growing in line with earnings and so that's, in
any particular year, it may not be that exact equation and certainly our primary allocation of capital will
remain on the growth strategy. So both acquisition and then also capital investment we were very positive
about the productivity and returns available to us from (inaudible) capital investment on EBIT growth. So,
while we want to maintain a steady dividend growth as we have done for a long time, primary allocation
accounts for this is to the growth strategy.

WILL DUNLOP, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE : Will Dunlop from Credit Suisse . With raw materials' prices
dropping, are you expecting a commensurate decline in your sales prices or do you think margins will
continue to expand into the second half?

MAGNUS NICOLIN : We are taking prices down selectively. Obviously our mission in life here is to hold
onto them as long as we can but nevertheless, we have seen a price reduction effect and we'll continue to
do so. In some cases it's even proactively driven by us in the interest of capturing volume or share or
strategic accounts or whatever the reason might be. So yes, you should expect top line to come down, not
quite in line with COGS but not too far from it either. Certainly over a longer period of time that would be the
case. Clearly you will have temporary effects flowing through.

Page152of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NEIL SALMON : We're not necessarily expecting significantly further reductions in raw material costs, more
remaining at the first half level which is favourable to last year.

WILL DUNLOP: Thank you. Also, at the last result you spoke to increased competition generally, I think
more in the industrial division. Could you just give us an update on where you're seeing competition now,
perhaps in your more developed markets in Europe and US?

MAGNUS NICOLIN : We have a set of four or five key competitors in the industrial space. We have three or
four on the surgical side of the business and we have essentially four on the sexual wellness side. On the
sexual wellness side it tends to be fairly regional. Reckitt is mostly global and Church and Dwight is almost
exclusively North America. Hypermarcas is only Brazil and Okamoto is only in China. So it's a bit of a
mixed bag there. When it comes to the medical space, it's also kind of regional, where (inaudible) is playing
a role in Europe and Cardinal is playing a role in North America. Medline is a little bit here and there, so it
varies and then (inaudible) are fairly global expect not so much in Asia. Industrial, we have people like
Honeywell and (inaudible), ATG and others who tend to play a role in selected markets. Ansell is always
the most global player and obviously it's really helpful to us when it comes to especially serving global
accounts who cannot get service even from Honeywell on a global basis in gloves. So, that's obviously how
we're leveraging our globality, if you want.

WILL DUNLOP: Just a final follow up. Are you seeing a change in competitive dynamics? Are your
competitors becoming more aggressive or less aggressive?

MAGNUS NICOLIN : Not since we talked last time.

WILL DUNLOP: Sure.

MAGNUS NICOLIN : But yes, it's an active, competitive marketplace and clearly we have stepped up our
game with the innovation. We've added to our sales force in a number of countries and we continue to roll
out an enhanced guardian. We have a number of tools in our toolbox that are quite unique and for that
reason we think we can win these kinds of battles most of the time.
UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: You have a call on the line from Bruce (inaudible).

MAGNUS NICOLIN : Bruce, are you with us?

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Hello.

MAGNUS NICOLIN : Yes, we hear you.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Okay, just my first question was on guidance. Clearly you've reiterated
guidance but there's a bit made of the impact in terms of the weather in North America in January and
February. I just wanted to get a sense for what you saw in terms of those impacts on the North American
business.

MAGNUS NICOLIN : Yes. Weather sounds like a really bad excuse, right, but the fact is with the weather in
North America, we have closed our office now five or six days this year; closed, meaning virtually no
activity. We have seen many of our customers do the same thing, where essentially they can't ship, they
can't receive and users can't run the plant, et cetera. So yes, it does have an impact and some of that
impact is going to be recovered through February, March I'm sure. Some of it I'm sure will be lost forever,
so to speak. So, there is some small impact. We haven't even attempted to quantify exactly what it is and
what businesses and those sorts of things but we've seen it in some numbers some weeks where the
snowstorms were particularly bad.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Okay, so the guidance range doesn't include the impact of weather or it
does?

MAGNUS NICOLIN : The guidance range includes everything we know of so it's our closest to pin on best
estimate as to what's going to happen.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Okay. My second question was just on the sexual wellness. If I unpack the
$5 million on your inventory destocking, your sexual wellness top line growth was flat. Could you, perhaps,
just comment on what you think the market growth is given the competitors' -- some of them -- your
competitors have commented and it seems to suggest they've probably picked up some share in that
space?

MAGNUS NICOLIN : Well, we actually have just completed a fairly detailed market share analysis in the
top 15 countries around the world and based on that, we have not lost share in the aggregate. We have
picked up share in some countries and lost half a point, that kind of level, in some countries. So net-net we

Page153of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.did not lose but I'm not sure what some of our competitors are relying on and whether they are referring to
the same 15, 20 countries or just one country and so forth. So it's a function of that.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Okay, thanks.

DAVE STANTON, ANALYST, CLSA: Dave Stanton from CLSA. I just wonder if you could give us some
colour around what you think your acquisition firepower is going forward and perhaps some comments
around management appetite for further acquisitions given you've done four, I guess four large ones, that
impacted this half. Thanks.

MAGNUS NICOLIN : Right now focus is on integration, managing the acquisitions we've made really well
and that is occupying us quite nicely. I think my team would say I can't take any more work hours and
enough is enough and comments of that nature. We are focussing on what we now own and to make sure
that we get the benefits out of them and deliver the business case or better on each and every one. It
doesn't mean that we don't keep our eyes open and if there are some really attractive smaller opportunities
then we would look at it. But clearly the focus is on driving the core business at this point in time.

Well, I want to thank you all for joining us today and for those of you on the phone, thank you. It's a great
company and it's moving along quite well. We're not done yet so more to come. Thank you everybody.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this
web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon
current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those
stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more
specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and
believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the
assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results
contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF
THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE
AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR
INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO
WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE
COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE
BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND
THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER
DECISIONS.]

CO dnlpol : Ansell Limited | anslcp : Ansell Capital Corp.
IN i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources |

ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying

NS c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin :
C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter

RE usa : United States | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia |

namz : North America | nswals : New South Wales

PUB CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
AN Document FNDW000020140219ea2g0005l

Page154of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.