Toro Energy Limited - Studies Confirm Combined Wiluna Uranium Project Improvements

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Toro Energy Limited - Studies Confirm Combined Wiluna Uranium Project Improvements

794 words
31 January 2014
ENP Newswire
ENPNEW
English
(c) 2014, Electronic News Publishing. All Rights Reserved.

Release date - 30012014
Uranium developer Toro Energy Limited (ASX: TOE) today announced the completion of an independent
Mining Scoping Study and a Preliminary Economic Assessment integrating the newly acquired Lake
Maitland deposit into the Wiluna Uranium Project in Western Australia.

Based solely on mining at the already approved Centipede and Lake Way deposits and the yet to be
approved Millipede and Lake Maitland deposits, the studies have confirmed:
An initial operations life of 16 years;
20.1Mt ore mined @ 799 parts per million (ppm), including 15.9Mt ore @ 907ppm;

Processing head grade: 883ppm average over the first 10 years;

Total production at life of mine recovery of 85.6% - 30.2Mlb U3O8;

Average annual production over the first 10 years - 2.0Mlb U3O8 and

Average C1 cost for life of project of US$31.1/lb.

Toro will soon initiate the government assessment and approval process for both Millipede and Lake
Maitland deposits.

The studies include process plant design information and capital costs from the Phase 1 definitive
feasibility study completed in November 2012 and a new independent mining scoping study completed
by Tetra-Tech Proteus.
The strategic acquisition of Lake Maitland, completed in November 2013, provided Wiluna with
additional high grade resources to add to those at Centipede, Millipede and Lake Way. The mining study
re-assessed the mining plan based on a high-grade mining scenario incorporating the Centipede, Lake
Way, Millipede and Lake Maitland deposits.

‘The new results validate Toro’s project development work in 2013, in particular the drilling that delivered
resource upgrades at each of Centipede, Millipede and Lake Way as well as the acquisition of Lake
Maitland,’ Toro’s Managing Director, Dr Vanessa Guthrie, said today.

‘The studies have also shown that under suitable market conditions, lower cut-off grades would allow the
exploitation of the 200ppm cut-off resources at these deposits. Moreover, there remains further upside
potential at Wiluna as the mining study does not include the Indicated and Inferred Resources at the
project’s Dawson Hinkler and Nowthanna deposits which could extend the total mine life well beyond 20
years.’

‘Pleasingly, these results have been achieved without affecting the processing facility throughput or
development approvals in place at Centipede and Lake Way. Toro also understands the need for further
government approvals to advance an extended Wiluna Project, and our immediate priority is to refer the
Millipede and Lake Maitland deposits for State and Federal government environmental assessment.
These will add to those already secured for mining at Centipede and Lake Way.’

Page182of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Toro has also determined additional initial capital will be required, including $27M to acquire and operate
a mining fleet under an owner operator mining scenario. Total capital costs will be confirmed during the
definitive feasibility study.
Dr Guthrie said Toro’s goal was to continue to position itself as one of the few mining companies capable
of bringing a cost competitive, sustainable, low sovereign risk project to market at a time when uranium
prices are forecast to significantly lift in the second half of this decade.
The continued construction of new nuclear capacity in China and elsewhere in the world, planned re-start
of Japanese reactors and the conclusion in December 2013 of the secondary supply ‘megatons to
megawatts’ program bode well for stronger future U3O8 prices.

‘During 2014 Toro will pursue the further necessary government environmental approvals and progress
funding arrangements with potential partners to underpin project financing and product offtake
agreements,’ Dr Guthrie said.

MEDIA CONTACT:
Vanessa Guthrie Toro Energy Tel: 08 9214 2100

Kevin Skinner Field Public Relations Tel: 08 8234 9555, +61 414 822 631

DISCLAIMER

This announcement has been prepared by Toro. The information contained in this announcement is a
professional opinion only and is given in good faith. Certain information in this document has been
derived from third parties and though Toro has no reason to believe that it is not accurate, reliable or
complete, it has not been independently audited or verified by Toro.

Any forward-looking statements included in this document involve subjective judgement and analysis and
are subject to uncertainties, risks and contingencies, many of which are outside the control of, and maybe
unknown to, Toro. In particular, they speak only as of the date of this document, they assume the success
of Toro’s strategies, and they are subject to significant regulatory, business, competitive and economic
uncertainties and risks.

Actual future events may vary materially from the forward looking statements and the assumptions on
which the forward looking statements are based. Readers of this announcement are cautioned to not
place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.

[Editorial queries for this story should be sent to newswire@enpublishing.co.uk]

CO
IN

treng : Toro Energy Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | iuran : Uranium Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying | i231 : Non-metallic Mineral Mining/Quarrying
npress : Press Releases | ncat : Content Types
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

NS
RE
PUB Electronic News Publishing Ltd.
AN

Document ENPNEW0020140131ea1v000a1

Page183of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.