$10m tag on Kefford's retreat

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
$10m tag on Kefford's retreat

Matthew Cranston
266 words
15 September 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
40
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Transport magnate Doug Kefford, who sold his bus company to Cabcharge Australia for $150
million, is selling the palatial rural retreat, Shadow Creek, north of Seymour, Victoria.

The 537 hectare property, with an Arizona-inspired, five-bedroom mansion, could fetch about $10
million for the businessman, who has been buying and selling property since the sale of his bus
company in 2009. Earlier this year Mr Kefford sold his seven-bedroom waterside mansion Bartinon,
in Sorrento on Queensland's Gold Coast, to Chinese buyers for $7.2 million.

Mr Kefford, a director of the board of the Australian Stockman's Hall of Fame and Outback Heritage
Centre, has appointed Inglis Rural Property's Sam Triggs and Jamie Inglis in conjunction with
Abercromby's Tim Bennetts and Jock Langley to sell Shadow Creek.

"This would be ideal for an off-farm investor looking for a rural escape or potentially an excellent
headquarters for an international bloodstock operation, given the close proximity to Melbourne and
other well recognised horse studs," Inglis's Sam Triggs said.

The mansion includes a lap pool, three large living, dining and entertaining areas with lift access to all
levels, accompanied by bars, and terraces enjoying 270 degree views.

The home includes bespoke blackwood timber work, a granite kitchen, huge cellar and storeroom.

Located about 90 minutes by road from Melbourne – or quicker by helicopter to the estate's helipad
– the property has extensive rehabilitated pasture, a dam with desalination plant, under-cover
stockyards and huge machinery shed and modern four-bedroom manager's residence.

IN
RE

PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140914ea9f0001w

Page110of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.