Bad timing for thermal mining ?

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

EARLY GENERAL NEWS
Bad timing for thermal mining?

Mike Foley
269 words
17 April 2014
The Land
FTLAND
16
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

The plan for Caroona outlines production of 10 million tonne per annum of thermal coal, making it
one of the biggest underground coal mines in the country.

With Drayton South, Maules Creek and Wallarah, all mired in controversy and public protest any
new development would, undoubtedly, come under similar scrutiny.

The price of thermal coal, which Australia supplies to South Korea, Japan, India and China for
electricity production, has fallen from $140 a tonne in 2011 to $72 today.
The Bureau of Resources and Energy Economics forecast thermal coal will rise to $90 a tonne by
2019, with a positive outlook driven by Asia's increasing electricity demand.

But BHP is playing a longer game.
BHP's future plans for Caroona are clouded by the company's recent announcement it will divest
"non-core" assets and streamline operations to focus on iron ore, copper, petroleum and coking
coal which is used for steelmaking and is more valuable than thermal coal.
BHP's global head of coal, Dean Dalla Vale, won't rule out the sale of thermal coal assets.
It is not uncommon for mining companies to increase the value of assets such as Caroona by
steering them through government approval processes and realising a return on investment by
selling them, ready to mine, to a third party.

Were the mine to be sold after approval, it would be up to the new owner to adopt BHP's
commitment to never seek to extend the mine under floodplain.

MIKE FOLEY

NS

RE
PUB
AN

c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FTLAND0020140416ea4h00025

Page234of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.