First world fine food frenzy - IP tricks and traps

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

First world fine food frenzy - IP tricks and traps

Catherine Logan
2,989 words
14 November 2014
Mondaq Business Briefing
BBPUB
English
(c) 2014 Mondaq Ltd

This article was first published in the Lexis Nexis
Australian Intellectual Property Law Bulletin
(newsletter)/2014/Volume 27 No 9 - October 2014
TAKE AWAY TIPS

Following on from the celebritization of chefs, the
success of reality TV cooking competitions and the
general preoccupation with what we privileged first world
citizens are prepared to put in our mouths, high end food
has become a modern obsession.

Fine food is not a fad, not a flash in the pan, but a
lasting frenzy in the first world.

High end food experiences fit in nicely with goals of
status and refinement, but also tick the "experiential"
box that has become such an important factor to so
many of us in exercising our discretion about our
spending.

There are those who can even convince themselves that
it is a good idea to pay €1,000 a couple to eat in some
European establishments. Clearly there is big money in
fine dining. There are also big risks facing food
entrepreneurs, and plenty of them have fallen by the
wayside.

This article suggests that the traditional professional
norms encouraging correct and ethical behaviour in this
industry, if they ever did truly exist, are long gone, and
seeks to examine what the creators in the gourmet food
industry can do to better protect their products using
existing legal rights and protections.

The types of restaurateur chefs who reach for the stars
(Michelin, that is) put in huge amounts of creativity and
time into their endeavours. It is asking too much of them
to take copying as a compliment, particularly when it
dilutes their profit. Things get complicated when these
chefs also publish recipe books.

High end food producers, manufacturers and importers
are another group that will be focused on taking steps
to protect their intellectual property in their products.

Page194of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Finally, the perpetuation of the first world fine food
frenzy depends on the future production of more TV
shows involving food, whether in reality TV "contest"
format, or as infotainment or documentaries. Creators of
these concepts will be, as ever, keen to see that their
contributions are duly rewarded.

RESTAURATEUR CELEBRITY CHEFS

In this case, there are three major elements to the
reputation of the restaurant - the look and feel of the
establishment, the taste experience (driven by produce
and recipes) and the look of the dishes themselves (the
plating). Of course service is important too, but so it is to
all high end customer experiences.

It is the above three elements that have resulted in the
original reputation of the chef, which he or she may have
built on by the type of mass publicity, and indeed
celebrity, which results from appearances in mass
media, usually television, whether in infotainment,
documentary or reality formats, and in other personal
appearances that are reported on as news. Many
famous chefs of course also take their kitchen on the
road and present it as a stage show.

Recipe books and blogs and copyright

Publication of recipe books and/or blogging of recipes by
the chef sometimes precedes and often succeeds the
"celebritization" phase of the chef's career. Where this
occurs, clearly the intention is to share the recipes with
the public at large, as copyright will of course only
protect the literary work that is the recipe itself, not the
idea behind it.

While recreating recipes and plating by a competitor
may well be considered unethical plagiarism amongst
the profession, the only actionable type of infringement
as far a breach of copyright is concerned is likely to be
where a rival cookbook author or publisher reproduces
the recipes in his own cookbook or compilation of
recipes without the original author's permission.1

Recreating the beautiful plating shown in the
photographs illustrating the cookbook will likewise not be
actionable by the chef, even if it is done by a competitor
and sold, as the plating simply does not amount to
either an artistic work (a sculpture) or as a work of
artistic craftsmanship, as those terms are used in the
Copyright Act 1968 (Cth). The ephemeral nature of the
product -the fact that it is after all, food, and primarily
created in order to be consumed by, and to nourish the
diner, means the product itself can never satisfy these
definitions which are used in reference to something
intended as a more permanent item. This is despite the
fact that in a line of somewhat controversial New
Zealand decisions the definition of "sculpture" has been
extended to things such as the moulds used to produce
crocodile shaped jubes, (but note, not to the jubes
themselves). 2

Artists who are using food in their artworks are a
different case and would not face the same problems
with copyright subsistence.

Trade secrets

Page195of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.If the recipes being used in the restaurant are really that
valuable then the tried and true approach is to treat
them as trade secrets. Doing this properly would entail
having the restaurant's employees and contractors enter
into written confidentiality/non-disclosure agreements, or
clauses in their contracts. Recipes for salads have been
held to constitute trade secrets, at least at the
interlocutory stage of proceedings. 3

The circumstances involving Melbourne chef, Robin
Wickens, and Alinea restaurant may have been avoided,
had a confidentiality agreement been entered into.

In this case, Wickens, began serving food at his
Melbourne's Interlude restaurant (now closed) that
replicated dishes from Alinea restaurant (amongst
others), including the way that they looked, down to its
highly unusual service ware. Wickens admitted he had
returned from the United States, where he spent five
days working under Alinea chef, Grant Achatz.

Wickens has since written to Achatz to apologise. He
has stated that he had made a mistake he regretted but
had never intended to pass off the replica dishes as his
own.

Fig 1Figure 1 shows the comparison between the dishes
served at Interlude with the ones served at Alinea and
WD-50.

4

Trademarking

One of the authors has written previously on the subject
of trademarking the look and feel of a fitout of retail
premises 5 , which of course a restaurant is. However,
somehow that seems to us more appropriate to eating
establishments that are more lowbrow, such as pizza
chains and the like. The high end restaurant experience
is often as much about the exclusivity and refinement of
the surroundings as it is about the food. It is not the
same experience as that of entering an Apple store, (as
pleasant as that may be).

The lack of trademarking of the fitout of a restaurant has
not stopped action being taken for alleged copying of the
distinctive look and feel of the restaurant.

In an aggressive lawsuit in the United States, Rebecca
Charles, the owner-chef of Pearl Oyster Bar in West
Village NYC claimed her former sous chef, Ed
McFarland, had copied "each and every element" of
Pearl Oyster Bar in his new restaurant called Ed's
Lobster Bar nearby in Soho. Charles sought financial
damages from McFarland and claimed he copied from
Pearl Oyster Bar, amongst other things, the white
marble bar, the chairs and bar stools with their
wheat-straw backs, and the packets of oyster crackers
placed at each table setting. The restaurant had been
designed as a New York take on traditional Maine
seafood restaurants.

The court did not make a ruling on these circumstances
as the parties settled the matter out of court.

Trademarking the trading name, however, and/or logo or
combination thereof, is altogether advisable and may

Page196of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.even be possible where it includes the name of the chef.
Such marks are valuable in an industry where so much
of the value of the brand is attached to the individual, as
is the case with designers and fashion brands 6 .
Consideration should also be given to filing in other
jurisdictions in certain cases where the globalisation of
the empire is a real possibility.

Three-Michelin Star chef, Heston Blumenthal, of "The
Fat Duck" fame in Bray England, has learnt the
importance of protecting his brand from international
use and infringement.

In September 2011, a restaurant called "Fat Duck",
specialising in French cuisine, opened in the Darling
Quarter of Sydney. Shortly after the restaurant's
opening, Blumenthal's company SL6 Limited filed an
application for trademark protection of "The Fat Duck" in
Australia. 7 Then, in November 2011, SL6 Limited filed a
claim in the Federal Court of Australia against the
owners of the Fat Duck. 8

The Court made orders by consent, where the owners of
the Sydney restaurant would be restrained from using
the words or marks "Fat Duck", "Fat Duck Rotisserie
Kitchen", "Fat Duck Catering" or any other words or
marks which were substantially identical or deceptively
similar to them.
Australian restaurateurs need to ensure that their brand
is protected abroad by applying for international
protection of their Australian trademarks. The most
cost-effective and flexible method to do this in most, but
not all cases, is by filing an international trademark
application under the Madrid Protocol.

The merchandising of both food and food related
products that may well be part of the celebrity chef's
overall business plan will of course rely heavily, if not
exclusively, on trademarking.

Designs
If bespoke and innovative cutlery or china designs were
created for the chef's restaurant empire, these items
could have potential for design registration.

Copyright

Two dimensional patterns designed especially for, and
appearing on the china or napery would be protected by
copyright. If the designer is other than the chef the
restaurant would need to obtain the appropriate
assignment from the artist.

As discussed above, (with reference to the publication of
recipes by chefs), however unlikely it is that there is
copyright protection in the plating of food, that has not
stopped chefs like David Chang (of Momofuku Seiobo in
Sydney) from prohibiting food photography at their
restaurants.

Gilles Goujon from the three Michelin-starred L'Auberge
du Vieux Puits in the south of France has stated he
believes that when his dishes appear online, it takes
away "a little bit of my intellectual property". 9

Page197of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.However, Justin Llewellyn, head chef at award-winning
Laguna Kitchen & Bar at Park Plaza Cardiff, believes
social media has in fact boosted the dining experience.
He claims that, "social networks are the new word of
mouth. It's the new advertising. You have to move with
the times." 10

In any event, contrary to the belief of chef Goujon, and
as discussed above with reference to the publication of
recipes, the copyright in a photo of food belongs to the
person who took the photo, rather than the chef or the
restaurant owner. That is, until it is posted onto social
media, where the intellectual property rights in the photo
are all but assigned to the likes of Facebook or
Instagram. 11

To date, no claims have been raised by restaurants who
believe their offerings have been devalued by exposure
on social media. In terms of intellectual property
protection, prohibiting photography may make it more
difficult for infringers to reverse engineer the plating, but
doesn't really offer any other advantage.

Figure 2 is a photograph from a food blog of one of the
stunning desserts that has been on the menu in the past
at WD-50 in New York City, which is known for its
presentation.

Fig 212

GOURMET FOOD PRODUCERS, MANUFACTURERS
AND IMPORTERS

These players often supply to the businesses above
and/or to selected retailers or sell to consumers through
their own outlets and through websites.

Trademarking

Trademarking in all three cases, both of product names
and logos and often the packaging itself (and sometimes
the shape of the goods) 13 will be just as important to
these businesses as it is to the FMCG sector 15 . In
some cases it will be important to source unique
packaging materials and the like as part of the overall
marketing strategy. Figure 3 illustrates the beautiful
packaging and trade dress of Pepe Saya® handcrafted
butter.

Fig 315

As illustrated by the case of "The Fat Duck", it is
important for Australian businesses to ensure that their
brand is protected abroad by applying for international
protection of their Australian trademarks.

This is particularly the case where your supplier is in an
overseas company. Registering your trademark in the
jurisdiction where your supplier operates will assist in
preventing your supplier from becoming your competitor,
which is a very real risk. In "first to file" jurisdictions like
China, failure to register may actually result in another
person registering your trade mark there, and having
your export goods held up at the port for infringement of
their registration!

Exclusive supply agreements

Page198of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Exclusive supply agreements for packaging, the
ingredients and perhaps the finished product itself if it is
being imported from abroad may well be crucial in these
businesses and may be legitimate depending on the
structure of the market for the particular goods
concerned.

Trade secrets

Manufacturers like chefs will be concerned to keep their
recipes and methods secret. Again this will require
discipline and proper processes in place to ensure
employees and contractors are bound to contractual
obligations of confidence.

Designs

There are many examples of food design registrations,
such as the Viennetta ice cream confection 16 , and of
course many chocolate confections. 17 In general it will
be difficult to obtain registration as shape trade marks
for goods which are sold packaged, leaving aside the
issues of inherent or acquired distinctiveness necessary
for registration, but design registration for novel and
attractively shaped goods may be available where it is
not possible to show that the shape is necessarily
distinctive as a badge of origin. 18

Patents

Large corporate chocolatiers are well known for
patenting their manufacturing processes, one of the only
examples of patenting in the food industry. This will not
be advisable for most smaller operators.

CREATORS AND PRODUCERS OF TV SHOWS
ABOUT FOOD

Copyright

There is a strong appetite for reality, infotainment and
documentary style programs about food amongst
television audiences. Creators and producers will be
looking to document their ideas in a detailed treatment
which will attract copyright protection as a literary work.

Trademarking

They will simultaneously be trying to come up with and
trade mark a distinctive name for the show and a great
logo, such as the flaming red "M" of Masterchef.

Trade secrets

Use of confidentiality/non-disclosure agreements will be
essential during the pre-production and production
phases.

Of course depending on the circumstances there may
be a case for passing off or misleading and deceptive
conduct in any of the above industries, but Australian
courts have been prepared in recent years to accord a
degree of sophistication to Australian consumers when
presented with a cheap alternative product seeking to
piggyback on the reputation of an established brand 19
We sophisticated Australian consumers can, in most
cases it seems, tell the difference between the original

Page199of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.and a copycat product, so these types of actions are not
likely to be as successful as perhaps they once were.

Footnotes

1 Granger v Murdoch Books Pty Limited 2012 FCA 909;
BC201206194

2 Beckman v Mayceys Confectionery Ltd (1995) 33 IPR
543

3 Chenel Pty Ltd v Rayner (1994) 28 IPR 638,
BC9406183

4
http://www.theage.com.au/news/epicure/is-copying-a-
fancy-dish-flattery/2006/03/31/1143441339484.html This
image has been labelled for reuse on Google Images

5 See Logan C, "Protecting the architecture of
happiness (with apologies to Alain de Botton)" (2013)
26(3) Australian Intellectual Property Law Bulletin 63

6 See Logan C, "Fair trading in fashionable names:
"What to do if your name is famous but you are not
(yet)" (2009) 22(6) Australian Intellectual Property Law
Bulletin 114

7 Trademark no 1450496.

8 SL6 Limited v Fat Duck Pty Ltd [2012] FCA 71.

9
http://www.francetvinfo.fr/culture/gastronomie/deux-
chefs-francais-exasperes-par-les-clients-qui-
photographient-leurs-plats_529087.html

10
http://www.insidecounsel.com/2014/03/06/chefs-claim-
intellectual-property-damages-for-unat

11 A "non-exclusive, transferable, sub-licensable,
royalty-free, worldwide license" is granted in relation to
all IP rights in photos posted to Facebook and
Instagram. For Facebook, see
https://www.facebook.com/legal/terms. For Instagram
see http://instagram.com/legal/terms/# .

12 http://www.goodiesfirst.com/2013/02/wd-50.html This
image has been labelled for reuse on Google Images

13 For example Kit Kat chocolate bars bearing the
imprint "Kit Kat", Australian trade mark registration
number 849096, cf Vienetta ice cream confection, which
is registered as a design

14 Mars Australia Pty Ltd v Sweet Rewards Pty Ltd
(2009) 81 IPR 354, and see also C Logan "Mars Fail to
get up in get up case: Maltesers rolled down the aisle
and out of court" (2009) 22(3) Australian Intellectual
Property Law Bulletin 46 and C Logan "Maltesers rolled
again on appeal" (2010) 22(7) Australian Intellectual
Property Law Bulletin 140

15 http://www.pepesaya.com.au

This image has been used with the permission of Pepe
Saya

Page200of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.16 Australian design registration number 127649s, (no
longer in force)

17 For example Australian design registration 322766s,
which is a current registered design for the shape of
block chocolate, owned by Societe des Produits Nestle
S.A.

18 Nestle SA v Unilever Plc [2002] EWHC 2709 (Ch) (18
December 2002)

19 As above note 14

The content of this article is intended to provide a
general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice
should be sought about your specific circumstances.

Ms Catherine Logan

Hunt & Hunt

Gateway

1 Macquarie Place

Sydney

NSW

2000

AUSTRALIA

Tel: 293913000

Fax: 293913099

E-mail: Cscahill@hunthunt.com.au

URL: www.hunthunt.com.au

Click Here for related articles

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2014 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 -
http://www.mondaq.com

gfod : Food/Drink | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
c133 : Patents | cgymtr : Intellectual Property | ctmark :
Trademarks | cinprp : Industrial Property Rights
(Patents/Trademarks) | gcat : Political/General News |
glife : Living/Lifestyle
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific
| ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales
Intellectual Property
Mondaq Limited
Document BBPUB00020141114eabe00004

NS

RE

IPD
PUB
AN

Page201of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.