Rinehart rejects talk of Korean raid

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Rinehart rejects talk of Korean raid

ANDREW BURRELL, Mining
458 words
16 September 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
18
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

GINA Rinehart’s Hancock Prospecting has rejected speculation that Korea Development Bank is
planning to buy a 5 per cent stake in the magnate’s flagship $10 billionRoy Hilliron ore project in the
Pilbara.

A report published yesterday by a Seoul-based industry journal said the state-owned bank was planning
to purchase the stake in partnership with Korean pension fund firms and insurance companies for 170
billion won (about $180 million).

The market value of Roy Hill is likely to have slumped in recent months given the weaker outlook for
iron ore prices, which have plunged to $US82 a tonne, although the low-cost Roy Hill project would still
be profitable at current prices. The report in the Korea IT Times appeared to suggest that Korea
Development Bank would buy the stake from Hancock Prospecting.

“There is absolutely no truth to the report,” said a spokesman for Hancock Prospecting, Mrs Rinehart’s
private company.

Hancock Prospecting owns 70 per cent of Roy Hill, while Japan’s Marubeni has 15 per cent, South
Korea’s Posco holds 12.5 per cent and Taiwan’s China Steel Corp has 2.5 per cent.
Sources said Posco would be an unlikely seller of its stake after chief executive Oh Joon-Kwon last
month praised Roy Hill as a key asset for the Korean company.
“I am really proud of the systematic and smooth progress we have achieved in this large-scale mining
project, particularly given its incalculable reserves,” he said after a visit to the site.

“The Roy Hill mine is Posco’s most important asset for raw materials, and Posco will provide
unwavering support with the remaining construction.” The South Korean report said Korea Development
Bank would purchase the 5 per cent stake in Roy Hill Holdings by forming an “overseas resource
development fund” with other Korean institutional investors. “Once the proposal passes the investment
deliberation committee in the institutional investors, the investment will be made,” an unnamed
investment banker said.

The Roy Hill project recently advanced past the halfway mark in construction after the successful
completion of a $US7.2bn ($8bn) loan facility in March, the largest project financing for the mining
project worldwide. But the project recently lost the services of three of its most senior executives,
including COO Ian Crawford. Roy Hill external relations manager Darryl Hockey left in July and was
replaced by former Cliffs Natural Resources executive Bill Hart. Roy Hill’s human resources general
manager Colyn Louw also reportedly left the company. More than 4700 people are working on the
mine, rail and port development.Roy Hill is attempting to meet its deadline of starting iron ore exports in
late 2015.

CO

hkpros : Hancock Prospecting Pty. Ltd. | kordev : Korea Development Bank | pohn : Posco Co | kdbfgk :
KDB Financial Group Inc | kofckr : Korea Finance Corp

Page37of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i814 : Banking | i8150106 : Development Banking | ibnk
: Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | isteel : Steel Production
c18 : Ownership Changes | cacqu : Acquisitions | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140915ea9g0000v

Page38of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.