KILLCARE

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Domain
KILLCARE

KATE FARRELLY
1,223 words
1 February 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
12
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

N/A

THREE OF THE BEST
MEDIAN PRICES
$671,000
TOP SALES
8 Patricia Place N/A
$2.22
million
55 Grandview Crescent
$1.775 million
76 Beach Drive
$1.7 million
Source: APM

Killcare is one of the Central Coast's most exclusive suburbs, with prices to match. An hour-and-a-half
from Sydney's CBD, the area is surrounded by national parks with a bay on one side and a beach on the
other.

Popular with weekenders, Killcare attracts investors and holiday-home buyers from Sydney, with a
recent surge in interest from Hong Kong and Singapore-based expats. Artists, musicians and writers
have long been drawn to the area.

Australian Property Monitors research analyst Clinton McNabb says the area has shown sluggish growth
in recent years, with 2013 recording a 4 per cent fall in the median price. However, McNabb says selling
conditions have improved, with more than double the number of properties sold in 2013 compared with
the previous 12 months.

Gittoes agent Cathy Baker reported 16 sales over December/January - twice the usual figure - with
prices moving closer to sellers' expectations. She says Killcare's accessibility as a weekend retreat is a
major drawcard for buyers.

"These buyers often have flexible working situations, and can do some work from home and therefore
enjoy long weekends at the property," she says. "They can then add in holiday rentals to provide funds
to do tasteful improvements."

McGrath Terrigal agent Trevor Hamilton says the low stock levels and value for money could help push
prices north over the coming year.

Locals like

Access to both a surf beach and a sheltered bay, not to mention the great walking trails in the national
park. There is a selection of restaurants, cafes and galleries, and plenty of community activities.

Best addresses

Page152of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.For beach-lovers, Beach Drive, Grandview Crescent and Patricia Place; for bay-lovers, Araluen Drive,
offering waterfront reserve close to the village heart, Wagstaffe Avenue and Heath Road.

The prospects

"Indicators such as the auction clearance rate and the average days to sell have improved markedly in
the last year," says APM's Clinton McNabb. "Vendors are also discounting less than they were in the
year prior. This improvement in market conditions is yet to be reflected in a higher median price for the
suburb, although this should change in the coming year as more top-end properties start to sell."

MACMASTERS BEACH

WHERE ELSE YOU MIGHT TRY

Head north-east along The Scenic Road and you'll find yourself at this popular holiday spot where the
median house price is not far behind Killcare at $647,500, up nearly 8 per cent over the past 12 months.

COPACABANA

With a more affordable median house price of $615,000, Copacabana offers a mix of older-style
cottages and architect-designed contemporary homes.

1

34 & 36 Maitland Bay Drive
$1.875 million

7 5 3

Built 2004
Land 1585 sq m

Inspect By appointment

Agent Gittoes East Gosford, 0414 241 005

Last traded for $360,000 in 2001 (land only)

A house to live in and a second to use as a holiday rental? Or perhaps you need to accommodate the
in-laws or a home business? There is plenty of scope for the new owner of this pair of properties,
designed by renowned architect David Brown and master-built by J&J Challinor on two adjoining blocks
with separate titles. To be sold in one line, the homes make the most of a northerly aspect, with views
over the established gardens and solar-heated, salt-water pool.

No. 34 is the larger of the two homes, offering four bedrooms and three bathrooms. The open-plan living
spaces extend to a wrap-around deck and include a stone and gas island kitchen with stainless steel
appliances. There is a home theatre with surround sound, a second living room, a customised wine
cellar, ducted airconditioning and vacuuming, and a double garage with internal access. No. 36 has two
bedrooms plus an open-plan studio loft with its own balcony. There are two bathrooms, a combined
living/dining room, a stone and gas kitchen with butler's pantry, and a single garage plus carport. The
properties are within walking distance of Bell's Resort, Maitland Bay and the Bouddi National Park
walking trails. The beaches and village shops are a short drive away.

ROOM FOR IMPROVEMENT

Convert the open living room upstairs in No. 36 to two bedrooms and a bathroom.

2

13 Hardys Bay Parade
$1.475 million+

5 3 2

Built 2000
Land 708 sq m

Page153of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Inspect By appointment

Agent Ray White Killcare Peninsula, 0421 041 067

Last traded for $150,000 in 1997 (land only)

Soak up panoramic views across Hardys Bay to Wagstaffe and Ettalong from the multiple decks
provided at this tri-level home, which cascades down a hillside and backs on to Bouddi National Park.
Positioned on a quiet, waterfront reserve road, the home has a flexible floorplan across three pavilions.
The main living pavilion is on the second floor and features raked ceilings with timber support beams and
timber floors. The kitchen is tucked into the northern corner of the room, and a balcony wraps around the
western corner. A central entertaining deck leads to a stand-alone bedroom with bathroom/laundry
facilities. On the top level you'll find another bathroom and two more bedrooms, each with built-in
wardrobes and access to the balcony. The lower level has been created as a master retreat, with a large
bedroom, a bathroom and an office/dressing room that could easily be used as an additional bedroom.
There is inclinator access from the oversize double garage - which comes with mezzanine storage - to
the living pavilion. The home boasts plenty of built-in storage, skylit bathrooms, retractable awnings and
professionally designed outdoor lighting.

ROOM FOR IMPROVEMENT

Increase the workspace in the kitchen with an island bench.

3

185 The Scenic Road
$1.175 million

5 2 2

Built early 2000s
Land 594 sq m

Inspect By appointment

Agent McGrath Terrigal, 0414 852 200
Last traded for $1.025 million in 2005

Nothing more than a mass of leafy green treetops separates you from the ocean at this contemporary
beach house, with most rooms over the two storeys enjoying a bush or water outlook and the views to
the west stretching from Killare Beach to Sydney. At entry level you'll find three bedrooms, each with
built-in storage, and a family room opening to an outdoor entertaining space which leads to a private,
in-ground pool and a level, grassed garden. A full bathroom and large laundry complete accommodation
on this level. The master bedroom is upstairs and comes with a walk-in wardrobe and en suite. The living
spaces open to a front deck with wonderful water views where you can watch the sunset, and there is
also a covered back deck overlooking bushland reserve. There is a sleek kitchen with integrated
appliances and glass splashbacks and timber floors throughout. A large office faces north and could
double as a guest bedroom.

ROOM FOR IMPROVEMENT

Enclose the under-cover parking space.

Wherever you want it

Domain offers the best property coverage on your tablet, smartphone or online.

IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

irreal : Residential Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest :
Real Estate
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140131ea210007f

Page154of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Page155of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.