FIRB relies on honesty and 'stern' speech to enforce foreign investment rules on housing

FIRB relies on honesty and 'stern' speech to enforce foreign investment rules on housing

HD
BY Michael Janda
WC 884 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

30 May 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation Transcripts
ABCTRS
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

TD

The Foreign Investment Review Board has revealed that it only has eight staff to look at the thousands of
annual foreign purchases of Australian residential real estate. FIRB says most state land titles offices
also do not routinely record the residency status of property buyers, meaning it is largely relying on the
honesty of overseas buyers to seek approval for their purchase. However, despite the possibility that
thousands of foreign purchases are going undeclared, the board's chairman says he believes many
Australians are mistaking local buyers with an Asian background for overseas investors creating a false
impression of how many foreign purchasers are in the market.

TANYA NOLAN: A parliamentary inquiry has been hearing evidence on the growing presence of foreign
buyers in the Australian housing market.

And it's revealing that the regulations governing such investments are not too closely monitored.
Foreign Investment Review Board (FIRB) and Treasury officials have been telling the first day of hearings
that they largely rely on the honesty of purchasers to follow the rules and that the imposition of penalties
for breaches of the rules is relatively rare.

Business reporter Michael Janda.
MICHAEL JANDA: Australia has strict rules limiting what types of residential property people can buy if
they're not citizens or permanent residents.
Non-residents can only buy newly built properties, and, while temporary residents can buy an existing
home, they must be living in it, and must sell it when they leave.

But while the rules are in place, only a handful of staff monitor whether they're being complied with.
BRIAN WILSON: The Foreign Investment Review Board on residential real estate has eight staff.
MICHAEL JANDA: The Foreign Investment Review Board's chairman Brian Wilson says that means they
largely rely on the buyers declaring their purchase.

BRIAN WILSON: The only state land titles office that has a foreign or domestic tick in it is Queensland.
None of the others do.
MICHAEL JANDA: And Mr Wilson also points out that there are many ways a foreign buyer can purchase
a property they're not allowed to and his agency doesn't have the resources to check all the transactions.

BRIAN WILSON: The properties can be bought in all sorts of ways. They can be bought by individuals,
they can be bought by trustees, disclosed or not; they can be bought by corporations; they can be bought
by friends, family members, relatives, solicitors etc.

MICHAEL JANDA: Labor MP Pat Conroy asked Treasury's John Hill whether there were any ways to
penalise people who helped foreign buyers skirt the rules.
PAT CONROY: Are there any obligations on real estate agents or anyone else to be part of this process?

Page6of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.JOHN HILL: That's a good question. The answer is no. The foreign person that acquires the interest is the
individual that is captured by our regulatory system.

MICHAEL JANDA: Given these handicaps, it is perhaps not surprising that there are few prosecutions for
breaching the foreign investment rules around housing.

The committee's chairwoman Liberal MP Kelly O'Dwyer also questioning Treasury's John Hill.

KELLY O'DWYER: Over time, which the most recent penalties have been in place since 2010, how often
have they been used?

JOHN HILL: I think it's fair to say that our penalty arrangement sits as a range of activities at the very peak
of what we call our compliance triangle. We don't operate at that point very often. In fact its very rare that
we will exercise prosecution activity.

MICHAEL JANDA: So what is the preferred enforcement mechanism when people are caught out
breaking the rules? John Hill says they are asked to arrange their affairs so they comply - by selling, or
moving into the home.

JOHN HILL: We would certainly speak very sternly to the individuals concerned and say that this is a
situation we don't want to continue and if, we will follow it very closely.

KELLY O'DWYER: Could it go on though for a matter of years?

JOHN HILL: Not typically, no.

KELLY O'DWYER: What's the typical time period?

JOHN HILL: Oh, I would be looking to resolve issues within a few months of something like that occurring.

MICHAEL JANDA: Despite the huge holes in data collection that mean FIRB's figures are very unreliable
to measure total foreign investment, much of which may not be declared, the board's chairman Brian
Wilson says he doesn't think foreign investors make up as much of the market as many people think.
BRIAN WILSON: Very often, where we might get a call that says a Chinese has bought this house and
my daughter wasn't able to do so and it's investigated, yes there are of Chinese background but you
know, they're a citizen. They live here. We also have 450,000 legal temporary residents in Australia.
They're entitled to buy a house under the rules. That's 2 per cent of the population.

MICHAEL JANDA: But until there is better data, it's hard to know how much supposed foreign buying is
mistaken identity, and how much is in breach of the rules.

TANYA NOLAN: Business reporter, Michael Janda.

IN

NS

irreal : Residential Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest :
Real Estate
efdi : Foreign Direct Investment | gpol : Domestic Politics | ntra : Transcripts | e51 : Trade/External
Payments | e511 : Capital Movements/Invisible Trade | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General
News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E
Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
austr : Australia | auscap : Australian Capital Territory | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
IPD Foreign
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCTRS0020140530ea5u0002w

Page7of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.