Malone flies under radar as satellite play holds course

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Malone flies under radar as satellite play holds course

467 words
2 September 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
First
1
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

Michael Malone’s first post-iiNet project is off to an encouraging albeit muted start.

One of three non-executive independent directors of SpeedCast International, the iiNet founder and
former chief executive emerged with 259,000 shares in the satellite company ahead of last month’s
float.

The company’s listing on August 12 was overshadowed by the start of the reporting season but the
stock has at least managed to retain a premium to its issue price of $1.96, trading in a thin range
between $1.99 and $2.05 since day two.

Malone’s appointment was announced in May as SpeedCast simultaneously established another
WA link with the purchase of Perth-owned SatComms Australia.
The acquisition was the last in a string of deals which bulked up the Hong Kong-based group
ahead of its $150 million float.
SatComms was founded as a division of WA marine services company JN Taylor, whose rich
history includes periods of ownership by Robert Holmes a Court and then Alan Bond.
The business, which has a teleport and operations centre in Henderson, provides mobile and fixed
satellite communications to the mining, government and maritime sectors.

Its integration has given SpeedCast more than 1000 customers in mainly remote locations — mine
sites, oil rigs and ships — and predominantly in the Asia Pacific.
The company has forecast a net profit of $8.1 million for 2014-15 on revenue of $128.5 million but
those numbers could change given the company’s intent to wrap in more acquisitions.

Malone and his fellow non-executive directors hold less than one per cent of SpeedCast. US private
equity group TA Associates retains 24.6 per cent, while SpeedCast’s long-serving chief executive
Pierre-Jean Beylier is the biggest individual holder with 5.9 per cent, or 7.1 million shares.

Exploration in doldrums

Yesterday’s official exploration data confirms the parlous state of the WA industry.

The Australian Bureau of Statistics’ initial estimates have minerals exploration for the June quarter
down nearly 10 per cent in trend terms on the previous three-month period at $438.8 million.
Almost all of the fall was due to WA, which was $38.4 million, or 14.5 per cent, lower.

They are the worst numbers in nearly eight years, though the seasonally adjusted numbers were
less confronting.

Page6of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Association of Mining and Exploration Companies predictably renewed its call for the speedy
repeal of the mining tax and the quick introduction of the proposed Exploration Development
Incentive.

Neither, however, is going to make a difference unless those explorers wanting to have a crack are
able to raise cash and those companies sitting on funds awaiting better times regain their appetite
for risk and resume exploration.

CO

IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

spdcst : SpeedCast International Ltd. | asatco : Asia Satellite Telecommunications Holdings Ltd |
citic : CITIC Group
i7902 : Telecommunications
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140901ea920003q

Page7of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.