Sales on the gallop

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Sales on the gallop

Caitlin Drysdale, Charlotte Durut editorial@tcp.newsltd.com.au
330 words
1 February 2014
Cairns Post
CAIRPO
1 - MAIN
12
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE Chinese Year of the Horse is expected to put a kick into Cairns' Asian property market, with
the year's encouraging symbolism of immediate success causing an influx of potential buyers.
In anticipation of sales growth, real estate agencies are launching websites aimed exclusively at
the Asian property market.

One of the country's largest Chinese property portals, ACproperty.com.au, announced the launch
of its Queensland section this week to celebrate the start of the new year.
Sales and marketing director, Esther Yong, said the company had experienced a 180 per cent
increase in search queries for Queensland areas in the past three months.
``This pushed us to launch our Queensland site six months earlier than anticipated,'' she said.
Miss Yong said Queensland's affordable property prices as well as its stable political situation,
education opportunities and clean environment made it attractive to Chinese buyers.

This is a sentiment echoed by broker and owner of Re/Max Cairns, Tony Williamson, whose office
sold two inner-city apartments to Chinese nationals yesterday.

``They're interested because it's cheap and the Australian dollar is dropping,'' he said.
``We have Chinese speaking staff to cater for them so we're ready to go . . .

``We're very excited.''
Developers in the region are even going as far as using feng shui to lure Chinese investors with
master-planned community Red Peak Forest Estate in Carvonica bringing in experts to balance
their streets.

Developer Vince Oberdan said inquiries from investors based overseas had been on the increase.
``It is really positive to see this level of interest coming from potential Chinese and other foreign
investors based in South East Asia,'' he said.

``After we investigated feng shui and the potential

positive implications for the development and those who lived here, it was a simple decision.''

They're interested because it's cheap and the Australian dollar is dropping

NS
RE

ereal : Real Estate Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

Page150of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

News Ltd.
Document CAIRPO0020140203ea210003h

Page151of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.