At home

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

At home

632 words
2 September 2014
The New Zealand Herald
NZHLD
B015
English
(c) 2014 The New Zealand Herald

At home

Allied Farmers in profit

Allied Farmers, which is rebuilding from a disastrous takeover of the Hanover and United Finance loan
books, returned to profit as its core livestock unit lifted income with gains in Taranaki and Waikato. The
Hawera-based company reported a profit of $1.03 million in the 12 months ended June 30, turning
around a loss of $1.12 million a year earlier. Revenue in the slimmed down entity shrank 38 per cent
to $16.9 million.
World China growth slows
Growth in Chinese manufacturing activity slowed in August, losing momentum as a declining property
sector and waning stimulus effects weigh on the world’s second-largest economy. The official
purchasing managers index (PMI) came in at 51.1 last month, the National Bureau of Statistics said.
The figure was down from 51.7 in July, and the first decline since slipping to 50.2 in February,
according to previous data. Readings above 50 indicate growth, while anything below points to
contraction.

Japan backs Indian PM
Japanese government and business leaders are pledging support for Indian Prime Minister Narendra
Modi’s effort to modernise his country’s economy. Modi and a delegation of more than a dozen Indian
tycoons are visiting Japan, seeking to take ties between the countries to a “new level”. The Indian
leader was to meet with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. India is keen to gain more support for ambitious
construction and energy projects. In a speech to Japanese business leaders Modi promised to set up
a team to facilitate such efforts.

Oz house prices gain

Australian Housing prices have posted their strongest winter gain in seven years, according to a
widely-watched gauge. The RP Data CoreLogic Hedonic home value index of Australian capital city
dwelling prices rose by 1.1 per cent in August, RP data said yesterday. The rise brought the total gain
over June, July and August to 4.2 per cent, the biggest rise over the winter months since 2007. Annual
growth in prices came in at 10.9 per cent, more than double the gain of the 12 months to August 2013,
but the gains were not evenly spread across the country.

Flight Centre elevates Smith
Travel groupFlight Centre has elevated one of its board members to chairman after Peter Morahan
ended his seven years in the role. Morahan had previously announced he would retire during 2014,
and is to replaced by non-executive director and tourism industry veteran Gary Smith. Cassandra
Kelly, the head of corporate advisory firm Pottinger, will also join the board as a non-executive
director. She joins former Wallaby captain John Eales, Flight Centre managing director Graham Turner
and Rob Baker on the five-member board.
Samsung units to merge

Page8of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The shipbuilding and engineering units of South Korea’s Samsunggroup will merge, as the family-run
giant gears up for generational ownership succession. The board members of shipmaker Samsung
Heavy Industries and Samsung Engineering had approved the tie-up via a share swap. The two firms
hope to achieve total sales of 40 trillion won ($47 billion) by 2020 from 25 trillion won in 2013, it said.
Samsung Heavy focuses on shipbuilding and offshore plants while Samsung Engineering build
onshore energy plants around the world.

Oz farmers less confident Australian farmers are feeling less confident as prices for commodities ease,
and drought grips parts of Queensland and NSW. The latest quarterly Rabobank rural survey shows
Australian farmers felt less confident over winter. “The general easing in farmer sentiment can be
attributed more to increased concerns about external factors, including a weakening in some
commodity prices as well as global oversupply issues in the dairy and grains sectors,” said
Rabobank’s chief executive of country banking Peter Knoblanche. — Agencies

RF
CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

briefslist2
facos : Allied Farmers Limited
i0 : Agriculture | i61 : Wholesalers | i64 : Retail/Wholesale
c151 : Earnings | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
W & H Newspapers Limited
Document NZHLD00020140901ea920002m

Page9of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.