RE/MAX agents recognised

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

RE/MAX agents recognised

276 words
15 November 2014
The Observer (Gladstone)
APNOBG
Main
23
English
Copyright 2014 APN Newspapers Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

Gladstone teams hold on to top positions for September as director speaks of solid work
GLADSTONE real estate sales teams from RE/MAX Gold outsold all others with the Ros Waters
Team and the Shane McLeod Team holding first and third positions for the September quarter in both
the commission and transaction categories.

Neither of these teams is a newcomer to such accolades.

RE/MAX Australia managing director Michael Davoren joined his network’s sales teams from the
Wide Bay region at a professional development and awards event held on October 28 at Mantra
Hervey Bay.
Mr Davoren spoke of solid company performance across regions and RE/MAX Australia’s
commitment to a Property Fair to be held in Singapore in early 2015.

“This inaugural event will bring agents from 10 regions face-to-face to establish and cement
relationships,” he said.
“The appetite for Australian and New Zealand property remains high from the majority of Asian
countries, not China alone.
“Strong relationships and networks across the Asia-Pacific Rim firm up business outcomes in all
sectors including residential and commercial sales and property management, and project
marketing; and this can most certainly be of benefit to Gladstone property owners,” Mr Davoren said.

The RE/MAX reach through the Asia Pacific Rim encompasses 10 countries: Thailand, Indonesia,
Singapore, the Philippines, Guam, South Korea, China, Japan, Australia and New Zealand.

The event program included special guest and presenter Marc Sorrentino, one of RE/MAX Australia’s
high performing sales associates, and whose marketing strategies are identified with creativity and
innovation.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
APN Newspapers Pty Ltd
Document APNOBG0020141113eabf000b8

Page147of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.