Orica call to end import duty

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Orica call to end import duty

Simon Evans
452 words
24 July 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
25
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The $8 billion explosives and chemicals giant Orica is pushing for authorities to scrap anti-dumping
measures that place import duties of as much as 33.8 per cent on sodium bicarbonate that it buys
from Chinese producers.

Orica has made an official request to the Anti-Dumping Commission for the dumping duties, which
generally range from between 10 per cent and 20 per cent for Chinese producers, to be abolished,
following the demise of the last remaining Australian manufacturer of sodium bicarbonate.

The federal government's Anti-Dumping Commission has begun a review into the matter and aims to
make a decision by December 24 this year. The anti-dumping measures imposed by the government
are due to expire on November 3, 2015.
Under the current regime in Australia, imports from a range of Chinese producers are subject to a
dumping duty which raises the cost to buyers of the product, such as Orica.

Documents from the Anti-Dumping Commission show that the highest duty being paid is 33.8 per
cent by VanderArk International Ltd.

But most of the dumping duties are understood to range between 10 per cent and 20 per cent.

Orica made a formal application to the Anti-Dumping Commission after the closure of the last
remaining sodium bicarbonate manufacturing factory in Australia in June.

The plant, which had operated since 1935 in the Adelaide industrial suburb of Osborne, was closed
by the administrators of the failed ASX-listed Penrice Soda on June 24. McGrath Nicol couldn't find a
buyer for the plant and closed it, meaning all sodium bicarbonate is imported into Australia.

Penrice Soda, which went into administration in early April, was among those that in the past made
applications to federal authorities which resulted in dumping duties being placed on Chinese
producers.
One of the largest Chinese exporters to Australia, Inner Mongolia Ihjuchem Industrial Co, had an
18 per cent anti-dumping duty imposed on it by the federal government in 2010.

At the time, Penrice Soda chief executive officer Guy Roberts said without the measures, Penrice
would be forced to compete in its home market "against unfairly priced Chinese imports".

Dale Seymour, a commissioner with the Anti-Dumping Commission, is overseeing the review of
anti-dumping measures for Chinese producers and is calling for submissions by August 31.

It comes as Orica continues a review into its chemicals division, which has annual revenues of about
$1.2 billion.

Page11of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Orica chief executive Ian Smith appointed Goldman Sachs in January to lead the review, which is
investigating whether the company should embark on a trade sale or a demerger of the chemicals
division.

iciaal : Orica Ltd
i25 : Chemicals | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
c311 : Domestic Markets | gtrade : Tariffs/Trade Barriers | c31 : Marketing/Markets | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News | gcat :
Political/General News | gdip : International Relations | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140723ea7o00025

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page12of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.