China exposure key to $1b bid

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
China exposure key to $1b bid

Jenny Wiggins
1,056 words
22 October 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
22
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Madrid Ferrovial chief executive Iñigo Meirás has revealed the Spanish company's $1 billion takeover
bid for Transfield Services is part of a bigger strategy to give the infrastructure group exposure to the
Chinese economy as European growth stagnates.

In an exclusive interview with The Australian Financial Review at Ferrovial's headquarters in Madrid
ahead of the Spanish company's takeover bid, Mr Meirás said he was targeting expansion in Australia
because he believed the country would benefit from long-term growth in the Chinese economy.

"It's not just about Australia, it's the right platform to get some exposure to the Chinese boom," Mr
Meirás said.
Ferrovial is following Spain's biggest construction company, Grupo ACS, into the Australian market as
Spanish companies, which have highly sophisticated infrastructure businesses, shift their attention to
Australia after expanding to other parts of the world.

Ferrovial, which has previously held stakes in Sydney Airport, has only recently established a formal
presence in Australia after its subsidiary Cintra, which specialises in transport infrastructure including
toll roads, teamed up with REST Super to establish an office and target public-private partnerships.

Ferrovial is upgrading part of the Pacific Highway in partnership with another infrastructure group,
Acciona, and undertakes road maintenance contracts in partnership with Leighton Holdings in Sydney
and Brisbane.

But it has, to date, missed out on Australia's biggest projects, and was part of one of the unsuccessful
consortiums that tendered for Melbourne's East West Link project.

Ferrovial's biggest markets to date have been Spain, the UK, the US, Canada and Poland but the
company, which was founded in 1952 and counts the Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao among its glory
projects, is now focusing its attention on Australia.

Acquiring Transfield Services, which was part of Ferrovial's consortium on East West Link, would help
the company compete for big infrastructure projects, and also give the company valuable contacts
and experience in the Australian market.Infrastructure opportunities
Richard Johnson, analyst at Citigroup, said Ferrovial's bid reflected the company's need to build a
local platform to "more fully exploit infrastructure opportunities" as governments become more open to
foreign competition.

Construction companies from Spain, South Korea, Italy, Austria and South Africa are represented in
competing consortiums for the second stage of Sydney's $11.5 billion WestConnex motorway
project.Ferrovial believes offer is 'reasonable'

Page286of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Transfield Services has rejected Ferrovial's bid of $1.95 per share but Spanish analysts argue that the
offer is reasonable and point out the Spanish company has plenty of cash on hand to negotiate with
should it need to increase its offer.
"With €1.6 billion ($2.3 billion) in cash available to grow, a move of this sort was very likely," said
Pablo Ortiz, analyst at Spanish equity research group Interdin.

"Ferrovial has been piling up cash for a long time and it was time to use it."

Ferrovial, like other foreign construction and infrastructure companies, has struggled with some of the
complexities of Australia's tendering processes, which are more time-consuming and more expensive
than similar processes in Europe.

"The procurement processes in infrastructure projects could be improved," said Enrique Diaz-Rato, the
CEO of Cintra.

"Specify what you need and ask for efficient solutions," Mr Diaz-Rato said. "The more you define, the
less room you leave for improvement."

Ferrovial and Cintra prefer to tackle big, complex projects where they can design, build and operate
infrastructure, believing that this is also the most cost effective option for governments. The Ferrovial
consortium spent around $30 million putting together its bid for East West Link.
Although the consortium will get around half of the $30 million back from the Victorian government, it
has lost around $15 million.
In other countries, Ferrovial and Cintra typically only spend about between $5 million and $10 million
on bids.

European tender processes are also typically shorter at around 90 days with companies asked first to
pre-qualify and then put in a final bid, and give construction more leeway to develop their own project
designs.

European companies also find arranging financing for infrastructure tenders difficult in Australia due to
the country's small bond markets, which only offer short-term debt financing.

"The other big challenge is financing for privately developed infrastructure, there is no long term bond
market, Mr Diaz-Rato said.Tender loss 'painful'

But while the Cintra CEO acknowledged that it had been "painful to lose" in the East West Link tender
process, he said that the company had built a good relationship with Australian authorities and that
the proposed motorway made "perfect sense". "This is the sort of project that needs to be done."

Ferrovial expects to get feedback on its East West Link bid from Victorian authorities in late
October.'To bid is very expensive'

Acciona, which was part of the winning consortium for East West Link in a consortium with Lend
Lease, also believes that while Australian governments are keen to attract foreign companies to build
projects, they would attract more bidders for projects if they simplified tendering processes.

"To bid is very expensive," said Luis Castilla, Acciona's president of infrastructure, water and services.

"Clients want high quality in the bids."

Stipends from governments to contractors to assist them in bidding costs were "absolutely necessary",
Mr Castilla said.

"The message is that they need to continue supporting us financially to maintain the bids.

"When you make a decision to follow a [bidding] opportunity you need to think twice, because the level
of resources and the amount of money you spend is serious."
East West Link is Acciona's biggest project in Australia to date and Mr Castilla said the company
would use its tunnelling experience to deliver "a fantastic project" for the community.

Acciona has built many of Spain's road tunnels, including a 10-kilometre tunnel under the centre of
Madrid.

Page287of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The construction company, which is targeting construction, water and renewable energy projects in
Australia, plans to use the country as a base to develop its business in New Zealand and south-east
Asia.

"Our intention is to have the high-level senior financial, legal, human resources people based in
Australia delivering support to other countries in the region," Mr Castilla said.

traser : Transfield Services Limited | frvl : Ferrovial SA
ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | icre : Real Estate/Construction
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | e1101 : Economic Growth | gpol : Domestic Politics | niex :
Interviews with Corporate Executives | nitv : Interviews | cacqu : Acquisitions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | e11 : Economic
Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir :
Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive
News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | spain : Spain | china : China | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union
Countries | eurz : Europe | medz : Mediterranean | nswals : New South Wales | weurz : Western
Europe
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141021eaam0003b

CO
IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page288of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.