Exiting EA boss blasts ACCC on merger view

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Exiting EA boss blasts ACCC on merger view

Angela Macdonald-Smith
707 words
6 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
18
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The outgoing head of the country's third-biggest energy retailer has accused the competition
regulator of standing in the way of urgently needed consolidation between power plant owners that
would allow the closure of high-polluting, surplus capacity.
Richard McIndoe, who will step down as managing director of Hong Kong-owned EnergyAustralia at
the end of June, said the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission was ignoring the radical
change in the market driven by the increased use of rooftop solar PV and declining demand.

Those trends had resulted in overcapacity, low wholesale prices and high costs, but needed closures
of plant weren't able to occur in the "extremely fragmented" industry, he said.

"I don't think they are fighting the battles that need to be fought," Mr McIndoe said in an interview.

"If you have an industry structure that doesn't allow a rational response [to overcapacity] then you're
inevitably going to come to a crisis at some point in the future."Court case

Mr McIndoe is leaving EA after being caught up in what he described as a personally "painful" court
process last year, when a former senior employee complained of unfair dismissal.

The claims, which were dismissed by a Victorian Federal Court judge, involved allegations of sexual
harassment by former EA chief financial officer Kevin Holmes and allegations of inappropriate
behaviour by Mr McIndoe.
Mr McIndoe said the company, owned by CLP Group, was determined to resist the action.

"It was a challenging time for the industry and quite painful personally but it was the right thing to do
and we were vindicated," he said.

An appeal against the decision is ongoing.

Mr McIndoe said the court case was unrelated to his decision late last year to leave EA after eight
years in the role and almost 13 years with CLP.
He will take the role of executive chairman at an unlisted energy technology business based in Hong
Kong, while former BG Group chair Catherine Tanna was named last month as his replacement.
Mr McIndoe said Ms Tanna, with her experience in the energy industry and good relationships with
government, was "an excellent choice" to take EA through the many challenges facing the sector
over the next few years.IPO plans dropped
EA had been slated for a $3 billion-plus IPO by CLP in 2012. But problems with a new billing system,
industrial action and flooding at the Yallourn power plant in Victoria along with regulatory uncertainty,
tough retail competition and weak wholesale power prices, caused CLP to drop the plans.

Page158of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr McIndoe said he expected CLP would look again to access other sources of capital to grow EA,
but the problems with the industry structure would "need to be worked through" before an IPO came
back onto the table.

Since beginning with a single asset in Yallourn in 2002, CLP's business in Australia has grown to
almost rival AGL Energy and Origin Energy, owning a 2.7 million customer retail base and assets of
over $8 billion including coal and gas-fired power plants, wind farms and a 30 per cent stake in
Santos's coal seam gas venture in NSW.

Mr McIndoe pointed to the potential for a further rounding out of the portfolio, saying EA was
under-represented in Queensland, the only growth market for retailing. It was outbid for retailers sold
by the state in 2006-07. He suggested EA could be interested in retail and generation assets set to
be sold by the Queensland government, depending on how the sales were structured.

EA's efforts to integrate into upstream gas have meanwhile been hampered by the slow development
of CSG resources in NSW, which Mr McIndoe described as "immensely frustrating" given the state's
demand for its own gas sources. "The logic of NSW not having its own gas supplies there escapes
me," he said.
His comments on consolidation come as AGL is appealing the ACCC's veto of its $1.5 billion
takeover of NSW generator Macquarie Generation. He also suggested the federal government should
consider financial assistance to power plant owners to help with closing high carbon-emitting plants.

sretpl : EnergyAustralia Pty Ltd | auccc : Australian Competition and Consumer Commission | chlp :
CLP Holdings Ltd
i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16101 : Electric Power Generation | ieutil : Electric Utilities | iutil :
Utilities
c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140605ea6600010

CO

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page159of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.