Peabody Energy Announces Results for the Year Ended December 31, 2013

HD Peabody Energy Announces Results for the Year Ended December 31, 2013
WC 3,180 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

31 January 2014
ENP Newswire
ENPNEW
English
(c) 2014, Electronic News Publishing. All Rights Reserved.

Release date - 30012014
ST. LOUIS - Peabody Energy (NYSE: BTU) today reported full-year 2013 revenues of $7.01 billion,
leading to Adjusted EBITDA of $1.05 billion.

TD

In 2013, the company achieved $340 million of cost savings, reduced capital investments by 67 percent
and generated $722 million of operating cash flow.

‘Peabody delivered on our 2013 objectives, with notable operating performance, structural cost
improvements, disciplined capital spending and solid cash flow,’ said Peabody Energy Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer Gregory H. Boyce. ‘Our leading presence in the high-growth Pacific Rim region
and the lowest-cost U.S. basins uniquely positions the company to manage near-term markets and have
significant earnings leverage to volume and price as markets continue to improve.’
RESULTS FROM PEABODY CONTINUING OPERATIONS
2013 revenues of $7.01 billion were impacted by lower realized pricing in Australia and the United States.
Sales volumes increased 1 percent to 251.7 million tons as higher Australian and Trading and Brokerage
shipments offset a reduction in U.S. volumes.
Australian revenues of $2.90 billion were impacted by a 22 percent decline in revenues per ton that was
partially offset by a 6 percent rise in shipments. Australia sales totaled 34.9 million tons, including 15.9
million tons of metallurgical coal and 11.4 million tons of seaborne thermal coal. U.S. Mining revenues
of $4.01 billion were impacted by a 4 percent decline in both volumes and realized pricing.
2013 Adjusted EBITDA totaled $1.05 billion compared with $1.84 billion in 2012, primarily due to the
impact of nearly $800 million from lower pricing that was partly offset by $340 million in cost
improvements. Australian Mining Adjusted EBITDA of $316.6 million was affected by nearly $700 million
related to lower pricing that was partly mitigated by a 4 percent reduction in unit costs.
Fourth quarter Australian Adjusted EBITDA was also impacted by $100 million related to the delayed
longwall commissioning at the North Goonyella Mine and industrial action at the Metropolitan Mine.
Absent the impact from these events, Australian costs per ton would have been approximately $5.00lower
for the quarter.
In 2013, the company made structural cost improvements in Australia by completing several
owner-operator conversions and improving productivity at the PCI mines, resulting in a 25 percent and 20
percent cost improvement at the respective operations. 2013 U.S. Mining Adjusted EBITDA declined 11
percent to $1.12 billion, driven by a decline in volumes and revenues per ton that was partly offset by a 3
percent improvement in operating costs per ton.
Trading and Brokerage Adjusted EBITDA totaled $0.7 million compared with $119.7 million in the prior
year. Results were impacted by sustained levels of low volatility and pricing in the seaborne markets that
led to a decline in mark-to-market earnings; lower U.S. brokerage volumes and margins primarily related
to Patriot Coal; increased third-party supply issues and compressed margins on U.S. and Asian exports.
Loss from Continuing Operations totaled $(286.0) million in 2013 compared with $(470.9) million in the
prior year. 2013 results were impacted by pre-tax asset impairment charges of $528.3 million related to

Page176of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.several operating and non-operating properties in the U.S. and Australia as well as a $30.6 million charge
related to the company’s settlement with Patriot Coal and the United Mine Workers of America. Results
also reflect lower gross margins and higher depreciation, depletion and amortization expense that were
partly offset by lower income tax expenses.
Diluted Loss from Continuing Operations totaled $(1.12) per share with Adjusted Diluted Earnings of
$0.34 per share.
2013 operating cash flow totaled $722.4 million, which led to debt reduction of over $200 million during
the year.
‘Peabody has generated positive cash flows and repaid more than $600 million of debt over the last two
years, and we continue to focus on those factors within our control to improve our financial position,’ said
Peabody Energy Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Michael C. Crews. ‘We have $2.1
billion of liquidity and our recent refinancing extends the maturity of our credit facility to 2018 while
providing significant headroom under our financial covenants.’

In 2013, Peabody also reported record worldwide safety results of 1.80 incidents per 200,000 hours
worked. Peabody received more than 25 awards for safety, land restoration, mine recognition, community
involvement and corporate excellence.
GLOBAL COAL MARKETS AND PEABODY’S POSITION
‘We look for continued record coal use in 2014 as developing nations increase coal imports and
developed nations capitalize on coal’s cost and reliability advantage over natural gas and renewables,’
said Boyce. ‘Seaborne thermal and metallurgical coal demand reached a record 1.25 billion tonnes in
2013, and coal demand growth is expected to exceed supply increases, leading to improved
fundamentals as the year proceeds.’
Within global markets, seaborne coal supply outpaced coal demand in 2013, resulting in reduced
metallurgical and thermal coal benchmark pricing.

Regarding key market highlights:
China coal imports accelerated to a monthly record of 35 million tonnes in December and reached a new
high of 320 million tonnes in 2013. Steel production increased 7.5 percent over 2012 levels, leading to
metallurgical coal demand estimated at 750 million tonnes. This drove net metallurgical coal imports up
42 percent to 74 million tonnes in 2013, as China became the largest importer of metallurgical coal.
China’s thermal coal generation increased 7 percent in 2013, fueling thermal import demand of 246
million tonnes. China’s domestic coal supply rose 1 percent in 2013 as increasing domestic mining
costs, safety concerns and mine closures supported additional coal imports;
India’s coal generation rose 8 percent in 2013, which led to a 23 percent increase in thermal coal imports.
Import growth is expected to continue as domestic production struggles to meet growing demand, new
coal-fueled generation is built along the coast, and metallurgical coal imports continue to rise on higher
steel requirements;
Japan’s coal consumption increased 10 percent through December as new coal-fueled generation
propelled additional coal demand. Metallurgical coal imports rose to an estimated 62 million tonnes in
2013 as economic expansion drove increased steel consumption;
Germany’s coal use reached the highest level since 1990 as nuclear, natural gas and renewables
generation declined;
The increase in seaborne metallurgical coal supplies was greater than expected and resulted in price
declines in 2013. The increase was largely driven by Australia metallurgical export growth of 25 million
tonnes as mines expanded production to lower unit costs and cover take-or-pay infrastructure
commitments;
Seaborne thermal demand rose 40 million tonnes in 2013. Thermal prices declined due to increased
supply primarily from Indonesia and Australia and
The first quarter metallurgical coal benchmark for high-quality low-vol hard coking coal settled at $143 per
tonne with benchmark low-vol PCI at $116 per tonne.
Global economic expansion is projected to accelerate in 2014, and seasonal demand in China is
expected to improve in the second quarter, leading to a tightening in the seaborne coal markets. The

Page177of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.World Steel Association forecasts a 3 percent increase in global steel use in 2014, which is expected to
drive metallurgical coal import demand to more than 300 million tonnes.
Metallurgical coal export growth from Australia is expected to slow in 2014, and the current environment
will further pressure U.S. exports, resulting in improved market balance. Seaborne thermal coal demand
is projected to rise 30 to 40 million tonnes in 2014 as growth in Asia is partially offset by declines in the
Atlantic basin. Thermal coal supply growth is expected to be significantly slower than the last few years as
new project development declines.
By 2016, Peabody expects global coal demand to rise 700 million tonnes. Seaborne metallurgical coal is
expected to grow 10 to 15 percent over the next three years, led by urbanization and industrialization in
China and India. Peabody estimates that approximately 250 gigawatts of new coal-fueled generation will
be built over the next three years, requiring an additional 750 million tonnes of thermal coal once
expected capacity utilization is reached.
China’s coal use is expected to continue to increase as the growth in coal-fired generating plants and
coal conversion facilities more than offset lower direct use of coal in homes and businesses.
The company is targeting 2014 sales of 35 to 37 million tons, including 16 to 17 million tons of
metallurgical coal and 11 to 12 million tons of export thermal coal.
U.S. COAL MARKETS AND PEABODY’S POSITION
‘U.S. coal demand is rising and now accounts for over 40 percent of electricity generation as utilities
switch back to coal due to higher natural gas prices,’ said Boyce. ‘Last year, coal inventories declined at
the fastest pace in 13 years and are now approaching normal levels in our key markets. Southern Powder
River Basin coal inventories have improved 34 percent since late 2012 to 52 days of consumption,
leading to stronger market fundamentals than we have seen in several years. And Peabody is currently
executing Southern Powder River Basin contracts at prices well above 2013 levels.’
U.S. production declined 30 million tons in 2013 and has fallen below 1 billion tons for the first time since
1993. Production is expected to modestly rise in 2014 to meet expanding consumption;
Utility demand increased more than 40 million tons as 2013 natural gas prices rose 32 percent, resulting
in an 11 percent decline in natural gas generation. 2014 coal consumption is projected to increase 20 to
30 million tons on increasing generation demand from a stronger U.S. economy and continued higher
natural gas prices;
Stockpiles declined 35 million tons in 2013, the largest inventory withdraw since 2000. Southern Powder
River Basin prices are now nearly 40 percent above 2013 lows as reduced stockpiles lead to additional
utility purchases and
Southern Powder River and Illinois Basin demand is anticipated to expand a combined 100 million tons
by 2016, as increased generator utilization rates and basin switching more than offset the impact of plant
retirements.

Approximately 10 to 15 percent of Peabody’s projected 2014 U.S. production is unpriced, with 45 to 55
percent of 2015 production unpriced at comparable 2014 production levels.

CAPITAL AND OPERATIONAL UPDATE

Peabody remains focused on aggressively reducing costs and capital spending while increasing
productivity across the global platform. 2014 capital targets of $275 to $325 million are below 2013 levels
and are primarily allocated to sustaining capital items. Major new project timing will continue to be
evaluated in 2014, with spending dependent on market conditions.

Operational projects are focused on:
Achieving consistent production and maximizing productivity from the longwall top coal caving system at
the North Goonyella high-quality metallurgical coal mine. Normalized production is expected to occur in
the second quarter following post start-up modifications and ongoing ramp-up in the first quarter;

Maximizing the benefits of the recently converted owner-operator mines and completing the conversion of
the Moorvale Mine to owner-operator status. Owner-operated mines will account for over 90 percent of
total Australian production after the conversion;

Capitalizing on the Metropolitan Mine modernization to further improve productivity and lower costs. A new
labor agreement provides stability for the mine’s operations and reflects a lower inflationary environment
in Australia;

Page178of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Advancing slope development at the low-cost Gateway North Mine in the Illinois Basin to provide
replacement capacity as the current operations transition into a new reserve area;

Realizing the full productivity and cost benefits of the recent dragline move at the El Segundo Mine in New
Mexico;

Increasing trading activity in Asia following the recently signed joint venture agreement with
ChinaShenhua Group;

Monetizing non-strategic assets. In January 2014, Peabody sold Mineral Development License 162, a
standalone coal deposit in Queensland, Australia, for A$70 million. Over the last year, the company has
sold over $130 million of non-strategic reserves and surface land.

OUTLOOK
Peabody is targeting first quarter 2014 Adjusted EBITDA of $170 million to $230 million and Adjusted
Diluted Earnings Per Share of $(0.10) to $0.14. Targets reflect the impact of ongoing longwall
commissioning at the North Goonyella Mine in Australia, lower realized coal pricing, contract re-openers
in the United States and longwall moves in Colorado and Australia.
The company is expecting increased volumes and improving costs in the second half of the year following
operational improvements made in the first quarter.

For the full-year 2014, Peabody is targeting:
Total sales of 245 to 265 million tons, including U.S. sales of 185 to 195 million tons, Australian sales of
35 to 37 million tons, and the remainder from Trading and Brokerage activities;

U.S. costs per ton 1 to 3 percent below 2013 levels as cost containment efforts offset higher overburden
ratios, and U.S. revenues per ton 5 to 8 percent below 2013 levels. The decline is predominately due to
contract re-openers, primarily in the Midwest;

Australian costs in the low-to-mid $70 per ton range as expected savings from additional cost
improvement efforts are offset by a higher mix of metallurgical coal and the impact from the delayed
longwall commissioning at the North Goonyella Mine;

Trading and Brokerage results that are likely to remain constrained until volatility increases and market
conditions improve;

Selling, general and administrative expenses consistent with 2013 levels as cost reductions offset
increased global advocacy initiatives and

Full-year depreciation, depletion and amortization approximately 5 to 10 percent below 2013 levels.
Peabody Energy is the world’s largest private-sector coal company and a global leader in sustainable
mining and clean coal solutions. The company serves metallurgical and thermal coal customers in more
than 25 countries on six continents. For further information, go to PeabodyEnergy.com and
CoalCanDoThat.com.
The company has modified the definitions of its non-GAAP financial measures to also exclude the impact
of charges for the settlement of claims and litigation related to previously divested operations, and the
definitions are available at the end of the release.

Certain statements in this press release are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. The company uses words such as ‘anticipate,’ ‘believe,’ ‘expect,’ ‘may,’ ‘forecast,’
‘project,’ ‘should,’ ‘estimate,’ ‘plan,’ ‘outlook,’ ‘target’ or other similar words to identify forward-looking
statements.
These forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions that the company believes are
reasonable, but they are open to a wide range of uncertainties and business risks that may cause actual
results to differ materially from expectations as of Jan. 30, 2013.
These factors are difficult to accurately predict and may be beyond the company’s control. The company
does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements.
Factors that could affect the company’s results include, but are not limited to: global supply and demand
for coal, including the seaborne thermal and metallurgical coal markets; price volatility, particularly in
higher-margin products and in the company’s trading and brokerage businesses; impact of alternative
energy sources, including natural gas and renewables; global steel demand and the downstream impact

Page179of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.on metallurgical coal prices; impact of weather and natural disasters on demand, production and
transportation; reductions and/or deferrals of purchases by major customers and ability to renew sales
contracts; credit and performance risks associated with customers, suppliers, contract miners,
co-shippers, and trading, banks and other financial counterparties; geologic, equipment, permitting, site
access and operational risks related to mining; transportation availability, performance and costs;
availability, timing of delivery and costs of key supplies, capital equipment or commodities such as diesel
fuel, steel, explosives and tires; impact of take-or-pay agreements with rail and port commitments for the
delivery of coal; successful implementation of business strategies; negotiation of labor contracts,
employee relations and workforce availability; changes in postretirement benefit and pension obligations
and funding requirements; replacement and development of coal reserves; availability, access to and
related cost of capital and financial markets; effects of changes in interest rates and currency exchange
rates (primarily the Australian dollar); effects of acquisitions or divestitures; economic strength and political
stability of countries in which the company has operations or serves customers; legislation, regulations
and court decisions or other government actions, including, but not limited to, new environmental and
mine safety requirements; changes in income tax regulations, sales-related royalties, or other regulatory
taxes and changes in derivative laws and regulations; litigation, including claims not yet asserted and
other risks detailed in the company’s reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Beginning with this release, the company has modified the definitions of its non-GAAP financial measures
to also exclude the impact of charges for the settlement of claims and litigation related to previously
divested operations. Management believes that excluding these impacts is useful in comparing the
company’s current results with those of prior and future periods.
Adjusted EBITDA is defined as (loss) income from continuing operations before deducting net interest
expense, income taxes, asset retirement obligation expenses, depreciation, depletion and amortization,
asset impairment and mine closure costs, charges for the settlement of claims and litigation related to
previously divested operations and amortization of basis difference associated with equity method
investments. Adjusted EBITDA, which is not calculated identically by all companies, is not a substitute for
operating income, net income or cash flow as determined in accordance with United States GAAP.

Management uses Adjusted EBITDA as the primary metric to measure segment operating performance
and also believes it is useful to investors in comparing the company’s current results with those of prior
and future periods and in evaluating the company’s operating performance without regard to its capital
structure or the cost basis of its assets.
Adjusted (Loss) Income from Continuing Operations and Adjusted Diluted EPS are defined as (loss)
income from continuing operations and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations,
respectively, excluding the impacts of asset impairment and mine closure costs and charges for the
settlement of claims and litigation related to previously divested operations, net of tax, and the
remeasurement of foreign income tax accounts on our income tax provision.

The income tax benefits related to asset impairment and mine closure costs and charges for the
settlement of claims and litigation related to previously divested operations are calculated based on the
enacted tax rate in the jurisdiction in which they have been or will be realized, adjusted for the estimated
recoverability of those benefits.

Management has included these measures because, in the opinion of management, excluding those
foregoing items is useful in comparing the company’s current results with those of prior and future
periods. Management also believes that excluding the impact of the remeasurement of foreign income tax
accounts represents a meaningful indicator of the company’s ongoing effective tax rate.

Contact:

Vic Svec Tel: (314) 342-7768

[Editorial queries for this story should be sent to newswire@enpublishing.co.uk]

CO pbdy : Peabody Energy Corp | lehbro : Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc
IN
NS

i1 : Energy | i111 : Coal Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c151 : Earnings | npress : Press Releases | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | usa : United States | usil : Illinois | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
namz : North America | usc : Midwest U.S.

RE

PUB Electronic News Publishing Ltd.

Page180of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN Document ENPNEW0020140131ea1v000b8

Page181of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.