Arrium plunge in wake of raising

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Arrium plunge in wake of raising

MATT CHAMBERS, BARRY FITZGERALD
532 words
19 September 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
19
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

ARRIUM shares tanked by more than a third to hit a record low yesterday as investors weighed up
the consequences of a $754 million equity raising, institutional shareholders not taking part in the
rights issue and pressure on the company’s iron ore unit in the face of slumping prices.

Trading for the first time since Arrium on Monday declared it needed to raise cash to strengthen its
balance sheet in the face of slumping iron ore prices, the shares closed down 16.5c, or 38 per cent,
at 40c, their lowest close since the company spun out of BHP as OneSteel in 2000.

It was also 17 per cent below their 48c-a-share underwritten renounceable rights offer price, leaving
the rights trading at 1.3c each and unlikely to be taken up.

In the trading-halted three days since Arrium announced the rights issue — at a 26 per cent
discount to its last traded share price — the company was able to convince only 79 per cent of
institutional shareholders to take up the deal and keep their stake in the company, raising $465m.

“We are pleased with the support we have received from our institutional shareholders and other
investors for this equity raising,” Arrium chief executive Andrew Roberts said.

“The raising will strengthen Arrium’s balance sheet and provide it with a more appropriate capital
structure for the current environment.” The equity raising comes only a month after Arrium declared
a dividend with its full-year result.
In that time the iron ore price has fallen 12 per cent. The slumping price has meant forecast cuts
from many analysts, resulting in further pressure on Arrium’s earnings forecasts and valuation.

Allan Gray fund manager Simon Mawhinney said he met with management twice this week with a
view to getting involved in the placement but elected not to.
“They still have $1.2bn in debt (after the raising) so they are still reasonably geared and their iron
ore assets are marginal at this price,” Mr Mawhinney said.
He said the iron ore market, where supply was growing rapidly, could get worse for miners if the
Chinese pick-up in demand most expected did not eventuate.
“We’re conscious the iron ore cycle is the very thing that has resulted in the drop in profitability and
it may well be early into a downturn that may last a long time, so there is no need to rush into it,” Mr
Mawhinney said.

The share price has fallen below analysts’ revised targets.

The average of 11 brokers that revised their forecasts after Monday’s announcement had an
average target price of 57c in a range of 35c to 70c, and an average 2014-15 earnings before
interest, tax depreciation and amortisation forecast of $557m.

Page14of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.One analyst said the falling share price and poor institutional take-up had been influenced by lack of
guidance in the mining business and the fact there had been expressions of confidence in the
balance sheet just four weeks earlier.
“It tells you something has changed dramatically in their mining business since their results,” he
said.CRITERION P27

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140918ea9j00038

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page15of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.