(AE) Ferret's MOVING FACES

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

(AE) Ferret's MOVING FACES

1,182 words
1 December 2014
Ralph Wragg Australian Business News
AAPRAW
English
Copyright 2014 RWE AUSTRALIAN BUSINESS NEWS PTY LTD. All Rights Reserved.

Sydney - Monday - December 1: (RWE Australian Business News) - A list of changes of management
within ASX-listed companies.

Moving in ...

* AngloGold Ashanti announced the appointment of Albert Garner and Maria Richter as non-executive
directors with effect from January 1. Mr Garner has extensive experience in capital markets, corporate
finance and mergers and acquisitions, having worked with Lazard Frere & Co LLC for 35 years in various
leadership positions.

Ms Richter is a lawyer, investment banker and accomplished and experienced FTSE 100 non-eexecutive
director who has served on a diverse range of UK and International boards. She served on the board of
the National Grid plc, one of the largest electricity and gas companies in the UK, from 2003 to July 2014
where she was the chairperson of the Finance Committee and member of the Audit and Nominations
Committee.
* Bruce Cox has been appointed as a non-executive director of Energy Resources of Australia Ltd. Mr
Cox is currently the president and chief executive officer of Pacific Aluminium and is a member of Rio
Tinto Alcan's Executive Committee. The Pacific Aluminium business includes the Bell Bay, Boyne,
Tomago and NZAS smelters situated across Australia and New Zealand, as well as the GladstonePower
Station. Mr Cox has more than 33 years of experience with Rio Tinto and BHP, and prior to his current
role was managing director of Rio Tinto Diamonds.

Peter Taylor has advised the board that he will not seek re-election as a director at the 2015 annual
general meeting.

* Virax Holdings Ltd has strengthened its board with three new appointments to support its growing US
oncology portfolio including US Phase 1b and 2 clinical trials in ovarian and breast cancer.

Steven Engle, former chairman and CEO of XOMA and La Jolla Pharmaceuticals, joins the board as
non-executive chairman. He is currently CEO of Averigon Consulting, an advisory firm to the life science
industry. Mr Engle has deep experience in US capital markets, a record of achievement in partnering with
big pharma, and has overseen multiple drug filings with the FDA.

James Campbell has been appointed non-executive director and has a demonstrable track record as
both a scientist and commercial executive in the sector. He was previously CFO and chief operating
officer of Chemgenex, which was acquired by Cephalon for $230m in 2011.

Steven Yatomi-Clarke, one of Australia's most experienced biotech capital markets operatives with a
successful history of financing many private and public biotech companies over the past decade, joins as
a non-executive director. Mr Yatomi-Clarke is director of Corporate Finance at Patersons Securities. He
has over 15 years' experience in investment banking across a range of sectors, but specialises in
healthcare and biotechnology.

Dr Millen, Dr Toder and Dr de Kauwe have each given notice of their intention to resign as directors.
They have provided sound guidance as the company transitioned from its reinstatement to the ASX to
the present stage of its development.

Page195of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.* SpeedCast International Ltd has appointed Ian Baldwin as chief financial officer. He joins SpeedCast
from Transfield Services Ltd where most recently he was CFO of the Resources & Energy division,
Australia & New Zealand. Mr Baldwin brings a depth of ASX experience, having worked for the past
seven years in senior finance roles at Transfield Services Ltd and Australand Holdings Ltd. Prior to that,
he spent over 10 years at PricewaterhouseCoopers in the UK and Australia. The appointment of Mr
Baldwin follows Mark Ellison's announced departure after more than two years as group CFO, which
culminated in SpeedCast's IPO.

* Zixuan Zhou has been appointed a director of Fifth Element Resources Ltd. Mr Zhou started his career
with Bouygues Construction as an M&E engineer and worked for different construction projects in Hong
Kong and Singapore from 2007 to 2009.

* Scott Ison has been appointed general manager of AstiVita Ltd. He has been acting chief operating
officer since September. He has been in a management position since starting with AstiVita in August
2003.
* Mazu Alliance Ltd has appointed Lama Tsewang Rigzin to advise the company on various Buddhist
affairs. Lama Tsewang is the religious leader of the Tibetan Buddhism Nyingma Sect. He is the current
abbot of the Zha Na Temple in Gongjue County, in the Changdu Prefecture of Tibet.

* Nicholas Harwood and Gary Peter Doran of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu have been appointed joint and
several receivers and managers of Alcyone Resources Ltd and Texas Silver Mines Pty Ltd, in addition to
the appointment of Simon Theobald, Grant Sparks and Michael Owen of PPB Advisory, who were
appointed as joint and several receivers and managers on November 17 under a different debenture
charge.

Moving On ...
* Australia United Mining Ltd advises that Graeme Fraser has retired as chief executive officer, and that
it has appointed Matthew Bull to the position of CEO. Mr Bull is an Australian geologist with more than
over 10 years' experience in the mining industry. He has worked on a wide range of commodities with a
focus on gold and iron ore.

* Anthony Eisen has retired as a non-executive director of Capral Ltd. Mr Eisen was previously one of
Guinness Peat Group's representatives and the board thanked him for his significant contribution to
Capral over the past eight years.

* Mighty River Power’s longest-serving director, Tania Simpson, has advised that she will retire from the
board in June 2015. Chair Joan Withers said Ms Simpson's tenure of 13 years - from the company's
beginnings as a state-owned enterprise, through a significant evolution of the business and successful
listing in 2013 - spoke of the high regard in which she was held, both commercially and throughout
Maoridom.

* Bone Medical Ltd non-executive director Roger New has resigned as part of the termination and
settlement of the Proxima Group licence and services agreements.
Company secretary Phillip Wingate has been appointed as a non-executive director. He has broad
financial experience holding company secretarial and financial roles with several ASX-listed companies,
and has been involved with various ASX listings and merger and acquisition transactions. He is also
company secretary of Orinoco Gold Ltd and Potash Minerals Ltd.

* Steven Apedaile has advised Sprintex Ltd of his resignation as a non-executive director. He said, "I
have appreciated the opportunity to serve this company in various positions since 2003, and wish the
company well in the future." Mr Apedaile stated his decision allowed him to further focus on his other
corporate interests and responsibilities.

* Following from the Apollo Minerals Ltd AGM on Thursday, Matthew Rimes announced his retirement as
a director. The new board thanked Mr Rimes for his contribution over the last three years.

* Guang Wei Zhang resigned as a director of Siburan Resources Ltd and did not seek re-election at the
AGM on Friday. Mr Zhang was a director of the company since August 2012.

* Craig Douglas McIntosh has resigned as an alternate director of Intueri Education Group Ltd, following
his departure from Arowana International Ltd to focus on his other business interests.

CO

era : Energy Resources of Australia Ltd | ngrid : National Grid PLC | vaal : AngloGold Ashanti Ltd | craaus
: Rio Tinto Ltd | rtz : Rio Tinto PLC

Page196of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | imet :
Mining/Quarrying | imulti : Multiutilities | iuran : Uranium Ore Mining | iutil : Utilities
c411 : Management Moves | c41 : Management | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types
| nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd
AN

Document AAPRAW0020141201eac1000xd

Page197of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.