ENDGAME BEGINS FOR CONTROL OF GOODMAN FIELDER

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
ENDGAME BEGINS FOR CONTROL OF GOODMAN FIELDER

JOHN BEVERIDGE
622 words
29 April 2014
Herald-Sun
HERSUN
HeraldSun
26
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

IN THE BLACK IT is not pleasant but perhaps it had to happen.
In the same month that I once again plastered an avoid on Goodman Fielder shares, a $1.3 billion
takeover offer at 65c a share has surfaced from Wilmar/First Pacific.

While the offer was immediately rejected by the Goodman Fielderboard, there is a good chance
now that we are entering an end game with a final auction so that these two major shareholders can
take out the company.

It will probably take something in the 70c a share range to budge the big institutional investors such
as Perpetual and Ellerston Capital (who together speak for 24.3 per cent) but once the bidders get
those two over the line, plus their own shareholding, the takeover game is virtually over.

For those who missed out on yesterday’s handy 19 per cent gain in Goodman Fielder shares, I
would like to point out that the bid actually confirms precisely what I was talking about.

The once storied collection of food brands such as Meadow Lea and Helga’s has been restructured
so many times by various owners that it is probably held together with cable ties.

However, its earnings keep falling relentlessly, with the latest consensus forecast of around $230
million in earnings around half of the level achieved a few years back.
The entire business model of baking bread fresh centrally and then trucking it to supermarkets is
under enormous strain compared to breads baked in store and as fast as Goodman Fielder cuts
costs, profits fall faster.

This bid needs to be seen in that context — it is essentially a signal from some major shareholders
that they are no longer going to sit around and watch their money go down the drain.
They believe it will be cheaper and more efficient to take out the company with a low ball bid and
restructure it themselves.

That is why the bid is so cheap at just under eight times earnings, which really represents a change
of control discount rather than a premium.

The skinny price reflects the dangers for the bidder of earnings deteriorating further plus the cost,
risk and trouble of restructuring Goodman Fielder — hopefully for the final time.

On the positive side for the Wilmar/First Pacific joint venture, if it does grab Goodman Fielder it
would inherit a “Western’’ brand portfolio that would no doubt help its efforts at penetrating the
Chinese market.

Page174of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.There is no doubt that a good business could emerge from Goodman Fielder under new ownership
but the avoid call stands at the current bid’s inflated prices — in tandem with a sell for existing
holders.

Biotechnology shares are notoriously hard to value but Prima Biomed is in an interesting position.
With around $30 million of cash, the company is trading at less than $50 million.
The problem is that the $30 million will progressively get spent — barring an earlier deal with a
large pharmaceutical company — so you are really buying the science cheap.

In this case Prima’s revolutionary CVac immunotherapy treatment for ovarian cancer hit some major
effectiveness hurdles in earlier trials.

Yesterday a new phase two trial started recruiting 210 women with the deadly cancer.

Unlike previous trials this one is aimed at greatly improving survival rates for women who go into
remission using older treatments, which the science suggests CVac should be ideal for.

It is indeed a high risk/high reward stock, but with a very low share price and some cash in the bank
it is a speculative buy.The Herald Sun accepts no responsibility for stock recommendations.
Readers should contact a licensed financial adviser.

CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

fdgl : Goodman Fielder Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document HERSUN0020140428ea4t0008o

Page175of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.