Private equity companies target big Australian food producers

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Private equity companies target big Australian food producers

Jared Lynch
509 words
18 June 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
26
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Agribusiness - Asian growth spurs interest
Private equity investors are muscling in on food companies after being traditionally reluctant to invest
in the sector, a business advisory firm says.

Takeovers are gaining momentum, with Australian agriculture and food businesses as prime targets, as
international companies look for entry into Asia to capitalise on its rapidly expanding middle class.

A Grant Thornton study, which has tracked mergers and acquisitions in Australia's food bowl for the
past three years, has found private equity firms are increasingly eyeing the sector.
The report comes as Europe's R&R, which is owned by French private equity firmPAI Partners,
gobbled up ice-cream maker Peters for what is understood to be $400 million.
US private equity giant Kohlberg Kravis Roberts has also tried to grab a slice of the action, lobbing a
$3.05 billion bid for Treasury Wine Estates, the maker of Penfolds.
"Five to 10 years ago, private equity was not going into agriculture opportunities because of the risk of
primary production," Grant Thornton partner Cameron Bacon said.

"But the sector is becoming very attractive because of the strong growth opportunities in Asia."
From January 2011 to March this year, private equity buyers - which are roaring back to life after a soft
deal flow since 2012 - comprised 14 per cent of mergers and acquisitions. Mr Bacon said while that
was a "relatively small" proportion, private equity firms were "much more prevalent" in larger deals.
Private equity investors were involved in two of Australia's 10 biggest deals in the past three years.

TPG Capital bought Ingham Enterprises, one of Australia's biggest poultry producers, for about $880
million in June last year. Two months earlier, Catalyst Investment Managers reduced its 49 per cent
stake in vegetable wholesaler Moraitis Group to 15 per cent after Hong Kong-listed Chevalier
International Holdings secured control of the company for $212 million.

"There have ... been a number of large successful PE exits both within Australia and overseas,
demonstrating that this is an attractive sector for PE," Mr Bacon said.
He said private equity investors were particularly interested in packaged foods and meats, which
accounted for 77 per cent of PE global deals.

Mr Bacon said buyers were looking for companies that had strong brands that they could use to
improve their own portfolios and sell into Asia.

Page110of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The trade agreements that the Abbott government has recently struck with Japan and Korea would
enhance those opportunities, Mr Bacon said, particularly for cheese, beef, horticulture and wine
exports.

"These agreements should also make Australian companies more attractive to foreign investors.

"It means companies need to be prepared to sell if they get an approach from out of the blue and
respond quickly."
There was also interest from private equity firms in food distribution businesses. One of the biggest
deals in that sector was Bright Foods Group acquiring 75 per cent of Food Holdings from CHAMP
Private Equity for about $516 million.

IN

RE
PUB
AN

i8150203 : Private Equity | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | ialtinv : Alternative Investments |
ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140617ea6i0004h

Page111of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.