Queensland to invest in Galilee rail project to carry coal to Abbot Point

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
VOL
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Queensland to invest in Galilee rail project to carry coal to Abbot Point

Mike Cooper
551 words
17 November 2014
Platts Coal Trader International
CLTRDI
ISSN: 1746-8914, Volume 14, Issue 223
English
© 2014 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

The government of the Australian state of Queensland is to invest an unspecified amount into a new
railway to carry coal from mines located in the under-developed Galilee Basin coal field to Abbot Point
port, said Queensland premier Campbell Newman in a statement Monday.

The railway will benefit Indian companies Adani and GVK which have mine projects in the Galilee that
need rail infrastructure access to coastal ports located 400 km away.

"Today, I announced that the state government is prepared to take a short-term, financial stake in the
rail, port or other infrastructure needed to open up this region to create jobs Queenslanders need," said
Newman.
The Brisbane-based state government was prepared to sign agreements with Galilee Basin coal
companies who could demonstrate they could meet the majority cost of providing common-use
infrastructure, he said.
Adani, the proponent for a 60 million mt/year thermal coal export mine in the Galilee Basin with an
investment of A$16.5 billion ($14.5 billion), is the first beneficiary of the Queensland government's
infrastructure investment for its required rail line to Abbot Point port, said the government statement.

"The Carmichael project could create almost 6,500 jobs and this agreement will see the Queensland
government invest in the rail line needed to carry coal to port," said Newman.
Adani's Australian unit, through its chief executive Jeyakumar Janakaraj, said the Indian company was
building its future in Queensland, "with several billion dollars in investments already made across the
company's integrated mine, rail and port project," according to the statement.

Similar infrastructure agreements are expected to follow with other Galilee miners, said deputy premier
Jeff Seeney.
Waratah coal project 'ignored'
Another Galilee Basin coal mine proponent, Clive Palmer, questioned the Queensland government's
decision to provide taxpayer funding for infrastructure that will benefit Adani.

"Queensland and Australian companies have been ignored while the Newman government desperately
tries to rescue the untapped Galilee Basin coal region," said Palmer.
The Australian billionaire and MP said his own company, Waratah Coal's Galilee Basin coal project
— the A$6.4 billion China First mine — had been "ignored" in terms of assistance from the
Queensland government, even though the project was underwritten with A$10 billion in funding from
Credit Suisse bank's Singapore branch.

Page207of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Queensland Resources Council, the representative body for coal miners in the Australian state,
said in a statement the Newman government's infrastructure agreement with Adani would help
kick-start development of the Galilee Basin coal field.

"It's a combination of hard-headed commercial investment and a visionary approach to securing
long-term benefits for the state," said QRC chief executive Michael Roche.
India's State Bank has extended a $1 billion line of credit to Adani for its Galilee coal project which is
due to export its first shipments of coal in 2017, said the QRC statement.

Separately, Australian media reported Friday that Hancock Prospecting, a 21% partner in Indian
company GVK's Alpha and Alpha West projects in the Galilee coal field, had written down to zero the
value of a A$656 million payment outstanding on the sale of the projects three years ago.

Mike Cooper

NS

RE
IPD
PUB
AN

mcoal : Coal Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | mcat :
Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion
Filter
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Investments
The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Document CLTRDI0020141215eabh0000d

Page208of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.