Dairy giant goes up for sale

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Lifestyle
Dairy giant goes up for sale

ROGER HANSON and KAROLIN MacGREGOR
515 words
11 July 2014
Tasmanian Country
TASCOU
TasCountry
3
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

AUSTRALIA’S biggest dairy farmer, Van Diemen’s Land Company, is to be sold by its New
Zealand-based owners.
It is understood several investors have already expressed interest in the company.

One of Australia’s oldest companies, VDL is owned by Tasman Farms Ltd, which in turn is owned by
New Plymouth District Council.
VDL owns and operates 25 dairy farms, most of them at Woolnorth, in the state’s far North-West. It
runs about 30,000 dairy stock producing 70-80 million litres or about 10 per cent of the state’s milk
production.
This year’s milk production figures are up on last year, which could be another sweetener for potential
investors.
The company also has a dairy support unit and stand-alone heifer rearing operation, and runs beef
cattle and sheep on non-dairying land at Woolnorth.
Last year, the Tasmanian properties had a book value of more than $170 million. New Plymouth
District Council Mayor Andrew Judd said he would visit VDL’s assets this week as part of the sale
process.

Local VDL and Tasman Farms director Miles Hampton, who was formerly managing director of Roberts
Limited, said the NZ owner had for some time been trying to sell down its stake in the company.

“Their strong preference is to retain some ownership, maintaining significant investment in VDL,” Mr
Hampton said.

“However, most potential purchasers want to secure the lot, so now the process will involve how the
sale will look.” Circular Head Mayor Daryl Quilliam said VDL was a vital part of the region’s economy.

“They’ve got 25 farms and are a huge employer in the district,” he said. “There are probably between
180 and 200 people working on farms, but there’s more than 500 people living on the properties. All
that money comes back into the community.” Mr Quilliam said he hoped plans to expand the VDL
operation, to include about 30,000 cows, would not be impacted by any potential asset sales.

“If it goes ahead we could be looking at another 100 people working, so that’s a lot of extra jobs and
more money coming into the community,” he said.
“The dairy industry has both State and Federal government support, so I think it’s a good industry to be
involved with.” The state’s peak body for dairy farmers, DairyTas, is keeping a close eye on the sale.
DairyTas executive officer Mark Smith said they would be watching the sale process.

Page223of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“VDL is an important asset to the Tasmanian dairy industry, so we will be observing with interest,” Mr
Smith said.
“There is a lot of interest in the state’s dairy industry, so maybe this will present an opportunity for
investors.” In the past 12 months VDL held talks with potential foreign partners to raise an additional
$180 million for a significant expansion in its operations.Among prospective investors is a consortium
that includes New Zealand’s Fonterra and the Chinese Government-owned China Investment
Corporation.

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 :
Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy Products | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | tasman : Tasmania | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document TASCOU0020140710ea7b0000m

Page224of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.