Keeping Australia Australian

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Keeping Australia Australian

R Horrell
332 words
24 November 2014
Riverine Herald
MPRIVH
M006
English
Copyright 2014. McPherson Media Group.

Murray Plains has its sixth state election candidate — Rise Up Australia’s Laurie Wintle
(pictured).

He wants to keep Australia Australian.

‘‘I rarely meet anyone who doesn’t agree with that,’’ Mr Wintle said.
‘‘The Chinese have bought up a lot of land lately — billions of dollars worth — but we can’t
buy a square inch in China.’’
The retired Kyabram farmer said while dairy products were processed and exported and some
farmers were happy to sell to foreign investors, we are losing control.

‘‘It should be owned by Australia,’’ he said.
‘‘We’ve already lost our manufacturing business.

‘‘We spend a lot of money on social security and things like that.’’’

On the whole, he thought many governments borrowed too much money.

‘‘The US have more than $18 trillion in debt and $80 trillion in unfunded liabilities,’’ he said.

‘‘They borrow 42c in the dollar and they spend with no sign of stopping.

‘‘The world is so intertwined now that when something happens on the other side of the world,
we are impacted by it.’’

Mr Wintle said water was also a huge issue for the region and the lifeblood of the community.

‘‘There’s talk we are the food bowl of Asia and we’re going to double our productivity, but in the
last 20 years just about every commodity we have is produced less now.’’

As for the Echuca-Moama bridge, a new one was too expensive and the problem would be
solved if people simply got on their bikes, Mr Wintle said.
‘‘We need to do what the Chinese do and ride a push bike,’’ he said.

‘‘Then we’d get fit and it’s not a big distance.

‘‘Commuters in Melbourne drive an hour and a half.’’

Mr Wintle said his thoughts on the new combined school for Echuca were ‘‘bigger is not
necessarily better’’.

Page123of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.He is also strongly against the Safe Schools Coalition which he felt promoted acceptance of
homosexuality.

RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
McPherson Media Group
Document MPRIVH0020141123eabo00009

Page124of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.