Baosteel’s $1.4bn Aquila offer ‘not fair’

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Baosteel’s $1.4bn Aquila offer ‘not fair’

SARAH-JANE TASKER
550 words
21 June 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
26
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

INDEPENDENT experts have labelled China-backed Baosteel’s $1.4 billion offer for Aquila
Resources as “not fair” and placed a higher valuation on the company than the bid.

Aquila last night released its target statement, which outlines that its independent directors believe
accepting the $3.40-a-share offer in the absence of a superior proposal is “finely balanced”.

“The Aquila group has an attractive and diversified portfolio of assets and your independent directors
believe that the offer price does not reflect the full underlying value of the Aquila group nor the
strategic value of West Pilbara Iron to the bidders,” executive chairman Tony Poli said in his letter to
shareholders.

“The independent expert has assessed that the value of Aquila on a 100 per cent controlling interest
basis ranges from $3.90 to $5.24 per Aquila share.” Despite this, he said that on balance and after
careful consideration of the offer and given that the share price of Aquila would fall if the bid failed,
shareholders should accept.

Given there is still a slight chance that a superior proposal could emerge, Mr Poli has recommended
that shareholders delay acceptance of the offer until July 3. If they accept now they could be
excluded from accepting a superior proposal if one emerged.
The release of the statement followed the company revealing on Wednesday that Mr Poli, who is
also a co-founder and 30 per cent shareholder of Aquila, would be voting his shares into the bid in
the absence of a superior offer.

Mr Poli made the decision after Baosteel, with joint bidder Aurizon, declared they would not increase
their $3.40-a-share offer and threatened to exit the company and not offer future support to Aquila’s
West Pilbara iron ore project if its bid did not succeed.
Chinese giant Baosteel, which has a 20 per cent stake in Aquila, said in its updated bidders’
statement yesterday that it was confident the minimum acceptance condition, of 50 per cent, could be
satisfied.

The independent expert’s report, by Grant Samuel, concluded that while the offer was not fair, it was
reasonable. It outlined that Baosteel and Aurizon were focused on the West Pilbara iron ore project,
but that it was an asset that the market had not ascribed any value to.

The report also highlighted that the assessment of the offer was not straightforward, given all but one
of Aquila’s assets were pre-development or exploration interests.

“Such assets are by their very nature difficult to value,” it said. Grant Samuel was of the view that
given the $7.5bn-$8bn capital expenditure target on West Pilbara, the funding and development
challenges for a company like Aquila were such that it was likely the market had been attributing little
or no value to Aquila’s West Pilbara interest.

Page156of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The report also said that in the absence of the Baosteel offer or the expectation of a similar
transaction, Grant Samuel expected that Aquila shares would trade at prices well below the offer
price.“On balance, in Grant Samuel’s view, in the absence of a superior alternative proposal,
shareholders are likely to be better off if they accept the offer,” the report said.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

aqures : Aquila Resources Ltd. | baois : Shanghai Baosteel Group Corp
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying | isteel : Steel Production
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140620ea6l000au

Page157of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.