WHEN eating pizza in China , there is a 50 per cent

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Early General News
WHEN eating pizza in China, there is a 50 per cent

COLIN BETTLES
405 words
8 May 2014
Stock Journal
FSTOCJ
14
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

WHEN eating pizza in China, there is a 50 per cent chance you will be consuming mozzarella cheese
supplied by New Zealand's export dominant dairy co-operative Fonterra.
According to the company's managing director of people, culture and strategy Maury Leyland, food
service products -such as cheese - are critical to its strategic growth plans in China and other rapidly
expanding Asian markets.

Speaking at a high-level gathering of farmer directors of dairy co-ops from Australia and NZ in
Auckland on Monday, Ms Leyland outlined the seven key strategic pathways underpinning Fonterra's
business strategy, including "delivering on food service potential".
She said her company was already involved in exporting food service products to a range of different
countries.
But Fonterra wants a bigger slice of the future action, given China and the world's growing middle
classes and appetite for dairy products and other value added items such as mozzarella cheese.
Ms Leyland said Fonterra's dairy products were being sold through several food service channels,
including quick service restaurants offering pizzas and hamburgers, while hotels, restaurants, cafes
and bakeries also have growing demand.
On the back of that optimistic outlook, the co-op made a NZ$72 million investment in new
infrastructure and technology late last year that will see mozzarella output increase across two NZ
plants to 50,000 tonnes a year by September 2015.
According to a recent Bloomberg report, Fonterra expects China's cheese demand to grow 20pc this
year and next year.
Yum! Brands which operates Pizza Hut also estimates China's consuming class will double to 600
million people by 2020.

Fonterra also supplies global pizza chain Domino's Pizza, which together with Pizza Hut, has
aggressive expansion plans in those key markets: good news for Fonterra's dairy farmer suppliers.

Fonterra's annual results last September showed food service was a high earner which grew 28pc in
China.

Ms Leyland said Fonterra's established consumer brands were focused on offering "affordable, highly
nutritious, valuable products in emerging markets".
But she said the co-op's food service business had forged ahead in recent times "in terms of
prominence and growth".
"Food service is a big business for us and high growth," Ms Leyland said.

Page43of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Details: www.farmonline.com.au

RE

PUB
AN

china : China | saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
austr : Australia | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FSTOCJ0020140507ea580000e

Page44of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.