Developer nabs quick $17.25m profit

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Developer nabs quick $17.25m profit

Matthew Cranston
456 words
6 August 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
31
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Cornerstone Properties is set to make a quickfire $17.25 million profit from the sale of a Brisbane
development site to tycoon Koh Wee Seng's Singapore-listed Aspial Corporation.
Aspial will buy the central business district site at 30 Albert Street for about $36 million.

The $36 million price tag is nearly twice what Cornerstone paid late last year when it bought the site
from listed developer Devine .
The transaction shows the incredible appetite from Asian backed investors for Australian real
estate and how the boom has finally hit Brisbane after the price explosion in Sydney and Melbourne.
Aspial is buying the 2077-square- metre site with no change to the development application that was
in place when Cornerstone bought it last year.
The site had a commercial DA, but was pitched as a residential site proposing 279 units over 33
levels.

JLL's Seb Turnbull is believed to have transacted the deal but was unavailable.

The move by Aspial follows a report in The Australian Financial Review on Tuesday that another
local developer, Metro Property Development, was expected to take a $24 million profit in just over
six months by selling a site to Chinese real estate giant R&F Properties.
The Hong Kong-listed, Guangzhou-based R&F is in due diligence to pay $46 million, more than
twice the $22 million Metro paid for the former TAFE college in south Brisbane in December.
The Aspial and R&F Properties deals paint a clear picture of the future demand for residential sites
in Brisbane after bull runs in Sydney and Melbourne.
The volume of apartment development sites purchases in inner Brisbane had already surged in the
first quarter of this year as developers moved north from Sydney and Melbourne. Values for such
residential sites had increased by up to 66 per cent. These new deals to Asian backed buyers will
lift values further.
Aspial, also thought to be buying another site at 240 Margaret Street in Brisbane for about
$25 million, would not comment on the Albert Street deal

Aspial is famed as the developer of Melbourne's Australia 108 project.

That development in Southbank would be the first 100-storey unit building in the southern
hemisphere.

Page176of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Koh Wee Seng and his older brother, property tycoon and hotelier Koh Wee Meng, have emerged
only this year as powerful players in Australia's residential development space.
Koh Weng Meng's Fragrance Group snapped up two Melbourne CBD sites in the past month and
one on Perth.
Cornerstone Properties, which is owned and run by the relations of construction and property
developer Sir John Pidgeon, also declined to comment on the sensitive transaction.

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
c151 : Earnings | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact
: Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | melb : Melbourne | queensl : Queensland | sydney : Sydney |
victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South
Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140805ea860002o

IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page177of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.