Rio's man in China walks the fine lines

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Rio's man in China walks the fine lines

Lisa Murray
943 words
13 October 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
21
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

As the markets contemplated the formation of the world's biggest mining company last week,
"Glentinto", there was no mention of Ren Binyan.

But perhaps there should have been.

Rio Tinto's managing director in China is set to be one of the most important players in this unfolding
drama.
The 57-year-old Chinese Australian executive is in charge of the relationship between Rio and its
major shareholder, the state-owned Aluminum Corporation of China (Chinalco). He is little known in
Australia, but he could very well be the man who stands between Ivan Glasenberg, chief executive of
the Swiss commodities trader Glencore, and his dreams of a $182 billion merger with Rio.
Ren was drafted into the Anglo-Australian miner in 2010 as a vice president for its China operations
and a successor to then-local managing director and company veteran Ian Bauert.

Three years later, he was elevated to the top country position. He came to the job with a diverse
business background, having built up the China businesses of both insurance company HIH
Winterthur and US aluminium giant, Alcoa.

But he had one equally important attribute. In a country that values "guanxi" or connections, he came
to Rio with a powerful personal and business network that allowed him access to the often
impenetrable inner circle of China's elite politics.Family connection

Ren's late father-in-law Jiang Minkuan was governor of Sichuan Province, a key economic hub in
China's southwest, for three years until 1988 and he subsequently sat on the Central Committee,
which appoints the most powerful people in the Communist Party, for more than 10 years.
Ren also has high-level connections at Chinalco, having worked closely with its president Xiong
Weiping when he was at Alcoa. The American aluminum company became a strategic investor in
Chinalco and helped it list on the Hong Kong and New York stock exchanges. Ultimately, plans to
build a joint venture alumina refinery and aluminium smelter didn't work out and Alcoa sold out of its
shares in Chinalco in 2007, but Ren and Xiong remained close.
When Rio was looking to repair its relationship with Chinalco after it abandoned a $US19.5 billion
deal in mid-2009, which would have given the Chinese state-owned company an 18 per cent stake,
it turned to Ren.
"Ren's appointment shows the company had confidence in its Chinese leadership," Peter Arkell said,
a Shanghai-based head hunter and chairman of both the Australian Chamber of Commerce in
Shanghai and the Oriental Mining Club.

Page80of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It had been a tumultuous few years for Rio. Months after the miner walked away from the Chinalco
deal, one of its iron ore traders, Stern Hu, was arrested in Shanghai for corruption and subsequently
jailed for 10 years, marking a low-point in Australia-China relations.Increased investment
Rather than pull back from China, Rio made the strategic decision to throw more money and
resources at the relationship.
The company's Shanghai headquarters were renovated with the important addition of a jade horse
statue in water to improve Rio's "feng shui."
And Ren, who was born in Harbin in China's northeastern Heilongjiang Province and had worked in
London, New York, Sydney and Melbourne, was recruited to manage the Chinalco relationship.
Like many of his contemporaries, Ren's schooling was cut short by China's Cultural Revolution. In
1975, at age 18, Ren was sent to the countryside for "re-education." He worked on a farm and also
practiced acupuncture on villagers, having learned from his brother.

"You needed to be able to adapt to all the changes, coping with the changes and dealing with
ambiguities all the time, and have strategies to deal with those changes," he told Sophie Loras, an
author of the book; "Unearthing Wisdom: Insights from 20 Mining Leaders."
When China opened up its universities in 1977, Ren competed in an entrance exam with 10 million
others vying for 200,000 places and was successful. He studied science and metallurgy and thought
about becoming a pilot, but started working at a factory producing aluminium parts for commercial
planes.Boeing sponsorship

In 1985, he won a Boeing scholarship to Washington State University, which led to his first job with
Comalco, now part of Rio, and later a transfer to Melbourne.

After Comalco's fabrication business was sold, he went to work for HIH Winterthur, which was looking
to break into the Chinese market, but when the insurer collapsed in 2001, he was recruited to head up
Alcoa's China business. In that role he worked closely with senior executives from Chinalco.
China has ambitions to have a company among the top four resources players in the world and is
unlikely to support the formation of a mining giant unless it is made a compelling offer.
One Beijing-based industry insider said this week that ultimately, any decision regarding Chinalco's
role in a Glencore-Rio merger bid would be made at the State Council level.
They said if Glencore really wanted to have Chinalco onside it would need to "pay a hefty price",
which could include some of Rio's Pilbara operations. Glencore and the Chinese government have
made deals in the past.
The commodities trader was made to sell its Las Bambas copper mine in Peru before gaining China's
approval for its takeover of Xstrata. China's MMG and its partners Guoxin International Investment
Corp and state-owned CITIC Metal agreed to pay $7 billion for it, with the deal finalised in August this
year.

CO

IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

almcor : Aluminium Corporation of China Limited | craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd | rtzcra : Rio Tinto Group | rtz
: Rio Tinto PLC
i2245 : Aluminum | i22 : Primary Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141012eaad0002i

Page81of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.