TITLE DEEDS Aussie John shops in Double Bay | INSIDE STORY visits Palm Beach

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Domain
TITLE DEEDS Aussie John shops in Double Bay | INSIDE STORY visits Palm Beach

LUCY MACKEN
1,330 words
22 November 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
6
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

The home loans chief came away with an investment property in Transvaal Avenue.

Aussie John Symond went shopping in Double Bay recently and picked up a lovely Trent Nathan
number for close to its $4.8 million guide.

It was the Sunday inspection by Symond and his girlfriend, Amber Keating, that tipped off the buyer
identity, despite a no-comment from Brad Caldwell-Eyles, of 1st City Hasemer+Caldwell.Eyles, and
Ashley Bierman, of Ray White Double Bay.

Known at street level as the Country Trader store, the upstairs residence has been home to the
fashion designer until his recent move to the Southern Highlands.
Word from Transvaal Avenue is that Symond snapped up the Alexander Tzannes-designed property
an hour before auction as an investment. Symond's purchase follows a record month for his Aussie
mortgage broker, which lodged $2 billion worth of home loan applications in October.

- - -

In Darling Point, the European resort-style residence of AsheMorgan head Michael Rothner and Lisa
Rothner is up for grabs.

Originally a two-storey mansion when the Rothners bought it in 2003 for $4,825,000, concept plans
were designed by architect Bruce Stafford, although by all accounts Lisa Rothner deserves credit for
the exquisitely planned and finished home.

Featuring Hollywood-style arches, prime east-facing views over the pool, and a grand European-style
staircase, it has a price guide of more than $25 million, according to Alison Coopes, of Agency by
Alison Coopes, who has the listing in conjunction with Michael Pallier, of Sotheby's International.

- - -

Locals in the waterfront Biarritz building at the tip of Point Piper are no doubt welcoming their new
neighbour Izhar Ronen who has bought the penthouse for $6.35 million.

Ronen has done well since his release from jail for failing to declare some $15 million in cash sales
from his family's Dolina fashion business.
In May a knock on the front door of his former Vaucluse home from a Chinese buyer led to its sale for
$15.45 million, a sensational price according to local agents.

And now he and wife Jane have taken possession of their new digs bought from Merilyn and Graham
Oakes, former chief executive of Angus & Coote, in a deal negotiated by Richardson & Wrench's
Jason Boon and Ballard's Clint Ballard.

Page259of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.- - -

In Mosman one of the many late-listers this year is that of former Leighton Holdings chief Hamish
Tyrwhitt and his wife, Farinah.
Tyrwhitt was ousted from the top job in March as part of the takeover bid by Hochtiel construction firm
in which he scored a hefty payout of some $12 million.

Tyrwhitt bought the Balmoral slopes residence on Ryan Avenue in 2011 for $6.4 million after he was
brought out from Hong Kong to head up the construction giant. It is now listed with McGrath's Michael
Coombs and Priscilla Schonell for more than $7.5 million.

Meanwhile over in Beauty Point, settlement records reveal that Suttons Motors' Ryan Sutton, son of
Title Deeds regular Laurie Sutton, has bought the long-held waterfront home of former Mr Liquor
owner Ross Heidtman for $9,875,000 in an off-market deal negotiated by selling agent Paul Gotch.

The Carrington Avenue house is just across the shallow end of Quakers Hat Bay from the former
Sutton family home that sold in 2012 for $20 million.

On the subject of the sons of Mosman's established families, speculation mounts that online gambling
pusher Tom Waterhouse and his wife, Hoda, are the buyers at close to $13 million of the Woods'
family home.
One of only five houses with direct frontage to Balmoral Beach, the Wyargine Street property last
traded in 1983 when the late Alan Woods bought it for $550,000.

Settlement will confirm if Waterhouse is indeed the buyer, but the son of bookmaker Robbie
Waterhouse and horse trainer Gai has certainly been on the lookout for a suitably impressive home
since he sold his online betting business to UK companyWilliam Hill last year for some $40 million.

Proving that patience pays, the Bauhaus-inspired residence of retired promotional marketing guru Neil
Tanner in Beauty Point has sold for about $7.3 million.
The Wyong Road property was listed two years ago for $7.5 million by Colin Craig, of LJ Hooker
Mosman.
The Seaforth buyer plans to build a luxury home on the site.

Shh!

Guess which noted architect has just paid more than $7 million for their surfside digs?

Guess which IT whiz-turned-senior executive is making hay in the current market and listing one of his
many investment properties?
FOR SALE: About $7m

Ocean outlook

In Clovelly, the oceanfront reserve home of actor Duncan Armitage and artist John Copley goes to
auction on November 29 with hopes of fetching $7 million.

The pair extensively renovated this 1940s house shortly after they bought it in 2000 for $1.5 million. At
the time Armitage had quit as a partner at consulting firmAccenture.

The redesign by architects Erik Rudolfsson and Joseph Alliker has opened up all three levels to make
the most of the ocean outlook.
The pair is now bound for London, prompting the sale by McGrath's Bethwyn Richards and Sotheby's
International's Penny Costello.

Classical styling
FOR SALE: $5 million+

In Elizabeth Bay, one of the Victorian Italianate houses that makes up the row of Brent Terraces is up
for more than $5 million, thanks to the downsizing plans of high-end louvre company owners Sue and
Geoff Carter.

Page260of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The couple has extended and renovated the five-bedroom home since buying it in 2007 for $3.3 million
from Cold Chisel's Don Walker. Think double parking, hydronic heating throughout and a basement
zoned commercial. Bill Bridges has the listing.

Next door is owned by former prime minister Paul Keating, although he prefers to camp out in Potts
Point nowadays.
FOR SALE: $4.2 million

Paddo double header

In Paddington, the Georgian-era residence Menzies House that was redesigned in the late 1990s by
Allen Jack+Cottier is up for grabs for $4.2 million.
The five-bedroom property on 700 square metres was commissioned by Mary and Paul Menzies, QC,
after they bought it and the adjoining vacant lot in 1994.

This isn't the only double block on Underwood Street. Malcolm Turnbull's daughter Daisy Turnbull
Brown has one within the distance of a badly kicked football. And Collette Dinnigan pocketed $7.3
million for her triple-title property in 2011.

McGrath's Ben Collier is taking it to auction on December 6.
FOR SALE: $3.5 million+

INSIDE STORY visits Palm Beach

Westpac's Michael Correa and his stylist wife, Heidi, have bagged one notable buyer for their
Paddington home, only to list their weekender.

The campaign to sell the Palm Beach home comes at an awkward time for the global capital market
managing director with holiday rentals lined up for the five-bedroom house at $1200 a night.
The Pacific Road property last sold in 2010 for $2.58 million by prominent barrister Alexander Street
and his estranged wife, Sally, and was then given the Heidi treatment, as recorded in her
PaddotoPalmy blog. LJ Hooker Palm Beach's Peter Robinson is asking more than $3.5 million.
It follows the sale of their Luigi Rosselli-designed Paddington terrace for $4.2 million through Ballard's
Will Manning, with settlement this week revealing the buyer to be almost-billionaire Greg Goodman.
This isn't the only recent investment by the BRW rich lister. In June, Goodman's Woollahra purchases
included $1.8 million on a single-storey sandstone terrace on Victoria Avenue and the same again on
a worker's cottage in Spicer Street, and in May he paid $2.6 million for a Moncur Street terrace.

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

irreal : Residential Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest
: Real Estate
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020141121eabm00077

Page261of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.