Finding flavour

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

APlus
Finding flavour

VERITY EDWARDS
1,541 words
22 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
APlus
2
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Thanks to Oz, Vanuatu cacao farmers are tasting sweet success

SO here we are in Vanuatu, sitting under a thatched roof on a lush farm near Port Vila, tasting dark
chocolate. No surprises there: there are more than 4000 growers of cacao beans across these South
Pacific islands, banded together in family or community farming co-operatives.

But as I’m about to learn from Swiss-born professional chocolate judge Ben Kolly, raw cacao beans,
grown on these verdant islands by third- and fourth-generation families, undergo a complex process to
turn them into the product we so love. This explains why most of the family growers, growing their
beans solely for export, never taste the fruit of their labours.
That was until two years ago, when Australians came to town armed with $1 million, promising big
changes and a brighter future, on a mission to improve bean quality. Hence our visit, for a unique local
chocolate tasting competition. From this little contest, big things could grow. If boutique chocolate
makers like what they find, they could triple prices and improve local livelihoods.

This week, two of the largest chocolate producers, Mars and Barry Callebaut, predicted a cocoa
shortage by 2020. Climate change, disease, drought, even ebola could hit production, while the growing
taste for chocolate in India and China will fuel demand. But for the moment, the farmers of Vanuatu, are
not seeing the rewards.
Chocolate tasting is an exacting science and a serious business. According to Kolly, technical manager
for Haigh’s, the Adelaide-based fourth-generation family chocolate company, the food of the gods has
more than 600 identifiable characteristics including floral, earthy, nutty and fruity flavours, smoke taint,
astringency, bitterness and even mould, the latter from over-fermentation.

“Chocolate is the most fascinating product,” Kolly says. “You can improve on the imperfections that we
pick up, just by training the growers.” This Vanuatu chocolate tasting competition is part of the federal
government’s Pacific Agribusiness Research for Development Initiative, run out of the University of
Adelaide’s Global Food Studies program.

Turning cacao beans into Western chocolate bars is complex, and growers in developing countries
rarely add much value to their harvest. While chocolate is everywhere, those who grow the beans are
subsistence farmers who live in tin huts and survive on fruit and vegetables.

Cacao bean harvesting is a village effort; family cooperatives cut down pods with machetes and then
pack beans in large fermenting boxes, banana leaves or hessian bags. They turn the beans while they
ferment to prevent mould, and stoke the embers in drying huts while the beans roast, ensuring smoke
drifts away via tin chimney to prevent it tainting the beans.

The last they see of the dried and bagged beans are when they are boated in from outlying islands,
flown across the archipelago and transported on old utes to Port Vila, the final chocolate bars never to
be seen.

Page243of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mark Bahen, a West Australian boutique producer here with his son Josh, says helping Vanuatu
growers understand what the beans taste like, what the end product becomes and how it can be
improved can help local co-operatives improve their farming.

“We were staggered two years ago at the sophisticated palates of people who had never tasted
chocolate; they could pick up taint; they could pick up mould,” Bahen says. “Their palates haven’t been
corrupted by salts, sugars, trans-fats. They live in the jungle.” These Vanuatu growers treat their beans
a mere cash crop usually trading to Singaporean buyers to churn into Cadbury’s or other popular
brands.

Ten farming co-operatives across Vanuatu’s archipelago on the islands of Epi, Malekula and Santo
have supplied the 5kg batches of beans for the contest. French volcanologist Sandrine Wallez, who
runs the ACTIV Centre supporting islander craftswomen, has made the beans into bars. She plans to
open a chocolate factory by the end of the year. The chocolate will be predominantly sold to tourists,
providing much-needed jobs.

For the competition, Kolly brings a flavour wheel to help both professional and amateur judges identify
characteristics listed on a marking sheet. Apples and bread cleanse the palate between samples.

First you smell the chocolate — best to close your eyes — and assess its aroma, hunting for a hint of
smoke or mould, looking for a strong cocoa odour. Next you taste, savour, allow the flavours to linger,
and then grade the product. As with wine, coffee and olive oil, there are complexities in chocolate
tasting; it’s about identifying positive and negative characteristics and how they affect the viability of a
commercial product. For a chocoholic with no gastronomic qualifications, it is the perfect gig.

Vanuatu’s cacao industry began in the 1890s, when German missionaries brought beans to grow in
plantations as a tradeable commodity. It became a cash crop, along with taro, coffee and coconuts.

Now, thanks in part to the PARDI project, crops flourish. The project, primarily funded by the Australian
Centre for International Agricultural Research, has cost close to $1m to date.

There have been dramatic improvements in production and quality outcomes, says cocoa project leader
Randy Stringer, particularly since growers learned what their end product tasted like thanks to technical
testing at Haigh’s, American chocolatier Gary Guittard and WA’s Bahen & Co, and from samples
growers initially provided. Stringer says the competition identifies barriers that need to be overcome.

“It’s innovative and you’re connecting the growers to the chocolate makers; they help identify the quality
and standard gaps,” he says. “By building that relationship they bring new ideas, they co-invest. It’s not
just the money, they co-invest time, they share information. Instead of beans just going one way, you’ve
got relationships and information sharing.” The tasting takes place as part of Vanuatu’s Salon
Cuisinaire, a cooking competition for local chefs. And after three hours of chocolate tasting, the project’s
impact is tangible. The judges agree. Two years of efforts to improve fermentation and drying practices
mean there is now very little smoke taint, no noticeable mould and not much astringency compared with
2012 samples.

The next step is commercialisation: Bahen & Co could have a product on the shelves within six months,
and Haigh’s is looking at including the farmer’s beans in some of their blends by mid-next year.

Kolly plans to test whether the Vanuatu beans can be incorporated into Haigh’s blends, and whether a
single-origin bar is feasible. The company trialled a single-origin Vanuatu bar two years ago, but it did
not have enough product to sustain volumes and there were minor concerns about smoke taint.

But, he says, when it comes to incorporating different beans into a successful high-end product
consumed by connoisseurs, Haigh’s will need to be careful not to vary its popular recipes too much. “It’s
a long process; it has to be done very carefully,” Kolly says.

“If you love a product and then something is changed, you feel cheated. Haigh’s is very respectful of its
customers. There is a lot of integrity.” The Bahen family involvement is not just altruistic. They are
looking for the best beans, a niche market and something to separate them from the common Latin
American, Indonesian or West African varieties. Their products are upmarket, with packaging designed
by Josh’s wife Jacqui resembling a montage of Australian art collections in the nation’s most prominent
galleries.
“We don’t want to come across as altruistic, Mother Teresa — it’s a business partnership,” Mark Bahen
says. “We want an insight into their souls; we want to see them grow.” His son Josh, a chocolatier with
a degree in oenology, has over the past seven years bought century-old equipment to ensure he is
faithful to the industry’s roots and flavours. For him it is about provenance. “We want a partnership; we
want to tell the story of the grower.” Growers generally receive up to $3000 a tonne when selling to a

Page244of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.bulk dealer, but companies such as Bahen & Co would triple that for quality Vanuatu beans. It is a win
for growing communities and buyers.

The growers include Isaac Leo, who carried his beans on the back of a horse to a boat at Wunon, on
Espiritu Santo, then travelled for eight hours down the side of his island via boat and inland for several
hours via four-wheel drive, just to fly them to Port Vila. A two-day logistic adventure.

And then there is Denis Nambith, a third-generation grower from Malekula, who works with his family to
harvest their 1000-tree farm. Nambith spent two years improving his bean quality with the help of the
PARDI project and was unanimously voted the winner of the chocolate competition. “I’m very
surprised,” he says. “We changed the height of our chimney, we reduced the smoke, we improved our
quality.” And all for an end product likely to be eaten by thousands of people. Except himself.Verity
Edwards is writing a book about chocolate. She travelled to Vanuatu as a guest of the Pacific
Agribusiness Research and Development Initiative.

IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

i010013203 : Dry Pea/Bean Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100132 : Oilseed/Grain
Farming
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
vanu : Vanuatu | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | pacisz : Pacific Islands
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141121eabm0004c

Page245of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.