Peabody left holding Wilkie Creek as Tinkler talks wane

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CO

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

Market Wrap - Street Talk
Peabody left holding Wilkie Creek as Tinkler talks wane

Edited by Sarah Thompson, Anthony Macdonald and Gretchen Friemann
289 words
9 April 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
16
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Coal giant Peabody Energy's hopes of a deal for its Wilkie Creek mine are fading again, with
talks between the United States company and Nathan Tinkler all but over.

Peabody has had its Queensland's mine on the block since mid-2012, when it hired investment
bank UBS to test the market's appetite for a sale.

At the time, Wilkie Creek was exporting 2.5 million tonnes of thermal coal a year through Port of
Brisbane and a $500 million price tag was touted to prospective buyers.

Tinkler had a look, as did Thailand's PTT, New Hope and Yancoal.

Street Talk reported last week Tinkler was again sniffing around the asset and doing his best to
line up funding to take it off Peabody's hands.
There are a few Queensland coal assets still on the block, and likely a bargain for a cashed up
buyer and someone with a positive view on China and the thermal coal market.

But sources on Tuesday said the talks had died down again, even though the price discussions
were down about the $100 million mark.

Elsewhere, as first reported by Street Talk online on Tuesday, banking systems provider Rubik
Financial is seeking to raise $25 million in a placement of shares through Canaccord Genuity to
fund acquisitions.
The broker was seeking to place 56.8 million shares at 44¢ each.

It was priced at a 16.2 per cent discount to the last traded price and a 7.1 per cent discount to the
10-day volume weighted average price. Bids were due at noon on Wednesday.

pbdy : Peabody Energy Corp | yaptyl : Yancoal Australia Limited | lehbro : Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc | yankua : Yankuang (Group) Corp | ynzmn : Yanzhou Coal Mining Co Ltd
ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | i1 : Energy | i111 : Coal Mining | i112 : Coal
Mining Support Activities | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140408ea4900027

Page76of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.