Russian buyers storm east coast

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Review
Russian buyers storm east coast

BEN POWER
1,385 words
18 January 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
5 - A Plus NSW
10
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Overseas interest will continue to prop up a slowing residential market this year
BOOM conditions are unlikely to materialise in Australia's residential market this year, with analysts
warning unemployment and affordability could lead to a moderating of growth after a strong recovery in
2013.

``There will be growth, but slowing growth,'' says BIS Shrapnel's senior manager of residential
property, Angie Zigomanis. ``They (housing markets) can't defy gravity at the same rate, so there
should be a slowing of growth.''
The moderation of growth is one of the key trends analysts expect will define property this year,
including the return of the Brisbane and Gold Coast market; price acceleration in the prestige market;
the continuation of strong international interest, including the surprise emergence of Russian buyers;
and the ongoing power of investors to drive markets.
House price growth to moderate: Last year saw a strong recovery in the nation's residential market.

According to the RP Data-Rismark Daily Home Value Index, national dwelling prices surged 9.87 per
cent last year. But performance was patchy with Sydney leading, with a 14.5 per cent rise in prices;
Perth (9.95 per cent) and Melbourne (8.5 per cent) were also strong; but other markets such as
Canberra (3.5 per cent), Hobart (2.2 per cent), Adelaide (2.84 per cent) and Darwin (3.34 per cent)
lagged; Brisbane's growth was a relatively modest 5.13 per cent.

RP Data's senior research analyst Cameron Kusher expects price growth to continue, but at a lower
level of about 5 per cent. He says the wild card is unemployment, which is forecast to rise to 6.25 per
cent.

Zigomanis also expects a moderating of growth next year to between 5 and 7 per cent, weighted
towards Sydney, with economic uncertainty keeping a lid on prices. ``With the exception possibly of
Brisbane, we don't see other capital cities doing better than 5 per cent,'' he says.

SQM's Louis Christopher believes concerns over the impact of growing unemployment are overstated.
``We're simply not seeing an impact at this stage except for Canberra,'' he says. Christopher cites
Perth, which has had relatively strong demand in the existing home market despite a rise in
unemployment. He says a lull in activity in late November-December is seasonal and not a sign the
market is cooling off.

Christopher expects another strong year, with dwelling prices rising between 7 and 11 per cent.
Sydney to remain strong: McGrath Estate Agents chief executive John McGrath says Sydney has the
best residential market under $2 million that he has seen in 20 years, boosted by a perfect storm of
three to four years of no growth, improving economic confidence, record low interest rates and
international interest, particularly from China. He thinks Sydney will remain strong, but growth will be

Page54of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.about 5 to 8 per cent this year. ``We just don't think we will see the same intensity through 2014,'' he
says.

Christopher is more optimistic and says this year will be another bumper one for Sydney, with prices to
surge by 15 to 20 per cent driven by ongoing low interest rates, strong population growth, shortage of
stock and rental vacancies of just 1.5 per cent.

Return of the banker to boost prestige market: McGrath expects the upper end of the market from $3m
to $10m will start to accelerate. ``The stronger market will cascade up from the bottom,'' he says.
McGrath says bankers are back, with a strong stockmarket seeing a return of bonuses, which are
flowing back into the residential market. ``We are (seeing them more active),'' he says. ``So many of
the properties traded at the upper end are owned, sold and bought by people in the financial services
industries.''
Adam Ross, sales associate at Savills Residential, agrees the prestige $3m-plus market will
strengthen. ``Provided supply and demand levels balance quite well, I think the prestige market is
going to go really well,'' he says. Ross also sees more finance interest: movers and shakers who had
gone quiet since 2006-07 have reappeared.

The traditional home of the banker, Sydney's Mosman, is a bellwether. ``About 24 months ago
Mosman started to move, and it's now moving along quite nicely,'' Ross says.
China and Russia interest to spur top-end activity: Chinese buyers emerged as a force last year, but
interest hasn't just been from the Chinese.

Ross says recent Russian interest has also been strong, which is surprising because Australia has not
been a magnet for Russians in the past, although they have previously targeted the Gold Coast
apartment market. ``It's an unusual amount of inquiry for all different types of property; not just
prestige residential, but substantial commercial holdings as well,'' he says.
Apart from the Gold Coast, Russian buyers have discovered Sydney and are looking for residential
property, hotel sites, and commercial buildings in the Sydney CBD and city fringe.

``It's only just started to happen. In five-six years of work with Savills I have never had an inquiry from
our Russia desk,'' Ross says.
Agents say wealthy Australian expatriates are also looking to buy before prices rise further.

Investors to keep dominating the market, but concerns emerging: A major trend last year was an
investor-driven market, which analysts expect to continue into the new year.
McGrath notes that AFG (Australian Finance Group) in the July-September quarter said close to 50
per cent of its loans went to investors. ``That would normally sit around 20 to 30 per cent.'' .

McGrath believes the strength of investors is a sustained trend, driven by buying from self-managed
super funds. ``Most baby boomers have had a pretty good experience of, and feel safe with, bricks and
mortar.''

Christopher agrees investors' activity is likely to continue, but that brings risk.

``It does make it a little more volatile, a little more momentum-driven and more speculative than one
driven by first-home buyers,'' he says. It also highlights the risk that rising interest rates pose to the
market. ``There is no way the market would have the ability to handle 7 per cent lending rates like in
2012. It would have a significant correction.''

Brisbane and Gold Coast to begin catch up: One area investors might target is southeast Queensland
and Brisbane, with many analysts expecting an acceleration this year. McGrath says southeast
Queensland has the best prospects of capital growth around the country for the next three years. He
notes that markets there, including Brisbane and the Gold Coast, are still below pre-GFC levels while
Sydney is 9 to 10 per cent above.

That price differential will start attracting buyers. McGrath says he often compares the Paddingtons in
Sydney and Brisbane, both affluent inner-city areas. He says a house in Paddington, Brisbane, is half
that of Paddington, Sydney.

``That differential feels too great to me,'' he says. ``I don't see the Sydney market coming back; I see
the Brisbane and SEQ markets catching up.''

Page55of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.According to RP Data, median prices in Sydney of $640,000 are significantly higher than Brisbane's
$430,000. Kusher agrees that gap is too wide and Brisbane and to a lesser extent Adelaide might start
to pick up after relatively lacklustre growth in 2013.

``The cost of housing is now significantly lower than in Sydney, Melbourne and Perth,'' he says.
``That's always been a driver of demand in the Brisbane market.''

The Gold Coast market and other tourism towns could also benefit from a falling Australian dollar.
Kusher says there are signs of a recovery in the Gold Coast, Sunshine Coast and Cairns, though not
in units.

Christopher says that Brisbane prices will accelerate to about 4 to 7 per cent this year, but he's not
expecting double-digit growth. He says there are elevated stock levels and elevated vacancy rates in
CBD apartments, which doesn't bode well for the housing market.
As with last year, the new year will likely see a continuation of the residential recovery, though rising
unemployment means no boom. But there will be winners with Sydney and southeast Queensland
starting its much-awaited catch-up to Sydney and Melbourne.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

ereal : Real Estate Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | melb : Melbourne | russ : Russia | sydney : Sydney | victor :
Victoria (Australia) | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | eeurz :
Central/Eastern Europe | eurz : Europe | nswals : New South Wales | queensl : Queensland | ussrz :
CIS Countries
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140117ea1i0003t

Page56of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.