Why China -Australia FTA may still be some way off

James Laurenceson, Senior Lecturer, School of Economics at University of Queensland

HD Why China-Australia FTA may still be some way off
BY
WC 931 words
PD 26 June 2014
SN The Conversation
SC CONVAU
LA
CY Copyright 2014. The Conservation Media Group.
LP

English

This week treasurer Joe Hockey, and trade minister Andrew Robb have been in China for the inaugural
Australia-China Strategic Economic Dialogue. These talks are one part of the “Strategic Partnership”
agreed to between the two countries in 2013.

TD

Leading up to the event, media releases emphasised that the Economic Dialogue would be used to
convey the message that Australia was “open for business” and in particular, to expedite the long-running
negotiations for a free trade agreement (FTA). Initial reports after the talks saw the Australian side express
optimism that a trade deal could be reached by the end of the year.

This is consistent with Tony Abbott’s pre-election pledge to strive to secure three FTAs (Japan, Korea and
China) within his first 12 months as prime minister. Some have complained that Abbott’s self-imposed
deadline needlessly weakens Australia’s bargaining position. After all, if a deal cannot be reached, it will
embarrass Abbott more than his Chinese counterpart.

There is however, a much bigger threat to Australia’s negotiating position. That is the external environment
in which a conclusion to FTA negotiations is being sought is less favourable to Australia than at almost any
other time since discussions began more than eight years ago.

As I and others have written previously, for an FTA to be worthwhile from an Australian perspective,
significant concessions by China are needed in the areas of agriculture and services. Given fears in
China over food security and the plight of farmers who tend to be at the lower end of the income
distribution, the implication is that Australia would need to come to the party with significant concessions of
its own. However, Australia’s trade barriers are already low almost uniformly across the board.
The single most important factor providing some hope that China might be willing to make significant
concessions was the scope for Australia to liberalise rules surrounding foreign investment. As it currently
stands, nearly all Chinese investment proposals irrespective of value require Foreign Investment Review
Board approval, in contrast to the A$1.08 billion threshold applying to investment from the US and New
Zealand, and that will soon be extended to Korea and Japan.
For much of the past decade China has shown enthusiasm for investing in Australia, and in particular, in
the natural resources sector. However, changes in the external environment are now eroding such
enthusiasm.
One motivation underpinning Chinese investment has been a hedging strategy. As the prices of
commodities such as iron ore and coal skyrocketed on world markets, while China may have suffered as
a customer, by developing greenfield projects and/or taking equity stakes in existing miners, at least it
could profit as a shareholder.

https://62e528761d0685343e1c-
f3d1b99a743ffa4142d9d7f1978d9686.ssl.cf2.rackcdn.com/files/52305/width668/48yr3p6b-1403749810.jpg

However, output prices are no longer as high as they were, with the Reserve Bank of Australia’s
Commodity Price Index down by more than 30% since 2011. Add in rising costs associated with project
development and profit margins have been squeezed.
Chinese investment has also been motivated by a desire to achieve higher returns on its enormous
stockpile of foreign exchange reserves than the traditional holdings of US Treasurybonds. While this was
the expectation, the reality over time has proven quite different. Generally speaking, China’s experience of
investing in Australia’s natural resources sector has not been a happy one. Numerous projects can be

Page132of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.cited that have been funded in part or full by Chinese capital and that are now showing losses stretching
into the billions.

There is also the possibility that Australian negotiators may have been able to hold up the prospect of
eliminating tariffs on imports of Chinese cars, as had been done for Japan and Korea, and which currently
stand at 5%. However, the demise of the domestic car manufacturing industry makes such an offer hollow.
Irrespective of whatever trade deals are reached, the rationale for car tariffs has now disappeared.
It is perhaps not surprising then that according to data collated by Sydney University and KPMG, Chinese
investment in Australia fell by 10% in 2013, in contrast to an overall global increase.
For its part, and perhaps responding to a wane in Chinese interest, the rhetoric of the Australian
government has improved considerably. In 2012, responding to the possible non-commercial objectives of
state-owned enterprises, Tony Abbott, then Leader of the Opposition, contended that “It would rarely be in
Australia’s national interest to allow a foreign government or its agencies to control an Australian
business”. In April this year however, he stated that he now understood that China’s state-owned
enterprises these days are mostly highly commercial businesses, and just a few days ago, Joe Hockey
stated that “We are open for business and that includes state-owned enterprises out of China”.
While this new tone will no doubt be welcomed by China, the above changes in the external environment
mean that the bargaining chip of investment liberalisation is no longer as enticing as it once was. The
conclusion is that while FTA negotiations may well be drawing to a close and an agreement of some sort
soon signed, the prospect for a high quality Australia-China FTA remains as distant as ever.
James Laurenceson does not work for, consult to, own shares in or receive funding from any company or
organisation that would benefit from this article, and has no relevant affiliations.

NS
RE

e512 : Physical Trade | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC
Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

PUB The Conversation Media Group Limited
AN Document CONVAU0020140626ea6q00004

Page133of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.