Survey finds foreign buyers increasing, tips Brisbane for best property gains

HD
BY
WC 684 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Survey finds foreign buyers increasing, tips Brisbane for best property gains

By business reporter Michael Janda

17 April 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) News
ABCNEW
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

TD

A major bank's survey of real estate professionals and investors finds foreign purchasers now account
for up to a quarter of buyers in some markets, and tips Brisbane for the best price growth.
National Australia Bank's quarterly residential property survey talks to more than 300 real estate
professionals and property investors.

It has found that an estimated 24.4 per cent of new dwelling sales in Queensland are going to foreign
buyers, while sales to non-citizens or permanent residents amounted to 13.9 per cent of the market for
new or off-the-plan sales nationwide.

Whether due to the influence of foreign buyers or because of Australians priced out of Sydney and
Melbourne, NAB's survey of real estate agents, property managers, developers and investors says
Queensland house prices are expected to rise 3.5 per cent by next March.
A major bank's survey of real estate professionals and investors finds foreign purchasers now account
for up to a quarter of buyers in some markets.
National Australia Bank's quarterly residential property survey talks to more than 300 real estate
professionals and property investors.

It has found that an estimated 24.4 per cent of new dwelling sales in Queensland are going to foreign
buyers, while sales to non-citizens or permanent residents amounted to 13.9 per cent of the market for
new or off-the-plan sales nationwide.
Perhaps more surprising is that foreign buyers were estimated to be the purchasers in 9.5 per cent of
established property sales, and 12.7 per cent in New South Wales - there are tight restrictions on such
purchases, which are generally only allowed to temporary residents while they are in Australia, with the
property having to be sold once they leave.
These figures are out of accord with Foreign Investment Review Board figures from last financial year,
which suggest that overseas citizens and residents accounted for just $17.2 billion of purchases out of a
market where around $250 billion worth of property changed hands last year, according to RP Data's
estimates.
Those figures would mean foreign investment makes up around 7 per cent of the residential market.
The FIRB figures suggest around $6 billion of that investment comes from Chinese buyers, making that
segment around 2.4 per cent of the Australian real estate market.
However, there is widespread scepticism about the effectiveness of FIRB's checks on purchases, and it
is believed that many foreign investors avoid restrictions by getting Australian residents or citizens to buy
on their behalf, or by simply failing to apply to FIRB.

That means the actual level of foreign investment could be more in line with NAB's estimates, which
closely accord with and .
into foreign real estate investment, the rules governing it and whether they are being effectively enforced.

Page281of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Queensland tipped to lead gains

Whether due to the influence of foreign buyers or because of Australians priced out of Sydney and
Melbourne, NAB's survey of real estate agents, property managers, developers and investors tips
Brisbane for the best price growth over the next 12 months.

Queensland house prices are expected to rise 3.5 per cent by next March, just ahead of a further 3.3 per
cent rise in the already booming Sydney market.

Victoria and South Australia/Northern Territory are expected to record more modest price rises of 2.2 per
cent.

The bank's own forecasts also tip the strongest growth in Brisbane, at an even higher 6.4 per cent, with
Perth also rising 5.6 per cent.

NAB expects the Sydney housing market to cool, without falling, and Melbourne (4.3 per cent) and
Adelaide (3 per cent) to also post more modest growth.

Survey respondents identified credit availability and high prices as the biggest impediments to buying new
property, while employment security was the biggest barrier to buying an existing home, except in New
South Wales where a lack of stock was seen as the largest impediment.

CO ncbnk : National Australia Bank Ltd
IN

NS

RE

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk
: Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
ereal : Real Estate Markets | c182 : Asset Transactions | ecat : Economic News | nsur : Surveys/Polls |
c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic
Performance/Indicators | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | china : China | melb : Melbourne | queensl : Queensland | sydney :
Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales

IPD real
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCNEW0020140417ea4h0005n

Search Summary

Text

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or entitys) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
01/01/2014 to 30/04/2014
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries

Page282of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

All Regions
English
2,564
29 August 2018 1:08

Page283of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.