STAG Beef reheats quest for capital

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
STAG Beef reheats quest for capital

Joyce Moullakis and Tim Binsted
588 words
4 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
13
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Former Macarthur Coal chairman Keith De Lacy is seeking to revive capital raising plans for
agribusiness venture STAG Beef, this time from cornerstone investors, as he moves on from an
earlier protracted raising attempt and shelved listing.
Mr De Lacy, also a former Queensland treasurer, told The Australian Financial Review the company
and its advisers had prepared an information memorandum and was targeting roughly six
cornerstone investors. "We are still looking at the opportunity ," he said. "We would hope to have
everything in place by the end of the year." 

But some industry participants are sceptical about whether STAG, or The Staples and Agricultural
Global Beef Investment, will be able to raise funds and execute on its strategy in a still challenging
market.

Global beef prices have been rising strongly with exports of Australian beef to the United States
soaring due to a shortage of US domestic beef. The key 90CL cow beef indicator averaged $6.63 a
kilogram free alongside ship in September, up from $4.38/kg FAS in September 2013.
David Farley, a former chief executive of listed beef producer Australian Agricultural Company
(AACo), said that looking at the global beef commodity cycle, it might be too late for new comers to
tap into high beef prices.

"If you haven't got a position on now you've missed the cycle," he said. "Australia will be going into a
herd rebuilding process behind everyone else and I think you'll find the red meat cycle has exhausted
itself from its high."
Mr Farley pointed to the boom and collapse in dairy prices. Milk powder commanded more than
$US5000 a tonne for much of 2013, but is now fetching about $US2600 a tonne.

"It's interesting how quickly the world responds to get prices back in line. The best cure for high prices
is high prices," he said.
STAG was to differentiate itself from other listed cattle operations by focusing on breeding and
rearing cattle only until they were weaned, rather than preparing them for export.
The company hoped to snap up four properties in the Northern Territory that were trading at
depressed prices and wanted to capitalise on the surge in global meat consumption.
But Mr De Lacy said STAG found it difficult to secure the purchase of the properties it had
earmarked before raising $70 million in capital via a float, which had been planned for the first half of
2014. Broking house BBY was well progressed on plans for a listing before the offering was
scrapped.

Page9of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The company is understood to have taken the concept to a number of investment banks. STAG now
believes bringing together a group of cornerstone investors is the best way forward.
"There is still plenty of opportunity there and there are high yielding properties for sale," Mr De Lacy
added, noting that a viable portfolio would amount to $200 million, including debt "It's about
identifying the right ones."

He noted that beef prices had improved in recent months but, contrary to Mr Farley, he said they still
had "some way to go".

STAG had appointed former Deloitte partner Alain Pillay as managing director, while Geoff Wagstaff
was to manage day-to-day operations.
STAG's latest capital raising efforts come as Australia and China expedite negotiations around a
free-trade agreement. The hope is that a deal can be signed when Chinese President Xi Jinping
visits Australia for the G20 meeting next week.

sgbeef : The Staples and Agricultural Global Beef Investment Limited
i412 : Animal Slaughtering/Processing | i4122 : Meat Processing | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco |
icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle
Farming | i010010501 : Beef Cattle Farming | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
c312 : External Markets | mcattl : Beef/Dairy Cattle Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c31 :
Marketing/Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m141 : Agricultural Commodity Markets | mcat :
Commodity/Financial Market News | mlvstk : Livestock/Meat Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141103eab40000e

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page10of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.