BHP Billiton to spin off noncore assets

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

BHP Billiton to spin off noncore assets

by Paul Whitfield
798 words
19 August 2014
The Deal
DEALNEW
English
Copyright 2014. The Deal LLC.

BHP Billiton Ltd. will spin off aluminum, manganese, coal, nickel and silver operations from Australia to
South Africa to create a new mining company that could be worth as much as $17 billion.

BHP's CEO Andrew Mackenzie confirmed the plan, which was hinted at on Friday, ahead of his
company's annual results conference on Tuesday.

"A demerger will maximize value for our shareholders," he said.
The new company will have 11 main assets, including BHP's Colombian Cerro Matoso Nickel business,
Energy Coal South Africa, Aluminum South Africa, and Australian operations, including manganese
producer Gemco, aluminum unit Worsley, Illawarra Metallurgical Coal, and the Cannington silver, lead
and zinc mines.

BHP, like many of its rivals, has spent years seeking to offload underperforming and subscale
businesses, many of which were acquired prior to 2007 on expectation of long-term increases in global
commodity prices. Those hopes foundered on slower-than-expected growth in China, and the global
economic slump triggered by the 2007-08 financial crisis. Mining companies, including BHP and its
closest rival Rio Tinto Group, were forced to swallow huge write-downs and changed tactics, and CEOs,
to focus on improving shareholder returns and eschewed acquisitions.
Mackenzie, who replaced Marius Kloppers in early 2013, has turned the company's attention to a
so-called four pillar strategy centered on BHP's largest and most profitable operations in petroleum,
potash, copper, iron ore and coal.

The four business units — petroleum and potash are combined in the BHP model — account for about
97% of BHP's underlying Ebitda, according to a company presentation.
BHP on Tuesday posted Ebitda of $32.4 billion for its financial year ending June 30, up 6.8%
year-on-year. Underlying profit rose to $13.4 billion, up 23% on last year's figure of $11.2 billion.
The assets to be spun off into the new company do not include BHP's Nickel West operations in
Western Australia, which BHP is negotiating to sell and which is expected to fetch about $800 million.
BHP is also still considering the fate of its New Mexico Coal business and some smaller petroleum
assets, the company said on Tuesday.
The new mining company, which has yet to receive a name, could be worth between $15 billion and
$17 billion according to brokers, including CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets.
The new entity would have posted an average annual Ebitda of about $3.3 billion over the past 10
years, according to BHP's chief financial officer, and future CEO of the new company, Graham Kerr.
That Ebitda figure had slipped to about $1.8 billion for the year ending June 30, highlighting the recent
decline in profitability of the assets that will be spun off.

The new business is expected to be headquartered in Perth, Western Australia, and will operate a
regional office in Johannesburg. The company is planning to seek listings in Australia and South Africa

Page32of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.and will issue American Depositary Receipts. It will be chaired by BHP board member David Crawford.
Kerr will be replaced as CFO of BHP by Peter Beaven, head of BHP copper.
The spinoff will reduce BHP's operations from 41, bringing it closer to a target of 19 assets, including
coal, copper and iron ore mines and oilfields in Australia, potash and oil units in North America and
copper mines in South America.

"In a single step, we will significantly increase BHP Billiton's focus on the exceptionally large resource
basins that underpin its competitive advantage," Mackenzie said. "With a simpler portfolio, we are
targeting sustainable, productivity-led gains of at least $3.5 billion per annum by the end of the 2017
financial year."

The difference in the quality of the assets being retained by BHP against those being spun off is
evidenced by their respective earnings margins.
BHP will retain operations with an underlying Ebit margin of 42%. The new company's assets posted
an average Ebitda margin of 21%.
BHP shareholders will receive stock in the new company on a pro rata basis linked to their existing
stake. BHP shareholders will vote on the demerger, which is expected to complete in the first half of
2015.

Shares in BHP, which trades in London as BHP Billiton plc, fell Tuesday to 1,978 pence ($32.93), down
89 pence, or just over 4%, on their Monday close.
Richard de Carle and Susannah Macknay of law firmSlaughter and May are advising BHP on the
demerger, supported by Louise Campbell and Ellizabeth Szanto. Jeanette Zaman is advising on tax
matters, Philip Snell on financing, and Michael Rowe on competition issues.

Herbert Smith Freehills Freehills LLP is advising on Australian law while ENSafrica is advising on South
African law.

CO
IN
NS

RE

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
cspin : Spin-offs | c02 : Corporate Changes | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cncc : New Companies Creation | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | safr : South Africa | waustr : Western Australia | africaz : Africa | apacz : Asia Pacific |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies |
souafrz : Southern Africa | bric : BRICS Countries
IPD
$ 10-50 Billion
PUB The Deal, LLC
AN

Document DEALNEW020140826ea8j0001h

Page33of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.