(AEENE) Energy Developments Corporate debt refinancing

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

(AEENE) Energy Developments Corporate debt refinancing

292 words
14 October 2014
Ralph Wragg Australian Business News
AAPRAW
English
Copyright 2014 RWE AUSTRALIAN BUSINESS NEWS PTY LTD. All Rights Reserved.

Sydney - Tuesday - October 14 (RWE) - Energy Developments Limited (ASX: ENE) announces that it
has executed documentation to effect the refinancing of its current $493 million corporate debt facility.

Key Features:

** Total facility size of $536 million.

** Extension of term, revolver and working capital tranches over five (5) and eight (8) year maturities to
2019 and 2022.

** Reduction in average interest margin and commitment fees.

** Extension of AUD interest rate swaps to 8 years.

** Introduction of new lenders Chief Financial Officer, Gerard Dover said "The successful refinancing
with a high quality bank group on improved terms demonstrates the continued improvement in quality of
the company's operating portfolio and the strength of the company's balance sheet and cash flows.
This refinancing allows EDL to further improve its financial returns and positions the company for
continued growth".
The new syndicate includes the company's existing major lenders, National Australia Bank and
Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, and introduces ANZ, Westpac, Mizuho Bank, The Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi, United Overseas Bank, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, GE and funds
managed by Hastings.

The facility is subject to usual terms and conditions, including drawdown conditions precedent and is
expected to reach financial close within the month.

EDL will repay and cancel its bilateral facility with CAT Finance on financial close.

The new facility has improved margins and commitment fees.
Total forecast borrowing costs are expected to be reduced by approximately $8 million on a full year
basis.
The company's current project finance facility for the West Kimberley Power Project remains in place
on attractive commercial terms.
On financial close, EDL will have approximately $169 million of total undrawn committed facilities
available for near term expansion and acquisition growth.

CO
IN
NS

RE

edlaus : Energy Developments Ltd
i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | iutil : Utilities
c173 : Financing Agreements | c17 : Funding/Capital | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

Page248of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd
Document AAPRAW0020141014eaae00007

Page249of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.