Fears locals being priced out of market by foreign investment

Fears locals being priced out of market by foreign investment

19 March 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation Transcripts
ABCTRS
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

Elysse Morgan

HD
BY
WC 828 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Australia currently has some of the toughest rules for foreigners to buy residential property, but industry
insiders say cheating is prevalent. Data on who's buying what is also sketchy, making the Government's
inquiry into foreign investment in real estate a tough task. The House Economics Committee has just
released the terms of reference for its inquiry into foreign buyers.
BRENDAN TREMBATH: Australia currently has some of the toughest rules for foreigners to buy
residential property, but industry insiders say cheating is prevalent.

Data on who's buying what is also sketchy, making the Government's inquiry into foreign investment in
real estate a tough task.

The House Economics Committee has just released the terms of reference for its inquiry into foreign
buyers.

It was launched in response to fears that locals are being priced out of the market by cashed up
foreigners.

Business reporter Elysse Morgan.
ELYSSE MORGAN: Foreign buyers are being blamed for the heat in the property market. This is despite
having some of the toughest rules in the developed world.

BILL FUGGLE: If we compare ourselves to our peers in places like New Zealand, the USA, Canada, the
UK, those countries have very little, if any, restrictions on foreign investors.
ELYSSE MORGAN: Bill Fuggle is head of financial services at global law firmBaker & McKenzie.
BILL FUGGLE: By contrast, in Australia, if you want to buy an established property, you essentially have
to be resident here.
ELYSSE MORGAN: Foreign investors can only buy newly-built properties, which is the Government's way
of boosting construction. But there's scepticism. Real estate agents suspect that rules are being bent.
Bill Bridges, from Ballard Property Group, sells multi-million dollar established homes in Sydney's
eastern suburbs. He's seen a big jump in interest, and says he always asks buyers whether their
paperwork is in order.

BILL BRIDGES: The main answer to that is they say 'well, we'll take care of that, but that's not a problem.'

ELYSSE MORGAN: Mr Fuggle says buyers can easily circumvent the rules though, getting a resident to
buy property on their behalf.

BILL FUGGLE: And that would be very difficult to detect, so I think it's quite difficult to police that, and
anecdotally it seems to be a relatively prevalent activity.

ELYSSE MORGAN: Australian banks are also allowed to offer products which facilitate foreign nationals
to circumvent the rules. To qualify for residency under the significant investor visa program, $5 million
must be invested in Australian government-approved products for four years.

Page224of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Real estate is not an approved product, but Macquarie Bank is lending the $5 million back to investors. Mr
Fuggle says that money can then legitimately be put into real estate.

BILL FUGGLE: The proceeds of that loan are essentially unregulated money, and so they can then invest
that in a more natural way as to whatever suits their investment style. So if they do want to invest directly
into real property, they can do that.
ELYSSE MORGAN: The Foreign Investment Review Board is responsible for making sure people are
playing by the rules. It didn't find one problem last year. Banking analyst Martin North says that shows
regulations are weak.

MARCUS NORTH: Well I'm not sure that the policing is that real. I mean, it's process that everybody goes
through, but if you think about the 6,000 applications that they receive every year, are they really going to
look at every one?

ELYSSE MORGAN: The Government inquiry will examine the policing of the rules, and it will also be
looking at the economic benefits of foreign investment. But it's very difficult to get cold, hard facts on who's
buying what, for who, and what purpose.
A recent report on Chinese investment by Credit Suisse estimates that the Chinese are currently
purchasing more than $5 billion-worth of Australian residential property per year, and a further $44
billion will be spent over the next six years. This was all based on information pieced together from the
Foreign Investment Review Board - or FIRB - the Department of Immigration, and the Bureau of
Statistics. Figures from FIRB can be more than a year and a half out of date by the time they're released,
and Martin North says they lack crucial detail.

MARTIN NORTH: The FIRB numbers will record as a single application a set of units - let's say a hundred
units being built on a new site - but that's counted as one application, and yet there are a whole bunch of
individuals buying those properties.
Now we don't actually have data on the number of people who actually buy under one of those umbrella
approvals.

So again, it's very hard to pin down the numbers.

ELYSSE MORGAN: Submissions to the inquiry are due by Friday, May 9.

BRENDAN TREMBATH: Elysse Morgan.

NS

ecat : Economic News | efdi : Foreign Direct Investment | ntra : Transcripts | e51 : Trade/External
Payments | e511 : Capital Movements/Invisible Trade | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce :
FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
IPD Government
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCTRS0020140319ea3j0008h

Page225of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.