Gina mines her own business

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Gina mines her own business

PAUL GILDER
565 words
22 March 2014
The Courier-Mail
COUMAI
CourierMail
70
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE nation’s tightly-held iron ore fraternity has a brash new entrant after resources heiress Gina
Rinehart yesterday announced her arrival as a legitimate standalone player.
In securing final funding of almost $8 billion for her Roy Hill project in Western Australia’s Pilbara
region, Mrs Rinehart has all but realised her ambition of running a mine in her own right.

Roy Hill’s future became assured after Mrs Rinehart’s Hancock Prospecting signed a $US7.2 billion
($7.98 billion) funding package in Singapore on Thursday with an international consortium of 19
banks, including Australia’s big four. The decade-long deal completes the debt equation for the $US10
billion project, of which almost a third has already been built.

Roy Hill chief executive Barry Fitzgerald said the financing was the biggest amount for a land-based
mining project worldwide, solidifying the importance of iron ore, a key steelmaking ingredient, to the
global growth picture.

Mrs Rinehart, who is also Roy Hill’s chairwoman, is eyeing first export in September 2015 and
predicting annual production of 55 million tonnes. The project will be the first majority-owned by
Hancock, which holds 70 per cent of the equity alongside Japanese steelmaker Marubeni Corporation
(15 per cent), South Korean steel giant POSCO (12.5 per cent) and China Steel Corporation (2.5 per
cent). Hancock is a joint partner with Rio Tinto at the nearby Hope Downs mine.
Roy Hill will also cement Mrs Rinehart as the Pilbara’s fourth power behind mining titans BHP Billiton
and Rio Tinto as well as Andrew Forrest’s Fortescue Metals, which collectively account for more than
500mtpa of iron ore production and are gunning for record outputs this financial year.

Market strategist at IG Markets, Evan Lucas said the new entrant was unlikely to pose a threat to the
established trio in the short term. He said the impact of the additional supply into China could affect
pricing levels, but that was still at least three years away.
“It’s more likely to be an issue for Atlas Iron, BC Iron, those sorts of players,” he said.

Mr Lucas said that it was difficult to get a gauge on Hancock’s financial health without knowing its
cashflow, but said it would need to “ride the iron ore price fluctuations” like any other miner.
The spot price of iron ore has stabilised at about $US110 after falling from its early-December peak of
$US139 on weakening demand from China.
But now China appears ready to welcome the newcomer with open arms. “China’s looking to stabilise
demand, they’re going to ramp up construction projects to try to offset the latest weak print on the
manufacturing front,” Mr Lucas said.

Page98of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mrs Rinehart said Roy Hill would benefit the WA and national economies. “Roy Hill is a crucible of
opportunity during a period of global uncertainty – it has already shown it will create new jobs and
benefit the greater mining and construction-related industries,” Mrs Rinehart said at the signing.
“We look forward to becoming a major iron ore producer on an international scale.”The mine will
employ up to 3600 people during construction and a further 2000 once operational. As part of the
project, a 344km railway will transport the iron ore to two newly constructed shipping berths at Port
Hedland.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

hkpros : Hancock Prospecting Pty. Ltd.
i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document COUMAI0020140321ea3m0007x

Page99of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.