INDUSTRY SNAPSHOTS; ASIA - CHINA – AUTOMOTIVE

HD

WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

INDUSTRY SNAPSHOTS; ASIA - CHINA –
AUTOMOTIVE
17,528 words
13 March 2014
Industry Snapshot
ACQIND
English
Copyright 2014. Acquisdata Pty Ltd.

LATEST COMPANY NEWS

News and Commentary

Mazda 6 earns top safety ratings world wide - 10/3/2014

Potential buyers worldwide take independent new car
safety reveiews very seriously these days and Mazda
claims its latest 6 [Atenza in Japan and China] is now
officially one of the safest cars.

For the complete story, see:

(
http://www.just-auto.com/news/mazda-6-earns-top-
safety-ratings-world-wide_id143755.aspx)

Car Trade - Tata Motors mulls forming pact with Chery
Automobiles - 10/3/2014

Tata Motors evaluating options to form a pact with
Chinese auto manufacturer, Chery Automobiles for
platform sharing and foraying into Chinese auto market.

For the complete story, see:

(
http://www.cartrade.com/car-bike-news/rumour-tata-
motors-mulls-forming-pact-with-chery-automobiles-
123302.html)

Reuters - Super Group buys into Great Wall's S.Africa
auto business - 10/3/2014
South African logistics company Super Group, has
bought a majority stake in Chinese-backed Great Wall
Motors

For the complete story, see:

(
http://in.reuters.com/article/2014/03/10/safrica-gwm-
idINL6N0M71CF20140310)

Just Auto - Mitsubishi targets more markets for new
Triton - 10/3/2014

Mitsubishi Motors will launch the new version of its Thai
built Triton pickup truck in a range of emerging markets
in fiscal year 2014, with a particular focus on Thailand.

Page189of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.For the complete story, see:

(
http://www.just-auto.com/news/mitsubishi-targets-more-
markets-for-new-triton_id143799.aspx)

Independent - Daimler-Benz is motoring in the right
direction - 10/3/2014
The company under our spotlight today, Daimler-Benz
AG, also comes under the heading of 'luxury brand',
which is yet another word to get the investor juices
flowing.

For the complete story, see:

(
http://www.independent.ie/business/world/daimlerbenz-
is-motoring-in-the-right-direction-30076960.html)

Media Releases

JAC S5 Passed C-NCAP Five Star Evaluation
Successfully - 7/1/2014
In the morning of 3rd January 2014, Tianjin Chinese
Testing Center published the test results of
2013 C-NCAP (China-New Car Assessment Program) ,
JAC S5 passed the C-NCAP five star evaluation
successfully. C-NCAP (including front, offset, side three
crash tests and whip test) is organized by authorized
institutions and industry organizations that carry out the
more stringent crashing test to new cars.

Though evaluation the passengers’ degrees of hurting
under a more serious crashing environment, it classified
the testing car’s safety level according to hurting
degrees of head, chest, legs and other main body parts.
There is a completed test and evaluative method to rate
the stars and to provide the accurate information of
safety performance.

The five star of C-NCAP reflects JAC putting the
customers in the first place and respecting their life. JAC
has always pursued the excellent quality and adhered to
the principle of protection passengers’ life under any
extreme environment.

(http://jacen.jac.com.cn/article/20140107/75140406.html
)
Monthly Sales Record in China, January vehicle sales
surpass 340,000 units – 11/2/2014

In January, General Motors and its joint ventures set an
all-time monthly sales record in China with sales of
348,061 units, an increase of 12.0 percent from January
2013, the previous record month.

Domestic sales by Shanghai GM and SAIC-GM-Wuling
and their Buick and Wuling brands all reached all-time
highs as well in January.
Shanghai GM sold 171,856 vehicles in China, an
increase of 11.4 percent year on year. SAIC-GM-Wuling
sold 172,852 vehicles, as domestic demand for its
products increased 13.9 percent on an annual basis.

Page190of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Demand in China for FAW-GM’s products dropped 26.1
percent on an annual basis to 3,319 units.
Buick sales in China rose 15.7 percent from the first
month of 2013 to 100,127 units. It was the first time that
Buick’s monthly sales topped 100,000 units. Its best
sellers in January were the Excelle XT and GT, which
generated collective demand of 34,176 units, an
increase of 44.2 percent. Buick also continued to enjoy
strong demand for the GL8 family, which experienced
collective sales growth of 114.8 percent to 11,973 units.
In addition, the Encore SUV had sales of 9,052 units,
which was up 14.9 percent.

Chevrolet sales in the domestic market dropped 0.2
percent year on year to 65,988 units in January. The
brand’s most popular model was the Cruze, which sold
22,621 units. Demand for the Sail family also remained
strong, with sales of 21,989 units.
Cadillac luxury vehicle sales in China jumped 265.7
percent to 5,741 units in January. Sales of the SRX
jumped 96.1 percent to 2,812 units, while sales of the
XTS totaled 2,365 units in the nameplate’s first January
on the market.
Wuling sales in China reached 163,886 units in
January, which was up 13.2 percent from the same
month last year. Its best-selling model was the Hong
Guang family, whose sales grew 69.9 percent to 81,153
units. Baojun, GM’s entry-level passenger car brand in
China, had sales growth of 27.8 percent to 8,966 units.

General Motors traces its roots back to 1908. GM has
12 joint ventures, two wholly owned foreign enterprises
and more than 58,000 employees in China. GM and its
joint ventures offer the broadest lineup of vehicles and
brands among automakers in China. Passenger cars
and commercial vehicles are sold under the Baojun,
Buick, Cadillac, Chevrolet, Jiefang, Opel and Wuling
brands. In 2013, GM sold nearly 3.2 million vehicles in
China. More information on General Motors in China
can be found at GM Media Online.

(
http://media.gm.com/media/us/en/gm/news.detail.html/c
ontent/Pages/news/cn/en/2014/Feb/0211_sales.html)

New General Motors CEO Mary Barra Visits Shanghai –
13/2/2014
Mary Barra made her first visit to China as GM’s new
CEO this week. She hosted a meeting with employees
at the GM International Operations (GMIO) and GM
China Headquarters in Shanghai. She also met with
Shanghai Mayor Yang Xiong and representatives from
GM China’s joint ventures.

Barra was joined by new GM President Dan Ammann
and new GM Executive Vice President, Global Product
Development, Purchasing and Supply Chain, Mark
Reuss.

“I am very impressed by our teams at GMIO and GM
China,” said Barra. “Our local employees are playing a
fundamental role in GM’s ongoing turnaround worldwide.
GM will further strengthen our investment in China. This

Page191of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.is crucial for ensuring we remain a global industry
leader.”

She highlighted the planned investment by GM’s joint
ventures in China of about $11 billion in vehicles,
facilities and people through 2016. China and its joint
ventures will launch 19 new and refreshed models in
2014. She also mentioned GMIO will launch nearly 20
new products in its nearly 100 markets.

“The key to our success remains designing, building and
selling the world’s best vehicles,” Barra added. “We will
keep our focus on the introduction of cars, trucks and
crossovers that can take on the best that the competition
has to offer – wherever we do business.”

During her meeting with Yang Xiong, Barra reiterated
the importance of both Shanghai and China to GM. She
pointed out that as GM’s largest market for the past five
years, China will continue to serve as a prime location
for the development of new vehicles, services and
technology.

General Motors traces its roots back to 1908. GM has
12 joint ventures, two wholly owned foreign enterprises
and more than 58,000 employees in China. GM and its
joint ventures offer the broadest lineup of vehicles and
brands among automakers in China. Passenger cars
and commercial vehicles are sold under the Baojun,
Buick, Cadillac, Chevrolet, Jiefang, Opel and Wuling
brands. In 2013, GM sold nearly 3.2 million vehicles in
China. More information on General Motors in China
can be found at GM Media Online.

(
http://media.gm.com/media/us/en/gm/news.detail.html/c
ontent/Pages/news/cn/en/2014/Feb/0213_mary.html)

Latest Research

Scope: Screen industry views

Cameron, Sandy; Gutierrez, Peter; Giuffre, Liz; Judah,
Tara

Abstract:

There is a certain accepted template for raising finance
for a feature film in Australia. After around three years of
script development, a project is shown to the
marketplace to attach local distribution and an
international sales agent for cash advances or market
ing guarantees. These attachments trigger state- and
federal-agency funding, and then the Producer Offset
(40 per cent of qualifying Australian expenditure) is
cash-flowed into the budget through an agency or
private film fund. It's a proven template up to a point, but
it's increasingly difficult to execute. In the current
landscape, there is a paucity of Australian distributors
and a high demand on limited government investment.
Perhaps most crucially, this is a project-by-project
financing model, with mostly small operators struggling
for overheads and ongoing capital. Veteran director,
producer and head of Adelaide Motion Picture
Company (AMPCO) Mario Andreacchio, whose films
include Napoleon (1995), The Real Macaw (1998) and

Page192of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Dragon Pearl (2011), is someone who has been
looking outside of this template for many years.

(
http://search.informit.com.au/documentSummary;dn=12
6825818989175;res=IELLCC)

The Industry
The development of China’s modern auto industry -
2012
China’s automobile industry dates to the 1950s when, in
1956, the “Jiefang” truck became the first domestically
produced commercial vehicle. Two years later, the
“Hongqi” car became China’s first branded passenger
car, and served as a government official vehicle.

Production capacity, however, grew slowly until the
beginning of market reforms. In 1986, under the 7th
Five-Year Plan (1986-1990), the automotive industry
was designated as a national “pillar industry”. In 1994,
the “Formal Policy on Development of Automotive
Industry” was promulgated by the State Council as a
further guide to the development of the industry.

To protect the domestic auto industry, the authorities
proceeded gradually and unevenly with the opening of
the market to imports. During the mid 1980s, a variety of
measures were imposed to restrict auto imports,
including tariffs and quotas. As of 2001 import tariffs for
finished auto vehicles were in the 70%-80% range,
although tariffs for auto parts were considerably lower at
around 25%. Foreign investment was allowed only
under the framework of joint ventures with major
domestic manufacturers. Auto production reached 2
million units by 2000, making China the 8th largest
producer in the world at the time, mainly through joint
ventures with the major producers.
Prior to China’s accession to the WTO, requirements on
local input content were common. For example, foreign
automakers were not allowed to establish wholly-owned
auto companies in China, and joint venture products
made in China were required to meet local content rules
of 40%. There were also requirements on the balance of
auto/auto parts imports and exports as well as the
balance of foreign exchange on foreign-invested
automakers.
With China’s accession to the WTO, commitments were
made to reduce tariff and non-tariff barriers, including
import tariff cuts for finished vehicles and auto parts to
around 25% and 10% respectively. Meanwhile, quotas
on auto imports were reduced and finally removed,
under the new “Automotive Industry Development
Policy” announced by the National Development and
Reform Commission (NDRC) in 2004. to bring the
market into WTO compliance and the TRIMs agreement
(the Agreement on Trade Related Investment
Measures).

Complementing the opening progress in the auto
manufacturing sector, the China Banking Regulatory
Commission (CBRC) also issued new measures to allow
foreign investors to establish auto finance companies for
the first time.

Page193of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.(
http://serviciodeestudios.bbva.com/KETD/fbin/mult/1206
19_China
_Automobile_Outlook_EN_Edi_tcm348-
334127.pdf?ts=11112013)
Automotive to China – 12/8/2013
The automotive industry is one of China’s designated
‘pillar’ industries. In 2012, a total of 19.3 million vehicles
were sold in China, of which 15.49 million were
passenger vehicles and 3.81 million commercial
vehicles (Source: China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers (CAAM)). Total vehicle sales increased
4.33 per cent over 2011, up 7.07 per cent for passenger
vehicle sales and down 5.49 per cent for commercial
vehicles.
China became the world’s largest automotive market in
2009 and has maintained the leading position for four
consecutive years. Over the past decade, China's
annual vehicle sales jumped 10-fold as rising affluence
and government incentives boosted demand. With the
introduction of government incentive programs in 2009,
total automotive sales experienced strong growth rates
of 46 per cent by the end of 2009 and continued to grow
by 32.4 per cent in 2010.

The manufacturing of passenger cars is one of the
national priorities, particularly in Shanghai, Changchun,
Wuhan, Chongqing and Guangzhou where dominant
international players such as Volkswagen, General
Motors, Ford, Citroen and Honda have established
production facilities. Currently the top 5 OEMs with
annual sales over 1.5 million are:

Shanghai Automotive Industry Corp.

Dongfeng Motors Co.

First Automotive Works

Chang’an Group

Beijing Automotive Industry Holding Co.

In addition to those major players, many local
automotive manufacturers such as Chery Auto, Great
Wall Motors, Geely Auto and BYD Auto are growing
quickly.
China’s automotive components industry is quite
segmented with approximately 2,000 large and
medium-sized automotive component manufacturers.
There are also over 1,000 small manufacturers across
China operating under separate industry administrations
but supplying to the automotive industry. The industry is
focused on safety systems, new material utilisation and
environmentally friendly technologies such as alternative
fuel systems.

In 2011, the 12th Five-Year Plan (2011-2015) was
launched. The automotive industry is one of the seven
strategic industries that the government is looking to
develop. New energy vehicles are a focus of the
automotive industry strategy and one of the measures
towards reducing national emission levels. New energy
vehicles will continue to enjoy funding and support from

Page194of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.the highest levels of government. The Ministry of
Finance will invest over a trillion yuan for further
research on energy-efficient and new energy
automobile core technology. New energy vehicles are
predicted to play a leading role in China’s automotive
industry for the next 10 years, with sales forecasts of
electric vehicles reaching one million by 2015. The
Guideline also predicts that accumulated domestic sales
of new energy vehicles will reach five million units by
2020.
In April 2012, the Energy-saving and New Energy
Vehicle Development Plan (2012-2020) was released. It
made clear that development of electric vehicles is the
strategic goal of the Chinese automotive industry in the
next 10 years. The current priorities are to move forward
the commercialisation of battery electric vehicles (BEV)
and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (PHEV), and to
promote hybrid vehicles and energy-saving ICE
vehicles to a wider extent. The Plan targets production
and sales of 500,000 units of BEV and PHEV by 2015
and five million units by 2020. The Plan also sets goals
for improved fuel efficiency, for example, a target
average fuel consumption of 6.9 litres per 100km for all
passenger vehicles by 2015 and 5.0 litres by 2020. In
the meantime, the overall technology of new energy
vehicles, power batteries and key automotive
components and parts should be at international
standards.
China’s automotive industry is gearing for a new round
of restructuring. In September 2010, the State Council
issued guidelines to promote mergers and acquisitions
(M&A) in six pillar industries; automotive, steel, cement,
machinery, electrolytic aluminium and rare earths. The
new guidelines call on the local authorities to put aside
protectionism and eliminate obstacles to M&A. Currently
there are more than 130 vehicle producers in China,
scattered over 27 provinces and regions in China. The
top 10 OEMs are responsible for 87 per cent (in total
over 16 million units) of the country’s automotive
production and sales in 2011. To improve economies of
scale, the Chinese government planned to reduce the
number of producers to 10 during 2011 with annual
output capacity of over one million each. Yet industry
consolidation has moved at a slow pace with only two
major M&A deals in the past two years: Chang’an Group
took over Changhe and Hafei; GAIC took over Hunan
Changfeng and Gonow.

Opportunities
China is moving away from encouraging foreign direct
investment (FDI) in complete vehicle manufacturing
towards research and development (R&D) of new
energy vehicles. The National Development and Reform
Commission and Ministry of Commerce released the
Catalogue of Industries for Guiding Foreign Investment
(2011 revision) in January 2012. It removes ‘complete
vehicle manufacturing’ from the ‘encouraged’ to
‘permitted’ category, considering the overcapacity and
abundant FDI in this area.

Instead, the government encourages investment in R&D
and new energy vehicles. Below are the detailed
development priorities from the Transport and
Transportation Equipment Manufacturing of Item 19:

Page195of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Manufacturing and R&D of engines

Manufacturing key automotive components and parts
and R&D of key technologies

Manufacturing and R&D of automotive electrics and
electronics

Manufacturing of key automotive components and parts
for new energy vehicles
The development of new energy vehicles suggests
opportunities in improving fuel efficiency, power battery
research and development to make vehicles safer, more
reliable and lighter. The construction and technology of
charging facilities is also needed to foster the
development of EV infrastructure.

Opportunities also exist in the following areas:

Auto safety systems including ABS and air bags

Auto transmissions

High performance friction material for brake systems

Tooling technology

Vehicle body design

Low capacity and high performance petrol engines

Diesel engines between seven and 12-litre capacity and
key parts

New material for automotive parts development
including magnesium casting parts

Development of hybrid vehicles, particularly in
passenger cars

Development of vehicles using an alternative fuel or new
source of energy such as rechargeable capacitance
electricity vehicles, particularly in public bus
transportation systems

Battery, motor, e-control systems

Tariffs on automobiles and components are being
continually reduced following World Trade Organization
(WTO) accession. An average rate of 25 per cent for
cars and 10 per cent for components now applies.
Duties are imposed on the majority of imports to China
and a 17 per cent Value Added Tax is applied to all
imports, except those specifically used for
manufacturing for re-export. Potential exporters are
therefore advised to make direct contact with Austrade
in order to obtain the most up-to-date information on the
relevant sector tariffs and regulations.
Since April 2006, China has implemented regulations
known as 'whole vehicle character'. These regulations
impose a tax on imported automotive components equal
to the tariff on a complete automobile – typically 25 per
cent – if the final assembled vehicle fails to meet certain
local content requirements. Previously, tariffs on
automotive components ranged from 6-10 per cent.

Page196of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Foreign car manufacturers in China such as
Volkswagen and General Motors are likely to prefer
purchasing components worldwide, based on price and
quality rather than purchasing from the local market due
to quality issues. China has also begun expanding
available access under import quotas by 15 per cent
annually, from an initial level of US$6 billion until the
complete elimination of quotas within six years of WTO
accession.

Industry standards

In general, international standards are applied in
China’s automotive industry. International automobile
manufacturers, such as General Motors and
Volkswagen, dominate the standards, models and
platforms used. China closely followed the European
emission standards when making up the national
emission standards. China imposed nationwide stage
four (Guo IV) emission standards and measurements for
all new light gasoline vehicles on July 2011. A couple of
municipal governments like Beijing are in the process of
drafting stricter emission standards and administrative
measurements.

Market entry

Several market entry strategies exist for Australian firms
to enter the China automotive industry:

Joint ventures or wholly owned foreign investment can
be suitable options, as the industry – including
international car makers – prefer to source from
domestically located suppliers (often first tier suppliers)
to ensure just-in-time delivery (follow your customer).

Develop links to car manufacturers to identify specific
product needs.

Access second tier or third tier suppliers as this sector
has less central government interference and is driven
by free competition based on pricing and quality.
Establishing trade relationships with suppliers who sell
to OEM component manufacturers is a recommended
approach. Often this trading relationship is converted
into an investment partnership in order to secure market
share.

There are a number of key strategies that should be
considered when marketing automotive components in
China:

As automotive technologies and products are industry
focused and specialised, targeted market visits to
potential customers and strategic partners is an effective
approach to initial market development.

International auto exhibitions are suitable and effective
for generic applications and auto-related products and
services, including car care products and testing
equipment.

Promotional activities such as seminars and product
launches are useful for new technology and material
applications.

Liaise with major multinational car makers and
component manufacturers with investments in China to

Page197of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.establish their specifications and import requirements.
Multinationals often resort to imports if the local
suppliers cannot meet their quality and pricing
requirements.

The automotive industry globally has been an early
adopter of e-commerce and online marketing, however,
auto-related e-business in China is just starting. Online
sales of new cars is still a new business model. With
China’s less developed online payment system and
difficulties establishing the business credentials of some
companies in China, it means physical transactions are
still most common and higher risks may be expected in
online business transactions.
Government, business and trade resources for China
China Association of Automobile Manufacturers –
www.caam.org.cn/english
China Automotive Technology and Research Center –
www.catarc.ac.cn
China Society of Automotive Engineering

A-508, Hao Yuan, Pengrun Garden

Caihuying, Fengtai District
Beijing PR China 100054

Tel: +86 10 6347 6226

Fax: +86 10 6347 6444

Media
China Automotive Review – www.cbuauto.com
China Daily – www.chinadaily.com.cn
China Automotive Technology and Research Center –
www.autoinfo.gov.cn

(
http://www.austrade.gov.au/Export/Export-
Markets/Countries/China
/Industries/Automotive#.UnsD3HCBl4w)

Automotive Industry Analysis – September 2013
According to the China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers statistics, in September 2013, showing
an overall sales booming auto market trend, MoM and
YoY showed rapid growth. January to September, car
sales remained stable year on year growth rate over the
previous August have been enhanced.

September, automobile production 1,926,600, growth of
14.87%, an increase of 15.96%; sales 1,935,800, growth
of 17.40%, an increase of 19.66%. Where passenger
car production 1,576,400, growth of 13.60%, an
increase of 16.51%; sales 1,593,500, growth of 17.76%,
an increase of 21.12%. Commercial production of
350,200, growth of 20.99%, an increase of 13.52%;
sales 342,300, growth of 15.77%, an increase of
13.30%.

Page198of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.January to September, car sales 15,938,400 and
15,883,100, an increase of 12.78% and 12.70%.
Increase over the previous August, respectively 0.42
percent and improved 0.89 percentage points;
compared with a year earlier, an increase of 7.80
percentage points, respectively, to enhance and 9.33
percentage points. Where passenger car sales
12,927,100 and 12,849,300, an increase of 13.72% and
14.02%; commercial vehicle sales 3.0113 million and
3.0338 million, an increase of 8.93% and 7.46%.

(
http://www.auto-
stats.org.cn/ReadArticle.asp?NewsID=8178)

Leading Companies
China Automotive Technology and Research Centre

About Us
China Automotive Technology &Research Center
(CATARC) was established in 1985 response to the
need of the state for the management of auto industry
and upon the approval of the China National Science
and Technology Commission. It is now affiliated to
SASAC.

Up to now, there are 2051employees working in
CATARC with 848 technical professionals, including 43
professor-level senior engineers, and 51 doctors, 232
senior engineers. The assets and land area has totaled
2600 million and 625.33 thousand square meters
(including 450 ㎡ the New Base).

As a technical administration body in the auto industry
and a technical support organization to the
governmental authorities, CATARC assists the
government in such activities as auto standard and
technical regulation formulating, product certification
testing, quality system certification, industry planning
and policy research, information service and common
technology research. So far CATARC has built up
certain scale and competence through setting up testing
labs and research departments and attracting a group of
technical talents.

(
http://www.catarc.ac.cn/ac_en/about/intro/webinfo/2007/
12/1196727076728291.htm)

Chery (CACTZ )

About Us

Chery Automobile Co. Ltd was founded on Jan. 8, 1997,
with registered capital of RMB 3.98 billion. Plant
construction commenced on March 18, 1997, the first
car came off the production line on December 18, 1999,
and on July 27, 2011, the three-millionth car of Chery
rolled out the assembly line successfully. At present,
Chery possesses an annual production capacity of
900,000 cars, engines and 450,000 transmissions.

Chery's products cover passenger vehicles, commercial
vehicles and minivans. Currently, there are more than
20 models of Chery available on market, and in addition,
dozens more will be released successively. Chery has

Page199of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.accomplished a sustainable way of development by
doing research and preparation while producing autos at
the same time, which supports Chery updating its
auto-making technology and making its products always
follow the trend. Taking Safe, Energy-saving and
Eco-friendly as product objective, Chery has
successively obtained quality certifications of ISO9001
and German TUV Rheinland ISO/TS16949, etc. For
many years, Chery products which take Zero Defect as
objective have won great favor of the vast customers.
Chery has been recognized and accepted by customers
from all over the world. In 2011, Chery sold around
643,000 units both home and abroad, winning the top
title among independent automakers for 11 consecutive
years. In 2011, Chery sold around 160,200 units in
overseas markets, up 73% year on year and exceeds
the number of 135,000 in 2008, making a great new
record. In addition, the total export number of Chery
since 2001 has achieved around 700,000 units by the
end of May 2012. Chery has been top Chinese vehicle
exporter for 9 consecutive years. Chery also won the
golden medal of sales among China self-owned brands
for 11 consecutive years, and has been occupying the
biggest proportion of China passenger vehicle
exportation.

Independent innovation is the core of Chery's
development Strategy, as well as the source of
momentum of Chery's supernormal growth. Since its
foundation, Chery which has always stuck to
independent innovation has developed an R&D system
relying on Automotive Engineering & Research Institute,
Central Research Institute, Planning & Design Institute,
and Testing Center. Under the system, Chery jointly
designs key parts with holding companies and suppliers,
and carries out cooperation combining production, study
& research with domestic universities and scientific
research institutes. Till now, Chery has set up an R & D
team of more than 6000 members, and acquired core
technologies of finished vehicle and key parts
development.

Through independent innovation, Chery has
accomplished many breakthroughs on cutting edge and
core technology such as TGDI, DVVT, CVT and new
energy, which boost all Chery products into new
generation. In addition, Chery also attaches great
importance to conception innovation and management
innovation, keeps perfecting system & mechanism,
inspires the innovation vitality of the enterprise, attracts
and retains numerous engineering and managerial
talents to work for it. In 2008, Chery was included in the
first batch National Innovative Enterprise of China;
Energy-saving & Environment-protection Auto Platform
Building, and Key Technology Research & Engineering
Application of Independent Car Development System of
Chery won the first and second prizes of National Award
for Science and Technology Progress respectively. By
the end of June 2011, Chery has applied 6083 patents
and been authorized 4230 ones, leading Chinese auto
enterprises.

Globalization is the strategic goal of Chery. Forging
“International Namecard” is what Chery bears in mind
for its strategic plan. Commencing from the initial
development stage, Chery pays attention to exploiting

Page200of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.both domestic and overseas markets and takes
initiatives in implementing the strategy of "going
abroad". It became the first Chinese auto company to
export CBU, CKD, engines and car manufacturing
technologies to foreign countries. Presently, Chery is
actively carrying out its globalization strategy. It has
exported its cars to more than 80 countries and regions
all over the world and the number of CKD factories built
or being built is up to 16.

Through the radiating capacity of these production
bases, the auto markets of Asia, Europe, Africa, South
America and North America will be ranged over in depth.
The total number of exported vehicles has reached 660
thousand, which is on the top of the list among all China
Vehicle companies.

While Chery is enhancing its hard power actively, it also
pays close attention to fostering soft power. Inheriting
the idea of "Extensive Marketing", Chery keeps
upgrading the platforms of "Brand, Quality and Service"
comprehensively, and promoting brand and corporate
images. Chery pays much attention to the brand
promotion while seeking independent research,
innovation and globalization. Through continuous efforts
on aspects of technology, quality and services, the
brand of Chery has been established and promoted.
Recently, the qualities of Chery auto products and CSI
have been improved greatly, helping Chery won
applauses from the customers. In 2006, Chery was
recognized as "Chinese Famous Brand" and ranked
62nd among "500 Most Valuable Brands of China". In
2007, Chery was selected in "Top 20 Globally Most
Competitive Companies of China" and "Top 100 Most
Competitive Companies of Developing Countries". In
2010, Chery was chosen as the "Most respected
Chinese Company"by Fortune magazine for the 5th
time, and at the same time, listed in "Top 10 Globally
Most Competitive Chinese Companies" for the 2nd time
in the latest research report released by world-renowned
Roland Berger Strategy Consultants. Also in 2009,
Chery topped the compact car and the premium
compact list with QQ3 and QQ6 in the “Report of 2009
China Initial Quality Study (IQS) SM” released by J.D.
Power Asia Pacific, the authoritative rating agency for
auto companies. It was the first time for Chinese
independent brands to win the first place in the two
market segments in 10 years since J.D. Power first
released the Report, representing a historic
breakthrough. In 2010, Chery was awarded by Fortune
magazine as “Most Admirable Chinese Companies” for
a 5th consecutive year. Meanwhile, Roland Berger, a
worldwide-known Strategy Management Company, has
issued its latest report where Chery’s name appears in
the list of “Top 10 Chinese Companies with Global
Competitiveness” for 2nd time after 2007.

With vigorous culture of innovation, Chery has realized
the great-leap-forward development and has received
deep concern and great attention from the leaders of the
country and the Party. Hu Jintao, Wu Bangguo, Wen
Jiabao, Jia Qinglin, Li Changchun and Li Keqiang, etc.
had paid visits to Chery successively. They all positively
recognized and thought highly of Chery and also
expressed their higher expectations. Chery will continue
its objective of “Independent Innovation, World First

Page201of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Class, Serving Mankind”, keep carrying forward the spirit
of hard work, and make constant efforts to realize its
phase-III goal of becoming an international famous
Chinese brand.
(http://www.cheryinternational.com/company/index.html
)

Development Strategy
China has been the biggest automobile market in the
world. At present, we can not imagine that the
automobile industry of China does not have its own
brands and core technologies. China has been the third
largest economic entity in the world, and is bound to
cultivate international proprietary brands in the
automobile industry.

It is just based on such mission and confidence that, in
1997, Chery was born in the desert of the national
automobile industry and has been marching forward
courageously.

Although Chery has experienced all sorts of difficulties,
its future development road will not be smooth, we shall
tenaciously pursue and realize our own dream without
hesitation guided by our own direction and objective, as
have understood such mission and firmed such
confidence. Today Chery has, compared with the one
more than ten years ago, accumulated considerable
technologies and experience and established its own
base, and has also indomitably taken rooted in the
international market and has been striding toward our
objective.

Competition is an eternal melody of the market
economy- harmony only belongs to the strong in the
end. With the continual development and expansion of
Chery, the entire world is keeping a watchful eye on
Chery at present. The newborn Chinese automobile
brands including Chery will be confronted with a
worsening market environment, which is realistic
pressure. However, employees of Chery never lack the
spirit of drawing sword at critical moments and the
courage of fighting. They do not hesitate nor stop due to
the changes of the external environment- Even if it
needs efforts for generations, we will also realize our
final objective.

We know that it is not enough to merely have spirit and
courage. On the road of creating the international
proprietary brands, Chery shall unit all forces that can be
united to establish our united front. Chery shall actively
undertake international cooperation and innovate
cooperation modes with a global view so as to realize
the objective of mutual benefit and multi-win, and
common development with partners while improving its
global competitiveness and brand internationalization.
(http://www.cheryinternational.com/company
/strategy.html)
Chery China

In domestic market, Chery innovates the marketing
mode characterized with network marketing. In this way,
it not only strengths the control capacity of the market,

Page202of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.but avoid unfair competition and internal friction in
resource, moreover, it greatly enhance the ability in
marketing services, enlarges Chery’s marketing
network, so that Chery's marketing network can cover
both the developed towns and undeveloped counties,
thus, it lays a solid foundation for yearly fast promotion
in Chery's marketing; advocate both development in
quality and service, stimulate brand leap, realize three
strategic aims of "brand leap, quality leap and service
leap"; by building Chery brand, while standardize the
core information for product, deliver product positioning
and its selling points to customers, it also benefits the
customer in clearly finding out suitable products
according to their own needs among complex
automobile market.

Chery gradually establishes and perfects the after sales
service system which is to "enhance customer
satisfaction as the goal" and its service network covering
31 provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities at
home. The intensive service network enables Chery's
after service more timely and quickly, which helps to
create "more convenient, cheaper and more satisfied"
reputation for Chery's service.
(http://www.cheryinternational.com/company/chery-
china.html)

Social Responsibility

While Chery people incorporated the three words
"benefit the people" into their operation policies at the
very beginning of establishment, they also bore in mind
the three words. We have long pursued to "give the
value we created back to the society" and this has never
changed. From "Eastar" scholarship to Gansu Minqin
sand control afforestation, and from
environmental-friendly vehicles for the Olympic Games
to "5.12" earthquake disaster relief and rescue, Chery,
as a flag of China's national industry, always breathe
together with the 13 billion Chinese people and fight
together with them to perform its duties for the country
and the Chinese people.
While our company provides safer and more
environment-friendly and more energy-efficient vehicles
to the consumers all over the world in the near future of
ever growing internationalization, we will also give
Chery's value back to every corner of our land Chery
people were concerned about the disaster-stricken area
and the whole company acted immediately. Firstly they
donated things to the area worthRMB4 million and then
it donated RMB 12million. On May 22, Chery again
donated RMB5million through the Red Cross to the area
to rebuilt Hope Primary School in the area helping the
children there resume study in an early time. Chery also
sent 30 Chery autos worth RMB3 million through the
Ministry of Science and Technology. Chery together with
its partners and employees totally donated
RMB24million of things and money.

When the country and the people suffer from disaster,
Chery, as a corporate citizen, has the duty and
responsibility to share worry of the country and the
people and solve their difficulties. The RMB 24million
showed the wish of all Chery people and its partners

Page203of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.hoping that the disaster-stricken area could be
reconstructed in an early date!

The earthquake was ruthless but the people were not.
All Chery people and partners (including sellers,
associates and suppliers) practically acted to help the
people in the disaster-stricken area to go through
difficulties and rebuild homes. Chery partners were even
more active to donate money and they totally raised
RMB8.7million; Volker Steinwascher, the Chairman of
the Board of the U.S. party of one of the joint ventures of
Chery---Quantum LLC called Yin Tongyao, Chairman of
the Board of Chery, and proposed to donate
RMB2million. The money together with the 30 autos
donated by Chery and ten thousand tents were
successively sent to the disaster-stricken areas and
relevant authorities. Representatives of Chery also
formed love squad and went to the serious affected area
of Beichuan to relieve the disaster.
(http://www.cheryinternational.com/company
/responsibility.html)

Culture

Enterprise Core Concept

Serving mankind with independent innovation and world
class quality;

Customer first, quality foremost and efficiency
paramount;

Targeted management, standard procedure and
continual improvement;

People-oriented, honest, cooperative and diligent with
integrity.

Products
"Safer, More Energy Saving and More
Environmental-Friendly"

Chery is pursuing world-leading technologies, creating
independent intellectual properties,

forging a world-renowned brand and exploiting the
global automobile market.

Human Resources Philosophy

Always sticking to people-oriented principle through the
following acts: keeping the employees by treating them
with sincere feelings, attracting the employees by
offering a splendid career, training the employees with
challenging tasks, cultivating the employees through
effective learning and encouraging the employees with
reasonable systems.
(http://www.cheryinternational.com/company
/chery-culture.html)

Honor

On Decembers 28th,2005, The president of Chery
Automobile Co., Ltd, Yin Tongyao, President of
CNOOC, President of COSCO and 7 other Presidents
and CEOs were awarded the honour of being ” The ten

Page204of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.people who are most influential to China`s economy in
2005” by CCTV. This award enjoys huge influence in
China`s economy and is regarded as the “Oscars of the
Chinese Economy ”. Before this award ceremony ,
President Yin Tongyao was invited to present a speech
at Tsinghua University, which enjoys the generally
acknowledged reputation of “ The best University in
China ”, and the university at which Foreign Heads of
State inevitably make speeches when they pay state
visits to China. All of this has proved that Chery enjoys
a huge amount of respectable accptance and
acknowledgement by Chinese consumers. To
honourably enjoy global acceptance and praise is our
aim, we will pursue it persitently and hopefully.
(http://www.cheryinternational.com/company/honor.html
)

FAW (000800: Shenzhen)

About Us

FAW Group is a global leader in the vehicle
manufacturing industry with a 60-year history of
innovation. Founded in 1953, FAW employs 120,000
people around the world and sells products in over 70
countries. As China's state-owned automotive
corporation, the company's total assets are valued at
244.575 billion yuan RMB. FAW is a diversified maker
of quality light, medium, and heavy-duty trucks,
automobiles, municipal buses and luxury tourist
coaches, custom bus chassis, and mini-vehicles with
total sales in excess of 18 million vehicles worldwide.
China FAW Group Corporation, commonly referred to
as FAW due to its original name of First Automotive
Works, broke ground for its first factory on July 15, 1953.
FAW produced China's first Jiefang commercial truck in
1956, and in the year 1958, China's first Dongfeng car
and first Hongqi luxury sedan rolled off the production.
Since then, FAW has been at the forefront of promoting
China's automotive industry.
FAW Group Corporation is headquartered in China's
northern city of Changchun, Jilin Province. FAW Group's
domestic production facilities, subsidiaries, and
engineering development and test centers are located in
18 locations throughout China. Manufacturing plants are
located in northeastern China's Jilin, Liaoning and
Heilongjiang provinces, eastern China's Shandong
province and Tianjin municipality, southern China's
Guangxi and Hainan provinces, and southwestern
China's Sichuan and Yunnan provinces. Products
include a full range of passenger cars; light, medium,
and heavy trucks; coach chassis; municipal transit and
intercity buses; luxury tourist coaches; mini vehicles;
engines; transmissions; axles; and components.
FAW maintains the lead market position within China
while continuing to expand into new international
markets, executing a carefully planned strategy to build
a comprehensive global organization.

We are dedicated to the core value that total customer
satisfaction is our number one priority. As a global
player with a sales volume now over two million units
per year, we take advantage of the latest cutting edge

Page205of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.technologies, production methods, and management
practices to bring our customers the latest in automobile,
truck, and bus design.

(
http://www.faw.com/aboutFaw/aboutFaw.jsp?pros=Profil
e.jsp&phight=580&about=Profile)

Our History
On July 13, 1956, under the guidance of the China's
Central Committee and with assistance from the former
Soviet Union, construction of China's first automotive
production base was completed. Known at that time as
First Automotive Works (FAW) and now as First
Automotive Group Corporation, this sprawling car and
truck manufacturer headquartered in Changchun, China
firmly launched the country into the automotive age.

After fifty years of development and refinement,
tremendous changes have taken place within FAW. In
stark contrast to the early days of producing a single
model of medium truck, FAW now produces hundreds of
models of light, medium, and heavy trucks for every
vocation. In the late 1950's, FAW quickly responded to
market demand and commenced automotive and bus
production, soon making FAW the leading producer of
buses and luxury tourist coaches in China. In stark
contrast to our early days, overall production volume has
swelled from 30,000 units to an annual figure
approaching one million. Under an evolutionary
development of corporate infrastructure from that of a
traditional state enterprise to a profitable and diversified
group organization with the right combination of lean
and progressive qualities, FAW is solidly in place to
become a global player in the automotive industry.
After surpassing the one million unit annual sales figure
in 2005, FAW Group Corporation has set exciting new
goals as the company makes use of the latest in
information technologies to keep our people and
customers connected worldwide, thus ensuring an
important competitive edge in the marketplace.

Laying the Foundation (1950-1969)

The ground breaking for FAW's headquarters and first
production facilities on July 15, 1953 was an historic and
exciting time in China's history. The company's first
medium duty truck, the model CA10, immediately
became a daily sight to people throughout China and a
symbol of industrial pride to the country.
FAW's creation was an important part of New China's
first five-year plan, and was successfully executed with
the support of the former Soviet Union thru an
agreement supporting industrial cooperation signed by
China's Chairman Mao Zedong and Prime Minister
Zhou Enlai with Soviet leaders.
In April of 1950, China's Automobile Industry
Preparatory Committee was established by the Ministry
of Heavy Industries. Following meticulous research and
preparation, the Chinese government's Central
Committee authorized a three year plan for the
construction of First Automobile Works in Changchun.
Chairman Mao Zedong autographed the foundation

Page206of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.stone and bestowed the name "Jiefang", meaning
liberation, on the model CA10 medium truck to
symbolize China's new independent ability to create the
tools for a modern national transportation system.

During construction of the new truck plant in
Changchun, the Soviet government provided technical
support, tooling, and more than 80% of the production
machinery. A large number of Soviet advisors were
stationed in Changchun during the ramp-up period to
help orchestrate factory construction, production
preparation, and train FAW employees.

During the 3 year preparation span, talented
management and support staff were recruited from all
over the country. Thousands of assembly line workers
were hired and trained. More than 20,000 workers from
the 5th construction division, composed of mechanical
and electrical tradesman, were put to the task of
transforming the daily arrivals of construction material
into a state-of-the-art production facility on schedule.
The successful collaboration of all concerned promoted
the progress of construction, with completion occurring
on July 15, 1956. Indeed, many felt the pace and quality
of the work was miraculous.

Growth and Development (1970-1979)

The period from the start of production in 1956 until the
end of 1978 was a critical growth and development
period for FAW.

Not long after the production of the CA10 medium truck
began, FAW commenced with production of the "Dong
Feng" (east wind) passenger sedan and the "Hong Qi"
(red flag) luxury sedans. FAW's entrance into the
automobile arena to any meaningful level was however
to be delayed by two historically difficult periods for the
company. The "Great Leap Forward" (1958-1960), a
well-intentioned government plan to quickly advance
China's general industry, met with unexpected
difficulties that temporarily drained available financial
and management resources necessary to FAW. As the
winds of fortune again turned in the company's favor,
including a strategically planned 3 year recuperation
span, the 1960-65 business period proved to have the
most robust sales demand to date for FAW.
The second difficult period distracting the company
from its business focus, known as the "Cultural
Revolution", occurred from 1966 thru 1972. In 1972,
Chinese Premier Zhou Enlai spearheaded an end to
this politically uneven period which allowed the
company to return to normalcy and resume the upward
trend we have today.
In 1975, the company's progress was further
strengthened by the forward-thinking of China's Deputy
Premier Deng Xiaoping initiatives for state enterprise
reform.

In 1977 and 1978, further reforms were initiated by the
Chinese government to assist FAW and other
state-enterprises in catching up with the economic
targets temporarily pushed back by the environment of
the "Cultural Revolution". As a result, despite the
previously mentioned setbacks indirectly beset on the

Page207of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.company, FAW seized the infusion of forward
momentum and pushed forward with new technology,
tripling the number of product offerings, and increasing
production from 30,000 to 60,000 units.

During the 1970's, FAW produced both vehicles and
talent as well. Following the Chinese governments
decision to diversify its vehicle production base, the
Second Auto Works, now known as Dong Feng Motor
Corporation, was created in China's Hebei Province
under the orchestration of FAW utilizing many designs
and talented individuals as directed from the company
to ensure a successful launch.

Model Changes and Revisions (1980-1989)

Plans were initiated in 1979 for a complete redesign of
FAW's prominent CA10/30 medium truck. In the midst of
the development phase, FAW in 1983 instigated a
significant plant modernization campaign to update FAW
and match the revolutionary new truck with a modern
production facility. Taking a cue from overseas, many
Japanese production techniques were incorporated into
FAW's manufacturing process to enhance efficiency.
After extensive R&D, testing, and production
preparation, the new CA141 medium truck entered
production at the end of 1988. During the 1983-88
period, the company cemented its new policies of
moving the corporation away from the priorities of a
traditional state enterprise to that of a modern
profit-driven organization.

Profitability and sales motivation were infused into the
company culture. With the support of China's Central
Committee, FAW received enhanced rights for selling
product through its proprietary sales channels, for
overseas trade, and self-empowerment for enterprise
planning. Climaxing this exciting period of new products
and corporate revitalization, the company formally
opened its doors to international sales for the first time.
The resultant new company atmosphere allowed FAW's
employees to act with renewed spirit and energy, and
follow the global trend in revising and replacing models
at a much more rapid pace than in the past to meet
increasing market demands. New light, medium, and
heavy trucks were planned in conjunction with a new
range of automobiles.

Following a pattern of strong alliance between Jilin Light
Truck and Mini Vehicle Corporation and FAW, the Jilin
concern was merged in 1987 by China's Central
Committee into FAW Group, to make better use of the
synergies between the two companies and promote the
expansion of FAW's product line.

In 1994, FAW Industry General Corporation was
founded based on an alliance between the FAW
Automobile Research Institute and FAW's 9th Planning
and Designing Institute, which greatly solidified the
company's technical resources.

A Maturing Strategy (1990-1999)

The period between 1988 and 2001 witnessed a
renewed focus on enlarging the company's automotive
offerings. The company created two separate

Page208of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.automotive concerns, that being the FAW Passenger
Car Company and FAW-Volkswagen Automobile Co.,
Ltd. This climax of municipal bus, luxury tourist coach,
custom bus chassis, and light, medium, and heavy truck
manufacturing, combined with an extensive portfolio of
proprietary and jointly-produced automobiles, firmly
solidified the position of FAW Group as a top world
player. Heavy truck production surpassed that of
medium trucks for the first time, and the ratio of car to
truck production reached 50%. Overall production
finished 5.1 times higher in 2001 over 1988. Corporate
income increased 22.8, landing FAW a spot in the top
10 of China's largest companies

Additional cooperation overseas with automotive
suppliers and manufacturers, and the expansion of
FAW's overseas sales organization, both led to the
creation of many significant joint venture companies
between FAW Group and overseas partners. Now
exporting complete vehicles, CKD/SKD vehicle kits, and
oem/aftermarket parts to more than 70 countries, FAW
had successfully transformed itself from a famous
domestic vehicle manufacturer to a formidable
participant in the global automotive arena.

FAW also engaged in an effective campaign to reduce
quality defects and improve the cost-effectiveness of
factory operations and procedures. Through an internal
audit, FAW discovered new ways to streamline internal
company procurement and reduce cost. Factory
inventory levels were also adjusted to follow a leaner
"just in time" philosophy.

Foundation for the Future (2000-Present)

In December 2001, FAW convened the 11th session of
the Party Representative Conference, the company's
annual meeting with representatives of the government's
Central Committee, and announced that FAW has
successfully completed its third ramp-up phase during
the 1988-2001 period, more than doubling production,
marketing scope, sales income, profit, and employee
income. In 2002, FAW extended its goals and
announced changes relevant to China's entry into the
World Trade Organization that will assure the
company's continued growth in the global market.

FAW is entering into an exciting and dynamic new era.
From its humble beginning in 1953, FAW has become a
major supplier of automobiles, trucks, buses, and
coaches around the globe. Under superb leadership
accompanied by an outstanding staff of dedicated
people, FAW is proudly poised to become the new
benchmark for innovation, satisfying the world with the
best automobiles and trucks available.

(
http://www.faw.com/aboutFaw/aboutFaw.jsp?pros=forw
ard.jsp&phight=580&about=forword)

Our Visions and Missions

FAW Group, founded as the "First Automobile Works", is
the birthplace of China's automotive industry. As
China's oldest and largest passenger car, bus, coach,
and commercial truck manufacturer, the lead pioneer in
the industry, FAW Group reaffirms its dominant position

Page209of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.year-after-year with exciting and cutting edge vehicles
that meet and exceed the demands of our customers
around the world. We understand and focus on the
needs of our customers, delivering outstanding products
and service.

We are continually in pursuit of perfection and proud to
be number one. We know that our performance is
measured through the eyes of our customers, and
endeavor to exceed their every expectation. We remain
dedicated to developing our proprietary brands while
continuing to engage in mutually beneficial long-term
joint venture cooperation with solid and respected global
industry leaders where engineering, manufacturing, and
marketing synergies are recognized.

Our operating philosophy states that we are our
customer's "first partner", emphasizing the importance
that we place on the customer relationship. Our reasons
for working with energy, passion, and respect are
twofold: to establish and maintain long-term customer
relationships, and to build the most desirable vehicles in
the world.

Corporate Spirit:

Promoting teamwork is the heart of FAW's development.
In an atmosphere that inspires a sense of unity, the spirit
of innovative thinking, respect for others, personal
growth and continuous improvement amongst our
employees, we are able to deliver outstanding business
results. We are committed to the ongoing development
of employee skills at all levels, keeping our people
up-to-date with the latest technology.

Innovation is the soul of FAW's development. Our
passion for innovation and creative thinking runs deeply
in the company's culture, giving our employees the
support to turn exciting concepts into reality.

Personal growth is the backbone of FAW's
development. By promoting the personal growth of our
employees through their work, we are able to increase
the participation of our talented people in the
decision-making process and reward them for their
outstanding accomplishments.

Optimization is a fundamental part of FAW's
development. We take full advantages of our vast
resources to promote a high performance work culture,
enabling us to rise and meet tomorrow's challenges.

Operating Philosophy:

We are committed to providing the highest quality
products and services that reflect our customer's
expectations, complimented by a comprehensive world
class support network.

We endeavor to continuously refine and improve our
products, services, and processes to better serve our
customers.

We continually review the needs and demands of our
customers to earn their respect and build long-term
relationships.

Page210of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Our "customer first" philosophy begins with the high
quality standards built into each FAW Group vehicle and
extends to our outstanding after-sales support system,
demonstrating a clear commitment to quality and
customer satisfaction.

Management Concept:

The ability to quickly bring new and innovative products
to market requires a strong labor-management
relationship based on mutual respect and the desire to
excel.

We strive to reduce and simplify management
processes to achieve optimized efficiency, and empower
our employees to take an active role in our mutual
success and future.

We promote human resource development at every
level, enhancing the skills and capabilities of our
employees so that they may reach their highest
potential.

Our employees are our most valuable resource. Our
people are a special breed, carrying forward 50 years of
unparalleled heritage. They are energized at what they
do, and honored to build the best vehicles in the world.

Mission:

We endeavor to evolve today's dreams into tomorrow's
reality.

Strategic Direction:

We are committed to offering the world a full range of
quality passenger cars, buses, coaches, and
commercial trucks that exceed the needs and demands
of our customers. We incorporate the latest technology
to deliver exciting products that can benefit society with
cutting edge efficiency, world class safety features, and
environmentally friendly operation while encouraging
energy diversity through the use of hybrid and alternate
fuel technologies.

(
http://www.faw.com/aboutFaw/aboutFaw.jsp?pros=%20
Vision.jsp&phight=2000&about=Vision)

Corporate Trademark

Trademark: The symbol of FAW Group represents the
combination of the Chinese characters "一汽" (meaning
"China FAW Group Corporation"). The Chinese
character "一" (meaning "first") and "汽" (meaning
"automobile"), when transformed visually, depict the
vision of a hawk spreading its wings.

(
http://www.faw.com/aboutFaw/aboutFaw.jsp?pros=Corp
orateTrademark.jsp&phight=600&about=CorporateTrad
emark)

Responsibility

We steadfastly believe that we all share a global
responsibility to conserve our earth's natural resources.
FAW Group acts on this belief by continuing to reinvest

Page211of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.in new technology to lower vehicle emissions and
increase fuel economy. We consider the environment at
every point of the vehicle's life cycle, including
production, operation, disposal, and recycling. One of
FAW Group's largest responsibilities is to our 132,000
dedicated employees. We always keep at the front of
our mind that our valued employees are our most
valuable resource. We must and will continue to develop
and grow the strength of our human resources.

As the automotive industry has developed globally,
attention to the sustainability of our environment has
become a critical issue. Since October 2000, FAW
Group has dedicated itself to becoming a leader in
environmental management. Throughout the company,
we have adopted a code of environmental responsibility
to the benefit of our customers and employees as we
conserve our natural resources and lower costs. Based
on ongoing evaluations, FAW Group continues to evolve
the lean manufacturing concept. Since 2003, factory
layouts have been enhanced for a more "worker
friendly" environment, thus netting significant increases
in production and cost savings. Automotive and truck
production has been restructured within the plants into
product-specific units for improved efficiency. We are
committed to creating a modern "green" manufacturing
environment. The grounds of FAW Group are being
artistically landscaped with gardens and ponds. The
roads throughout the factory are quickly resembling
greenbelt parkways, lined with hundreds of trees,
shrubs, and flowers. The remarkable achievements in
production and engineering leading up to FAW Group's
50th anniversary, combined with the blossoming of the
company's new "green" manufacturing focus, clearly
demonstrate our flexibility in manufacturing and
commitment to environmental responsibility.
FAW Group has invested nearly 700 million (RMB)
yuan in the projects concerning environment protection
and pollution reduction. Between 1999 and 2004, the
company added 23 sewage plants and 56 smoke/dust
treatment systems at a cost of 336 million Yuan. As a
tangible result of the company's aggressive pollution
control measures, FAW's waste water processing
volume is now reaching 37,600 tons per day with waste
acids at 12,000 tons per year, while smoke/dust
treatment stands at 9.624 billion cubic meters per year.
This data fully reflects FAW Group's contribution to the
healthy development of China's automotive industry,
while simultaneously conserving our precious natural
resources and improving the environment.

FAW actively shouldered SOEs' "political, economical
and social" responsibility, took the action of the
implementation of the social responsibility as a specific
path to practice the scientific outlook on development,
and to participate in the construction of a harmonious
society.

After Yushu 7.1 magnitude earthquake happened, FAW
acted promptly, flied a flag at half-mast to express
mourning for the victims, sent medical team for the
disaster relief, dispatched skilled workers to maintain the
operation of the rescue and goods transport fleets.
Meanwhile, FAW donated 19 million yuan RMB,
including employees' donation of 6 million yuan RMB.

Page212of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Some places of Jilin province suffered flood since 2010
summer. To deal with such damage, FAW took a series
of rescue activities to the disaster areas including a
donation of vehicles valued 2 million yuan RMB,
sending vehicles to transport rescue goods, sending
employees to participate in the flood fight, and free
repairing the vehicles of the local customers. Total
donation of FAW was about 15 million yuan RMB. On
Aug 24, CPC Jilin provincial, and Jilin province people's
government expressed their appreciation by E-mail to
FAW for its outstanding contribution at flood-fighting and
the disaster post reconstruction.
Five China southwestern provinces suffered drought in
2010. FAW Youth League set forth a suggestion named
"a bottle of water with dedication of love, to light a hope
candle", and sent a specific water-sending team to the
disaster areas to hand over the donation that they
collected to the Qujing Youth League Committee.

On May 12, 2008, Wenchuan county in Sichuan
province suffered serious earthquake. FAW held
"helping the Sichuan disaster victims in study" series
activities in Sichuan after 2 years of Wenchuan
earthquake.

FAW held the unveiling ceremony for FAW Hongqi Boai
primary school and Jiefang Boai high school in Du
Jiangyan city, Sichuan province on the morning of May
11, 2010. FAW signed the "Jiefang Award Fund"
agreement and "Hongqi Excellent Junior" selection
protocol with the local schools, issued Jiefang award
fund and awarded the Hongqi Excellent Junior for the
first time. The Red Cross Society of China issued the
Red Cross medal for FAW at the ceremony.

The awarded "Hongqi Excellent Junior" students arrived
at FAW on Jul 14, 2010. They participated in the
well-prepared activities in the following seven days, to
experience the automotive culture and national
automotive development.

(
http://www.faw.com/aboutFaw/aboutFaw.jsp?pros=Resp
onsibility.jsp&phight=890&about=Responsibility)
General Motors China (NYSE: GM)

About Us

General Motors Co., one of the world's largest
automakers, traces its roots back to 1908. The General
Motors-China relationship dates back more than nine
decades. GM China's vision is together with its partners
to be the best automotive group in China.

GM has 12 joint ventures and two wholly owned foreign
enterprises as well as more than 55,000 employees in
China. GM, along with its joint ventures, offers the
broadest lineup of vehicles and brands among
automakers in China. Products are sold under the
Buick, Cadillac, Chevrolet, Opel, Baojun,Wuling and
Jiefang nameplates. In 2012, domestic sales of vehicles
by GM and its joint ventures jumped 11.3 percent on an
annual basis to 2,836,128 units.
Operation in China

Page213of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.GM (China) Investment Corp.

Shanghai General Motors Co. Ltd. (Shanghai GM).

Pan Asia Technical Automotive Center (PATAC)

SAIC-GM-Wuling Automobile Co. Ltd.
(SAIC-GM-Wuling)

Shanghai GM (Shenyang) Norsom Motors Co. Ltd.

Shanghai GM Dong Yue Motors Co. Ltd.

Shanghai GM Dong Yue Automotive Powertrain Co. Ltd.

GMAC-SAIC Automotive Finance Co., Ltd.

Shanghai OnStar Telematics Co. Ltd.

FAW-GM Light Duty Commercial Vehicle Co. Ltd.

SAIC General Motors Investment Ltd.

Shanghai Chengxin UCO and Management Co., Ltd.

GM Warehousing and Trading (Shanghai) Co. Ltd.
GM China Advanced Technical Center

SAIC General Motors Sales Co. Ltd

Shanghai GM/PATAC Guangde Proving Ground
(http://www.gmchina.com/gm/front/about/china)

General Motors and SAIC Drive to 2030

In 2010, as a joint global automobile partner of World
Expo 2010 Shanghai, General Motors and our partner
SAIC introduced our vision for the future of urban
transportation. During World Expo 2010 Shanghai, the
SAIC-GM Pavilion welcomed more than about 2.2
million visitors from all over the world. Reflecting the
Expo 2010 theme of “Better City, Better Life,” GM and
SAIC provided a holistic experience, highlighting the
future of sustainable mobility and presented a
revolutionary mobility and transportation concept that
looks ahead to the year 2030.

The SAIC-GM Pavilion and the fluid lines of its exterior
were inspired by nature and an automobile body.
Symbolizing the road to the future, the spiral design
conveyed promise and progressiveness, outlining a road
that links the present with the future.

Inside, the pavilion was divided into Pre-Show, Main
Show and Post-Show areas, which highlight the theme
of “Drive to 2030.”

Getting on the Road to 2030

Visitors relived Shanghai’s fast development over the
past two decades in the pre-show area. Five themed
areas – Out of Gas, Traffic Jam, Parking Difficulty,
Traffic Accident and Difficulty Driving – showed some of
the challenges related to economic development and the
growing number of motor vehicles. Further into the
pavilion, visitors found that solutions to all of these
challenges have been found through sustainable

Page214of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.mobility, enabled by electrification, connectivity and
autonomous driving.

Welcoming 2030

In the Main Show area, the “2030, Xing!” movie showed
how electrification, networking and autonomous driving
enable humans to coexist harmoniously with the natural
environment. Through the 10-minute film, SAIC and GM
conveyed how tomorrow’s transportation brings people
and personal transportation closer together.

2030 is Coming

In the Post-Show area, visitors found that the 2030
vision portrayed in the movie is achievable. They would
have the chance to get close to the vehicles shown in
the movie in addition to other advanced technologies
that GM and SAIC are working on. The setting will be
framed by the city of the future.

(http://www.gmchina.com/gm/front/experience/expo)

Baojun Vehicle Brand Has Record September Sales in
China

SAIC-GM-Wuling’s Baojun passenger car brand had
record domestic sales in September, as it prepares to
begin exporting to other emerging markets.

Demand for the indigenous brand from GM’s joint
venture with SAIC and Wuling Motors rose 9.6 percent
from September 2012 to 10,028 units. For the first nine
months as a whole, sales were up 27.8 percent to a
record 69,187 units.

Baojun has grown its product lineup since the brand’s
introduction in August 2011. It currently includes the 630
midsize sedan and Le Chi mini-car. In 2014, a new
hatchback and MPV will be added, strengthening the
Baojun portfolio.

Despite its youth, Baojun has won many awards. At the
2013 China Automotive Industry Science and
Technology Awards, the 630 won the Second Class
Award for its reliability.
In the recent 2013 China Automobile Customer
Satisfaction Index, which surveyed consumers who had
owned their vehicles for between two months and two
years, the 630 was number one among midsize
passenger cars priced below RMB 70,000, the Le Chi
was number one among mini-cars priced below RMB
50,000, and Baojun was number one among indigenous
brands and in aftersales service.

SAIC-GM-Wuling will begin exporting a version of the
Baojun 630 starting at the end of 2013. It will be sold as
the Chevrolet Optra in North Africa from early 2014. The
joint venture is already exporting products from its
Wuling brand, including the Rong Guang minivan and
the Hong Guang MPV.

"Baojun has become a highly recognized brand and a
formidable competitor since its launch,” said Ray
Bierzynski, executive vice president of SGMW. “With its
superior quality and good reputation, we expect

Page215of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.products from the Baojun family to win in overseas
markets as well."

General Motors traces its roots back to 1908. GM has
12 joint ventures, two wholly owned foreign enterprises
and more than 58,000 employees in China. GM and its
joint ventures offer the broadest lineup of vehicles and
brands among automakers in China. Passenger cars
and commercial vehicles are sold under the Baojun,
Buick, Cadillac, Chevrolet, Jiefang, Opel and Wuling
brands. In 2012, GM sold more than 2.8 million vehicles
in China. More information on General Motors in China
can be found at GM Media Online.

(
http://media.gm.com/content/media/cn/en/gm/news.detai
l.html/content/Pages/news/cn/en/2013/Oct/Baojun_Sale
s.html)

JAC Motors

About Us

JAC has been a comprehensive automaker with full-line
independent brand vehicles in China, including light,
medium and heavy-duty trucks, MPV, SRV, sedan, bus
chassis, buses, engineering machinery, engines,
gearboxes and other key components. After more than
40 years of development, JAC has achieved an annual
production capacity of more than 700,000 units
completed vehicle and 500,000 units engine and ranked
as the top 10 in Chinese auto industry.

JAC owns a national-level Research and Development
(R&D) Center in Hefei. The company opened China's
first overseas R&D Center in Turin, Italy, in June, 2005,
and a second one in Tokyo, Japan, in October, 2006.

JAC is dedicated to strict quality control and constant
management improvement, because of which, JAC has
been awarded as "Recommended Brand for Export",
"The Most Competitive Brand in Market",'Enterprise for
Exemption from Export Inspection','National Quality
Award' respectively by China Chamber of Commerce
for Import & Export of Machinery & Electronics Products,
The Ministry of Commerce, General Administration of
Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine of the
People's Republic of China and China Association for
Quality successively, marking that JAC products' quality
and management had reached the international
advanced level.

In 2011, JAC has achieved more than 20 years quickly
growth, and sold all kinds of vehicles approximately
470,000 units with growth of 5.4% year-on-year,among
which the exports were about 70,000 units, up by 207%.
In the first half year of 2012, JAC has sold all kinds of
vehicles more than 226000 units and the export
products have played a very important role in the
relevant market segments. JAC has been the country's
largest bus chassis producer for 18 consecutive years.
As a light commercial vehicle leading manufacturer in
China, JAC has been No. 1 in export sales of for 11
consecutive years. The sales of JAC heavy-duty trucks
achieve the fastest growth rate.

Page216of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.JAC MPV has won the prize of "Best MPV of the Year"
and kept the No.1 sales for many years. Only one year
since launched into the market, the sales of JAC A-class
car have made a breakthrough of 60,000 units,
becoming the sales champion among the new cars of
the same class launched into the market within one
year. Owning to the exceptionally quality, JAC A-class
car received the premium compact segment awarded by
the Global Authoritative Auto Testing & Evaluating
Organization J.D power and it is the only independent
brand that got the highest score in APEAL Index
Ranking. JAC B classes is honored as the "The Most
Beautiful Automotive Modal in This Decade" by
PININFARINA Company in Italy, and pass though
C-NCAP five- star clash test with marvelous results. In
2011.JAC B-class car was honored as "The Best
Medium-Size Sedan 2011". 2.0L TCI engine and 1.3L
VVT engine has respectively won "Chinese Top Ten
Engines" in 2009 and 2010.

(http://jacen.jac.com.cn/About-JAC/Introduction.html)

Research and Development Facility

JAC Technology Centre is an accredited enterprise
technology centre in China, consisting of Commercial
Vehicle Research Institute, Passenger Car Research
Institute, Power Research Institute, Technology
Engineering Research Institute, Product Management
Division, IT Support Division, Integrated Management
Division, etc. Establish the overseas "JAC Italy Design
Center" and "JAC Japan Design Center", and form auto
models design, structure design and power assembly
design overseas support system. The Centre, equipped
with advanced R&D instruments and facilities, holds an
excellent R&D team featuring reasonable structure,
spirits of innovation, and loyalty to the enterprise. An
independent R&D team has been formed at JAC, the
global resources being integrated to build its R&D
system by means of market orientation, introduction,
absorption, innovation, re-innovation, integrated
innovation, and application innovation, fostering JAC's
own independent R&D capability.

JAC boosts commercial vehicle, passenger car, and
power train R&D actively. Through the introduction of
high-level vehicle design and technical experts, we have
achieved a great deal of excellent accomplishments in
terms of complete vehicle, engine, automatic
transmission and chassis. Until now, JAC R&D center
has completed its lineup with van, light-duty truck,
medium-duty truck, heavy-duty truck, MPV, SRV and
passenger car. We independently developed 1.3,
1.5VVT, 2.0T, 2.4CBR gasoline engine; diesel and
automatic transmission is in the stage of test.

(http://jacen.jac.com.cn/About-JAC/Innovation-1.html)
JAC Staged Its Appearance in 2013 China (Macau)
International Automobile Exposition
On Nov.1st, 2013, the third China (Macau) International
Automobile Exposition kicked off in Cotai Expo, the
Venetian Macau.
As one of the leading independent automobiles in China,
JAC staged itself in this exposition with seven

Page217of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.automobile models covering its main passenger vehicles
and commercial vehicles to display its newest
achievement contributed by the strategy of “Quality
Creates Brand”.

The largest shinning points in JAC booth were JAC S5
and J4 both of which were JAC MPV and B-class car
2.0 era products.

Integrating global resources to build the world-class car,
JAC S5 has combined international first class as well as
Chinese leading manufacturing craft and technology. It
is an intellectual cross SUV with European SUV
manufacturing standard.

505 L extra-large trunk and 210mm minimum grand
clearance which is the largest among SUV guarantee
S5’s spacious room and high passing ability; Equipped
with 2.0T+6MT powertrain, it is powerful and
environmental friendly; Furthermore, JAC S5 is the only
Chinese SUV with EPS electronic power steering
system, providing considerate security guarantee during
the whole journey.

Due to the design demands from customers’ demands,
JAC S5 is called “City SUV New Benchmark”.

J4 is JAC first sedan of JAC passenger vehicles 2.0 era
and is a high quality product elaborately created by JAC.
J4 was developed on JAC newest JQ21 platform, with
the outstanding advantages of high quality, exceptional
configuration, superior security, large space, big trunk
and low emission. Its start and acceleration are smooth
with 5.9L per 100 fuel consumption. Moreover, J4 owns
the only CCS(Common Channel Signaling)among the
same class cars, and it is combined with entertainment
and information technology.

In the security, J4 is equipped with 6 airbags,
pre-tension security belt, CCS, TPMS (Tire Pressure
Monitor System), anti-glare rearview mirror to ensure
all-round security protection for the passengers.

In the body dimension, J4 is 4435*1725*1505mm and its
wheelbase is 2560mm, whose space is superior to the
rest same class cars. Besides, J4 owns the largest trunk
space with the volume of 550L, fully meeting the
demands of family travelling.

With the brand announcement of “Love My Love”, J4’s
advanced research conception and products
advantages overawed the public, and received more
than 2000 units of orders in the first pre-sale month.

JAC high-end light truck N series is the biggest shinning
point without a doubt. Based on high-end logistic market
demands, this truck has integrated global resources,
world-advanced design conception and the most
advanced technology platform, and it is a world-class
light-duty truck with JAC 50 light-duty truck making
experience.

Compared with traditional light-duty trucks, JAC
high-end light truck N series are equipped with
ABS+EBD, which are the first among the same class
trucks; moreover, it is the first light truck which passed
the complete vehicle security crash test in China.

Page218of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Carried 4DA1 engines or Cummins engines, with
Germany Bosch high pressure common rail, JAC N
series have strong power, low fuel consumption, low
emission and low speed with high torque. Moreover,
JAC has optimized the chassis suspension system,
greatly improving the loading ability and passengers’
seating comfort. In this composition, JAC has brought
both left-hand and right-hand N series to fully meet the
demands of customers from different countries,
representing the highest level of Chinese manufacturing
industry.

Besides, J6 2013 Version which has greatly improved
itself in interior trim also attended this exposition,
M5-JAC high-end MPV as well as JAC heavy truck 6*4
also appeared in this exposition.

Quality Creates Brand, Innovation Achieves
Development. During the first three quarters of 2013,
JAC has sold all kinds of vehicles nearly 400,000 units,
up by 15.65% compared with last year with clear profits
of more than 100 million, increased by 80%, among
which 47,100 units are exports, up by 6.24%, the growth
rate of which were far ahead of JAC other automobile
enterprises. JAC will adhere to the quality road, quality
prior to scale, and create brand with quality, so as to
take the lead in realizing the span from Made in China
to Chinese Brand.

(http://jacen.jac.com.cn/article/20131105/75104034.html
)

History

Refer to the link given :

(http://jacen.jac.com.cn/About-JAC/History.html)
PSA Peugeot-CitroenChina (Paris: UG)
The Group in China
The Chinese automotive market is one of PSA Peugeot
Citroën's priority development regions. It has been the
world's biggest car market since 2009 and recorded
growth of 7.2% in 2012. It is also PSA Peugeot Citroën's
second-largest market.

PSA Peugeot Citroën vehicle sales grew 9.2% in 2012 –
outperforming the market trend – to a total 442,000. The
Group's market share was 3.5%.

A high-potential market for the Group

With the vehicle ownership rate standing at just 50
vehicles per 1,000 inhabitants, growth potential in the
country is enormous. The Group is rolling out all the
resources necessary to continue winning new customers
in the market, where it is targeting 500,000 sales in 2013
for a 4% share of the market. To meet that objective it is
renewing its models and extending its vehicle ranges in
the most important market segments in China.

Accelerating development
The Group is developing its presence in China through
two joint ventures*.

Page219of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The first, Dongfeng Peugeot Citroën Automobile
(DPCA), was set up in 1992 with the Chinese group
Dongfeng and further strengthened by a partnership
agreement in 2010. It possesses two brands: Dongfeng
Peugeot and Dongfeng Citroën. With DPCA, the Group
took a 3.5% share of the market in 2012 and is aiming
for 5% in 2015.

The Group formed a second joint venture in 2011,
Changan PSA Automobile (CAPSA), with its partner
Chang'an. CAPSA has been selling imported vehicles
since June 2012 and will market DS line models built
locally starting in second-half 2013. DS is set to become
a distinct brand in the country with an overall long-term
of 3% market share.

Products that meet market expectations
The Group has what it takes to succeed in China with its
recent launches that meet local expectations in the
mainstream market as well as in the premium market,
which is growing fast in the country.

The development of the dealership network is set to
grow considerably. The process began with the
inauguration in Shanghai in spring 2013 of the DS
World, the brand's institutional showcase symbolising
the DS offensive in China. The number of DS stores is
to increase from 26 to 70 by end-2013.

The number of Dongfeng Peugeot and Dongfeng
Citroën dealerships is also on the rise. By the end of
2013 a full 80% of the country's major cities will be
covered by the two brands with 2,400 points of sale.
In China, Dongfeng Citroën produces and sells the
Citroën C2 China, C-Quatre hatch and three-box,
C-Triomphe, C5 and C4L. Dongfeng Peugeot produces
and sells the Peugeot 207 three-box, 408, 307 (hatch
and three-box), 308 three-box, 508 and 3008. In
second-half 2013 the Group is launching the Citroën
C-Elysée and Peugeot 301 to win new customers and
strengthen the current range.

With CAPSA, in 2012 the Group launched the DS line in
China as a premium brand, importing the DS3, DS4 and
DS5. Local production will start up in second-half 2013
with the DS5, to be followed by future models in the DS
range.

Local research and development

Based in Shanghai, the Group's Asia Department, the
direct contact for the two joint ventures, is positioned as
close as possible to the market and its customers. It is
responsible for all PSA Peugeot Citroën activities in
China and in the other countries of the Asia region.

Local research and development capacity was
reinforced in 2008 with the creation of the China Tech
Center (CTC), the first PSA Peugeot Citroën R&D and
styling centre located outside Europe. Based in
Shanghai, the CTC will soon have 1,000 engineers,
designers and technicians tasked with developing
vehicle, component and styling projects factoring in the
specific expectations of the Chinese market. The Center
works closely together with all the Group's R&D centres

Page220of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.and since December 2012 with the R&D centres of
DPCA and CAPSA, which have over 1,000 engineers
and technicians. It was the teams at CTC that developed
the Citroën Metropolis concept car in 2010 and the
Peugeot SXC concept car in 2011. In July 2008 the CTC
and the Automotive Institute of Tongji University in
Shanghai signed a cooperation agreement aimed at
providing young automotive engineers with professional
opportunities and teaching for professors by PSA
Peugeot Citroën. The agreement also paves the way to
shared research projects.

An expanding production base

With DPCA, the Group has three production sites in
China at Wuhan together with a powertrain plant in
Xiangyang. With CAPSA, the Group will have two
production sites in Shenzhen, set to start production in
second-half 2013, and a powertrain plant currently under
construction. It will also have an R&D centre, equipped
with a test centre and a test track.

All activities combined, over 23,000 people work for the
Group in China.

Proactive policy on clean vehicles

In 2009 the Group announced that it would reduce the
CO2 emissions of its vehicles to 95 g/km of CO2 by
2020, in line with the European objective planned for the
same date. The announcement came in the context of
the Copenhagen Summit on greenhouse gas emissions
reductions, at which China made some strong
commitments. The Group will meet its ambitious
objective through a range of technologies, each one
providing a customer advantage while contributing to the
reduction of CO2 emissions:

the launch of 6 new petrol engines by 2020,

a new generation of automatic gearboxes,

the plug-in petrol hybrid,

electric vehicles

Recognised social commitment

Beyond its industrial and commercial development, PSA
Peugeot Citroën has initiated dialogue in China on the
challenges posed by the extremely rapid development of
the automotive market. The Group is focused on three
main issues: energy and the environment, urban
mobility and road safety.

As part of this approach, PSA Peugeot Citroën joined
forces, in 2001 for 5 years, with All-China Women's
Federation to promote a nationwide campaign. The
campaign, entitled "Green Life, Low Emissions", was
aimed at informing and increasing the responsibility of
three-to six-year-olds in terms of environmental
protection from the standpoint of future mobility.
Launched in Beijing, Guangzhou and Shanghai, the
campaign was extended to Wuhan and Shenzhen in
2012 and reached over 800,000 children and their
families. It has won the Price "China's Best Corporate
Citizenship Award 2012", organized by 21st Century

Page221of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Business Herald, for it's contribution to the sustainable
development.

Another significant initiative concerns the Couleurs de
Chine organisation, which works to bring young girls
from Chinese minorities access to education. Because
the teaching establishments of the organisation are
located far away from each other in a rural area
(Guangxi Province in southern China), the Foundation
donated a minibus to transport the girls.

Furthermore, the Group has won a number of awards for
these initiatives from several other local institutions.

(
http://www.psa-peugeot-citroen.com/en/group/the-
group-in-china-article)

Our Brand

Peugeot – Motion & Emotion

In 2012, Peugeot continued its strategy to move
upmarket and expand internationally with five major
product launches: the latest in the 200 line, the Peugeot
208, HYbrid4 3008, 508 RXH and 508, and the Peugeot
301. Against a backdrop of contrasting automotive
markets and a downtrend in Europe, the Marque sold
1.7 million built-up vehicles in 2012, of which more than
39% on international markets.
With 60 million vehicles sold worldwide since its
founding, the Peugeot brand consolidated its position as
Europe's fourth-ranking brand in 2012. Peugeot is the
world's only manufacturer to market a complete mobility
offering with passenger cars and LCVs, scooters,
bicycles and a wide range of services including the Mu
by Peugeot mobility solution.

International expansion: significant acceleration in
China

In 2012, Peugeot continued to increase the proportion of
sales made outside Europe, with 611,000 vehicles
billed. The brand saw sales grow to 216,000 vehicles in
China, a rise of 24%. The launch of the 408 contributed
to this performance. At the same time, Peugeot almost
doubled billings in Algeria, with 66,000 vehicles sold.
The 301, a new sedan built at Vigo and designed to
meet the needs of a target customer base in growth
markets, was warmly welcomed in the countries where it
was launched in autumn 2012 (including Turkey, Central
and Eastern Europe, and Algeria). The objective is to
sell 150,000 units over a full year. In 2013, Peugeot is
strengthening its position as a "top-end" manufacturer
with a wide range of products and international reach. In
addition to the chic and sporty 208 GTI and XY, Peugeot
is expanding its B-segment line-up with a new urban
crossover, the 2008, and the new Peugeot 308. At the
same time, it is launching the 3008 in China, the 208 in
South America, and the 408 in Russia.

The Peugeot 208, launched in March 2012, has already
been built in more than 300,000 units. It was No. 1 on
the European B-hatchback segment in December 2012,
then in January and February 2013. At end-2012,
221,000 Peugeot 208 models had already been sold.

Page222of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.A successful move up market

In 2012, Premium vehicles accounted for 18% of
Peugeot sales. The 508, including HYbrid4 versions,
sold 121,000 units, particularly in Europe and China.
The 3008/3008 HYbrid4 crossover attracted 109,000
buyers. Peugeot also delivered 9,000 examples of the
4008 SUV launched in spring 2012. The high-profile
RCZ sports coupé sold 11,000 units in 2012, with
production topping the 50,000 mark in February 2013.
With almost 40% of sales concerning the higher trim
levels, the 208, launched in March 2012 and built in
France and Slovakia, is also contributing to the move
upmarket. At end-2012, the heir to the saga of the
Peugeot 2 series had already notched up 221,000 sales
since launch and picked up awards in a number of
countries including the UK, Spain, Ireland and Italy. It
was also a finalist in the European Car of the Year 2013
awards.

Launch of the Peugeot Design Lab

Building on more than 200 years of industrial design,
Peugeot launched the Peugeot Design Lab - a design
studio for customers outside the automotive industry ̶ in
2012. One of the studio's first projects was the
revolutionary Peugeot Design Lab piano for Pleyel.

Environmental expertise

The Brand continued to reduce the ecological footprint
of its vehicles. Peugeot vehicles had average CO2
emissions of 129g/km at end-2011, compared with
131.6 in 2010, taking the brand below the 130g/km
target set by the European Commission for 2015. The
main focus of the Marque's environmental policy is to
continuously optimize its combustion engines through
downsizing, but also to develop new-generation engines
such as the EB petrol engine family (three-cylinder 1.0l
and 1.2l), with low consumption/emissions.

The first units were fitted on the 208 in 2012. Diesel
hybrids are the other main focus of Peugeot's
environmental commitment: micro-hybrid technology
through the new-generation e-HDi Stop & Start system
launched at the start of the year, and now available on
the 308, 3008, 5008, 508, Partner Tepee and - soon - on
the 208; and full hybrid technology in 2012 with the
HYbrid4 drive train, available on three Peugeot models:
the 3008 HYbrid4, 508 RXH, and 508 HYbrid4 saloon.
The third area of focus is electric cars in and around the
city. After one year on the market, the Peugeot iOn - the
first new-generation vehicle in Europe - has enabled
Peugeot to strengthen its historic position as a pioneer
in this field. Peugeot Scooters launched an electric
scooter, e-Vivacity, in 2011.

(
http://www.psa-peugeot-citroen.com/en/our-
brands/peugeot/peugeot-motion-and-emotion)

Citroen - Creative Technology

Creative and bold, Citroën is on the march and clearly
signalling its strategy of moving the model range mix up
market, with increasingly attractive and innovative
products and services. Its dynamic attitude has allowed

Page223of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.the brand to double its unit sales in a decade and
expand strongly in the international market in recent
years. In just the last three years, the percentage of
Citroën sales made outside Europe has increased by
ten points.

The DS line, which hit the market in March 2010 with the
DS3, followed by the DS4 in May 2011 and the DS5 in
2012, has been a resounding success. So far, 135,000
DS3s have been sold and 30,000 DS4s have been
ordered. Glowing reviews from the trade press and
consumers for the DS5 point to a very promising future.
This performance, along with the almost complete
renewal of the line-up over the past three years,
supports the brand's efforts to move the model range
mix up market. The C3 is Citroën’s highest selling
model. With sales rising at a faster pace than the
booming markets in most of the emerging economies,
Citroën is pursuing its international expansion by making
new investments in Russia, Latin America and China,
where a second joint venture has been set up to
manufacture and market the new DS line.

Drawing on its Créative Technologie positioning, the
brand has built a line-up with a particularly attractive
environmental profile and a number of green features as
standard equipment. The DS5 HYbrid4, introduced in
2012, benefits from the brand new diesel-electric
technology, which offers both performance (200 hp,
4-wheel drive) and low carbon emissions (99 grams per
kilometre). This new launch comes on the heels of the
C-Zero and Berlingo First full electric vehicles and the
extension of micro-hybrid e-HDi technology across the
range, which reduces CO2 emissions by up to 15% in
intercity driving. Citroën also expresses all of its
creativity in services, with the innovative Citroën
Multicity web portal to facilitate travel; the WRC-inspired
Citroën Service Racing, which allows customers to have
their vehicles serviced in under an hour; and a full range
of contracts that have won over 25% of the brand’s
European customers.

The Citroën DS5

Is the first Citroën to feature HYbrid4 technology, with a
full-hybrid powertrain combining the road performance of
an HDi diesel engine and the efficiency of an electric
motor. This thoroughly enjoyable hybrid offers a
dynamic driving experience—thanks to its 200hp engine,
four-wheel drive, electric mode for city driving and
acceleration boost—as well as very low CO2 emissions
(99 grams per kilometre).

Creative Technology

Citroën C5

Citroën’s exclusive Hydractive suspension system
manages the suspension system and ride height in real
time in response to road and driver inputs to offer a
unique combination of agility and comfort. In addition to
maintaining constant clearance no matter what the load,
the system automatically lowers the body at high speed
to improve aerodynamic performance and reduce CO2
emissions.

Citroën Multicity

Page224of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Citroën DS4

Users can hire a car at ultra-competitive rates or plan a
trip with ease. All they have to do is enter the departure
and arrival addresses and Citroën Multicity does the
rest, providing all the possible itineraries and means of
transport, from bicycle to car and from bus and subway
to train, plane or boat. Thanks to the compare function,
users can also select their solutions based on rates,
travel time or CO2 emissions. Citroën Multicity puts
tickets, travel packages and weekend getaways just a
few clicks away.

(
http://www.psa-peugeot-citroen.com/en/our-
brands/citroen/citroen-creative-technology)

Third-Quarter 2013 Consolidated Revenues - On-going
implementation of the turnaround plan.

Within a European market in process of stabilisation at a
low level, the third quarter of 2013 for the group PSA
Peugeot Citroën was impacted by the pricing policy, the
interruption in Citroën C3 production and pressure on
market shares in Europe. In addition, the Group was
affected by a sharp deterioration of exchange rates.

In this challenging environment, the Group continued to
implement its turnaround plan, with:

The successful launches of the new Peugeot 308 and
Citroën Grand C4 Picasso during the 3rd quarter,
following those of the first-half (Peugeot 2008, 208 GTi
and XY, 301 and the new Citroën C4 Picasso, C4 L,
C-Elysée and DS3 Cabrio)

Further progress in the globalisation strategy. Sales
outside Europe accounted for 42% of total volumes at
the end of September, with strong performance in China
where sales were up 28%. However, the Brazilian and
Russian markets remained under pressure,
compounded by exchange rate variations

Progress in the industrial and commercial restructuring
plan covering 8,000 job positions in France is in line with
objectives, with 6,650 applications submitted for an
internal or external placement by end of September. The
"New Social Contract", which is in advanced stage of
negotiation, will complete this restructuring plan, which
aims to support the Group's competitiveness of its
French manufacturing base

Implementation of the Alliance with GM:
first results of the Joint Purchase Organisation and the
announcement of manufacturing of B-MPVs on a PSA
Peugeot Citroën platform at the General Motors plant in
Zaragoza, Spain
B-common platform project is under review

Third-quarter 2013 revenues
Group revenues of €12.1 billion, down 3.7% compared
with third quarter 2012
Automotive Division revenues of €8.0 billion down 5.8%
year-on-year, in a challenging operating environment

Page225of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.with unfavourable exchange rates and European market
mix
Revenues up 0.8% at Faurecia to €4.1 billion and a
5.1% decline in revenues at Banque PSA Finance,
reflecting lower European volumes

Outlook for 2013

The Group expects automotive markets to decline by
some 4% in Europe in 2013; in China the market should
grow by approximately 14% and by 2% in Latin America.
Russia is expected to decline by 7%1.

In this environment, the Group confirms its objective to
reduce its operational free cash flow2 consumption at
least by half in 2013 and confirms the announced trend
of very significant reduction throughout 2014.

AUTOMOTIVE DIVISION

Sales of assembled vehicles outside Europe accounted
for 42% of total unit sales at the end of September 2013,
compared with 36% in 2012.

Automotive Division revenues declined by 5.8% in the
3rd quarter 2013 to €8,030 million from €8,523 million
in the 3rd quarter 2012. Worldwide sales of vehicles
totalled 610,400 units in the third quarter, down 2.4%
and 2,070,500 units in the first nine months, down 1.5%
compared with the same period in 2012. This reflects
volumes contractions in Europe, Brazil and Russia,
partially offset by strong growth of volumes in China,
Argentina and the Mediterranean basin.

Revenues from new vehicles sales amounted to €5,518
million compared with €6,125 million in third-quarter
2012. This 9.9% decline was primarily due to the sharp
-7.3% drop in assembled vehicle sales outside China,
reflecting an unfavourable market mix, the Group pricing
policy and growing pressure on market shares from
premium and low cost brands in Europe. It also reflects
the -5.0% very negative currency effect, mainly
attributable to the Russian rouble, Brazilian real,
Argentine peso and British pound. The impact of
changes in market mix was a negative by -0,3%.

Change in product mix by -0.3% in the third quarter is
temporarily impacted by the replacement of the new
Peugeot 308 and the progressive ramp up of the
Peugeot 2008. Product mix increased by +0.4% by end
of September and should also increase in the fourth
quarter, particularly thanks to new product launches.

These adverse effects are partly offset by a +1.2%
positive price effect, illustrating the Group policy, in a
market context of increasingly aggressive competition.

New vehicle inventory amounted to 408,000 units at the
end of September, down 63,000 from end of September
2012, in line with targets. The Group confirms a highly
disciplined approach to inventory management.

In the third quarter, the Group launched two
transactions. The first was a €600 million bond issue
carried out on 10 September to coincide with the
repayment of existing debt facilities, which generated
net proceeds of €300 million and also extended to 2019

Page226of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.the maturities of facilities originally falling due in the next
five years. The second transaction concerned the
signature of a €300 million loan agreement with the
European Investment Bank (EIB).

Capital expenditure continued to be focused on priority
projects. Capital expenditure and capitalized R&D costs
were down by €764 million in the first half of the year
compared with the same period last year. This reduction
will continue but at a slower pace in the second
semester.

GEOGRAPHICAL HIGHLIGHTS

Europe

The European automotive markets grew by 2.5% in the
third quarter of 2013, with wide country variations still
apparent:

The UK market grew by 12%, the Spanish market
expanded by 9%, marking the end of several years of
steep decline, and the markets in Central and Eastern
Europe gained 6% overall during the quarter.

By contrast, the Italian market contracted by 4% and the
German and French markets decreased by 1%.

In this environment, the Group's market share in Europe
narrowed to 11.9% in the first nine months compared to
12.7% in 2012, due to the Group pricing policy, to
impact of interruptions in Citroën C3 production, as well
as to continuous pressure from both premium and low
cost brands that have benefitted from increasing market
shares since 2007.

PSA Peugeot Citroën maintained its leadership in the
light commercial vehicle market up by just 0.9% over the
quarter, with a 20.8% share in the third quarter 2013
compared with 20.2% in 2012.
China

Group sales in China increased by 28.5% over the first
nine months, to 403,000 units and the market expanded
by 17%.

The Group market share amounts to 3.7% by end of
September 2013, reflecting expansion of the distribution
network and the successful launches of the Peugeot
3008 and Citroën C4L, to be continued in the fourth
quarter by the Peugeot 301 and the Citroën C-Elysée.

Following inauguration of the third manufacturing facility
in Wuhan on 2 July, DPCA's production capacity would
reach 750,000 units in 2015.
CAPSA, the second Chinese joint venture, has been
selling the DS range since the beginning of the year and
a new manufacturing facility was inaugurated with the
joint venture partners in Shenzhen on 27 September,
starting the local production of the DS5. By 2015 the
Group's production capacity in China would represent
950,000 units.

Russia

Page227of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Russian market continued to decrease, and
contracted by 7.8% in the third quarter (-6.5% in nine
months). In this declining market exposed to
considerable competitive pressure, Group sales fell by
23.1% over nine months, representing a 2.3% market
share at the end of September.

The negative change in the rouble exchange rate
impacted Russian operating income.

Latin America

Group sales in Latin America declined by 6.3% to
77,000 units in the third quarter, representing a 5.0%
market share.

Sales for the first nine months rose by 9.4% to 222,400
units, representing a 5.0% market share.

In Argentina, the Group continued to expand its
presence, launching the Peugeot 208 and Partner and
the Citroën C3 and Berlingo. 38,500 units were sold in
the third quarter, representing a 18% increase over the
year-earlier period and a 16.0% market share. Sales for
the first nine months represented 106,300 units.

The Brazilian market contracted by 10% in the third
quarter and by 1% over the first nine months. Group
sales in this market fell by a sharp 30% to 29,500 units
in the third quarter (90,800 units sold for the first nine
months). The negative variation in the real exchange
rate had also a very significant impact on Brazil's
operating income.

PRODUCT HIGHLIGHTS

Worldwide sales of Peugeot 208 reach 253,000 units by
end of September. Peugeot 208 is in the top 3 of B
segment sedan in Europe. The strategy of taking the
Brand upmarket had a positive impact on the product
mix, with levels 3 and 4 now accounting for 30% of
sales, supported by the recent range extensions with the
launch of the GTi and XY versions of the Peugeot 208.
The Peugeot 208 was launched during the first half of
the year in Russia, Brazil and Argentina.

The Peugeot 2008 launched in May has been very well
received, with 35,000 units registered and 54,400 units
ordered at end-September, well ahead of objectives. To
keep pace with the model's success, the Mulhouse plant
has operated an additional shift since mid-September.

A total of 28,800 customers have already ordered the
new five-seat and seven-seat Citroën C4 Picasso
introduced in June and September respectively, with
high trim level, above 60% of them choosing the 3+
versions.

The new Peugeot 308 was launched in September in
France and in Germany, to coincide with the Frankfurt
Motor Show. This is the second vehicle based on the
new EMP2 platform. Weighing 140kg less than its
predecessor and featuring the new Peugeot design, it
will support the Group's aim of ranking among the three
best-selling models in the segment. The Peugeot 308
will be gradually launched in other European markets by
early 2014 then will be sold in Latin America, China and
Russia.

Page228of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The strategy to move the Peugeot and Citroën brands
up market continued apace in the third quarter, with
premium models accounting for 19% of consolidated
sales at the end of September, versus 18% in the same
period of 2012. The four diesel hybrid models (Peugeot
3008HY4, 508RXH, 508HY4 and Citroën DS5HY4)
contribute to the Group's technological advance and
reduction of average rate of CO2. They account for over
30% of Citroën DS5 sales, 16% of Peugeot 508 sales
and more than 10% of Peugeot 3008 sales.

GROUP HIGHLIGHTS

The Group continues the negotiation of the "New Social
Contract", which will complete the current restructuring
plan. Its objective is to support the Group's
competitiveness of French manufacturing base. This
negotiation is in final stages and will be presented to the
Comité Central d'Entreprise on October, 24th. Four
unions have announced their intention to sign this
agreement.

In the third quarter of 2013, PSA Peugeot Citroën and
General Motors announced their project to manufacture
the two groups' B-MPVs at the General Motors plant in
Zaragoza, Spain, on a PSA Peugeot Citroën platform.
This is the first project resulting from the global alliance
signed in December 2012. The vehicles will come to
market in late 2016. Projects are underway for the
development of C-MPVs and cross-overs. The joint
purchasing organization has its first results, with savings
of around €60 million this year.
The project of development of a new joint platform for B
segment models with GM is under review as well as the
relevant terms of the development agreement. As a
result, the announced mid-term synergies ($1 billion for
PSA) may be readjusted downwards. New initiatives are
under consideration.

FAURECIA
Faurecia reported revenues of €4,117 million for the
third quarter of 2013, an increase of 0.8%. This increase
is driven by revenues related to Monolith sales and to
Development, Tooling & Prototype, with respectively
+10.8% and 20.2%,. Revenues from product sales were
down 2.7% to 3,129.9 M€, with unfavorable change in
exchange rates. These revenues were down 1.4% in
Europe, 13.4% in North America, and rose by 21.4% in
South America and by 4.4% in Asia.

BANQUE PSA FINANCE

In a context of declining sales in Europe (-9.6% on
markets where Banque PSA Finance operates), number
of contracts represents 174,000 units, down -9.4%, as
compared to third quarter 2012. Commercial
performance remains very dynamic, with a 29.5%
penetration rate on new vehicles, among the Group
customer.
Banque PSA Finance's revenues is at €447 million
(-5.1%) in Q3, the loan book amounts to €21.4 billion at
end of September, down -9.9% (-6.7% related to final
client balance).

Page229of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Lastly, the success of Distingo passbook, which was
launched in March 2013, is confirmed with a level of
collected savings largely above targets. End of year
outstanding objective should be achieved, or exceeded
if momentum continues.

(
http://www.psa-peugeot-citroen.com/en/media/press-
releases/third-quarter-2013-consolidated-revenues-on-
going-implementation-of-the-turnaround-plan)

telco : Tata Motors Limited | toykog : Mazda Motor Corp
| tata : Tata Group
iaut : Automotive | i351 : Motor Vehicles | i35101 :
Passenger Cars
ciprof : Industry Profile | c184 : Joint Ventures | c23 :
Research/Development | c32 : Advertising | c18 :
Ownership Changes | c31 : Marketing | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin :
FC&E Industry News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | beijin : Beijing | guang :
Guangdong | jilin : Jilin | sichu : Sichuan | apacz : Asia
Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Acquisdata
Document ACQIND0020140314ea3d0000o

CO

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page230of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.