Big dreams rising at Little Saigon

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PrimeSpace
Big dreams rising at Little Saigon

KYLAR LOUSSIKIAN, TRADING ROOM
631 words
26 June 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
32
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

DAVID and John Fam always knew that one day they would be roped back in to help run their family’s
growing property empire. The brothers, who were both lawyers “in their past life”, will now take the
reins at Fam International just as its 40,000sq m Little Saigon retail development in Sydney’s west
nears completion.

“There was a point about two years ago when we got more involved,” John Fam said. It was a few
years after the family purchased the former Purnell Brothers Holden dealership site in Bankstown
from Aldi for $6 million.

Since then the development has been a long time coming, but it’s been worth it. “This could have been
straight residential, and it would have been profitable,” John said. “Not a lot of developers out there
are taking a different approach. It’s easier to do 160 to 200 units, especially in a market like today’s.
We’d be in and out in 24 months.” But for family patriarch Richard Fam, this was about building
something more. “Dad was all about doing something special as this will probably be the last project
he’s involved in,” John said.
The result is a six-floor Vietnamese-themed retail complex anchored by Golden Group Yum Cha,
which already operates one of the largest such restaurants in Sydney. “It’s really based on the
community we grew up in,” John said. “The idea was to gather what Cabramatta (the neighbouring
suburb) had and put it in one building.” The basement will be a “marketplace”, and the ground floor an
eating precinct that extends out to Chapel Street. Further up will be speciality stores, professional
services, a function centre, and six rooftop bars and restaurants.
The company resisted putting apartments on top of the complex. “We could have covered the bulk of
the debt by putting 60 units on top, but that detracts from it,’’ David said. “It would have taken away
from parts of it, like the entertainment hub, the rooftop bars.” David points out the substantial
development in the area, with a number of detached homes along busy roads making way for
apartment complexes. He says the area needs more retail and entertainment facilities, as well as
medical services.

“Bankstown is a very big centre for medical services for the western suburbs, and I know some medical
centres where there are queues even at 9pm because there just aren’t enough practices,” David said.

But more than that, having grown up in the area, the brothers want to show it off. “There’s the Italian
Forum in Leichhardt, Chinatowns have been around for a long time. Now there will be Little Saigon,”
John said.

“It comes down to the suburb we chose, and the tenant mix. We are going to bring in international
cuisines but there will be a big Asian flavour to it.’’ He added they were also trying to lure popular
shops from Cabramatta’s main streets.

“The Italian Forum isn’t just for Italians. Everyone goes there. We want it to be a destination.’’ Richard
Fam’s big play was the 2001 acquisition of the trouble-plagued Opal Cove Resort at Coffs Harbour

Page175of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.from the Tyndall Meridian Trust for $9.3m. Since then adjacent land has been approved for
development, with construction under way. David and John Fam have similar aspirations.
“We see the company going nationwide,” John said. “There is a massive need for neighbourhood
shopping centres of this size, with 50 to 60 per cent national brands, but also room for mum-and-dad
businesses.”The brothers are offering reduced rents in the first year and assistance with development
approvals and shop fit-outs to lure small businesses.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | nswals : New
South Wales
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140625ea6q0002w

Page176of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.