Fresh milk export on agenda

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

WestReg
Fresh milk export on agenda

Brad Thompson
288 words
17 April 2014
The Countryman
CTM
First
7
English
(c) 2014 West Australian Newspapers Limited.

A WA processor is targeting bulk fresh milk exports to China as the State Government continues to
shop around for a major overseas investor in the dairy industry.

Brownes managing director Ben Purcell warned that tough trading conditions were holding back the
local industry, despite the demand on WA’s doorstep.

Mr Purcell said Brownes was already exporting bulk fresh milk to Taiwan and fielding inquires from
China.
“It (China) is a complicated supply chain and we would need to find the right local partner but it is on
our agenda,” he said.
Mr Purcell showed about 30 Chinese business people and government officials around the
company’s Balcatta plant last week, part of a big Chinese contingent who looked at investment
opportunities in WA.

The Department of Agriculture and Food WA-hosted events and site visits also showcased
investment opportunities in beef, grains, sheep, wine and fodder.
DAFWA has continued to spruik its plan for Chinese investors to buy dairy farms and build
infrastructure as part of a $650 million project to double the size of the industry in WA.
The investment blueprint, circulated in China and South-East Asia since early last year, is based on
producing about 30,000 tonnes of whole-milk powder a year.
The study established that a significant increase in dairy production from WA was feasible, but
required a major shift in the production sector.
Milk production in WA fell to 336.6 million litres in 2012-13.

Brownes and Harvey Fresh, the latter of which was acquired by Parmalat recently, have processing
capacity to increase exports but need more milk. Both say they will work to boost supply.

CO
NS

RE

PUB

wadafo : Western Australia Department of Agriculture and Food
greg : Regional Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol :
Domestic Politics
china : China | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
West Australian Newspapers Limited

Page259of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document CTM0000020140416ea4h00015

Page260of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.