Postie Plus chain sold Ailing clothing retailer Postie Plus has been sold for an...

HD
WC 581 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Postie Plus chain sold Ailing clothing retailer Postie Plus has been sold for an...

19 July 2014
Hawke's Bay Today
APNHBT
English
Copyright 2014 APN New Zealand Ltd - Regionals. All Rights Reserved

TD

Postie Plus chain sold Ailing clothing retailer Postie Plus has been sold for an undisclosed sum as a going
concern to Roan, a subsidiary of Pepkor, a South African-based investment group with clothing and
footwear retail interests in Australia and Europe. About 530 of the company’s 560 staff have accepted
positions with the new owner.

Fonterra case delayed Fonterra has won a stay of proceeding against Danone , the French parent
company of infant formula maker Nutricia, which is taking the New Zealand co-operative to court over the
estimated €350 million harm suffered it in the whey protein botulism scare. The High Court ruled Danone
’s compensation bid should wait to run in tandem with other proceedings under way in Singapore. But
Justice Venning has warned Fonterra if it tries to delay arbitration, Danone can apply to have the stay
lifted. Fertiliser health worry The Government’s concerned a huge phosphate mining project proposed by
Chatham Rock Phosphate could contaminate our food. In its submission to the Environmental Protection
Authority, the Crown says there are high levels of uranium in the phosphate the company wants to mine
for fertiliser, and would accumulate in our farmland to the point it would not meet US standards in 40-50
years.

ERoad looks to expand ERoad , which provides electronic fleet tracking and road user pays management
services, will look to acquisitions in Australia and the US to boost its market share once it completes a
public offer of $49.5 million next month.

Caniwi home to roost Wellington property investor Caniwi Capital has bought and leased back seven of
nine New Zealand properties housing Inghams Enterprises chicken farming operations in a $57 million
deal that releases capital for Texas Pacific Group , the US private equity firm that paid A$880 million for
the Australasian Inghams operation in March last year. The transaction represents the New Zealand leg
of TPG’s plans, announced in March this year, for the sale and leaseback of A$650 million ($749 million)
of Inghams properties in Australasia.

Asian visits to Sydney Increasing numbers of Asian passengers are driving international traffic growth at
Sydney Airport. International numbers rose by close to 5 per cent in the first half of the year. Traffic from
Malaysia grew by 22.5 per cent, Hong Kong 17 per cent; India and China up more than 15 per cent.
Holcim move strips port Holcim New Zealand ’s departure from Westport will strip more than $2 million
income from Westport harbour, says Buller Holdings chairman Brian Wood. Holcim plans to wind down
its Westport operations in the second half of 2016 and import cement to Timaru and Auckland. “Unless
there’s a major cargo that can either be imported or exported out of Westport, it’s going to be a struggle.
The obvious two were cement and coal. Cement’s gone,” he said.

APN takes over signage APN News & Media , which this year took full ownership of Australian Radio
Network and The Radio Network in New Zealand, has bought out its partner in a Hong Kong outdoor
advertising joint venture for A$14 million ($15 million). APN bought the remaining 50 per cent stake of
Buspak Advertising and subsidiary Cody Outdoor International. The deal gives the Australasian company
control of Buspak bus advertising and Cody’s billboard portfolio, which has operated as a joint venture
between APN and Clear.

CO
IN

wdegnz : Chatham Rock Phosphate Ltd.
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas

Page230of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

cacqu : Acquisitions/Mergers | gcat : Political/General News | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 :
Acquisitions/Mergers/Shareholdings | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
nz : New Zealand | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB APN New Zealand Ltd - Regionals
AN

Document APNHBT0020140718ea7j0002v

Page231of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.