Business Traveller Magazine: Bmi Regional and Brussels Airlines announce second codeshare 15 April 2014

HD Business Traveller Magazine: Bmi Regional and Brussels Airlines announce second codeshare 15

April 2014
WC 1,290 words
PD
16 April 2014
SN
News Bites - Private Companies
SC
NBPRCO
LA
English
CY
Copyright 2014. News Bites Pty Ltd.
LP

NEWS BITES - PRIVATE COMPANIES
[Company Release]

TD

Bmi Regional and Brussels Airlines have announced a codeshare agreement between East Midlands and
Brussels airports.

The deal enables passengers to combine the East Midlands service with Brussels Airlines destinations
including New York, business hubs in Africa such as Cameroon, Rwanda, Uganda and Nairobi, and
European destinations such as Berlin, Geneva, Milan, Rome and Vienna.

It comes a month after the two airlines teamed up to codeshare on the twice-daily Newcastle to Brussels
route.

The airline now operates three codeshare partnerships - the two with Lufthansa subsidiary Brussels
Airlines and between Bristol and Frankfurt and Munich with Lufthansa itself (see news, April 2).

Cathal O"Connell, Bmi Regional's CEO, said: "Our latest codeshare agreement ensures that our
customers from the East Midlands region now enjoy the convenience that comes with links to 52 countries
served by Brussels Airlines.
"This new link will bring considerable commercial benefit to the region, not least making it easier for
potential overseas investors and trade partners to visit, and our schedule allows business travellers to
make return trips between the two airports in one day, ideal for meetings and conferences."

bmiregional.com

Click here for the full original announcement
COMPANY BACKGROUND

ACTIVITIES

Business Traveller Magazine publishes a business travel magazine offering independent view of
worldwide travel issues for the traveling businessperson. The company's magazine and Web site
provides information on various aspects of travel, including airlines, airports, hotels, and car hire. It also
covers topical issues, such as health, security, and gadgets. In addition, the company's Web site
provides airline and hotel reservations, and guides to various cities. The company publishes its magazine
in the United States, Germany, the Middle East, the Asia-Pacific, China, and Hungary, as well as in the
United Kingdom and Europe. Business Traveller Magazine is based in London. As of May 19, /2005,
Business Traveller Magazine is a subsidiary of Frank Media LLC.

BUSINESS NEWS ROUND UP

15 April 2014: Business Traveller Magazine: Second Sydney airport given go-ahead
[Company Release] A second international airport will be constructed in Sydney at an estimated cost of
$2.5 billion (Pound1.4 billion), it was announced today. The new facility will be located at Badgerys Creek,
about 45km west of the Australian city's central business district. Prime Minister Tony Abbott, who
revealed the news at a press conference in Canberra this morning, said construction is scheduled to begin
in 2016. The move is designed to take pressure off Sydney Airport, which has "first right of refusal to build

Page35of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.and operate the [new] airport", reports the Sydney Morning Herald. Debate surrounding the building of a
second airport in Sydney dates back to 1946 and has seen 20 sites up for consideration at one point of
another. Mr Abbott said: "It's a long, overdue decision which, to be honest, has been shirked and squibbed
by successive governments for far too long. "I also want to stress that the government's approach will be
roads first, airport second, because we don"t want the people of western Sydney to have an airport
without having the decent transport infrastructure that western Sydney deserves." National airline Qantas
welcomed the announcement. CEO Alan Joyce said: "Qantas has long supported the building of a second
airport at Badgerys Creek, as have a number of detailed studies.

Click here for the full original announcement

15 April 2014: Business Traveller Magazine: Lufthansa launches self-service baggage tag
[Company Release] Lufthansa has launched a self-service baggage tag option for passengers flying
between its base in Frankfurt and Tokyo Narita. Known as "Home Tag", the service allows customers on
selected flights to print out their own tags for checked-in luggage at home. This means that passengers
simply drop the bags off directly at the dedicated counter or at the self-service machines at the airport.
Home Tag Passengers first check-in online via Lufthansa's website.

Click here for the full original announcement

15 April 2014: Business Traveller Magazine: Dubai Airports confirms 80-day runways closure
[Company Release] Dubai Airports has confirmed that runway engineering work will take place at Dubai
International from May 1 until July 20. The project will see the entire 4,000-metre long northern runway
resurfaced and the upgrading of runway lighting and construction of additional taxiways and rapid exits on
the southern runway. Each runway will close at alternate times, with the southern runway shut from May 1
to May 31 and the northern runway from May 31 until July 20. During this period, the number of flights at
Dubai International will be reduced by 26 per cent. A statement from Dubai Airports said: "Flight
movements at Al Maktoum International at Dubai World Central are set to increase dramatically as eight
airlines that currently operate into Dubai International have reserved slots to operate into Dubai's second
airport during the 80-day period. "More than 300 flights a week are expected to depart from Dubai's
second airport during this period." Paul Griffiths, Dubai Airports CEO said: "While we regret any
inconvenience caused to our airline customers and our passengers, these upgrades are necessary to
heighten safety, boost capacity and pave the way for future expansion." Last week, Heathrow admitted
that it can no longer compete with Dubai as the world's busiest international airport (see news, April 11).
dubaiairport.com Source: Company Website

Click here for the full original announcement

15 April 2014: Business Traveller Magazine: Easyjet brings in unrestricted handheld device use
[Company Release] Easyjet passengers can now use their personal electronic devices during all phases
of their flight. The budget airline has been given the go-ahead by the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) to
permit the use of handheld devices during taxiing, take-off and landing, as long as "flight mode" is
switched on. The move came into force yesterday and means passengers can use ereaders, tablets and
mobile phones throughout Easyjet flights. Peter Duffy, Easyjet's group commercial director, customer,
product and marketing said: "We know that portable devices are an important part of our customers'
journey with us so we are pleased they can now use their electronic devices onboard in "Flight mode" for
the duration of their flight with us - we think this will be a popular change." Last week, Easyjet announced
its 2014 winter schedule with more than 11 million seats on sale on 324 routes (see news, April 10).
easyjet.com Source: Company Website

Click here for the full original announcement

14 April 2014: Business Traveller Magazine: BA adds fish and chips to inflight menu
[Company Release] British Airways will this week serve traditional fish and chips on some short-haul
flights. Passengers on services between Heathrow and Athens, Larnaca, Istanbul, Sofia, St Petersburg
and Kiev will be the first to taste the latest addition to the airline's menu. If it proves popular, fish and chips
will be extended onto more BA short-haul routes. The meal is served in an environmentally friendly box
and will come with vinegar, ketchup and tartare sauce. Sinead Ferguson, BA's menu development
manager, said: "What better meal to see onboard a summer flight than the traditional British fish supper?
We know our customers love comfort food and expect it to be done well when they fly with us. "Naturally,
we went for sustainable cod and we"ve worked hard with Green Gourmet to make the perfect chip, which
in the past has been a challenge to produce at 35,000 feet. "We think our secret recipe delivers just the
right crunch and hopefully our customers will agree.

Page36of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Click here for the full original announcement

CO secavz : Sector Aviation Holdings Ltd | bma : British Midland Airways Ltd | delat : SN Brussels Airlines |

IN
NS

RE

bairw : International Consolidated Airlines Group S.A. | snai : SN Airholding II
iairtr : Air Transport | itsp : Transportation/Shipping | i75 : Airlines
c1521 : Analyst Comments/Recommendations | c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | npress :
Press Releases | c15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat
: Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
gfr : Germany | austr : Australia | belg : Belgium | brus : Brussels | sydney : Sydney | uk : United Kingdom |
apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | benluxz : Benelux Countries | dach : DACH Countries |
eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | nswals : New South Wales | weurz : Western Europe

IPD ACTIVITIES; BUSINESS NEWS ROUND UP
PUB News Bites Pty Ltd (Europe)
AN Document NBPRCO0020140416ea4g0020a

Page37of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.