Chinese take-away: Biggest buyers of Queensland property are now from China - and investors spent a record $462 million last year alone

SE
HD

BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Chinese take-away: Biggest buyers of Queensland property are now from China - and investors
spent a record $462 million last year alone
EMILY CRANE FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA
494 words
13 October 2014
14:17
Mail Online
DAMONL
English
© 2014 Associated Newspapers. All rights reserved

* Chinese investors have doubled spending on residential, rural and commercial properties from
2012-13
* Investors bought $185 million worth of property in Brisbane and $196 million on the Gold Coast

* It comes as federal government investigates whether foreign investment is driving Australian house
prices up

* Auction clearance rates in Sydney and Melbourne hit a two-month low

* Low clearance rates and falling lending volumes could be early signs of slowing market activity,
experts say 
Chinese investors are now the biggest buyers of Queensland real estate having spent a record $462
million in the last year.
The Chinese have tripled spending on residential, rural and commercial properties across
Queensland since the global downturn and almost doubled expenditure from 2012-13.
Spending in the Brisbane City Council area by Chinese buyers last year was a record $185 million,
which was $96 million more than the year before, The Australian  reports.

Scroll down for video 
Investors bought $196 million worth of property on the Gold Coast in 2013-14, with the Chinese
leading the charge for foreign buyers. 
Investment in Cairns by Chinese buyers nearly halved to $4.5 million in 2013-14, while buyers from
Singapore snapped up $11.5 million last year in the tourist hotspot as opposed to the $890,000 in
investments from 2012-13.

The increase in Asian investment has been detailed in the Queensland's Foreign Ownership of Land
Register Act's annual report for 2014.
Queensland is currently the only state or territory to keep a record of foreign buyers who purchase
property in Australia. 

The federal government's parliamentary standing committee on economics is currently looking at
whether foreign investment in Australia is driving property prices up.

It comes as auction clearance rates in Sydney and Melbourne hit a two-month low at the weekend.

Clearance rates in Sydney were at 79 percent, while Melbourne recorded rates of about 74 percent,
the Australian Financial Review  reports. 

Page54of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Low clearance rates and falling lending volumes could be early signs of activity in the market cooling,
according to real estate experts.

'We could be seeing the beginning of a widespread trend. I would not be surprised,' Andrew Wilson,
head of research for Domain Group, told the newspaper.
The most expensive recorded sale in Melbourne was a brand new, five-bedroom house in
Camberwell, east of the CBD, that sold for $3.6 million.
A home in Albert Park, which sold for $2.75 million through Marshall White's Kaine Lanyon and Sarah
Wood, was among the other high sellers in Melbourne.
In Sydney, a five-bedroom house in Pymble was the second most expensive reported sale at $3
million. 
A cottage on 6.5 hectares at Blackheath in the Blue Mountains sold for $1 million - a double digit
premium over the reserve price.  

CO
NS
RE

PUB
AN

bristu : Brisbane City Council
ereal : Real Estate Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | china : China | brisbn : Brisbane | melb : Melbourne | sydney : Sydney | victor :
Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS
Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales | queensl : Queensland
Associated Newspapers
Document DAMONL0020141013eaad000rt

Page55of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.