MG bid to focus on Asia

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Dairy
MG bid to focus on Asia

CATHERINE MILLER
649 words
26 June 2014
Stock and Land
FSTOCL
20
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

MURRAY Goulburn's managing director Gary Helou says Asia and particularly China will remain the
focus of the grower-owned co-operative for the next decade.

He said many Australian processors had failed to cash-in on the "raging growth" experienced in the
region where demand continues to grow at between five per cent and 6pc per annum.

In a Q&A session with Fresh Agenda director Steve Spencer at last week's DairySA Innovation Day
2014 in Mount Gambier, Mr Helou said that in the past 10 years, there had been too much
concentration on the domestic market.

"Companies such as Fonterra, Arla Foods and FrieslandCampina, that backed Asia, have done very
well," he said.

"Unfortunately, in Australia, we haven't and as a consequence we have declined while our
competitors were pushing ahead."
MG was working to reverse the focus of its 3.2 billion-litre business from 75pc domestic and 25pc
export focus to (closer to) 75pc export and 25pc domestic.

Mr Helou said that being located on Asia's doorstep was not enough. Companies needed to deploy
more resources on the ground in Asia, understand the products Asian consumers wanted, and supply
them.
Two years ago, Murray Goulburn was the first Australian company to stake a position in China. It
now had offices in Dubai, Vietnam, Singapore and had taken over a business in China.
"We need to be knocking on the doors of the Coles and Woolworths of Indonesia and China," he
said.

Any movement away from that (position) would mean that Australia remained hostage to Coles and
Woolworths.

But Mr Helou said the duopoly was not the problem.
"You would do exactly what they are doing if you are in charge pushing for a lower cost of business
to offer consumers the best possible value," he said. "It is our problem that we have not ventured to
expand to where the market is much more higher value and promising."

MG's future strategy was investing in cutting-edge technology, innovation in new products and a
reduction in its cost of production.

Mr Helou said the co-operative did not want to be a mass producer of commodities and had identified
three key areas for value-adding milk into Asia: nutritional powders, consumer cheeses and dairy
beverages.

Page98of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.He said nutritional powders, particularly infant formula, were not subject to the same volatility as the
cyclic fresh and powdered milk markets.
"Full cream milk powder sold last night for $3700 a tonne let's call it $4000/t. Infant nutrition sells for
$20,000/t and it is basically full cream milk powder, plus vitamins, nutrients and so on, done to a very
high level safety standard and canned," Mr Helou said.

"The cost add from a manufacturing point of view is not that much it is the technology, the IP and trust
issue with consumers (that is more important)."
MG was focused on producing cheese to Asian tastes milder flavoured, individually wrapped and
sliced to their requirements.
MG had announced plans to commit $300 million to $500m recreating its manufacturing footprint at
its Cobram and Koroit in Victoria and Edith Creek, Tas, factories.

"We need to build factories that have the Asian consumer as the primary customer versus building a
factory for the Australian customer first and the Asian customer as the second or third option, only
when we have surplus capacity. That is the wrong way to go," Mr Helou said.

"We want to produce everything in this country in finished goods form, stamped Australian, clean and
green, and play on the providence of Australia and our food safety standards."

Mr Helou acknowledged it was a large capital investment, but it was low-risk value, adding in an area
the co-operative knew well.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

cobrco : Koninklijke FrieslandCampina N.V. | meji : Arla Foods amba
i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy Products | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FSTOCL0020140625ea6q0000j

Page99of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.