Valad puts Noosa resort back on sales block

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CommercialProperty
Valad puts Noosa resort back on sales block

LISA ALLEN, BEN WILMOT, RESORTS
365 words
16 August 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
38
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

QUEENSLAND’S iconic Sheraton Noosa Spa and Resort will again hit the market with its owners the
Blackstone-controlled Valad buoyed by the turnaround in domestic and international resort traffic.
After failing to sell in 2011, Valad, which spent about $10 million renovating it, will once again put the
176-room resort on the sales block with price expectations of more than $100m.

Starwood Hotels and Resorts’ management contract over the Noosa property expires next year,
sparking suggestions that the hotel will be sold vacant possession.
Earlier this week, another Starwood-managed property, the Gold Coast Sheraton Mirage, also hit
the market with price expectations of $170m.
Its owner Pearls Australasia, which is backed by the Indian billionaireNirmal Singh Bhangoo,
recently spent $30m renovating the 296-room property.

“These resorts are doing so well at the moment owners are looking at options and selling is one of
them,” said Sean Hunt, regional vice-president, Starwood Pacific Hotels.
Mr Hunt said the Noosa and Gold Coast properties would continue to be operated by Starwood.
Valad believes the Sheraton Noosa’s 9946sq m site on Noosa’s Hastings Street has numerous
value-add and redevelopment opportunities.
McVay Real Estate Australia has been appointed to sell the Noosa property. The firm’s chairman,
Dan McVay, said the sales process would begin in the next few weeks.
With Knight Frank, McVay is also handling the sale of the Gold Coast Sheraton Mirage property,
which was developed by the late failed tycoon Christopher Skase. Pearls paid $62m for it in 2009.
The moves come amid a shake-up of the ownership of Starwood’s local holdings.
The US group put Sydney’s Sheraton on the Park on the market through JLL this year.
The offer attracted Chinese behemoth Sunshine Insurance Group, which has been eyeing the
property for a record $465m. But industry executives suggested that it had again been pipped by
Singapore-group Frasers, which also beat the Chinese group to the Sofitel Sydney Wentworth,
which it bought in May for $202m.A buyer is in due diligence and the parties declined to comment.

CO
IN
NS
RE

hotinv : Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc
i66 : Hotels/Restaurants | i665 : Lodgings | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

Page19of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140815ea8g00095

Page20of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.