Family farms will survive with corporates

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

EARLY GENERAL NEWS
Family farms will survive with corporates

RACHAEL ANDREWS
390 words
20 November 2014
Farm Weekly
FFARMW
16
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

AUSTRALIA'S richest woman Gina Rinehart's move into the dairy industry will not sound the
death knell of family-owned farms.
As she prepares to buy 5000 hectares of land in Queensland for dairy operations, to target
China's infant milk market, WA farm leaders say such corporate moves will strengthen agriculture.

WA Pastoralists and Graziers Association president Tony Seabrook and WAFarmers president
Dale Park said it was becoming more common for private and public companies to invest in
agriculture.

"It's a good development because the big players have a strong future," Mr Seabrook said.

"There's no doubt these big investors have the capacity to weather the storms."
Ms Rinehart's dairy firm Hope Dairies is reportedly planning to start manufacturing in late 2016.

This move is the latest in agricultural investments by larger corporates.
WA billionaire Andrew Forrest this year strayed from his trademark industry of mining to buy
Harvey Beef, and foreign investors are eyeing off Scott River dairy operation Lactanz.

Mr Seabrook said it was positive that big player investors were willing to put their money behind
the industry as it would help Australia capitalise on the new Free Trade Agreement (FTA) with
China.

Mr Seabrook said that while it could be perceived as negative for the smaller operations to have
companies with a large amount of funding behind them coming into the sphere, there were
positives.

"This means there is confidence in the future of the industry and that agriculture will remain an
important part of Australia's economy," he said.

The family farm will survive as the industry evolves said Mr Park, however it will be important for
family farms to ensure they function as a business and recognise the importance of doing so.

"Investors are there for long -term results, while the family corporate is more concerned with the
season," he said.

Mr Park said it would be interesting to see investors such as Ms Rinehart adapt to an industry she
isn't familiar with.

"I think it reflects the family farm, with generations of experience, will never die out," he said.

"Rather, it will adapt to larger scale operations and learn to take advantage of what FTAs can
offer."

Page164of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO
IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

waffi : Western Australian Farmers Federation (Inc)
i01001 : Farming | i0 : Agriculture
c21 : Output/Production | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FFARMW0020141119eabk00010

Page165of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.