Hotel groups eye off Aquis

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Hotel groups eye off Aquis

NICK DALTON nick.dalton@news.com.au
983 words
4 January 2014
The Cairns Post
CAIRPO
1 - MAIN
6
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

INTERNATIONAL luxury hotel brands not yet seen in Australia are eyeing the proposed $4.2 billion
Aquis Great Barrier Reef Resort.

Among them are Banyan Tree and Jumeirah, while other names, such as Le Meridien, Westin, Hyatt
and InterContinental, would be fresh faces in the Far North.

Aquis is keeping its discussions with hotel groups under wraps, though it is understood there have not
been any formal meetings or agreements reached.

Showing interest are believed to be the Starwood Hotels and Resorts Group (Sheraton, Le Meridien,
Westin), Hyatt, the InterContinental Hotels Group, the Shangri-La Group and Accor (Sofitel, Novotel,
Mercure).

Emerging Asian brands such as Angsana, Banyan Tree and Jumeirah - owner of the iconic Burj Al
Arab - are also expected to be part of the process.

The brands also are not revealing their hands. Starwood's regional sales and marketing director
Daniella Tonetto said at this stage she had no information on any hotel planned for the Aquis
development.

Queensland Hotels Association Far North accommodation division chairman Nic O'Donnell said the
association did not know which hotel groups had expressed interest in Aquis.

``The development, if approved, would provide wonderful benefits to the people of the Far North, not
only in the hospitality sector but in many others,'' he said.

``The QHA absolutely supports the concept of the proposal put forward and we are very keen to see
the outcome of the assessment in whatever shape or form it may be.''

Several Singaporean hotel operators are showing interest not only in the Aquis project but in Australia
in general and Queensland's Far North in particular.
Listed Singaporean operator Hotel Grand Central has finalised the purchase of the Novotel Palm
Cove, north of Cairns, for $10 million.

The transaction follows several Singapore-listed developers targeting Australia's property market with a
focus on hotels and tourism. Singapore-based Banyan Tree is exploring opportunities. And earlier this
year, Singapore-listed Far East Orchard finalised a $450 million tie-up with the private Toga Group
and will look to expand operations here.

Banyan Tree Hotels and Resorts is negotiating to build a resort in the Margaret River food-and-wine
region of Western Australia with a couple of investors, including local financiers, in tow.
The ambitious company has spent the past couple of years scouring Australia for a future Banyan
Tree Hotel complex under its plan to transform itself from a boutique group to a global operation.

Page47of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Much of its development focus is on China, where it operates nine Banyan Trees among the 29 global
properties it runs. But Australia has been one of its key targets.

Apart from Margaret River, where Banyan Tree plans to build a resort of about 200 rooms and suites, it
is also eyeing capital cities for further expansion, says its chief executive officer Abid Butt.
``We would love to be in Sydney, the Gold Coast, Melbourne, Brisbane, Canberra. We would love to
be in all the key destinations,'' he said.

``Australia has a tremendous amount of potential.

``We would love to be in Australia. It's a fabulous place from a tourism perspective.''
In the next couple of years, Banyan Tree plans to open up to 20 new properties, the majority in China,
where it hopes to cash in on a booming middle classes.
Apart from China, Banyan Tree operates resorts in India, Mexico, the Middle East, Thailand and the
Seychelles.

In Australia, it operates the Angsana Palm Cove at Palm Cove.

Jumeirah Group's hotels and resorts are among the most luxurious and innovative in the world and
have won many international travel and tourism awards. The company was founded in 1997 with the
aim of becoming a hospitality industry leader by establishing a top-flight portfolio of luxury hotels and
resorts. In 2004 it became a member of Dubai Holding, a collection of leading Dubai-based businesses
and projects, in line with a new phase of growth and development.
Its most famous property is the landmark $730 million Burj Al Arab in Dubai - sometimes referred to as
``the world's only seven-star hotel''.

Its other properties are in Dubai, Abu Dhabi, the Maldives, Shanghai, Germany, Rome, Istanbul and
London.
The group's expansion plans include projects in the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, China, Jordan,
Qatar, Thailand, Egypt, Morocco, Indonesia, Azerbaijan and the Caribbean.
The $10 billionStarwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide group is an American hotel and leisure
company based in the state of Connecticut. It is one of the world's largest hotel companies, owning
and/or operating 1169 properties under nine brands, including Sheraton, Le Meridien and Westin,
employing more than 171,000 people, in 100 countries.

The group has 343 new hotels planned or under way throughout the world, although none in Australia
at this stage.

The US-based Hyatt hotel conglomerate employs 45,000 people at 535 properties in 47 countries. It
has five hotels in Australia but none in Queensland since businessman and politician Clive Palmer took
over the Hyatt Coolum Resort.
The InterContinental Hotels Group, based in the UK, is the world's largest hotel company with 679,000
rooms at more than 4600 hotels in 100 countries.

Its brands include InterContinental, Candlewood Suites, Crowne Plaza, Even, Holiday Inn, Holiday Inn
Express, Hotel Indigo, Hualuxe and Staybridge Suites.
Shangri-La has one hotel in the Far North, the Shangri-La at the Marina, and is a Hong Kong-based
company with five-star properties in Asia, the Middle East, North America, Oceania and Europe.

Accor is the biggest hotel operator in Australia and the largest in the Far North, with more than 4000
hotels in more than 90 countries. It has more than 14 brands and there are 12 hotels with more than
700 staff in Cairns, Palm Cove and Port Douglas, including five Pullmans.

CO
IN

NS
RE

hotinv : Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc | inhogr : InterContinental Hotels Group PLC
i6651 : Hotels (except Casino)/Motels | i66 : Hotels/Restaurants | i665 : Lodgings | ilea :
Leisure/Arts/Hospitality | itourm : Tourism
gtour : Travel | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle
austr : Australia | dubai : Dubai | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | gulfstz :
Persian Gulf Region | meastz : Middle East | uae : United Arab Emirates | wasiaz : Western Asia

Page48of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

News Ltd.
Document CAIRPO0020140108ea140005s

Page49of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.