JPMorgan: Pacific Brands Core Divisions Still Weak -- Market Talk

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

JPMorgan: Pacific Brands Core Divisions Still Weak -- Market Talk

1,422 words
27 August 2014
08:31
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

18:31 EDT - Pacific Brands' (PBG.AU) deal to sell its workwear division for A$180M is positive but it
doesn't solve all the clothing company's problems, with its core underwear and Sheridan divisions still
weak, says JPMorgan. It retains an underweight stance due the lack of any stabilization in Ebit, as well
as an absence of valuation support. The brokerage suggests further portfolio rationalization is likely to be
more challenging for PBG. Still, it nudges up its price target to A$0.49/share from A$0.46. PBG last
traded at A$0.58. (robb.stewart@wsj.com; @RobbMStewart)

18:20 EDT - Smartphones can be used today as medical tools, but that's only because a handful of
startups paved the way and navigated the difficult Food and Drug Administration pathway to get approval
for phone applications as actual medical devices. AirStrip Technologies, a company that just raised
$25M in new funding, was among those pioneering companies, getting FDA approval in 2005 for an
iPhone app that lets the phone work as a fetal monitor. The company will use its new funding to get into
home-monitoring and big-data analytics. Other startups with FDA approval for health apps include
AliveCor and Mobisante. (timothy.hay@wsj.com)

18:16 EDT - Motorola dominates in the area of walkie-talkies, which let service workers communicate
with one another while on the job. Now two former executives from the company, former CEO Ed
Zander and former Executive VP Richard Nottenburg, are among the investors of a startup that could
give Motorola competition in workplace communications. Theatro has produced 1,000 voice-activated,
wearable communications gadgets, which are about the size of a matchbook. The company is preparing
to ramp up production for a number of pilot tests. The devices work like walkie-talkies, but also give
workers access to internal computer systems. (timothy.hay@wsj.com)

18:13 EDT - Canadian miner Salazar Resources (SRL.V) is expecting to start production at its
Curipamba copper-gold project in Ecuador by 2017, with construction beginning in 2016, the company
says. "The project is at the evaluation stage," company CEO Fredy Salazar says. The company
recently signed a letter of intent with China's Guangshou Group to develop the project. Guangshou will
invest $50M in the Curipamba project in exchange for 60% equity interest in Salazar's Ecuadorian unit.
Ecuador is looking to develop its mining sector by attracting foreign investments.
(mercedes.alvaro@wsj.com)

17:49 EDT - The US government is planning to tax Mexican sugar imports, as early as next week,
following a petition from US growers, alleging Mexico's government subsidized its sugar production.
While the decision is preliminary, with the final word due out in January, the extra cost could trickle down
to consumer wallets, food-manufacturing groups argue. "Those duties, the cost does trickle down," says
Cory Martin, spokesman for the American Bakers Association. A glut of sugar in the US has been
crumbling and the domestic surplus could reach the lowest level in 40 years by September 2015,
according to the USDA. That could mean higher prices for food companies already grappling with higher
costs of commodities from coffee to cocoa to meat. (leslie.josephs@wsj.com)

17:43 EDT - Lululemon Athletica (LULU) was the only specialty retailer to post gains in traffic to its
website, both in unique and total visits, during the month of July, according to data from ComScore and
analysis from Barclays. On the whole, online traffic to the websites of 23 retailers meaningfully declined
during the month. Barclays notes that e-commerce represents approximately 15% of total apparel retail
sales, and that of all e-commerce purchases made during 1Q14, more than 80% were through desktop
browsing, compared to mobile purchases. (sara.germano@wsj.com)

Page293of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.17:31 EDT - Venture-capital firmKleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers has agreed to invest in Snapchat, the
messaging service, at a $10B valuation, say people familiar with the matter. Snapchat, which once
snubbed a roughly $3 billion acquisition offer from Facebook (FB), is in the process of raising a large
investment round and has met with financial firms and strategic investors in recent months. The Los
Angeles startup has begun to divulge details about its business plans to prospective investors. But an
11-figure valuation for a company with close to zero revenue would set a new high watermark even in
this era of investor optimism. (evelyn.rusli@wsj.com; @evelynrusli)

17:24 EDT - Don't tell Russian companies that U.S. sanctions are dinging business. Western sanctions
against Russian companies have so far been narrowly targeted, and Russian companies have said the
effects on business will be minimal. In calls with investors over the past month, Gazprom OAO and OAO
Rosneft have said they expect sanctions to have little effect on bottom lines. But Russia experts say the
stance is partly bluster. While sanctions may be narrow, the chilling effect of the blacklist are causing
U.S. and European companies to stay away from Moscow all together. (joel.schectman@wsj.com;
@joel_schectman)

17:13 EDT - Despite recent hawkish chatter from some top Fed officials, Thomas Lam of OSK-DMG
says he still thinks the Fed will wait until 3Q of next year to begin tightening monetary policy. Why? In
part because of caution over abrupt market reaction, Lam writes. "While we recognize that the typical
focus on real economy and inflation developments is important, the risks surrounding financial markets
or stability are likely to be crucial when assessing the timing and pace of the eventual monetary
tightening in the current environment," he says. "To wit, the risk management approach on future Fed
policy should apply to both macro economy and financial stability considerations."
(pedro.dacosta@wsj.com)

17:02 EDT - US companies spent $233B of their own money on research and development in 2011 and
nearly half of that work was concentrated in just five states, the National Science Foundation says. The
lion's share of corporate R&D funding went to California, Washington, Texas, Massachusetts and
Michigan, the NSF says in a new analysis of business research spending. California was the largest
state for US business-funded R&D, accounting for 28% ($64B). The next four states represented a
combined 22% ($51B) of the total business R&D spending in the US. The NSF analysts examined R&D
paid for by the company's own funds, not by the federal government, customers or business partners.
(lee.hotz@wsj.com)

16:54 EDT - File under "Lessons Learned." Intercontinental Exchange's NYSE will conduct a test run
ahead of the giant IPO for Alibaba Group (BABA). The deal, which could raise more than $20B and
come as early as next month, is liable to overtake Facebook's $18B 2012 IPO--and the NYSE won't want
to repeat any of Nasdaq's errors on that one. A note to traders late Tuesday advises of a September 6
test of customer connections. The drill comes after a similar one tied to the Chinese company's offering
conducted earlier this summer. But the NYSE wants to keep this an invite-only party. From the note:
"The NYSE will hold a conference call intended for NYSE Member Firms only and is explicitly closed to
the press." (michael.driscoll@wsj.com; @michaeldrisc)

16:51 EDT - A shift by companies away from plain-vanilla stock options, and toward imposing
performance hurdles when options are used, appears to have reversed in 2013, compensation
consultant Hay Group says. A five-year analysis of 300 very large companies shows ordinary
stock-option use in paying executives declining for four years, then rising for the first time in 2013.
Meantime, the use of performance-linked options -- which can be exercised only after certain share-price
or operational goals are met -- has risen every year except 2013, Hay says. Whether the reversal
continued into 2014 won't be clear until proxy season next spring. (theo.francis@wsj.com)

To contact the Market Talk Editors,
Kevin Kingsbury, 212 416-2354, kevin.kingsbury@wsj.com
Cynthia Lin, 212 416-4403, Cynthia.lin@wsj.com
John Shipman, 212 416-2181, john.shipman@wsj.com
Patrick Sullivan, 212 416-2326, Patrick.sullivan@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

August 26, 2014 18:31 ET (22:31 GMT)

CO
IN

pacbra : Pacific Brands Ltd
i43 : Textiles | iclt : Clothing/Textiles | icnp : Consumer Goods

Page294of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE

PUB
AN

cbrand : Branding | m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | namt : All Market
Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nrmf : Routine
Market/Financial News | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact
: Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
usa : United States | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North
America
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document DJDN000020140826ea8q003t8

Page295of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.