IT & High Technology - Asia Pacific

HD IT & High Technology - Asia Pacific
WC 14,706 words
PD 1 July 2014
SN Mergent Industry Reports
SC MIRAUS
LA
English
CY Copyright 2014 Mergent, Inc. All Rights Reserved
LP

Scope of this report

The Scope of This Report

TD

This report looks at the information technology and high technology industries across the Asia-Pacific, with
a focus on Australia, China and Hong Kong, India, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan. A number of industry
segments are examined, namely: IT services; computer hardware and equipment; software and;
semiconductors. Key financial results are presented in the comparative data tables on proceeding pages.
Research analysts draw on a range of credible industry and company data sources as well as news and
information services to research and analyze the current trading environment, industry landscape and
market trends and outlook for a particular sector. Primary sources are used, unless otherwise indicated,
and include company data, e.g. annual reports and company financial results; macroeconomic and trade
data; data and information from global and country regulatory, industry and trade bodies; government
data; and reports from industry organizations and private research organizations.

Industries covered by the industry reports are defined by standard industry classification systems and
leading companies are identified on this basis. The relevant SIC codes used to search for companies in
these sectors are as follows: 3674 (Semiconductors and Related Devices); 5045 (Computers Peripherals
and Software); 7371 (Computer Programming Services); 7372 (Prepackaged Software); 7373 (Computer
Integrated System Design); 7374 (Data Processing and Preparation); 7375 (Information Retrieval
Services); 7376 (Computer Facilities Management); 7378 (Computer Maintenance and Repair); 7379
(Computer Related Services).

Current Environment

Sector Overview

The Asia-Pacific information communication technology (ICT) sector improved over the six months under
review. China's economy picked up after the Government reframed its economic policy, while the
Japanese economy continued its recovery with an increase in consumption spurred by a last-minute rise in
demand. Japan also raised its consumption tax, with ongoing quantitative and qualitative monetary easing
and fiscal stimulus booting the sector. India's ICT sector meanwhile was affected by the economy, delayed
reforms, the freefall of the rupee against major currencies and political gridlock. This was partially offset by
improvements in Australia, Japan and South Korea.

Market researcher Forrester expects the Asia-Pacific ICT market to grow by 4.5% to be worth US$516
billion in 2014. It also forecasts mixed business and government purchases of IT goods and services -
strong in countries such as China, India and Thailand, where it was weak in 2013, weak in Japan, where
ICT market growth was better in 2013, and improving but still subdued in Australia and South Korea.
Asia-Pacific countries focused their spending mostly on software-as-a-service apps, mobile devices
analytics and big data, and smart process apps.
China's growth slowdown could be short-lived as the country continued to attract intense vendor interest
thanks to its size and growth potential, while big exporters Taiwan and South Korea still looked to expand
in China. Australia's ICT companies were cautious with their IT budgets until China - the biggest market
for Australia's natural resource exports - returns to a solid growth path. There was a moderate rise in IT
spending in Japan, thanks to monetary easing by the Bank of Japan, rises in share prices, and further

Page112of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.exports due to yen depreciation. However, Japanese companies continued to take a cautious stance on
ICT investments.

ICT spending in emerging countries such as Vietnam, Indonesia, Malaysia and the Philippines was
healthy, with governments budgeting to further develop high-tech ICT infrastructure such as cloud
computing and the rollout of fiber-based high-speed broadband networks. The Asia-Pacific's reputation for
providing ICT growth opportunities continued to attract global players from the US and Europe.

Sector Performance

The ten leading Asian IT stocks saw mixed performances over the six months to May 13, 2014, but most
of them saw growth, with prices up by an average 19.6%. Fujitsu Ltd (TSE: 6702) had the largest share
price rise, 51.72%, as it swung to a third-quarter profit of Y12 billion (US$116.6 million), thanks to
improved sales. NEC Corp's (TSE: 6701) share price also rose, by 30.91%, after it announced plans to
sell its internet service provider Biglobe Ltd to investment fund Industrial Partners for about Y70 billion
(US$680 million). Asustek Computer's (TWN: 2357) share price rose by 32.29%, due to further demand
for its products and strong foreign institutional interest.
Samsung Electronics' (KSE: 005930) share price fell by 1.34%, as the company faced growing
competition from Apple's iPhones and budget devices from Chinese producers. Japanese IT
companyToshiba Corp's (TSE: 6502) share price slipped by 1.23%, due to the negative impact of the
reassessment of the asset value of a US developer of nuclear power plants, discontinuation of its optical
disc drive (ODD) business, and abolition of the special corporate tax for reconstruction.

%

32.29%
17%

Stock Performances of Leading Asia-Pacific IT and High-Tech Companies
company
Ticker
November 13, 2013 May 13, 2014
Asustek Computer Inc
TWN: 2357
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co Ltd (TSMC) TWN: 2330
Samsung Electronics Co Ltd
Quanta Computer Inc
Hon Hai Precision Industry Co
Compal Electronics Inc
Acer Inc
NEC Corp
Toshiba Corp
Fujitsu Ltd

(US$9.68)
(US$3.96)
(US$1,309.82) -1.34%
23.34%
(US$2.62)
(US$2.89)
18.15%
5.74%
(US$0.73)
19%
(US$0.63)
(US$2.80)
30.91%
-1.23%
(US$3.91)
(US$6.41)
51.72%

Closing Price
(US$7.32)
(US$3.38)

KSE: 005930 (US$1,327.60)
TWN: 2382
TWN: 2317
TWN: 2324
TWN: 2353
TSE: 6701
TSE: 6502
TSE: 6702

(US$2.12)
(US$2.44)
(US$0.69)
(US$0.53)
(US$2.14)
(US$3.95)
(US$4.23)

Source: Mergent analysis

Leading Companies

Personal Computers (PC)
Global PC shipments totaled 76.6 million in first quarter 2014, a 1.7% decline from a year earlier,
according to market researcher Gartner. The decline was not as severe as in the previous past seven
quarters, due to the end of Windows XP support on April 8, 2014, which caused many people to buy
computers with the latest operating system. Asia-Pacific PC shipments totaled 24.9 million, a 10.8%
decline from the previous year, as pressure on traditional notebooks continued because the installed base
transitioned to alternative devices and replaced only on an as-needed basis. Japan was greatly affected
by the end of XP support, recording a year-over-year 35% increase in PC shipments. Lenovo (HKSE:
0992) continued to lead the market, accounting for 18.5% of global shipments in the quarter. The
company's shipments grew in all regions except the Asia-Pacific, where growth in China slowed, partly
because of the long Lunar New year holiday in the middle of the quarter.

Page113of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Taiwan's struggling PC maker Acer (TWN: 2353) continued to suffer weak consumer demand for its PCs,
including its high-priced ultrabooks. Its net profit of NT$1 million (US$32,800) was down from NT$515
million (US$17 million) a year earlier, but ended three consecutive quarterly losses due to better cost
and inventory control. Revenue totaled NT$127 million (US$4.2 million), down by 16.6% from the
previous year, despite effective control of inventory and costs.

Acer, which holds a 7.3% share of the global PC market and makes most of its revenue from netbook
sales continued its restructuring efforts and is betting on cloud computing technology to boost its revenue,
gross margin and operational efficiency. The company has adopted a build-your-own-cloud (BYOC)
strategy, which allows users to build their own cloud services for purposes such as managing music and
photos on all Acer PCs and mobile devices.

The world's second largest PC maker Lenovo remained in a virtual tie for the top position with HP, with
shipments of 32.6 million in the quarter, or almost five devices every second. Lenovo shipped 15.3
million PCs, while 17.3 million shipments of smartphones and tablets, a 47% rise from a year earlier,
surpassed those of PCs, giving it a 4.8% share and solidifying its position as the world's fourth largest
smartphone supplier. Gartner estimates the company's shipments grew in all regions except the
Asia-Pacific.

Semiconductors

The global semiconductor industry continued to be driven by growth in electronic applications as almost
every electronic item uses semiconductors. The mobile era has changed the dynamics of the industry,
particularly for fabless companies, foundries, and outsourced semiconductor assembly and testing
(OSAT). The demand for mobile chips gathered momentum, driving investment in advanced technologies
and manufacturing capacities. Spurred by countries such as China, South Korea, India and Taiwan, the
Asia-Pacific led the global semiconductor market with a share of more than half.

Taiwan was a prime example of a country riding the tide of mobile demand. Leading foundry supplier
TSMC (TWN: 2330) worked on an enhanced transistor version of 16 FinFET plus, which will deliver
performance improvement of around 15%. The company's revenue totaled NT$148.22 billion (US$4.9
billion) in the first quarter of 2014, up 11.6% from a year earlier, mainly due to strong demand for its
wafers across all segments, which was more pronounced in mobile-related applications.

Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International (SEMI) expected foundries to continue their hefty
investment throughout 2014 with the ramp-up of 20nm production. Foundry capacity could account for
70% of Taiwan semiconductor capacity by the end of 2014. China's consumption of semiconductors has
grown in recent years, due to the continuing transfer of global electronic equipment production and the
above-average semiconductor content of electronic products. The Asia-Pacific should continue to control
the global semiconductor market as demand for products containing semiconductors is growing in
developing countries. Emerging economies will become the most attractive markets for semiconductor
consumption due to strong demand from a broad range of industry verticals.

IT Services and Outsourcing

The number of outsourcing contracts in the Asia-Pacific rose in the second half of 2013, but annual
contract value remained flat at US$1 billion, reflecting a trend toward smaller deals, according to IT
information firmInformation Services Group (ISG). The Asia-Pacific suffered from a lack of large deals,
particularly in Australia and India. ISG expects that the Asia-Pacific market will remain soft throughout the
first half of 2014, but that service providers will continue to offer more varied solutions, such as system
integration, transformation, project services and automation.

Top tier Indian players continued to expand from mass generic production by adding capacity and ability in
higher-value services, while outsourcing companies strengthened their competitive positions by
establishing expanding long-term client relationships in key markets in Europe and the US. India's biggest
IT services firmTata Consultancy Services (TCS) (BSE: 532540) and second largest software firmInfosys
Ltd (BSE: 500209) reported positive results, mainly due to strong demand from the US, the UK and
emerging markets. As Europe recovered from its economic crisis, firms on the continent worked with
Indian IT players to save costs and, more importantly, Indian IT firms took on more consulting work and
delivered high-value services.

Although India-based providers were hampered by poor government policies, delayed reforms and the
free fall of the rupee, they reported positive growth thanks to steady demand from European and many
first time outsourcers. TCS's revenue for the fiscal fourth quarter ended March 31, 2014, rose 15.2% from
a year earlier to US$3.5 billion, thanks to higher growth in the US - the long-time dominant market. The
company stepped up efforts to expand its European market share to reduce dependence on the US,
which is by far the largest market for India's US$108 billion IT service industry.

Page114of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Infosys' fiscal fourth quarter 2014 revenue rose 7.9% from a year earlier to US$2.1 billion. The company
signed four large deals worth US$700 million, two in the Americas and two in Europe. Indian IT players
made further headway in Europe, which ranked second in contribution to the export revenues of the more
than US$118 billion Indian IT-BPO market.

TCS and Infosys invested in different European markets, promising a strong deal pipeline and signs of
demand momentum that contributed to a confident outlook. After seeing the growth potential of African
economies and their growing interest in technology, the ambitious software services companies continued
to invest big in Africa, eager to win customers and market share in a continent that is home to fast-growing
enterprises and has an under-developed technology infrastructure.
Merger, Acquisition and Alliance Activity
Asia-Pacific merger and acquisition (M&A) activity improved in both volume and value over the past six
months. There were more acquisitions by Japanese companies, which have suffered from unprofitable
consumer electronics businesses and uncertain market conditions. Many troubled electronics giants,
which once ruled the world, were overtaken by the digital revolution and switched their focus to industrial
businesses and moved production to low-cost countries to boost their profit margins. It is expected that
2014 will be a better growth year for technology M&A, with the long-term outlook strong. The growing
popularity of smart technologies was expected to spur more deals throughout 2015.
In January 2014, Chinese PC maker Lenovo acquired Motorola's (NYSE: MSI) smartphone business from
Google (NASDAQ: GOOG) for US$2.91 billion in China's biggest technology deal. It gave Lenovo
Motorola's portfolio of innovative smartphones such as the Moto X and Moto G and the DROID Ultra
series. Lenovo has a strong PC and a fast-growing smartphone business and the acquisition should
strengthen its position in the smartphone market. It should also give it a presence in North America, Latin
America and Western Europe to complement its strong, fast-growing smartphone business in emerging
markets. Google will maintain ownership of the vast majority of the Motorola mobility patent portfolio,
including current patent applications and invention disclosures. As part of its continuing relationship with
Google, Lenovo will receive licenses to this rich portfolio of patents and other intellectual property, as well
as more than 2,000 patent assets, and the Motorola mobility brand and trademark portfolio.
After announcing plans to combine their struggling system chip operations more than a year ago, Fujitsu
and Panasonic (TSE: 6752) agreed to form a new merged company with the help of the Japanese
Government. It will be capitalized at Y50 billion (US$486 million), with Fujitsu taking a 40% stake and
Panasonic 20%, and the state-owned Development Bank of Japan investing up to Y20 billion (US$194
million) and granting a Y10 billion (US$97 million) loan. The company will be a fabless operation
contracting manufacturers to fabricate its semiconductors rather than having its own production
equipment.

Fujitsu has strength in wireless-communications and image-processing technologies, while Panasonic
excels in control technology for household electronics. They will work together on semiconductors targeted
at enhancing automobile and home functionality through better networked connectivity. The merged firm
will focus on cloud computing and new growth areas such as medical equipment and energy.

As part of Panasonic's global reorganization amid financial losses it plans to sell three chip assembly
plants in Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore to Singapore's United Test and Assembly Center Ltd.
Panasonic, which had net losses of US$15 billion over the two financial years to March 2013, has been
selling off or closing down unprofitable businesses and focusing on more promising lines such as
supplying batteries and components to automakers. In December 2013, it announced a joint venture to be
majority owned by Israeli chipmaker TowerJazz Semiconductor Ltd that will acquire Panasonic's three
semiconductor factories in Japan and will manufacture Panasonic's products.
In January 2014, Toshiba completed the acquisition of OCZ Storage Solutions, a failed Silicon Valley
maker of solid-state drives (SSD), for US$35 million, making it a wholly owned subsidiary. The
acquisition provides Toshiba with OCZ's enterprise and client SSD business and allows the established
OCZ brand to continue producing its current serial advanced technology attachment (SATA) and
Peripheral Component Interconnect Express (PCIe) consumer drives for high-performance and
mainstream applications. OCZ's storage solutions will leverage Toshiba's cutting edge NAND and combine
it with the company's proprietary controllers, firmware and software to provide client and enterprise
customers with innovative and cost-effective solid-state storage solutions.
In March 2014, NEC succeeded in its second attempt to acquire the A123 Energy Solutions business unit
of A123 System LLC, an American green-energy technologies provider that was funded by the Obama
administration before filing for bankruptcy protection in 2012. NEC paid US$100 million to acquire the
business from Chinese companyWanxiang Group Corp, which bought A123, including its automotive
battery business, for US$257 million.

Page115of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The acquisition will strengthen the energy storage capability of NEC's smart energy business, making
NEC the world's leading supplier of lithium-ion grid energy storage systems (GSS). NEC's high quality,
cost-effective lithium-ion technology adds to the ever-growing portfolio of energy storage technologies for
future use in A123 Energy Solution's GSS platform. The acquisition will leverage A123 Energy Solutions'
experience in commercial batteries to serve NEC's telecommunication carrier, enterprise and government
customer base, helping to drive the global expansion of NEC's smart energy business.

Industry Profile

Industry Size and Value

The Asia-Pacific ICT sector has grown rapidly during the past decade, accounting for a greater share of
the global ICT market each year. The sector grew in almost all major Asia-Pacific economies, especially
those of emerging countries, although at a slower rate as the global economy continued its unsteady
recovery. A Mergent analysis shows the market capitalization of the nine leading Asia-Pacific IT
companies totaled US$199.38 billion as of May 6, 2014, with 50.4% held by TSMC, 19.3% by Hon Hai
Precision Industry, 8.2% by Toshiba and 6.6% by Fujitsu Ltd. TSMC remains the biggest foundry player
and will continue to dominate as it has the biggest capacity and best foundry technology.

IT and High Technology Components

Semiconductors

A semiconductor is usually a solid chemical element or compound that can conduct electricity under some
conditions but not others, making it a good medium for the control of electrical currents. In the Asia-Pacific,
the semiconductor industry is driven by growth in electronics applications as almost every electrical item
uses semiconductors in some way or another. Emerging economies such as China, South Korea, India
and Taiwan are leaders of and control more than half of the global semiconductor market.
Asia-Pacific semiconductor sales totaled US$53.36 billion in the first quarter of 2014, compared with
US$48.98 billion a year earlier, according to the Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA). This is an
encouraging sign for the region's industry. The global semiconductor industry picked up steam through the
first quarter of 2014, with sales totaling US$78.47 billion, its highest-ever first quarter sales. It is likely to
enjoy further growth in 2014, as mobile devices become slimmer and demand for more data processing
and power-saving features rise. Semiconductor companies are trying to cram more power into tinier chips
and building futuristic factories to meet global demand.

TSMC, which holds a 50% market share, has reaped profits in the past two years from its dominance in
offering its cutting-edge 29nm process technology. It is moving to the more advanced 20nm process and
plans to start mass production using 16nm multi-gate or tri-gate architectures, also known as FinFET
technology, in 2015. The smaller the process the more transistors can be included in a chip, making it
more powerful and efficient. TSMC had the third-largest capital spending of around US$10 billion in the
chip industry in 2013, trailing Samsung and Intel, which spent around US$22 billion and US$11 billion,
respectively.

Integrated Chips

An integrated chip (IC) or monolithic integrated circuit is an electronic circuit manufactured by diffusion of
trace elements on to the surface of a thin subtract of semiconductor material. IC plays a significant part in
IT products that are specially made for a specific task and contain thousands of transistors, diodes and
resistors.

Thanks to the mobile handset manufacturing market, IC vendors in the region should see continuing
market growth in 2014, especially in China, which is the world's largest producer of several electronics
products. According to China's National Bureau of Statistics IC production volumes rose 10.5% to 86.71
billion in 2013, while sales revenue rose 16% to RMB250 billion (US$40.2 billion). The integrated circuit
industrial chain, including silicon wafer production, packaging, testing, design and high-end application,
rose in 2013 boosted by increased demand from domestic smartphone manufacturers such as Xiaomi and
Huawei (SSE: 002502), which accounted for 20% of global sales.

The IC design industry has created strong demand for chip original equipment manufactures (OEMs),
which local manufacturers are unable to satisfy due to lack of advanced technology and investment, weak
R&D capabilities and insufficient production experience. It still relies heavily on the import of core
techniques and technologies, with chip imports totaling US$231.34 billion in 2013, up by 20.4% from a
year earlier. China will invest RMB120 billion (US$19.3 billion) in its domestic IC industry to boost
development by reducing reliance on imported chips, the core product for high-tech and manufacturing
industries.

Page116of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Wire and Cable

The electrical wire and cable segment is one of the most significant in the ICT sector, and is often
considered an indicator of the industry's progress. The Asia-Pacific is the largest and the fastest growing
regional market for insulated wire and cable, which is gradually recovering from the global recession,
thanks to growing demand for telecommunications, data wire and cable products, particularly in China and
India.
China's aluminum wire and cable exports increased in February 2014 due to a saturated domestic market
and quicker payment by overseas buyers, according to the Shanghai Metals Market (SMM), with outbound
shipments of the materials soaring by 65% year on year to 6,982 tonnes in February. However, excess
capacity and soaring raw material prices have made Chinese aluminum cable and wire less attractive in
overseas markets. Low R&D capabilities have also weakened domestic producers' competitiveness
against foreign rivals.

India's wire and cable industry comprises 40% of the entire electrical industry, which could double in size
by 2017. India has great potential in the mining, power, oil and gas, metro railways, cement and steel
industries, and in other sectors. Different types of cables such as extra high voltage and elastomer cables
are being used for special applications in the mining, oil and shipbuilding industries, for crane and solar
power plant cables, and for new generation motor vehicles, windmills, security systems and data
distribution. The Indian Government plans to provide rural regions with broadband connection, and the
rapid growth of the sector will continue to underpin the demand for wire and cables.

Sector Investment

Globally, companies are investing in mobility, cloud-based services and collaboration tools, and demand
for memory chips is rising, thanks to the introduction of smartphones with ever-higher memory capacity.
Taiwan's TSMC and South Korea's Samsung and SK Hynix (KSE: 000660) dominate chip making but,
while some Japanese companies, notably Toshiba, are still in the game, others, including Panasonic, have
decided to scale back because building high-tech plants is expensive. There were no cash-burning
business projects in chips over the six months under review, due to their increased complexity, as the
market is approaching scaling limits.
China is driving the industry's rapid shift to cheaper smartphones, helping chipmakers to broaden their
customer base beyond Samsung and Apple. The partnership between Toshiba and SK Hynix to produce
the next-generation memory device will not be affected by Toshiba suing SK Hynix for the theft of data
surrounding NAND flash memory technology. SK Hynix is seeking new business opportunities in China to
capitalize on increasing demand for high-end devices supporting long-term evolution (LTE) wireless
technology. Accelerating investment is led by the Asia-Pacific, where most companies are investing more
in new technologies than are their European counterparts.

Samsung, the world's top supplier of memory chips, plans to cut its investment in components by at least
30% in 2014, as it does not plan to build new fabrication facilities due to industry consolidation, increasing
uncertainty surrounding technology and sluggish demand. Total investment in components will remain
under KRW10 trillion (US$9.4 billion) throughout 2014. Samsung's primary target for its semiconductor
business is to mass-produce advanced flash memory chips including vertical NANDs to meet demand for
NAND-intensive digital devices such as smartphones, tablets and solid state drives. Samsung may cut
processor chip production and investment in its plant in Austin, Texas, due to sluggish demand from Apple
and rising inventory, and its failure to win any major orders. Apple is cutting its reliance on
Samsung-manufactured processors, and has started using TSMC products.

South Korea's already impressive internet speeds are about to move further ahead of the rest of the world
through the introduction of next-generation 5G wireless services capable of downloading full-length films in
a second. The South Korean Government will triple its budget for the 5G industry and bet heavily on
securing global leadership for the next generation ICT industry by investing KRW1.6 trillion (US$1.5
billion) over the next seven years. The Government and private sector will invest jointly in developing the
terminal market, to gain a 20% share of the communications equipment market, to secure the highest
competitive power in international standard patents, and to create 16,000 jobs by 2020.

Policy and Regulatory Environment

The Japanese Government plans to start certifying companies that tap into big data, including information
about consumer purchases, to deal with privacy concerns. Big data is seen as a promising growth field
but corporations may hesitate to buy and sell information for fear of lawsuits. The Ministry of Economy,
Trade and Industry hopes to introduce a certification framework by the end of 2014 to address these
issues. It will check whether companies acquire information properly and take steps to prevent data leaks,

Page117of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.as well as allowing firms to simplify their often overly complex terms of services, which they are legally
required to disclose whenever personal information is used for business.

South Korea's Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning has banned the common practice of mobile
manufacturers and networks including un-removable apps, also known as bloatware, in smartphones,
which causes inconvenience to smartphone users and unfair competition among industry players. Telcos
must make all pre-installed apps deletable or removable, except for those that enable Wi-Fi connectivity,
near field communication, customer service and an app store. The users will benefit from the move by
gaining longer battery life and increased data storage capacity.

Key Points

Current Environment

The overall Asia-Pacific information communication technology (ICT) sector improved over the six months
under review.The ten leading Asian IT stocks had mixed performances over the six months to May 13,
2014, but most saw growth, with prices rising by an average of 19.6%.The end of Windows XP support
somewhat boosted the sales of PCs with the latest operating system, but PC shipments continued to
decline in first quarter 2014.Asia-Pacific merger and acquisition (M&A) activity improved in both volume
and value over the past six months, with more acquisitions by Japanese companies.

Industry Profile

Albeit at a slower rate, the Asia-Pacific IT and high technology sector held up well on a worldwide basis,
accounting for a greater share of the global ICT market.A Mergent analysis shows the market
capitalization of the top nine major Asia-Pacific IT companies tracked totaled US$199.38 billion, as of
May 6, 2014.Semiconductor sales in first quarter 2014 rose by 8.9% to US$53.36 billion, reflecting
encouraging signs for the region's industry.IT giants continued to focus investment on chip production, but
there were no major business projects in chips over the past six months.

Market Trends and Outlook
Chinese firms aim to conquer the smart TV space to draw customers' attention with impressive large
screens and a range of internet-based entertainment services.South Korea hopes to be the global
tele-health leader by promoting the tele-health market as a new growth engine.The Asia-Pacific is still an
exceptionally strong mobile advertising market, thanks to the growing popularity of free mobile content,
largely in the form of apps.
The Asia-Pacific could lead global expansion of cloud markets, providing ICT vendors with strong and
sustainable growth.

Market Trends & Outlook
China's Smart TV Market Booms
China is not only eyeing a greater share of the smartphone market but is also aiming to conquer the smart
TV space. Since 2013, a flurry of Chinese firms, especially internet companies, have rolled out smart TVs,
hoping to draw customers' attention with impressive large screens and a range of internet-based
entertainment services. Smart TV sales are growing thanks to the rise of on-demand video streaming and
the interaction of TV with mobile devices. The internet has transformed TVs into portals to cyberspace with
more potential for applications. Applying software to traditional TVs has allowed third-party application
developers to capture a larger audience.

When Xiaomi, the increasingly popular startup phone maker, moved beyond handsets with the September
2013 launch of a 47-inch 3D smart TV retailing for RMB2,999 (US$483), it sold 3,000 sets in less than two
minutes. In May 2014, the company launched the second generation of the TV, Mi TV 2, which most
notably supports 4K resolution. Priced at US$640, the 49-inch TV is in line with Xiaomi's aim to launch
devices that undercut the prices of rivals' similar products.
In July 2013, Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba joined the smart TV race, unveiling a smart TV operating
system (OS) and set-top box. It hopes to create its own ecosystem of TV-related assets and be involved in
digital content, providing a platform for users to share content with mobile devices. A few large Chinese
manufacturers have agreed to incorporate Alibaba's OS in their devices, including consumer electronics
companies Skyworth, Haier and Changhong. The TV OS was designed by its AliCloud subsidiary, which
developed the Linux-based Alibaba mobile OS in 2011, allowing users to use their mobile phones to
control Alibaba TVs and connect with TVs to stream content to their handsets. The company plans to
have an app store for video games and will incorporate its music streaming service into the TV ecosystem.

Page118of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Its smart TV also takes advantage of the company's e-commerce and online payment assets such as
Tmall, Taobao and Alipay by enabling users to shop and pay bills via their phones.

More than a month after Alibaba unveiled its smart TV OS, its fierce rival Baidu launched its own smart TV
to compete with Alibaba, Xiaomi, Samsung and Apple. Known as TV+, Baidu's first smart TV is
manufactured by Chinese electronic firms TCL Multimedia and features content and branding from its
online video platform iQiyi. Baidu plans to mergeiQiyi with online video provider PPS, which it acquired for
US$370 million in May 2013, to create China's largest online video provider, unseating Youku-Tudou and
giving TV+ an edge in content.

To drive the adoption of TVs and capture a latent audience, manufacturers need to ensure that the
hardware performance of smart TVs can match that of desktop computers and smartphones. The demand
for smart TVs is likely to keep increasing in China, with vendors promoting smart TVs to capture possible
opportunities by introducing value-added services, while internet companies are keen to be in the market
to better provide content and OS as they may be weak in manufacturing.

South Korea to Foster Tele-health Market

The global tele-health market could grow by more than a factor of ten from 2013 to 2018, IT researcher
IHS Technology (NYSE: HIS) predicts, as medical providers increasingly utilize remote communications
and monitoring to cut costs and enhance the quality of care. South Korean President Park Geun-hye is
promoting the tele-health market as a new growth engine, hoping that the country will become a global
tele-health leader with a strong domestic use of the technology. Tele-health, which involves the remote
monitoring of diseases and symptoms using telecommunications technology, will be used mostly by small
hospitals.

It will allow the country's largest conglomerate Samsung to transform itself into a healthcare giant as the
smartphone market reaches maturity. Among South Korean players, Samsung may be best fitted to meet
strict tele-health requirements. It also has the capital strength, manpower, brand value and technology
expertise plus the will to invest in the healthcare sector. Samsung will invest KRW23.3 trillion (US$21.8
billion) by 2020 across all its growth sectors, including biomedicine and medical equipment. It already
produces major hospital equipment such as ultrasound and digital radiography systems, operates a
massive hospital and cancer center in Seoul, and is active in the health app market. In September 2013,
Samsung rolled out its first-generation wearable device Galaxy Gear smart watch that could be used as a
tele-health device.

Previously, tele-health in South Korea was restricted by laws that permitted medical consultations only
when the doctor could examine the patient in person. In March 2014, the South Korea Cabinet passed a
bill allowing doctors to employ tele-health technology to diagnose and treat patients remotely. The
Government will implement a six-month pilot program before enacting a bill allowing tele-medicine.
Patients with chronic diseases such as hypertension and diabetes, people with disabilities and those living
in remote areas will be main users of these services. They will also be able to consult doctors, receive
diagnoses, and prescriptions for medications without an in-person visit. If the pilot program is successful,
the tele-medicine bill would become effective in 2015.

The Asia-Pacific Leads Mobile Advertising Spending

The growing popularity of free mobile content, largely in the form of apps, is having a big impact on mobile
advertising and many developers and publishers are monetizing the content. The Asia-Pacific continues to
be an exceptionally strong mobile advertising market, primarily in South Korea and Japan, slightly
surpassing North America and far ahead of Europe. This is partially because many mobile device users,
unlike consumers in the developed markets, go mobile directly without earlier having a PC or laptop. The
decline of more traditional advertising, such as in newspapers and magazines, is boosting the popularity of
mobile advertising as media buyers and brands are turning to tablets and smartphones on which more
consumers are viewing.

The Asia-Pacific region is a strong market largely thanks to Japan and South Korea being early-adopting
and mobile-crazy countries. As mobile advertising is becoming more mature in Japan, growth will be
largely in two of the world's biggest mobile markets - China and India. The latter continues to grow rapidly
and has become one of the largest mobile advertising markets in the region due to its improving ad
ecosystem. An independent mobile advertising network InMobi estimates smartphones remain relatively
promising with 88% of all mobile advertisements served on sophisticated phones, especially from Nokia,
while Android and iPhones are not as popular in India.

The uptake of the audio or video format of advertisements could be higher because the tablet form will
drive video, while search/map advertisement types will benefit from increased use of location data
gathered from users. Gartner predicts the Asia-Pacific will keep its dominant position in mobile advertising

Page119of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.for the next three years, as the global mobile advertising market grows by 400% to US$24.5 billion
between 2013 and 2016. However, it says the growth in mobile advertising spending could slow due to ad
space inventory supply growing faster than demand as the number of mobile websites and applications
rises faster than brand request advertising space on mobile devices.

Market Outlook

Major Asia-Pacific IT and high technology sectors continued to grow in 2013 but at a slower pace, due to
sluggish growth in China and India, but their ICT markets should start to improve in 2014. IT researcher
Ovum estimates that the highest growth in the Asia-Pacific will be in the small to mid-sized enterprise
sub-sector and in business intelligence and analytics solutions. Domestic demand for high-value products
is growing as Asian companies move up the value chain, while western manufacturers are likely to see
margins squeezed by increasing competition from lower-cost Asian rivals and cuts in government support.
The growing demand for IT products and services in China and India, and in other developing countries
such as Vietnam and the Philippines, continues to generate spending and boost local companies.
Large-scale IT and high technology infrastructure spending by several countries in the region will provide
good opportunities for sector-related companies and industries.
The Asia-Pacific could lead global expansion of cloud markets, providing ICT vendors with strong and
sustainable growth. Big cloud platform providers are slowly building out their support in the region, with
Amazon active in Japan, Singapore and Australia, while Microsoft is investing heavily and made its cloud
platform Azure available in China in March 2014. Google has launched its first two compute engine zones
in the region, allowing more developers to experience the speed and scale of Google's infrastructure with
the expansion of support for cloud platforms. The Asia-Pacific will continue to leverage cloud technologies
as a major enabler for future growth and innovation strategy.

Country Profiles

Australia

Sector Overview

Most IT companies grew over the six months under review, with spending across all major technological
areas, despite caution due to federal election uncertainty. Gartner estimated 2013 IT spending at A$76.9
billion (US$71 billion), an increase of 2.54%. Government spending dropped due to budget constraints,
but technologies that support real productivity improvement and those that can support new models for
citizen engagement and service delivery will continue to receive government investment.
Amid worries about the decline in manufacturing and the fading of the mining boom there are
diversification opportunities in the digital revolution in emerging markets. The tech start-up and biotech
sectors are at the forefront of a push to transform Australia from an iron ore exporter to an idea exporter.
More than 21,000 new IT jobs are expected to be filled in the next three years but the industry is still falling
short in its efforts to meet manpower demand.

Industry Size and Value
Australia's ICT market totaled A$91 billion (US$84 billion) in 2012, accounting for around 7.74% of GDP,
making it the fifth largest in the Asia-Pacific after Japan, China, India and South Korea, and the 15th
largest globally. There are more than 30,300 ICT businesses, mostly in property and business services,
finance and insurance, government administration and defense, communications services and
manufacturing, employing around 540,000 ICT professionals, of whom, some 250,000 work in IT support
functions in other industries.
Australia had more than 12.4 million internet subscribers at the end of December 2013, comprising
almost three million business and government subscribers and more than nine million household users,
according to the Australian Bureau if Statistics (ABS). Thanks to the wider availability of fast internet
technology, Australian internet subscribers are seeking faster access speeds, with more than two million
subscribers accessing download speeds of 24Mbps or greater as of December 2013, an increase of
443,000 from a year earlier. Smartphone penetration totaled 65% in 2013, up from 52% a year earlier,
according to Google's 2013 Our Mobile Planet Smartphone Research.

Leading Companies

Data #3 (ASX: DTL)
IT solutions company Data #3's revenue for the first half of fiscal 2014, ended December 31, 2013,
dropped by 1.8% to A$399.1 million (US$368.7 million), with product revenue falling by 1.7% to A$332.7

Page120of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.million (US$307.4 million) and services revenue decreasing by 2.3% to A$65.1 million (US$60.1 million)
from a year earlier. The company blamed the competitive nature of the market and changes in some
partner incentive programs for the decline. Total gross profit fell by 6.8% to A$57.5 million (US$53.1
million), with product gross profit decreasing by 11.7% to A$28.7 million (US$26.5 million), due to
weaker software sales in Queensland and reduced hardware sales in Western Australia. Services gross
profit decreased by 1.3% to A$28.8 million (US$26.6 million) as the services mix changed slightly.

While product sectors were challenged, Data #3 recorded a number of strategic wins with outsourcing and
cloud services at Brisbane Airport Corp, British-Swedish pharmaceutical and biologics company
AstraZaneca, project delivery and consulting services provider Worley Parsons, Queensland-based law
firm McInness Wilsons Lawyers and global natural resources company Vale Australia that strongly
endorse the company's hybrid IT strategy. These wins will help improve second half performance but,
with the shortfall in the first half, it will be difficult for the company to achieve its full year target. However,
Data #3's pipeline is strong and well positioned to increase revenue and profit as its customers continue to
transition to hybrid IT, the combination of on premises, outsourced and cloud services.

TechnologyOne (ASX: TNE)

TechnologyOne, a leading supplier of powerful integrated enterprise software solutions and one of
Australia's largest publicly listed software companies, reported revenue growth of 7% to A$180.6 million
(US$166.9 million) in fiscal 2013, ended September 30, 2013. Net profit tax totaled A$27 million (US$25
million), up 15% from a year earlier. The performance was boosted by the ongoing success of its
enterprise suite and its commitment to its preconfigured solutions for targeted vertical markets such as
local government, financial services and health.
TechnologyOne invested A$35.6 million (US$32.9 million) in R&D, up 6% from a year earlier. With the
release of its next generation enterprise suite Ci? in 2014, momentum in new license fees will increase in
coming years. A key focus of Ci? is to incorporate smart mobile devices including iPad, iPhone and
Android devices into its product. By enabling all of its enterprise software to be operated on all smart
mobile devices, it will open up a new world of possibilities for its customers, allowing them to abandon the
traditional PC or laptop and access data anywhere, anytime. Another focus is the TechnologyOne Cloud,
which delivers its enterprise suite to customers through the cloud, which will become a major platform for
growth, with strong demand building up in e coming years.

Market Outlook

Australia's IT market should continue growing against a backdrop of steady but unspectacular economic
growth in the customer, government and business segments in 2014. While IT spending on servers and
PCs has been falling, Australian business spending on emerging technologies such as big data, cloud,
mobility and social business will continue to grow. However, Gartner estimates that spending on mobile
devices to drop by more than US$4 billion to US$3.7 billion in 2014, as prices for smartphones fall,
cheaper alternatives to the ubiquitous iPhone become available, and bring your own device (BYOD) gains
popularity.

IDC says that, as enterprises seek to mobilize their business processes, there could be a shift away from
BYOD to choose your own device (CYOD). Under BYOD, employees can access business files, e-mails
and apps from their own devices, while with CYOD, employees can choose from a range of company
provided smartphones or tablets. The CYOD model allows companies to mobilize their processes and
deliver tangible business value to organizations.
The opportunities for Australian cloud services are immense, with spending of A$2.2 billion (US$2 billion)
in 2012, which could grow to A$10.4 billion (US$9.6 billion) by 2017. Cloud offerings are adopted across
an increasingly wide range of industries. Cloud computing in Australia's mining sector, which contributes
4.5% of GDP, is likely to continue growing as cloud data collection and storage expands, allowing
investors to follow more closely the progress of their mining operations.
China

Sector Overview
China's economic growth slowed, there were market fluctuations throughout 2013 and there is likely to be
downward pressure in 2014. Nevertheless, Forrester expects IT spending to grow by 8% to RMB752
billion (US$4.671 trillion) in 2014, lower than the 11% growth in 2011 and 9% in 2012. China is still
largely a hardware-driven market but spending on software and IT services is slowly gaining prominence
in the current economic climate. Local vendors such as Huawei, Inspur (SSE: 600756) and Lenovo are
likely to benefit from the National Security Agency (NSA)/Snowden leak issue, gaining share mostly in the
hardware market, including servers, storage and networking, as US tech companies including Cisco

Page121of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.(NASDAQ: CSCO) and IBM (NYSE: IBM) are facing unprecedented difficulties selling their goods and
services in China.

The Ministry of Science and Technology has made supporting the ICT industry a major national priority
since 2000 and IT is one of the most significant sectors in the National 12th Five Year Plan to enhance
China's economic and social development by 2015. The Government is fostering the construction of the
next generation national information infrastructure, including next generation internet, the convergence of
internet, telecom and TV broadcasting, the Internet of Things (IoT), cloud computing, new display
equipment, high-end software, servers and information services. The China National Broadband Plan will
also build next generation information infrastructure to meet the increasing demands for data throughput.

Industry Size and Value
China has become the world's second-largest economy and third-largest IT market after the US and
Japan, but IT spending per capita is still less than 5% of that in the US. The Ministry of Industry and
Information Technology (MIIT) said that the ICT market totaled US$1.79 trillion in 2012, with the hardware
and telecommunications segments having the dominant share, but software and IT services showing the
greatest growth over the past few years. Local software products comprise less than 30% of the market,
as foreign brands enjoy the largest share.

With the rapid development of 3G, wireless and smart terminal technology, the internet and mobile device
markets have developed rapidly during the past ten years. China has the most internet and mobile phone
users in the world, with the number of web users climbing by 9.5% to 618 million in 2013, with almost 250
million accessing the internet via their smartphones, up by 83.8% from a year earlier. By the end of the
12th Five Year Plan, 3G and wireless broadband networks are likely to cover most urban and rural areas,
and 4G is expected to be commercialized across most cities. However, the penetration rate remains low
compared to that in Germany, France and the UK, so there is significant potential for further market
expansion.

Leading Companies
Lenovo Group Limited (HKSE: 0992)
The world's second largest PC vendor Lenovo reported revenue of US$10.8 billion in the third fiscal
quarter ended December 31, 2013, a 15% increase from a year earlier, driven by strong global execution,
an innovative product portfolio and an increasing mix of PC Plus revenues. Lenovo shipped a record 32.6
million devices in the quarter or almost five devices every second. Sales from its mobile internet and
digital home division, which develops PC Plus products such as smartphones, tablets and smart TVs, was
15% of total revenues, up from 11% a year earlier.
Lenovo shipped 15.3 million PCs, retaining its position as the world's largest PC vendor, giving it its
highest-ever quarterly market share, 18.5%. Combined shipments of smartphones and tablets of 17.3
million surpassed those of PCs, with a 47% rise from a year earlier, giving it a 4.8% share and solidifying
its position as the world's fourth largest smartphone supplier. Lenovo shipped a record 3.5 million tablets,
a year-over-year rise of more than 300%, following the launch of the Yoga, the world's first multimode
tablet. These results illustrate success of the company's PC Plus transformation, with the PC at the heart
of an ecosystem of tablets, smartphones and smart TVs.

The recent investment in Motorola mobility and the IBM server business are logical next steps in the PC
Plus strategy, and will make Lenovo the third biggest server player globally in a business with higher
margins than PCs, and a strong number three smartphone maker. The company believes that the
investment will accelerate the geographical reach and competitiveness of its existing smartphone, tablet
and server businesses, while ensuring that future growth is stronger and more sustainable.

Great Wall Technology Co Ltd (HKSE: 0074)

Great Wall Technology researches, develops, manufactures PCs and information terminals, and sells
storage devices, power supply products, monitoring terminals, LCD TVs and electronics manufacturing
services (EMS). Although its revenue declined by 3.2% to RMB92.816 billion (US$576.55 billion) in
2013, net profit improved from a loss of RMB160 million (US$994 million) in 2012 to a gain of RMB73.91
million (US$459 million). This was mainly due to a provision for the impairment of assets of RMB117
million (US$726.8 million) in relation to its business partner companySatcon Technology Corp and a
provision by its subsidiary Shenzhen Kaifa Magnetic Recording Co Ltd for the impairment of assets of
RMB47 million (US$292 million) a year earlier.

In 2014, Great Wall Technology will actively encourage its member enterprises to accelerate industrial
transformation and development. Its monitors section will continue to reinforce and enhance its current
position in the global market. The company aims to overcome the adverse effects of a slow global

Page122of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.economy, and strengthen its position in the EMS business. Its LED section will speed up the development
and industrialization of epitaxies/chips and application systems and expand its business scale to ensure
steady profits. The power supply section will focus strategically and selectively on powering sectors such
as servers, communication equipment and LED devices, and will speed up its transition to the high-end
market.

Market Outlook
China's ICT market outlook is expected to remain positive through 2014, with a growing market and solid
uptake of technologies such as cloud computing, smart terminals, 4G LTE and 3D printing. Cloud
computing has made a breakthrough with the rapid growth of IoT; 4G, as the successor to 3G, brings
faster speeds and better use experience, while 3D printing is a cutting edge technology that can be used
for making prototypes and in customized tasks in many manufacturing industries. China's IT companies
are in the midst of an ambitious spending spree, helping to push the industry into new businesses and
potentially changing large swathes of the country's economy.
China is the world's largest market for computer products and the Government makes great efforts to
support the development of computer, integrated circuit and display technologies. Domestic companies
are catching up with their international rivals due to accumulation of experience, increases in skills and
government support. Software-as-a-service (SaaS) is an on-demand IT trend, with Gartner estimating that
China's SaaS market will total US$336 million in 2014. E-commerce is also highly developed in China,
with 243 million e-shoppers, an annual increase of 30 million users, and a market likely to total US$800
billion in 2015. Driven by growing internet and broadband coverage, mobile apps and online gaming have
quickly become the industry's highest revenue earners.

India

Sector Overview

India endured a tough 2013 due to poor policy, delayed reforms, the free fall of the rupee against major
currencies and political gridlock, which negatively affected the country's growth and all industries. Despite
slower growth in the ICT market, 2013 was a year of rapid transition and transformation, leading the
industry into the newer verticals and geographies, attracting new clients, and transforming technology
partners to strategic business partners.

It was the year of the internet in India, with more people accessing the web via mobile phones. The
Internet and Mobile Association of India (IAMAI) estimates the number of internet users grew by 43% to
213 million in 2013, from 150 million a year earlier, and is likely to total 243 million by June 2014. Of the
total user base, mobile internet users accounted for 130 million, and are expected to total 185 million by
June 2014. The growth in internet use has led to a substantial growth of other digital industries such as
e-commerce and digital advertising. Investors are pumping large sums of money into India's e-commerce
firms, hoping that they will gain sizeable market share as a younger generation with higher disposable
income starts purchasing online over the next five years.

As part of the National Electronics Policy, the Government has taken major initiatives to promote the ICT
sector, planning to set up 15 laboratories under the public-private-partnership (PPP) model for hardware
and software testing. Under the 12th Five Year Plan (2012-17), the Department of Information Technology
proposes to strengthen and extend existing core infrastructure projects to provide more horizontal
connectivity, build redundancy connectivity, and undertake energy audits of state data centers (SDCs).

Industry Size and Value

India has established itself as a global leader in the sector, capitalizing on its talent pool, lower costs and
its innovative remote delivery model. Despite challenges in the global market, the National Association of
Software and Services Company's (Nasscom) estimated 2013 export revenue from India's IT-business
process management (BPM) industry at US$75.8 billion, with a year-on-year growth rate of 10.2%, and
that domestic market revenue rose by 14.1% to Rs1,047 billion (US$17.5 billion). It expects 2014 export
revenue of US$84-87 billion, maintaining a growth rate of 12-14%, while domestic revenues should grow
by 13-15% to Rs1,180-1,200 billion (US$19.7-20 billion). The sector continues to be one of the largest
employers in the country, directly employing nearly three million professionals, adding more than 180,000
employees in 2013.

India is the only country that offers depth and breadth of offerings across different segments of the
industry, such as IT services, BPM, engineering and R&D, internet and mobility, and software products. IT
services is a US$50 billion sector, with BPM worth US$20 billion and engineering US$10 billion, while
software products, internet and mobility are emerging opportunities. More companies are expanding their
offerings to make India a hub for analytics, mobility, cloud, social collaboration and emerging verticals
such as healthcare and medical devices.

Page123of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Leading Companies

Tata Consultancy Services Ltd (BSE: 532540)

Leading multinational IT services, business solutions and outsourcing provider Tata Consultancy Services
(TCS) reported revenue in the fiscal fourth quarter ended March 31, 2014, of US$3.5 billion, up 15.2%
from a year earlier. Sales for the year totaled US$13.4 billion, up 16.2% from the previous year, handily
beating the Nasscom's growth target of 12-14%. The encouraging results were mainly driven by demand
from mature markets, led by Europe, the US, and the UK, alongside growth in emerging markets such as
Latin America and the Asia-Pacific. There was holistic growth across all industry segments, led by retail,
manufacturing, life sciences and healthcare and banking, financial services and insurance. Strong
international demand for its services and discipline in execution should help TCS maintain its momentum
and robust growth.

Infosys Ltd (BSE: 500209)
India's second largest IT services provider Infosys performed well in 2014, passing the US$2 billion
revenue mark in Europe for the first time, driven by strong demand for consulting and system integration
(CSI) services. Fiscal fourth quarter 2014 revenue rose by 7.9% from a year earlier to US$2.1 billion, and
annual revenue totaled US$8.2 billion, up 11.5% from fiscal 2013. North America accounted for 59.8% of
revenue, down by 0.8%, as the harsh winter in the US made selling difficult. Europe contributed 25.2%, up
by 1% from a year earlier.
Infosys signed four large deals worth a total of US$700 million, with two deals each in the Americas and
Europe. Large outsourcing deals are expected to come from the US as clients spend more on IT and
outsourcing than in the past few years. Indian IT players are also making headway in Europe, which
ranked second in contribution to the export revenues of the more than US$118 billion Indian IT-BPO
market. However, activity was limited to the UK and Nordic countries, and the rest of the Continent
remains largely untapped. Infosys expects annual revenue to grow by between seven to 9% in 2014/2015,
a slower rate than in 2013/2014.

Market Outlook

Investments in ICT are becoming highly selective as the Indian economy continues to feel pressure. The
tech market is also being affected by a slowdown in government and public sector undertakings because
of national elections in April 2014. Nonetheless, the long-term outlook for India's ICT market continues
positive. Some of the key growth drivers such as smart computing, anything-as-a-service, technology
enablement in emerging verticals and the SMB market should continue to gain momentum amid optimism
that 2014 will bring further innovation and growth, with Forrester expecting Indian IT purchases to grow by
8% in 2014.

Indian organizations are likely to increase spending on business intelligence and real-time customer and
business analytics, as well as continue to focus heavily on optimizing their infrastructure capacity by
implementing virtualizations and incorporating newer data center designs. As demand for cloud-based
services such as storage, disaster recovery, and cloud-bursting continues to increase, India will see a
faster and wider adoption to create a strong cloud strategy and implementation plan. However, legacy
systems, unvirtualized infrastructure, inconsistent download speeds and latency issues will hinder the
widespread migration of enterprise applications to the cloud in India.

Japan

Sector Overview

Japan's economy has improved dramatically since Prime Minister Shinzo Abe took office on December
2012. Employee incomes have improved and consumer spending increased steadily due to a rush in
demand before a rise in consumer tax. Monetary easing by the Bank of Japan, a recovery in corporate
earnings, especially among exporters who have benefited from the rapid weakening of the yen, and the
rise in stock prices have contributed to recovery. Although boosted by large application modernization
projects in banking, manufacturing and the public sector, Forrester expects IT spending growth to slow to
around 2% in 2014, due to the consumer tax increase planned for April 2014 and the weakening effects of
the government stimulus package.

The Government has tried to revive the economy by promoting the use of public data stored in
administrative agencies. In response to global open data initiatives, the Government launched a test
version of its own public data site, data.go.jp, on December 20, 2013, hoping to catch up with the US and
European countries in developing uses for such data by the end of 2015. The Government also plans to
begin certifying companies that tap into big data, including information about consumer purchases, to

Page124of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.address privacy concerns. Conservative Japanese companies are cautious about using their gathered
data due to fears of their business reputations being jeopardized by misuse of data.

Exports and Imports

Although Japan's ICT market improved in 2013, foreign rivals overtook it, with many introducing faster
improvements with integrated products and user-friendly software and online services. ICT and electronics
sector production in second half 2013 fell by 7.14% from a year earlier to Y6.93 trillion (US$67.34 billion).

Japan's IT and electronics exports and imports increased in second half 2013, with exports rising by 8.7%
to Y5.59 trillion (US$54.28 billion) and imports increasing by 26.72% to Y6.12 trillion (US$59.48 billion),
according to Japan Electronics and Information Technologies Industries Association (JEITA). Japan's
economy is in continuing recovery, bringing increases in production, the recovery of capital investment and
rising exports thanks to the depreciation of the yen.
Japan's ICT and Electronic Production (Y/US$ millions)
Second Half 2013 Second Half 2012 % Change
type
(US$5,040)
Consumer electronic equipment
(US$21,360.92)
Industrial electronic equipment
Electronic components and devices (US$40,942.45)
(US$67,343.45)
Total

(US$5,347)
(US$21,679.55)
(US$35,826.56)
(US$62,853.07)

-5.74%
-1.47%
-14.28%
-7.14%

Source: Japan Electronics and Information Technologies Industries Association
Japan's IT Exports and Imports (Y/US$ millions)
Second Half 2013 Second Half 2012 % Change
type
Exports from Japan
(US$4,002)
-14.36%
Consumer electronic equipment
10.78%
(US$7,855.89)
Industrial electronic equipment
Electronic components and devices (US$42,419.97)
11.13%
8.70%
Total
(US$54,277.86)
Imports Into Japan
Consumer electronic equipment
(US$4,062.90)
25.72%
23.86%
(US$29,403.60)
Industrial electronic equipment
30.31%
Electronic components and devices (US$26,015.27)
Total
(US$59,481.78)
26.72%

(US$4,672.83)
(US$7,091.35)
(US$38,170.14)
(US$49,934.33)
(US$3,234.41)
(US$23,740.12)
(US$19,963.45)
(US$46,937.97)

Source: Japan Electronics and Information Technologies Industries Association

Leading Companies

NEC Corp (TSE: 6701)
Japan's largest PC maker NEC's consolidated net sales totaled Y700.4 billion (US$6.8 billion) in third
quarter fiscal 2014 ended March 31, 2014, a decrease of 3% from a year earlier. This was mainly due to
lower sales of mobile phones and electronic components, despite increased sales in the public and system
platform businesses. Its net loss totaled Y11.1 billion (US$107.9 million), an improvement of Y7.6 billion
(US$73.8 million) from a year earlier. System platform business enjoyed the largest increase in sales, by
11% to Y185.7 billion (US$1.8 billion), mainly due to increased sales of hardware. Public business sales
rose by 9.9% to Y164 billion (US$1.6 million), due to steady demand from government offices and public
services. NEC's business has begun to improve thanks to increased production, the recovery of capital
investment and increasing exports due to a depreciation of the yen, contributing to a trend of continuing
recovery.

Fujitsu Ltd (TSE: 6702)

Fujitsu, a leading provider of ICT-based business solutions for the global market, reported revenue of
Y1.201 trillion (US$11.67 billion) in third quarter fiscal 2013, an increase of 14.5% from a year earlier. Net
income totaled Y12 billion (US$116.6 million), up by Y92.8 billion (US$901.7 million) from a loss of
Y80.8 billion (US$785 million) in fiscal 2012. Net sales in Japan rose by 9.2%, with sales of system
integration services increasing, primarily in the public and financial services sectors, and PC sales also
rising, primarily to enterprise customers. Sales outside Japan rose by 24.9%, thanks to increased sales of
car audio and navigation systems in North America, and improved sales of large-scale integration (LSI)
devices.

Page125of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Fujitsu's business has improved along with Japan's economy and a moderate increase in consumer
spending. ICT investment is gradually increasing on signs of a rebound in corporate capital investment.
The company is optimistic as it begins to see the positive impact of structural reforms in its LSI business,
in businesses outside Japan, and of various workforce-related measures.

Market Outlook

There was a moderate increase in consumer spending in the period under review, thanks to monetary
easing by the Bank of Japan and rises in share prices. Exports also rose due to yen depreciation, and the
improved economy caused consumer spending to grow steadily amid rising confidence. Despite the signs
of recovery, Japanese companies continue to take a cautious stance on ICT investments.

IT spending on services has been solid, but spending on hardware remains stagnant due to deteriorating
market conditions. As restoration occurs, IT vendors are likely to play an active role in developing products
such as smart grid and home energy management systems to resolve power supply issues in eastern
Japan. Leading banks, retailers and services firms are increasingly initiating mobile strategies and
investing in analytics to improve the customer experience.

South Korea

Sector Overview

South Korea has become one of the leading economies in Asia and has established itself as a global ICT
powerhouse, creating an ICT-based society, with the highly developed sector accounting for 28% of the
nation's total exports. About 30% to 40% of South Korea's total GDP comes from the ICT industry, which
has greater volatilities than other sectors. However, there are concerns that growth in South Korea is too
dependent on big companies and is largely driven by government spending rather than private industry.

The active ICT market is backed by strong government support, with the Ministry of Science, ICT and
Future Planning reporting that the Government will pour KRW4.9 trillion (US$4.58 billion) into the
country's ICT sector in 2014 to fuel economic growth and enhance competitiveness. The funds will be
used to finance numerous projects, including KRW1.12 trillion (US$1.05 billion) to strengthen IT research
and KRW1.84 trillion (US$1.72 billion) to upgrade ICT infrastructure. Key projects include the nation's
digital infrastructure and initiatives to increase its presence in cloud computing, mobile services and
next-generation mobile wireless technology.

Exports and Imports

IT and high technology is one of the most lucrative sectors in South Korea, which is at the forefront of key
industry developments in terms of growth potential, trade and added value, and is one of the world's
leading IT producers and exporters. Production in the sector in 2013 is estimated to have increased by
5.1% from a year earlier to KRW391.5 trillion (US$366.3 billion), and 2014 production could grow by 3.8%
to KRW406.4 trillion (US$380.3 billion), according to the Korea Information Society Development Institute
(KISDI).

Although demand for information devices and digital TVs declined, exports were driven by the increased
global market shares of communications devices, especially smartphones, greater demand for memory
semiconductors and by price increases.
Shipments of semiconductors surged by 13.3% to US$57.15 billion, making them the largest export item,
accounting for 10.2% of total exports in 2013. Exports of mobile devices jumped 23% to US$24.87 billion,
while those of software rose by 54.3% to US$3.45 billion on growing demand for mobile and cloud-based
services. Shipments of ICT products to China, including Hong Kong, rose by 8.2% from a year earlier to
US$85.55 billion.

Leading Companies

Samsung Electronics Ltd (KSE: 005930)

Global leader in semiconductor, telecommunication, digital media and digital convergence technologies
Samsung's first quarter 2014 revenue grew by 1.5% from a year earlier to KRW53.68 trillion (US$50.22
billion). However, profits slipped by 3.3% to KRW8.49 trillion (US$7.9 billion), due the global slowing of
smartphone growth. Although market demand for electronic devices in the first quarter is traditionally slow,
profit margins for its IT and mobile communication (IM) division were driven by steady smartphone
shipments, efficient management of marketing expenses and a positive impact from adjustments of one-off
expenses.

Page126of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Despite the weak seasonality, the semiconductor business continued its solid profitability momentum
boosted by the expansion of the 20-nanometer-class process migration and a greater appetite for dynamic
random-access memory (DRAMs) used in servers and for graphics solutions. The NAND business
maintained profitability by actively responding to market demand for high-density cards and rising sales in
high value-added 3-bit NAND.

Samsung continued to enjoy solid sales of its Galaxy S4 and Galaxy Note 3 tablet, while strengthening its
premium product portfolio through the introduction of a new flagship smartphone the Galaxy S5. The
company is pinning hopes on the latest phone to help boost earnings, as it has been ordered by a US
court to pay US$119 million to Apple for patent infringement. Samsung is expected to see profits rally in
the second quarter and beyond, thanks to improved sales of display panels and home appliances.
Demand for display panels for premium smartphones and TVs are likely to increase, as new mobile
devices are rolled out to enable consumers to view the upcoming World Cup in Brazil. House appliances
sales should also pick up on seasonal demand for air conditioners.

LG Electronics (KSE: 066570)

Global leader and technology innovator in consumer electronics, mobile telecommunications and home
appliances company LG reported solid positive financial results in first quarter 2014. Revenue totaled
KRW14.27 trillion (US$13.35 billion), up by 1.2% from a year earlier, while net profit soared by 319% to
KRW92.6 billion (US$86.64 million), mainly due to strong sales of large-screen TVs and better cost
structure resulting from declining material prices. LG's home entertainment business posted the highest
revenues, KRW4.95 trillion (US$4.63 billion), a 3% increase from a year earlier.
The mobile communications unit shipped 12.3 million smartphones, an increase of 19% from a year
earlier. The shipment of five million LTE smartphones was the most in a single quarter, up by 79% from
the previous year, accounting for 41% of all smartphone shipments in the quarter. Revenues rose by 6%
to KRW3.41 trillion (US$3.19 billion) due to the launch of the G Pro 2 smartphone in the domestic market
and more efficient marketing spending. The home appliance business posted strong sales in the Korean
market, but revenue of KRW2.72 trillion (US$2.54 billion) was lower due to greater competition in North
America and unfavorable foreign currency exchange in developing markets.

Higher revenues are expected in the second quarter with the release of the flagship LG G3 smartphone
and wider rollout of the cheaper L Series III. LG will continue to diversify its premium ultra HD TV and
OLED TV lineup with more sizes and price levels to offset greater competition. The company also expects
revenues for home appliances to increase with the launch of market-leading washing machine and
refrigerator products.

Market Outlook

The competitive edge of domestic premium smartphones is expected to be maintained, and exports will
likely to continue growing as smartphone makers strengthen their marketing efforts with a variety of
product portfolios including strategy phones and wearable devices to maintain their competitiveness.
Nonetheless, as the global smartphone market approaches maturity, demand in more mature markets,
particularly North America, Europe, South Korea and Japan, is expected to decline. Competition has
intensified as consumers in developing nations tend to buy cheaper devices, especially from China's
Huawei, Lenovo and Xiaomi, which are expanding in South East Asia and China, forcing down prices.
Export growth could soften due to sluggish demand for semiconductors and display panels and declining
replacement demand for digital TVs.

Sustained high growth trends in software and increased provision of next-generation services by IT service
providers, coupled with ongoing global expansion by domestic firms, are likely to strengthen South Korea's
position as a leading enterprise IT market. The package software segment could record high growth on the
back of sustained demand for cloud computing, big data analytics and security, as well as increasing
demand from the public sector. A gradual increase in IT consulting associated with next-generation
models and system integration is also likely to drive IT service market growth.

Taiwan

Sector Overview

Taiwan's ICT sector has long held a significant global position and accounts for 75% of the world's
production of PCs, about a quarter of the world's semiconductors and about a fifth of its mobile phones.
The sector's 2013 production value was estimated to have jumped by 20.5% from the previous year to
US$181 billion. This was due to ongoing rapid growth in global shipments of tablet PCs and investment in
cloud computing data centers by large multinational service providers and other corporations, which
stimulated demand for customized server products. The development of new, touch-screen notebook PC
products also helped to ensure some degree of growth in demand for laptops.

Page127of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.As the price disparity between notebook and desktop PCs shrunk, desktop PCs continued to lose their
previous price advantage and many consumers bought laptops or mobile devices rather than desktop
PCs. However, with competition from tablets rising, manufacturers slowly cut back on notebook original
design manufacture (ODM) and OEM, and shifted their focus to the cloud computing, server and mobile
device segments.

With telecommunications service providers throughout the world investing in 4G LTE technology, demand
for related communications equipment continued to grow, with competition between telecommunication
service providers and cable TV system operators to expand bandwidth, creating more demand for
broadband access equipment. The Government fast-tracked the issuance of 4G technology licenses as
part of its undertaking to assist Taiwan companies in keeping abreast of the rapidly changing ICT sector.

Exports and Imports
Taiwan's export orders in 2013 hit a record US$442.9 billion, a 0.4% increase from a year earlier,
according to the Ministry of Economic Affairs (MOEA). Thanks to higher demand for semiconductor
high-end production facilities and electronic chips orders in the information and communication, and
electronics industries also hit all-time highs of US$116.19 billion and US$106.01 billion, respectively.

Taiwan's IT industry researcher Market Intelligence and Consulting Institute (MIC) estimates shipments of
Taiwanese branded mobile phones totaled about 4.33 million in fourth quarter 2013, and grew to about
4.51 million in first quarter 2014, buoyed by further shipments by Asus and Acer. Asus began shipping its
three ZenFone series of smartphones, while Acer began supplying Thailand's largest mobile operator
Advanced Info Service (AIS). Struggling HTC, which accounts for more than half of Taiwan's annual
mobile phone shipments, is relying on its new products, including flagship HTC One (M8) and mid-tier
flagship Desire 816, to return to profitability.

Leading Companies

Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co (TSMC) (TWN: 2300)

TSMC is the world's largest dedicated semiconductor foundry, providing the industry's leading process
technology and the largest portfolio of process-proven libraries, IPs, design tools and reference flows. Net
revenues totaled NT$148.22 billion (US$4.9 billion) in first quarter 2014, an 11.6% increase from a year
earlier, mainly due to strong demand for its wafers across all segments. This was more pronounced in
mobile-related applications. About 34% of wafer revenues came from 23nm process technology, while
40/45nm wafers accounted for 21%. Advanced technologies, defined as 40/45nm and below, accounted
for 55% of total wafer revenues, up 51% from the previous quarter.

The popularity of smartphones and tablets boosted demand for smaller and more powerful chips to make
devices sleeker and more energy efficient. High-end phones equipped with LTE wireless technology will
also drive TSMC's revenue, as will phones with advanced features such as image and fingerprint sensors
that require more chips. Low supply chain inventory has prompted the country to begin actively restocking.
There was a strong rebound of demand for the leading nodes extending beyond the first quarter, thanks to
the better performance and higher yield and reliability of its advanced technologies. TSMC expected
second quarter revenue of between NT$180 billion (US$5.9 billion) and NT$183 billion (US$6 billion).

Asustek Computer Inc (TWN: 2357)
Notebook PC pioneer Asustek's consolidated revenue totaled NT$463 billion (US$15.2 billion) in 2013,
up 3.3% from a year earlier, while net income dropped by 0.13% to NT$27 billion (US$886 million). Its
tablet products contributed 18% of total revenue, up from 13% in 2012, while notebook and hybrid
business revenue fell by a percentage point to 59% in 2013. The company is in competition with Lenovo,
which achieved stronger unit sales and revenue growth and is also aiming at the 2-in-1 PC and mobile
devices segments. Asustek's US market share has increased, and it is exclusively partnering with US
telecommunications companyAT&T to release its PadFone X smartphone/tablet combo device in the US
in 2014.

Best known for its notebooks, Asustek is tapping into new PC forms, such as the newly launched hybrid
3-in-1 upgrade of its 2-in-1 Transformer (T100) tablets and ultrabooks. Asustek remains optimistic about
the desktop and laptop market, which contributes most of the company's revenue, but its priority is to
make the smartphone business profitable and increase production from one million units a year to five
million units in 2014. The company uses highly aggressive pricing to capture mobile device market share
from Apple and Samsung, and is likely to continue using competitive pricing to attract cost-conscious
consumers in mature markets.

Market Outlook

Page128of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Industrial Economics and Knowledge Center (IEK) believes Taiwan's ICT sector will keep booming
through to 2015 on the strength of globally hot-selling electronics devices, such as smartphones, tablet
PCs, ultrabooks, smart TVs, e-book readers and cloud computing applications. Global sales of these
products are likely to shoot up by 200-300% in 2015 from 2011 figures. Taiwan's ICT sector, which houses
some of the world's leading upstream and downstream manufacturers, could benefit from sales in major
product categories over the next three years.

Smartphone sales growth could be sustained by greater use of newer technologies, including near field
communication (NFC), mobile payments systems, LTE and quantum dot (QD) displays. Mid-priced
smartphones and tablets will continue to boost Taiwan's IC design industry, helping the country to gain
market leadership by providing communications IC and processors for mid-range and premium mobile
devices. Most local firms provide system integration services and act as agents for overseas software
products and services, giving them a competitive edge over overseas corporations. The ongoing trend
toward digital convergence should drive continued growth in demand for smartphone and tablet PCs.

Currency Conversion Table
Units per US$ US$ per Unit
currency unit
1.0824
Australian Dollar (A$)
Chinese Renminbi (RMB)
6.2117
Hong Kong Dollar (HK$)
7.7573
59.89
Indian Rupee (Rs)
102.92
Japanese Yen (Y)
1,068.85
South Korean Won (KRW)
New Taiwanese Dollar (NT$) 30.46

0.9239
0.1610
0.1289
0.0167
0.0097
0.0009
0.0328

Sources: Federal Reserve Bank of New York

Key References

Key References

Global

Semiconductor Equipment and Materials Institute (SEMI)

global industry association serving companies that develop and provide manufacturing technology,
materials and services to make semiconductors, flat panel displays (FPDs), micro-electromechanical
systems (MEMS) and related microelectronics.

http://www.semi.org

Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA)

The SIA represents the US semiconductor industry. It also conducts research and publishes statistics and
forecasts.

http://www.sia-online.org

World Semiconductor Trade Statistics (WSTS)

WSTS is an independent non-profit organization representing around 90% of the world's semiconductor
industry. It also collects data and publishes forecasts on semiconductor trade.

http://www.wsts.org

World Information Technology Services Alliance (WITSA)

WITSA is a consortium of information industry, software and IT associations around the world. The
alliance also carries research and forecasts on the IT industry globally.

http://www.witsa.org

Consumer Electronics Association (CEA)

US. It is an industry authority on market research and forecasts, consumer surveys, legislative and
regulatory news, engineering standards and training resources.

Page129of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.http://www.ce.org

Asia-Pacific

Asian-Oceanian Computing Industry Organization (ASOCIO)

A federation of computing industry associations from the Asian-Oceania region established with the
objective of developing the computing society and industry in the region while promoting trade between its
member organizations.

http://www.asocio.org

Australia

Australian Computer Society (ACS)

Founded in 1966, the ACS is an association for ICT professionals from all levels of the ICT industry and a
member of the Australian Council of Professions.

http://www.acs.org.au

Australian Electrical and Electronic Manufacturers' Association (AEEMA)

is an industry body that represents Australia's information and communication technology (ICT),
electronics and electrical manufacturing industries.

http://www.aeema.asn.au/

Australian Information Industry Association (AIIA)

The AIIA represents Australia's software and IT industries.

http://www.aiia.com.au

Australian Government Information Management Office (AGIMO)

AGIMO oversees the promotion and coordination of the use of new information and communications
technology to deliver government policies, information, programs and services.

http://www.finance.gov.au/agimo/index.html

Department of Broadband, Communications and the Digital Economy

The department advises the Government on trends in the global information economy and assists with the
development of policies and legislation relating to the online environment. It also administers a number of
programs to help promote take-up of ICT technology.

http://www.dbcde.gov.au/
China and Hong Kong

Ministry of Commerce

The ministry is responsible for overseeing the development strategies, guidelines and policies of domestic
and foreign trade and international economic cooperation in China.

http://english.mofcom.gov.cn/

Ministry of Information Industry
The ministry is responsible for administering mainland China's IT industry.
http://www.mii.gov.cn (Chinese language)

MOST)
activities in China.

http://www.most.gov.cn/

India

Page130of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Department of Information Technology (DIT)

The DIT oversees national policy and development matters relating to India's IT, electronics, and internet
industries.

http://www.mit.gov.in/

National Association of Software and Service Companies (NASSCOM)

NASSCOM is India's software and IT service industry body.

http://www.nasscom.org

Manufacturers' Association for Information Technology (MAIT)

MAIT is an association representing the IT hardware, training and R&D services industry in India.

http://www.mait.com/index.jsp

Japan

Information and Communications Statistics Database

A statistics database on Japan's IT industry administered by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and
Communications (MIC).

http://www.johotsusintokei.soumu.go.jp/english/

Strategic Headquarters for the Promotion of an Advanced Information and Telecommunications Network
Society (IT Strategic Headquarters)

The IT Strategic Headquarters was established within the Japanese Cabinet in January 2001 with the
purpose of promoting and facilitating measures towards the formation of an advanced information and
telecommunications network society.

http://www.kantei.go.jp/foreign/policy/it/index_e.html

Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA)

JEITA's main objective is to promote the manufacturing, international trade and consumption of electronics
products and components for the development of Japan's electronics and information technology
industries.

http://www.jeita.or.jp/english/

Japan External Trade Organization (JETRO)

JETRO is a government-related organization that aims to promote mutual trade and investment between
Japan and the rest of the world.

http://www.jetro.go.jp

Japan Information Technology Services Industry Association (JISA)

JISA is a national organization that aims to promote Japan's IT Services industry in line with the
advancement of IT infrastructure within the context of contributing to the development of the Japanese
economy. Its members include software developers, information processing and database/VAN service
suppliers.

http://www.jisa.or.jp/en/index.html

Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry

Japan's government agency for trade related matters.

http://www.meti.go.jp/english/index.html

Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications (MIC)

Page131of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.MIC is responsible for creating the fundamental national systems of Japan. These systems include the
national administrative organizations, the public service personnel system, local tax/finance, the election
system, fire/disaster prevention, information and communications, postal services, and statistical systems.

http://www.soumu.go.jp/english/

http://www.soumu.go.jp/joho_tsusin/eng/

National Information Security Center (NISC)

The NISC is a major participant in the formulation of national information security policies for the public
and private sectors, as well as development and protection strategies pertaining to national information
infrastructure.

http://www.nisc.go.jp/eng/index.html

Semiconductor Equipment Association of Japan (SEAJ)

The SEAJ is a national organization representing the interests of major semiconductor manufacturing and
flat panel display (FPD) panel manufacturing equipment manufacturers and related equipment
manufacturers.

http://www.seaj.or.jp/english/index.html

Statistics Bureau

Japan's Statistics Bureau conducts various socio-economic surveys and census for the Japanese
Government, and promotes the use of statistics in national policy and economic planning initiatives. It is
administered by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications.

http://www.stat.go.jp/english/index.htm

South Korea

Invest KOREA

Invest KOREA is the Korean national investment promotion agency established with the sole purpose of
facilitating the entry and successful establishment of foreign business into Korea.

http://www.investkorea.org

Korea Information Society Development Institute (KISDI)

KISDI was founded in 1985 as a government-funded think-tank tasked with helping to develop national
policies for the advancement of the South Korean ICT industry.

http://www.kisdi.re.kr/

Korea Semiconductor Industry Association

The association aims to develop and promote South Korea's semiconductor industry.

http://www.ksia.or.kr

Ministry of Information and Communications

The ministry oversees the promotion and development of South Korea's IT industry.

http://www.mic.go.kr

National Internet Development Agency of Korea (NIDA)

NIDA is South Korea's representative internet authority responsible for consolidating a stable framework
for internet address resource management and leading the development of next-generation internet
technologies.

http://www.nida.or.kr/english/

Ministry of Knowledge Economy (MKE)

Page132of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Government concerned with regulating economic policy, especially with regard to the industrial and
energy sectors.

http://www.mke.go.kr/language/eng/

Taiwan

Industrial Development Bureau, Ministry of Economic Affairs (IDB)

The IDB is responsible for formulating policies, strategies and measures for industrial development in
Taiwan, including developing and managing industrial parks and administering general industrial affairs.

http://www.moeaidb.gov.tw/portalen/

Institute for Information Industry (III)

The III is a non-profit organization involved in research and development in Taiwan's information industry
sector.

http://www.iii.org.tw

Invest in Taiwan

Invest in Taiwan is the country's investment information and services initiative administered by the
Department of Investment Services, formerly known as the Industrial Development and Investment Center,
under the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The department is responsible for promoting Taiwan as an
investment destination and is tasked with implementing industrial assistance programs to help Taiwanese
companies develop and operate their businesses at a local and international level.

http://investintaiwan.nat.gov.tw

Ministry of Economic Affairs

The ministry is responsible for economic matters, trade and industry policy development.

http://www.moea.gov.tw

Market Intelligence Center (MIC)

Since 1984, Market Intelligence Center (MIC) has been serving as a strategic policy think-tank for senior
decision makers in industries, governments, academic sectors, and investment communities. MIC is part
of the Institute for Information Industry.

http://www.mic.iii.org.tw

National Science Council (NSC)

The NSC oversees the promotion of science and technology development in Taiwan, including support for
academic research and the development of science and technology parks. The NSC also administers the
National Science and Technology Survey.

http://www.nsc.gov.tw
Republic of China National Statistics

The bureau is Taiwan's national statistical body.

http://eng.stat.gov.tw

Taiwan Semiconductor Industry Association (TSIA)

Founded in 1996, the TSIA seeks to promote the development of the local semiconductor industry.

http://www.tsia.org.tw

Sales Contacts

RF
IN

Report Number 1366
i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | iappsp : Cloud Computing | i8394 : Computer Services | ibcs :
Business/Consumer Services | itech : Technology

Page133of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE

c133 : Patents | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c32 : Advertising | c31 : Marketing | cgymtr : Intellectual
Property | cinprp : Industrial Property Rights (Patents/Trademarks) | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
asiaz : Asia | austr : Australia | jap : Japan | skorea : South Korea | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | easiaz : Eastern Asia

IPD IT & High Technology
PUB Mergent, Inc.
AN Document MIRAUS0020140915ea7100005

Page134of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.