Langer Heinrich Sells 25 Percent of Shares to Chinese

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Langer Heinrich Sells 25 Percent of Shares to Chinese

by Eveline De Klerk
594 words
22 January 2014
21:41
All Africa
AFNWS
English
(c) 2014 AllAfrica, All Rights Reserved

Swakopmund, Jan 22, 2014 (New Era/All Africa Global Media via COMTEX) -- Paladin Energy that owns
Langer Heinrich Uranium mine in the Erongo Region has sold a 25 percent ownership stake in the mine
to the Chinese Uranium Corporation Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of Chinese National Nuclear
Corporation (CNNC) for U$190 million (about N$2 billion).

The off take component of the agreement will allow CNNC to purchase its pro-rata share of product at
the prevailing market spot price. This also offers an opportunity for Paladin to benefit by securing
additional long-term off take arrangements with CNNC, at arm's length rates, from Paladin's shares of
Langer Heinrich's production. CNNC has also agreed to pay a U$20 million non-refundable deposit to
Paladin. The General Manager for International Affairs of Paladin Energy, Gregory Walker, made the
announcement yesterday in Swakopmund after the the transaction was concluded in Australia on
Sunday. He says the Namibian government has already been formally informed about the agreement,
which will be of great significance to the future development of the country. According to Walker, Paladin
Energy was already looking for a strategic investor to join the Uranium giant, Langer Heinrich.

"We are pleased that the negotiations were successfully concluded last Saturday, which resulted in a
transaction taking place in Beijing China," Walker explained. According to him this is a very positive and
strategic development for Langer Heinrich and Namibia as the company was looking forward to bring a
partner on board for investment that would level the current debt of the company.
"The past three years were extremely difficult for the uranium industry as uranium prices went through
dramatic difficulties due to the Fukshima incident of March 2011. We have seen mine closures and mines
going on maintenance. It has been without a doubt the toughest times for the uranium industry. However,
we want to make sure that the company remains robust until uranium prices recover with the deal we
just concluded," Walker said. He went on to say that the industry still remains unsure when uranium
prices would recover, but they now have the financial backing to hold on until such time.

"But in clearer terms this strategic partnership has two aspects, one is to make money but also to
concentrate on somebody that is a significant player in nuclear energy. We all know that China is a
dominant force in this department as they have a sizable demand for nuclear energy. There is no doubt
that China is a one of the biggest players in terms of nuclear energy, since they have plans to set up at
least five nuclear power stations this year alone. This is an indication of the connection of China and the
importance uranium would play for their energy supply," Walker went on to say.

Although the boards of Paladin and CNNC approved the transaction, the finalisation of the agreement is
still subject to the approval of the regulatory authorities in China and Namibia.
CNNC is a major force in the Chinese national nuclear technology industry and boast a full range of
nuclear-technology industries, while they also play an important role in developing nuclear power and
rohsselated power plants. The joint venture is said to be representing a formidable partnership focused on
advancing global uranium production and is also expected to increase uranium prices, as well as the
long-term growth and development of the globally important mining operation at Langer Heinrich.

CO

palrs : Paladin Energy Limited

Page94of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS

RE

i1610109 : Electric Power Generation - Nuclear | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | iuran : Uranium Ore Mining |
i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16101 : Electric Power Generation | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources |
ieutil : Electric Utilities | imet : Mining/Quarrying | iutil : Utilities
c171 : Share Capital | c17 : Funding/Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
| ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
china : China | africaz : Africa | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries
| dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
australia

IPD
PUB All Africa Global Media
AN

Document AFNWS00020140122ea1m000s1

Page95of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.