Cold chain can save food supply chain

Cold chain can save food supply chain

By Sajjadur Rahman with Martin Swapan Pandey in Dhaka/The Daily Star/16 September 2014

HD
CR
WC 1,043 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

16 September 2014
16:15
ANN Asia News Network
ANNT
English
Copyright 2014. ANN

TD

Dhaka (The Daily Star/ANN) - When Brazil, the Philippines and the Caribbean countries have been
supplying banana, a highly perishable fruit, to the other corners of the world, Bangladesh cannot do so
even within its small boundaries without using toxic preservatives.
Also, countries like the US, Canada, Brazil, China and Australia, which are much bigger than Bangladesh,
ensure safe food for their people.

These countries transport fruits, vegetables, fish, meat and other perishable foods from one part of the
country to anot-r - sometimes the distance being thousands of mil- - without using any toxic additives,
according to food experts.

So why cannot Bangladesh do the same despite being a very small country where the distance between
its northernmost and southernmost tips is a mere 600km?

The issue came to the fore in recent years after food adulteration reached alarming proportions.

Multiple independent studies show serious infrastructure and logistic problems, lack of cold storage and
transport facilities, premature harvest, profit mongering of businesses, and the absence of a licensing and
monitoring authority for commercial farming are behind unbridled food contamination in Bangladesh.

John Ryder, chief technical adviser of the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) in Dhaka, said
Bangladesh was not unique in food adulteration, though it was much less common in developed nations.

What happens if we leave these foods out of our diet?

"Developed countries have much improved infrastructure in the supply chain, mostly due to the existence
of an effective cold chain from harvesting products to sale to the end consumer," he told The Daily Star.

The most effective way of preserving and keeping food items fresh after harvest is to store those in
suitable temperatures, he said.

This will normally mean storing at much cooler temperatures, in some cases down to 0 deg C or close to 0
deg C, for example, for fish products. Some fruits and vegetables can be preserved for several months at
cool temperatures, he added.

"Freezing products straight after harvest is also a common method used around the world mostly for
highly perishable products [fish, meat and some vegetables]. This provides a very long shelf life, but it
requires an effective cold chain infrastructure," said John.

Preservation also includes drying of the food items after harvest, which is very effective in maintaining
long shelf life. Another method is canning, a system that has been in place for over 200 years.

The US, Canada, Japan and the European countries have built hundreds of cold chain unit-- from storage
to trucks and trains. These trucks and trains transport perishable food and temperature-sensitive
chemicals to protect them from bacterial infections.

Nazma Shaheen, professor of nutrition and food science at Dhaka University, said developed nations use
green and advanced technologies to keep their food safe.

Page259of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."Monitoring system is very strong in Japan and the US, where research organisations and universities are
tagged in carrying out quality checks of food items," Nazma said.

She said Bangladesh started using formalin 10-12 years ago when fish began to be imported from
Myanmar. Initially, the use of formalin on fish was very limited, but it became rampant when businessmen
saw it could stop fish from rotting for days.

Later, Bangladesh learnt using other preservatives in fruits and vegetables from India, she added.
"Carrying goods in cold containers or temperature-controlled containers could save us."
According to Shankar Roy, head of operations of Solargaon, a firm that is now setting up a solar
mini-grid, the country can easily install cold storage facilities. As for the power shortage, he said
renewable energy can solve this particular problem.

Quoting a study report, he said a 1,000-cubic metre cold storage, which can store about 250 tonnes of
fruits and vegetables, can be built for 25 million taka (US$318,000). A similar size storage facility for fish
would cost about 35 million taka ($445,000). A 50,000-litre storage for milk can be set up for 1.5 taka to
20 million taka ($254,000).
China can be a role model in this regard. In 2010, its government took measures to ensure safe food in its
261 counties of 27 provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities. Under the system, the government
has built hundreds of cold storage facilities at rural marketplaces where farmers can keep their produce.
Done under the framework of a regional management system, China has brought into full play the local
government, industry groups, enterprises, farmers, consumers and the media. It has also eliminated
hidden risks in the food supply chain by monitoring all the way from production to sale.

Besides establishing cold chains, the government's policies and monitoring are very essential for ensuring
safe food.

The US has federal and state standards for food safety. The country has accredited a third party to
conduct food safety audits and to issue certificates to importers.

Japan and Australia also have very strict food safety rules like the US. These countries have a list of
pesticides, food additives, colour additives, flavours and deleterious substances, which are banned for
use in food. Their monitoring is so strong that no one dares to use any kind of harmful substances.

"Many universities and research firms are directly linked to the production level where they can examine
the quality of the produce in those countries," said Prof Nazma.

In Australia, the government maintains food safety through monitoring at three levels- federal government,
state government and local government bodies. Commercial farming, cooking and sales of food items
require licences and the licences would be cancelled in case of any breach of rules or use of unauthorised
additives, pesticides, colours and flavours.

"There are many laboratories across Australia to test food at farms and restaurants. Local government
bodies are so strong that they can raid any farm or restaurant at any time for test," said Imtiaz Kais Risha,
a Bangladeshi environment scientist in Australia.

According to him, Bangladesh needs to set up laboratories to frequently test the quality of foods at the
farm level. He suggested the government strengthen local government, such as union and upazila
parishads, to do the job.

US$1 = 76 taka

RE

bandh : Bangladesh | austr : Australia | dhaka : Dhaka | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz :
Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | indsubz : Indian Subcontinent | namz
: North America | sasiaz : Southern Asia

IPD ANN
PUB dpa Deutsche Presse-Agentur GmbH
AN

Document ANNT000020140916ea9g00037

Page260of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.