Heard on the Street / Financial Analysis and Commentary

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Heard on the Street / Financial Analysis and Commentary

1,841 words
18 August 2014
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
28
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

BHP Splits the Difference

No one wants to end up on the wrong side of a split personality -- something BHP Billiton investors
should ponder.

The Anglo-Australian miner is leaning toward spinning off a collection of assets to focus on its four core
commodities. The ones to be shed are expected to include its nickel, manganese and aluminum assets
and potentially thermal coal.

BHP, which reports full-year earnings on Tuesday, hasn't said how it would structure any such deal, an
issue complicated by the company's dual listing and the need to treat different sets of shareholders
equitably.

One suggested option would be to spin off the assets to Australian shareholders, while offering
compensation to holders of the London-listed stock. BHP did this in the 2002 spinoff of BHP Steel, now
BlueScope Steel.

An idea floated in the Australian media is that the quid pro quo for shareholders of the London-listed
shares would be a buyback of that stock. That wouldn't wash; buybacks of one line of BHP's stock
benefit all its shareholders, because the boost to earnings per share is spread across the entire equity
base.

In the case of BHP Steel, London investors instead received a bonus issue of PLC shares, equivalent to
the value of the spun company being distributed to holders of BHP Billiton Ltd., the Australian company.
However any split is handled, it would create two very different mining companies.
The spun-off company would be a ragbag of generally unloved assets in commodities that have, until
recently, been out of favor. BHP's aluminum, manganese and nickel assets generated $4.2 billion in
revenue in its fiscal first half ended in December, but only $148 million of operating profit. Thermal coal
prices, already depressed, have fallen further this year.

So the newly created miner would appear an old-school bet on commodities prices. Aluminum prices
have ticked up recently on hopes of more demand, particularly from the automotive sector -- though the
perennial problem of excess capacity still lurks out there. Meanwhile, nickel, despite recent falls, is up
more than 30% this year on hopes that an Indonesian ban on exporting unprocessed metal ores would
squeeze supply. There is more than a whiff of opportunism around the timing of this split if it goes
ahead.

The remaining BHP, on the other hand, would be a more streamlined miner finally putting to rest its
supercycle thinking of very broad diversification. It would be focused on iron ore, copper, metallurgical
coal and oil. The spin would underscore its commitment to the new mining orthodoxy of efficiency,
investment discipline and returning funds to shareholders.

In that sense, a split would be the most striking manifestation yet of the schism between the old face of
mining and the new.

Page175of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.-- Helen Thomas

Coke Tames the

Monster Price
Coca-Cola is getting another jolt of caffeine. Its purchase of a 16.7% stake in energy-drink maker
Monster Beverage for $2.15 billion in cash and some swapped assets is the latest bet on a category
growing much faster than soft drinks overall. That should give Coke a boost, but also serves to
emphasize the challenges in its core business.
Monster's stock jumped 30%, likely on hopes Coke will eventually buy the whole firm. Even absent that,
Monster could nearly double its sales with full access to Coke's distribution network, according to
Sanford C. Bernstein. Coke, meanwhile, buys another option on the world's changing drinking habits.

And Coke needs options. Analysts see sales falling slightly in 2014, the second consecutive year of
declines. This partly reflects a shift in some markets toward ditching soda in favor of drinks seen as
healthier.

Bets on faster-growing categories are one way to revive growth. Coke said in February it would pay
$1.25 billion for a 10% stake in Green Mountain Coffee Roasters and partner with it to develop a
single-serve system for cold drinks. Coke also has made significant investments in juice and tea. Sports
and flavored dairy drinks might be areas of interest for future deals.

While mature companies seeking the elixir of growth often overpay for young upstarts, Coke's deal looks
reasonable. Assuming the asset swap is a wash, the deal values Monster at $12 billion, net of cash on
its balance sheet. That is 14.7 times 2015 earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.

That is only slightly above Coke's multiple, and that is before any synergies are factored in. As down
payments on the future go, this one looks easy enough to swallow.

-- Miriam Gottfried

Kazakhmys's Tightrope Routine
Kazakhmys is getting a fresh start as KAZ Minerals. That doesn't make it a copper-bottomed bet.
Investors voted Friday to approve a drastic restructuring of the London-listed copper miner, shedding its
highest-cost production into a private vehicle owned by 36% shareholder Vladimir Kim. Given the
challenges involved in such a plan, getting this far is no mean feat; Kazakhmys also negotiated a
lower-than-expected cash payment of $150 million to the new entity as part of the deal.

Kazakhmys shares are up 45% this year in part because the restructuring addresses a central issue:
that its better mines were destined to keep subsidizing money-losing assets that, politically, it couldn't
close. Getting rid of its cash sinkhole, low-grade, labor-intensive operations in Kazakhstan's
Zhezkazgan and central region, makes KAZ look investible again. But, even by the standards of
emerging-market resources companies, it remains a risky bet.
After shedding about 70% of its production, KAZ will be a wager on the company's ability to deliver its
large-growth projects on time and on budget -- an area in which the mining industry has hardly covered
itself in glory.
KAZ's 80,000 metric tons of annual copper output will be low-cost and needs relatively little investment.
But that is dwarfed by Bozshakol and Aktogay, which together could produce more than 200,000 metric
tons of copper a year at their peak.

Bozshakol is slated to start production toward the end of next year, which gives KAZ a high-growth
outlook; J.P. Morgan Chase puts its annual copper growth rate at 28% from 2013 to 2018, versus 23%
for First Quantum, or just 3% for Antofagasta.

But KAZ recently lowered its peak production guidance for the projects and increased its outlook for unit
costs. The company already has upped the budget for Bozshakol to $2.3 billion, adding a second
contractor to try to keep the mine on schedule. Spending at Aktogay is also under review.

The developments will also add to KAZ's borrowing. Net debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization could approach 10 times at its peak before falling quickly, reckons J.P.
Morgan. That is alarmingly high for a miner, but in this case may not be an issue. Most of KAZ's debt is
from the China Development Bank, with covenants tied to asset values rather than Ebitda; it has the
ability to repay other facilities if needed.

Page176of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.But KAZ will be extremely sensitive to copper prices, making for a volatile ride. Every 10% change in
the copper price means a 55% change to 2016 earnings per share, notes Barclays, and an 84% change
to the net present value of KAZ's cash flows.

Even for ardent fans of the orange metal, buying KAZ will require nerves of steel.

-- Helen Thomas

Gas Bulls

Sweat Out

A Cooler

Summer

Can you hear that? It's the deafening silence of New Yorkers not switching on their air conditioning units.

Easier to hear are muffled sobs from natural-gas traders. Having started 2014 with cheers as the polar
vortex revived the price of their favorite commodity, they now see the same weather dynamic flooding
the eastern U.S. with cooler air when the region should be stifling. That cuts demand for air conditioning,
electricity and gas. Front-month futures, which poked above $6 per million British thermal units in
February, are now below $3.80.

Even worse, unless winter is ferocious for the second year running, 2015 is shaping up to be another
washout.

Natural-gas stocks were depleted by last winter, leading many to conclude that the need to rebuild them
heralded a turn in the market's fortunes. By late March, inventories were 55% below their five-year
average. But stocks have been catching up. In the week ending Aug. 8, they rose by 78 billion cubic
feet. This caused a flurry of optimism as it was below estimates, but it was still way above what is normal
at this time of year.

Besides cool conditions curbing demand, higher supply explains about half the unusually high injections
into storage, says Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Co. The Energy Department expects inventories to finish
October -- when injections usually end -- at just under 3.5 trillion cubic feet, about 10% below the
average.

The risk for gas bulls is that injections into storage carry on for longer than usual this year, according to
Teri Viswanath, an analyst at BNP Paribas. That is because of new pipeline capacity due to start up in
the northeastern U.S., enabling more gas from the Marcellus and Utica shale basins to enter the broader
market.

The current bottleneck can be seen in discounts regional producers offer; gas trades on the Leidy hub at
under $2. They will take anything higher than that when pipes start up.
Output this winter could be 3.5 billion cubic feet a day higher than a year before, Ms. Viswanath
estimates. That is equivalent to government estimates for growth in total U.S. gas demand for the entire
period of 2013 through 2015.

Winter may be a few months away, but gas bulls should be feeling chills already.

-- Liam Denning

Overheard

Investors have put much faith in Applied Materials' pending merger with Tokyo Electron. And faith can
be easily shaken.

Worries over the deal sent Applied's shares down nearly 8% in the three weeks leading up to its
quarterly report last Thursday.

It regained about half that ground Friday on the back of good results.

Another positive: Executives said Applied is "engaged in dialogues with regulators around the world
consistent with our goal of closing the merger before the end of the calendar year."
This despite the fact the firm had to refile a notification with Chinese regulators reportedly leaning
against the deal.

Page177of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Not so fast, said Pacific Crest. It noted that Applied's language had changed slightly from prior
expectations for the deal to close this year. "We may just be paranoid," the brokerage noted, but this
holds out the prospect of a delay to 2015.

Even so, Pacific is taking a glass-half-full view, arguing the stock's current level is warranted even if the
deal fails.

Now that's a show of faith.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

CO
IN

NS

RE

IPC
PUB
AN

bhpstl : Bluescope Steel Ltd | bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | i34531 : Semiconductors | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks
| ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i22 : Primary Metals | i3302 :
Computers/Consumer Electronics | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | icnp : Consumer Goods | ielec
: Consumer Electronics | iindele : Industrial Electronics | iindstrls : Industrial Goods | inonal :
Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | itech : Technology | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i221 :
Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i223 : Steel Cold Rolling/Forming | isteel : Steel Production
cspin : Spin-offs | c1521 : Analyst Comments/Recommendations | c181 :
Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ceffic : Corporate Process Redesign
| m11 : Equity Markets | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | neqac : Equities
Asset Class News | nhrd : Heard on the Street | nnam : News Agency Materials | nsum : News Digests |
ntesi : Essential Stock Market Information | ntop : Top Wire News | c02 : Corporate Changes | c11 :
Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | cncc : New Companies Creation | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News
Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter | redit : Selection of Top
Stories/Trends/Analysis
austr : Australia | eurz : Europe | kazk : Kazakhstan | russ : Russia | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United
States | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | casiaz :
Central Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | eecz : European
Union Countries | eeurz : Central/Eastern Europe | namz : North America | ussrz : CIS Countries | weurz
: Western Europe
ABO
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document WSJE000020140818ea8i00001

Page178of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.