The budget is built on a big lie - there is no crisis

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Opinion - Opinion
The budget is built on a big lie - there is no crisis

KENNETH DAVIDSON - Kenneth Davidson is a senior columnist for The Age.
902 words
26 May 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
19
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Debt is not a burden where it finances fruitful investment.

The 2014 federal budget is built on the big lie that the Australian economy is facing a debt crisis. The
proposition that the "debt and deficit" had to be reduced was the excuse for the even bigger lie before
the election that there would be no surprises, no cuts to health, education or public broadcasting and no
tax increases.

Post-election, it was explained that these promises had to give way to the national interest - defined as
reducing government debt. To demands by critics of the budget that the government at least admit that
it had been lying in the run-up to the election, the response was along the lines of, "You haven't been
listening; we always said that dealing with the deficit was always our first priority and that in government
we found that Labor had covered up the full extent of the debt problem."

The truth is, the Commonwealth doesn't have a debt problem. Estimated net debt in 2013-14 is $197.8
billion, or 12 per cent of gross domestic product - one of the lowest of the mature industrial countries.

If Australia were a corporation, the directors (cabinet ministers) would be likely to be accused of running
a "lazy balance sheet" and booted out by shareholders (voters).

There is no reason a government shouldn't increase its debt if it has unemployed labour resources,
growing unemployment, an absence of inflation and inflationary expectations, record low interest rates
and - given wise governance - opportunities for investment where the social and economic return on the
investment is higher than the cost of capital.

Debt is not a burden where it finances fruitful investment. Christians of the Catholic variety are well
represented in the Abbott ministry. Even if they haven't a feel for economics, they should be able to
apply Christ's parable of the talents, where three servants were given money to invest by their master.
The servant who buried his money for safekeeping had it taken away and he was cast into the outer
darkness.

The people cast into the outer darkness by this and future budgets planned by the Abbott government
are those dependent on welfare. The impact of the budget on the victims is not only wicked but wasteful
in that this budget is a brake on, rather than a boost to, the most vulnerable achieving their full
economic potential.

This is not surprising. Over the six years of the Rudd/Gillard government the Coalition banged on about
the increase in the burden of debt ($241 billion), in contrast to the 11 years of debt reduction ($140
billion) under the Howard government. Never mentioned in these diatribes was where the economy
was in the business cycle, that the prime purpose of budgetary policy is to balance the economy (as
distinct from the budget) in order to iron out potential destabilising booms and busts.
Prudent budgetary policy during the Howard years was to cut net spending. Also, some $80 billion of
the debt reduction was a result of a massive privatisation program. These sales were offset by the fall in

Page4of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Commonwealth net worth. The reduction in public debt was offset by increased private debt to finance
the privatisation purchases. The macro-economic impact was zero.

The Rudd/Gillard period coincided with the downswing in the business cycle precipitated by the global
financial crisis - the worst recession since the 1930s Great Depression. It was necessary to pump up
domestic demand to offset the collapse in private demand.
Without the net $40 billion a year pumped into the income-expenditure stream by the willingness of the
Rudd/Gillard government to finance the spending by increasing debt, Australia would have experienced
slower growth, higher unemployment and possibly recession, despite the boost to the economy from the
mining boom generated by the Chinese export boom.

In terms of the impact on growth, inflation and employment, it is not the size of the budget surplus/deficit
but the change in the budget surplus/deficit compared with the previous year that measures the
inflationary/deflationary impact on the rest of the economy.

According to these criteria, the budget deficit in 2014-15 is one of the most deflationary on record. It will
withdraw $20 billion from the income expenditure stream, compared with an injection of $31 billion into
the income expenditure stream in 2013-14.
This is a massive deflationary turnaround of $51 billion in the impact of the budget on the economy
(equal to a reduction of 3.2 per cent of GDP) - even after allowing for the fact that $9 billion of the debt
reduction is due to the increase in Reserve Bankequity, which gives verisimilitude to the debt reduction
number but subtracts nothing from spending.

The main macro-economic impact of any successful reversal by the Senate of proposed budget tax
increases and expenditure cuts will be to lessen the likelihood that the economy will be driven into
recession by the full implementation of the budget.

We missed the GFC bullet. Will we get hit by a home-made bullet fashioned by our own neo-cons to
give credibility to their debt lies?

Email: kdavidson@dissent.com.au

NS

RE
PUB
AN

e1116 : Employment/Unemployment | nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | e11 : Economic
Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex :
FC&E Executive News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140525ea5q0002g

Page5of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.