DEXUS-GPT holiday tango for CPA

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
DEXUS-GPT holiday tango for CPA

Inside the deal Joyce Moullakis
929 words
11 January 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
39
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

It was a phone call by GPT Group chief executive Michael Cameron to his counterpart at DEXUS
Property Group on December 23 that spurred advisers into action, even as most investment bankers
had their minds on last-minute Christmas presents.

The phone call to Darren Steinberg, the head of DEXUS, was received as he was starting his break in
Western Australia, and had ramifications for the holiday plans of many advisers as well as DEXUS's
top brass.

Steinberg, in co-operation with Canada's Pension Plan Investment Board, had already endured a
protracted bidding tussle for the Commonwealth Property Office Fund (CPA). The pre-Christmas
conversation floated the idea of a compromise solution to hopefully put to an end to the stoush over the
$4 billion office tower landlord

Most of the communications happened remotely, including an army of bankers and spanning several
continents, as many had already departed for their year-end holidays. Conference calls happened
almost daily – bar a short hiatus on Christmas day.
Former Lend Lease executive Justin Louis, now a portfolio manager at CPPIB in Hong Kong, was
heavily involved, as was head of strategy at DEXUS, Ross Du Vernet.

The joint venture group was mulling an agreement for GPT funds to acquire two additional interests in
well known office towers on Collins Street in Melbourne and Shelley Street in Sydney.

While it came at an odd time Cameron's new proposal could solve the impasse and halt the bidding
contest as analysts were beginning to question the prices being lobbed by the rival suitors. After
Christmas Steinberg made a call to cut his holiday break short to shepherd the negotiations.

The structure of the agreement needed fine tuning, and the parties went back and forward.

Steinberg, the former head of real estate for Commonwealth Bank's wealth management arm, Colonial
First State Global Asset Management, was well placed to lead the charge.

He was flanked by a swarm of bankers as they worked towards getting a transaction across the line.
JPMorgan's boss of mergers Jon Gidney and banker Tim Ryan were on deck, as was Citigroup's
mergers chief Simon Ranson.

Deutsche Bank's involvement was two-pronged as it was behind a forward contract DEXUS used to
take a 15 per cent stake in its smaller rival, while Hugh Macdonald advised on the ensuing offers.
Macquarie Capital's banker Brett Robson acted for CPPIB.

The DEXUS camp had already dubbed the transaction Project Pho – as one of the clan is thought to
have a hankering for Vietnamese dishes.

Page101of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.On the GPT side of the table was seasoned banker and principal of boutique firm, Fort Street
Advisers, Richard Hunt. Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch's Adrian Sheldon was involved in the day-to-day
and country head Kevin Skelton – who knows Cameron well from his stint at Commonwealth Bank of
Australia, also weighed in at times.

The dialogue flowed more freely after the Christmas day festivities, and a first draft of the
memorandum of understanding was presented to key players before the champagne flowed to ring in
2014.

There looked to be common ground and a mutually beneficial arrangement, with the obvious opt outs,
and it built on a previous arrangement for GPT funds to acquire interests in two CPA assets.
The lawyers put their heads down on the minutiae of the sale contracts.

It was the first weekend in January and the DEXUS-CPPIB legal team were immersed in documents.
The group at King & Wood Mallesons, led by avid cricket fan David Friedlander, pulled out the stops.

Needless to say Australia's demolition of the England cricket side on January 5 – to comfortably secure
the sacred urn – helped accelerate proceedings.

Trading on the local bourse on January 6 was seasonally light and a few last minute hitches and
awaiting the greenlight from those travelling in Asia and other jurisdictions, saw the announcement hit
the screens hours after the sharemarket's close.

Under the memorandum, DEXUS will not be getting as many assets as the previous offer, enabling it
to raise the cash component of its original offer. The aggregate ascribed value of the stakes in four
towers came to $679 million, and the addition of CPPIB's stake in Northland Shopping Centre took
the total to $1.2 billion. Already likely to reap higher success fees, advisers at UBS were closely
watching. Real estate head Tim Church has spearheaded advice to the target's independent directors.
CPA fund manager Charles Moore also rolled his sleeves up.

While this week's events appear to provide a good outcome for those involved the transaction is not set
in stone. There is nothing that precludes GPT from coming in over the top.

Call and put options and the sales contracts for the transfers of holdings to GPT are conditional, and
cannot be exercised unless the bidding party acquires a 90 per cent relevant interest.

DEXUS and CPPIB released a second supplementary bidder's statement on Friday noting the
maximum $150 million of extra cash would be required to be tipped in. It put the offer price, as at
January 9, at $1.242 per CPA unit, or $1.243 under a second option that comprises a larger proportion
of cash.

But bankers always prepare for a last minute flipper, and the next key date is January 14. If GPT
doesn't match the rival offer for CPA by this date, which many believe is unlikely, it is game over.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

cmpoff : Commonwealth Property Office Fund | dbrrrt : Dexus Property Group | gnprop : GPT Group
i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150206 : Investment Trusts/Funds | i815020602 : Real
Estate Investment Trusts | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv :
Investing/Securities | ireest : Real Estate
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140110ea1b0000i

Page102of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.