Plans for ' Chinese Disneyland' on the central coast

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Plans for 'Chinese Disneyland' on the central coast

Leesha McKenny
675 words
15 November 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
6
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Theme park - $500m proposal - Urban affairs

They say you can see the Great Wall from space, but it is Bruce Zhong's dream for Australia to see
the Forbidden City from the M1 motorway.

The final months of the Year of the Horse will be crucial in advancing his plans to build a $500
million Chinese theme park - working title "Chappypie China Time" - on 15 hectares of industrial
land on the central coast.

Mr Zhong, a former Sydney journalist and self-described "culturati", expects to submit a
development application this month for the first stage of a complex that promises to integrate
"culture and happiness, nature and spirit".
It will begin with a thanksgiving temple but plans for the park comprise 12 stages, ultimately
delivering a replica of the Ming Dynasty's famous Beijing palace, "panda paradise", treasure ship
and a series of canals, lakes and gardens.
Mr Zhong, who has never built a theme park, said he "eventually" settled on the Warnervale site,
about 100 kilometres north of Sydney, as the ideal location for what has been likened to "Chinese
Disneyland" after the idea failed to capture the imaginations of other councils, including Penrith and
Gosford.
The first stage of the park will open in 2016 "at the earliest", he said, ahead of all 12 stages by
2020. "This is a world's first ever project," Mr Zhong said through an interpreter. "So I have no
experience, neither others do."

Wyong mayor Doug Eaton has emerged as one of the most enthusiastic backers for what the
council's website calls "one of the biggest tourism projects NSW [has] ever seen".
"I believe it is likely that other theme parks will follow the Chinese one to Warnervale," Cr Eaton
said.
The project's planning proposal, part of the rezoning process to accommodate some of the park's
planned facilities, is expected to come back to the council with a recommendation for approval next
month, Cr Eaton said.

"Initially they wanted council - and this is obviously where everyone would have laughed at them -
they wanted council to donate the land," he said. "And we obviously said, 'No, councils in Australia
don't do things like that."'
But the $10 million "sale" of the council-owned site to Australia China Theme Park Pty Ltd, of
which Mr Zhong is chief executive, has fuelled local concerns about the deal.

Page145of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."The proponent for the theme park have been given a very generous concession by the council,"
Central Coast Community Environment Network chairman John Asquith said.
Council documents show Mr Zhong's company, which opened offices in Kent Street last month but
is still registered to a Parramatta townhouse, secured the land with an initial deposit of $10,000. Two
subsequent instalments have brought the amount paid to $70,000. A $30,000 payment is due next
month.
Mr Zhong said the project would be financed by the company's Chinese-Australian directors and
those keen to invest for immigration purposes. It had already secured the $30 million for the
development's first stage, he said.
Cr Eaton rejects that the company has received a "sweetheart" deal, saying the project carried the
potential of thousands of jobs and had already boosted other Chinese investment in Wyong.

But independent councillor Bob Graham counts among those yet to be convinced that the theme
park will go ahead as proposed.
"Who would spend a half of a billion dollars on putting a Chinese theme park where here, over the
years, we've had to close down Old Sydney Town?" he asked. "I believe there's an ulterior motive.
What it is, I don't have a clue."
But the theme park's project manager, John O'Grady, from the multinational service consultancy
Cardno, said his clients were committed to the "mind-blowing" proposal.

"They're very serious about this," he said. "There seems to be no reason why they won't move
forward and finish the whole project."

IN

RE

PUB
AN

i974122 : Amusement Parks/Arcades | i97412 : Theaters/Entertainment Venues | ilea :
Leisure/Arts/Hospitality
china : China | austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific
| asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz
: Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020141114eabf00016

Page146of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.