INSIDE STORY visits Terrey Hills - TITLE DEEDS Chinese buyer nets Killara mansion

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Domain
INSIDE STORY visits Terrey Hills - TITLE DEEDS Chinese buyer nets Killara mansion

LUCY MACKEN
1,273 words
15 March 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
6
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

TITLE DEEDS
The Terrey Hills estate, Tycehurst, is for sale, now that modelling agency founder Darrianne Donnelly
and her accountant husband, Phillip, are moving to their recently bought penthouse closer to town.

Darrianne, founder of plus-size agency BGM Modelling, and Phillip, a partner at Crowe Horwath,
commissioned their colonial-inspired mansion after they bought the 1.6 hectare lot in 1988 for
$500,000.

Built in 1991, it features a circular drive to a grand Italian marble entry, separate guest quarters, an
11-metre pool and a northerly aspect and views from the formal and informal living areas. Darren
Curtis, of Christie's International, and Chana Scotcher, of her eponymous agency, have listed the
property for $5.5 million.

The Donnellys leave behind some interesting neighbours, including former electronic retail king and
Australian of the Year, Dick Smith, and his wife, Pip, who bought 1.3 hectares around the corner in
1979 for $105,000. Others are IT industry stalwart Laurie Sellers and his wife, Christine, who have their
Angophora Lodge on offer for $8.5 million, and Westpac boss Gail Kelly, who bought her property for
$8.95 million in 2009.
On the market for almost a year, the sale is the second highest in the suburb.
The Federation mansion of businessman Jeff Barton has sold for more than $9 million, with a caveat
attached to the sale revealing the buyer to be businessman Jianlu Wang, from mainland China.
The Springdale Road sale is the suburb's second-highest, eclipsed only by the $11.5 million paid a few
doors away by technology investor Daniel Petre, AO, when he sold it in 2012 to Anita Cunliffe and her
husband, UBS head of investment banking Guy Fowler.

The five-bedroom mansion has been substantially extended beyond its original Federation footprint,
with 80 per cent of it new. The 3050-square-metre property was originally offered with hopes of $10
million-plus last year through a tight-lipped Matthew Johnson, of LJ Hooker St Ives.

Media mogul selling

Indonesian media mogul Eddy Sariaatmadja and his wife, Sofie, have given up plans to build their
grand Sydney base in Bellevue Hill, putting the 1619-square-metre property up for sale.
Sariaatmadja, who owns Indonesia's second-largest media group, Emtek, bought the Ginahgulla Road
property in 2009 for $14.5 million, but had trouble getting the rooftop terrace approved by Woollahra
council given neighbours' objections.
The now-gutted house on site comes with construction and DA-approved plans. Ray White Double
Bay's Elliott Placks puts the guide at more than $15 million. It is co-listed with Brad Pillinger.

Page81of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Bay mansion relisted

In Elizabeth Bay, the Victorian mansion of high-profile barrister Les Stein and his wife, Miriam, goes to
auction on April 1.

The lawyer from Western Australia, who was the boss of that state's Town Planning Appeal Tribunal, is
better known as former counsel for the collapsed fuel-pill company Firepower.

Having bought the grand Roslyn Gardens residence in 2006 for $3 million, the couple then
commissioned a striking contemporary redesign by architect Virginia Kerridge, which was completed by
Bellevarde Construction in 2009.

Now based in the US, the couple listed it in the softer market of 2011 for $6.2 million, and it has similar
hopes now with Brad Pillinger.

Ex-Swan to offload semi

Former Sydney Swans player Adam Schneider, who now lives in Melbourne playing for St Kilda, has
put the Maroubra property he owns with his brother, banker Leigh Schneider, up for more than $1.1
million.

The brothers bought the 272-square-metre semi in 2006 for $835,000, a year before Schneider moved
to Melbourne. Six contracts were issued in the first week of the campaign by George Faris, of the
newly formed Ray White Kensington, ahead of the April 5 auction.

Roll up for rug family block
A block of six apartments in Rose Bay owned by rug dealers the Cadry family is for sale for more than
$5 million.
The single-title block of north-facing two-bedders is listed under the family's Carpet Credits company
name, of whom the directors include the managing director of the Cadrys Group, Bob Cadry, and
siblings Denise, Eddie and Helene.
The Cadrys bought the New South Head Road block 30 years ago for $630,000. It is now being sold
through Sotheby's International's James McCowan.
The block's sale coincides with the sale of Helene Cadry's Rose Bay home on Beresford Road for $3.8
million, through LJ Hooker Double Bay's Sunny Sun.

Hark, Herald is leaving

Orthopaedic surgeon Dr Jonathan Herald is giving up on his plans to build a Corben
Architects-designed forever home on the waterfront at Mosman, instead listing the 1400-square-metre
site for some $10 million.

Herald bought the adjoining Burton Street properties in 2010 for a total of $7.6 million, through
McGrath's Philip Waller.

Now with DA-approved plans and a new marina, it is listed with McGrath's Michael Coombs and
Waller.

Shh!

A royal family of which south-east Asia country has been house hunting in Sydney of late? With a
budget rumoured to be $100 million, at least they should be able to afford a certain Point Piper estate.

Kensington record could fall

Now that Macquarie Bank divisional director Duncan McDonald and his wife Fiona are winding up their
stint in Hong Kong, you'd think they would want to move into their contemporary Kensington home.

Instead, the couple are hoping to set a suburb record when it goes to auction on April 5 for more than
$3.5 million, topping the current high of $3.2 million set in 2010. The couple bought the
683-square-metre level block on McDougall Street in 2007 for $660,000, then commissioned master
builder Peter Dunkley to build what is now a five-bedroom, four-bathroom home with a pool.

The McDonalds, who plan to make a tree-change up the NSW coast, have listed it with Damien
Bickmore-Hutt, of BHR Estate Agents.

Page82of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Stuart Laundy, heir to the Laundy family hotel fortune, has listed his Mosman home for about $5
million.

Laundys depart Mosman

Stuart's father, pub baron Arthur Laundy, made his debut on the BRW Rich List last year with an
estimated wealth of $310 million, thanks to his company's lucrative partnership deal signed with
Woolworths the year before. Laundy bought the property elevated above Euryalus Street in 2009 for
$4.25 million, then commissioned a redesign to create a five-bedroom home with Middle Harbour
views, three living areas and a prized level back lawn with a pool. Given the family's plans to trade up
to the eastern suburbs, LJ Hooker Mosman's Geoff Smith is taking it to auction on March 27.

Surfside Avenue treasure
In Clovelly, the idyllically positioned beachside reserve property of Chris Palandri, Perth-based
managing director of Brookfield Multiplex, is up for more than $3.1 million.

Palandri and his wife Zoe bought the three-bedroom house on Surfside Avenue as an investment in
2008 for $3.12 million from Bryant Stokes, son of Network Seven chairman Kerry Stokes.

Bryant, who until last year held executive roles in the Stokes-controlled companies WesTrac and
Coates Hire, had bought the bungalow from his older brother, and Seven's chief operating officer Ryan
in 2006 for $2.9 million.

McGrath Coogee's Bethwyn Richards is taking it to auction on April 5.

IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

irreal : Residential Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest
: Real Estate
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | china : China | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140314ea3f0008c

Page83of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.