Saputo lets rip at milk pricing

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Saputo lets rip at milk pricing

SUE NEALES, Rural reporter
568 words
18 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
26
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

GLOBAL dairy giant and winner of last year’s heated battle for the Warrnambool Cheese & Butter
company, Saputo, has slammed Australia’s supermarket duopoly for selling milk cheaper than water.

Lino Saputo Jr, chief executive of Saputo International, told a Rabobank leadership dinner in Sydney
he found the discount pricing of milk in Coles and Woolworths at a low $1 a litre “mind-boggling and
baffling”.

“It doesn’t make sense: we (the processors) are all trying to beat each other at buying, collecting and
processing the milk, and then they give it away?” Mr Saputo said.

“(Since arriving here) we’ve seen retailers and processors that are sometimes less than responsible in
their actions, and not giving farmers a fair value for their product; that’s not a game we are prepared to
play.

“I don’t understand the practices that are going on here in Australia, where you have competitors
tripping over themselves to give away a valuable product at below cost.” Mr Saputo said the low prices
paid for milk in Australia confirmed his firm’s decision to focus on WCB producing value-added
products for export.
He also is determined to lock-in the existing 900 million litres supplied annually by farmers in
southwestern Victoria to WCB’s Allendale processing plant, and looking to grow the business.
He said he was not threatened by the arrival of a Chinese food company in western Victoria, investing
$500 million into buying 60 dairy farms between Colac and Mount Gambier, producing 500 million
litres a year.
Many of the farmers who have sold or promised to sell their dairy farms to the Chinese joint venture
consortium are traditional suppliers to WCB, who have decided to exit the industry now they are
cashed up after selling their WCB shares to Saputo early this year for $9.60 each.
Canadian-based listed company Saputo, one of the 10 biggest dairy processing companies in the
world with a $9.2 billion business processing 8 billion litres of milk each year in Australia, Canada,
US and Argentina, beat local companies Bega Cheese and Murray Goulburn late last year to buy
WCB.

Mr Saputo told The Weekend Australian his WCB team was “thinking outside the box” in how to appeal
to its dairy farmer-suppliers to commit their milk to Saputo over the long-term.
He hopes to soon secure one billion litres of milk, most of which would need to come from western
Victoria and southeast South Australia because of the location of WCB’s processing sites near
Warrnambool. “I know price is important but I am challenging them to think of other programs that
compellingly demonstrate we are here to assist farmers and want to fight this fight together with them
as an industry,” Mr Saputo said.

Page192of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“It might be joint investment programs to assist the more progressive dairy farmers to consider
growing their production base; because we need that milk, both the base and the creation of a bigger
surplus.” Mr Saputo said Australia was a key focus for Saputo, as one of the three countries in the
world with the lowest cost of milk production, alongside Argentina and New Zealand.“We believe in the
future of the dairy industry in Australia,” Mr Saputo said. “We are putting our money where our mouth
is and investing here.”

IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 :
Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy Products | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141017eaai00099

Page193of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.