Government's free plug for Robb family restaurant

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News - The Nation
Government's free plug for Robb family restaurant

James Massola
564 words
23 October 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
7
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

A Sydney restaurant owned by Tourism Minister Andrew Robb and his family is being promoted by a
government-funded $40 million, 18-month Tourism Australia campaign that targets 17 key global
markets to sell the Australian "foodie" experience to the world.

The Robb family restaurant, Boathouse Palm Beach, is showcased on Tourism Australia's "Restaurant
Australia" website, which was launched in May, as the "ultimate day trip destination" just an hour from
Sydney and the "perfect place for a relaxed family outing".

The $40 million campaign has recently been launched in Britain, Singapore, South Korea and Hong
Kong, while more than 80 of the world's leading food and wine "influencers" - including actress
Gwyneth Paltrow, celebrity chef Heston Blumenthal and English food critic A.A. Gill - will be flown to
Australia to sample featured restaurants.

A spokesman for Tourism Australia said any restaurant or cafe could submit their restaurant to feature
on the government-funded website and that "the best of these experiences have then been curated by
Tourism Australia".

Tourism Australia has featured about 800 restaurants, cafes and wineries - with photos and rave
reviews - on the promotional website, with 1700 businesses overall listed.

There were, according to Bureau of Statistics data, 69,885 restaurants, cafes, takeaway shops, pubs
and bars in Australia.

Mr Robb, who is widely regarded as one of the Abbott government's best-performing ministers,
declares a half ownership of two unnamed cafes and a wedding reception venue in his Register of
Members' Interests entry.
The ownership stake is declared in a section that covers "any other interests where a conflict of
interest with a member's public duties could foreseeably arise". Mr Robb has noted in his declaration
that the stake could be "relevant to my responsibility as Minister for Tourism".

Another section of the declaration reveals that Mr Robb has a shareholding in Boathouse Palm Beach
Collective Pty Ltd, the parent company of the Palm Beach restaurant as well as two other restaurants -
the Boathouse at Balmoral Beach and Moby Dicks at Whale Beach.

Mr Robb declares that he and his wife Maureen are beneficiaries of Ram Consultancy Pty Ltd, a family
trust. Australian Securities and Investments Commission records confirm that Ram Consultancy owns
150 of the 300 shares in the Boathouse Palm Beach Collective, with the other 150 shares held by
Goldsmith Investment Corporation.

Andrew Goldsmith and Mr Robb's daughter, Pip Robb, are the director and secretary respectively of
the Boathouse Palm Beach Collective and run the three restaurants.

Page187of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Robb led a 300-person-strong business delegation to India last month that, in part, showcased the
Restaurant Australia campaign being run by Tourism Australia.

A spokesman for Mr Robb said the minister had "fully complied with all requirements in disclosing his
interests on the members' register".

"This has the look of a dirt-digging exercise," the spokesman said. "Mr Robb had nothing to do with the
listing, full-stop, nor is he director of the business, for very good reason. Restaurant Australia is an
industry-wide promotion with 1700 businesses registered and around 800 businesses have been
selected by Tourism Australia for a feature page."

Fairfax Media restaurant reviewer Terry Durack in 2011 gave the Boathouse 13 out of 20, and noted
that "service gets scatty under pressure".

CO
NS

RE

PUB
AN

toursm : Tourism Australia
c32 : Advertising | gpol : Domestic Politics | c31 : Marketing/Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020141022eaan0003k

Page188of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.