Nasser comes under pressure to launch fresh BHP buyback

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Nasser comes under pressure to launch fresh BHP buyback

Michael Hobbs
606 words
13 January 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
13
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Hedge funds chatter that chairman will act sooner than expected.

BHP Billiton chairman Jac Nasser is under pressure to revisit its capital management initiatives as
investors demand greater returns following asset sales and cost cuts.

As he approaches his fourth anniversary as chairman, Mr Nasser is facing calls to repay
long-standing investors, restore the company's standing and secure his legacy.
BHP successfully completed a $6 billion off-market buyback of Australian listed shares in 2011 and
the market has begun to speculate that the company will launch another buyback quicker than
anticipated.

It certainly has had hedge funds talking in the past few weeks, a group of investors that typically
lead the market.

Further asset sales of non-core petroleum, aluminium, nickel and manganese assets could
accelerate this process. The key metric, analysts say, appears to be getting BHP's net debt down
from about $US29 billion ($32.2 billion) to $US25 billion.

A buyback is broadly expected by the market in early 2015 but it could occur by its full-year result in
August this year if commodity prices hold up and it is able to divest some other assets.

BHP shareholder Pengana Capital said launching a buyback would underpin confidence in the
stock.

"It really is indicative that they have their house in order that they are able to do it and they are
confident enough in their plans for the future," said Pengana Capital Global Resources Fund senior
fund manager Tim Schroeders.Stifled by market

But BHP's efforts to sell assets and launch a buyback soon could be stifled by the market.

"There are a lot of companies selling assets and restructuring and finding value for these assets is
proving difficult," he said.
The global resources company promoted Mr Nasser's successful 33-year career at Ford Motor
Company, where he was chief executive and president, when it was announced he would succeed
then chairman and business sage Don Argus in early 2010.

It was always going to be a tough act to follow.

Mr Argus presided over the creation of BHP Billiton with the merger of BHP and Billiton in 2001 and
the acquisition of Western Mining Corporation in 2005.

Page67of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.These transformational deals, underpinned by a mining investment boom and sky-rocketing iron
ore prices during the 2000s, catapulted BHP to become the largest company in Australia.

Shares in BHP, and then BHP Billiton, rose from about $5 a share in 1999 to about $43 a share in
2010.

Mr Argus did suffer some setbacks. The failed bid for Rio Tinto in 2008 and Potash Corporation in
2010 are two examples where the company mistimed and overreached.

At the same time as Mr Nasser became chairman, volatile commodity prices, uncertain growth in
China and other key markets following the global financial crisis meant the mining investment boom
slowed.Enhancing returns

Shareholders demanded a focus on cutting costs, slashing debt and enhanced returns.

BHP shares have fallen to as low as $30.18 in July 2012 from a high of $49.55 a share in April 2011
during Mr Nasser's tenure.
The company's shares, on a price only basis, are down about 13 per cent since he took on the
chairmanship.

A changing of the guard at chief executive level in May last year, with Andrew Mackenzie
succeeding Marius Kloppers, has clarified the company's focus.

Mr Mackenzie's "four pillar" strategy, underpinned with major productivity improvements and the
sale of non-core assets, is part of the group's plan to improve returns.

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c182 : Asset Transactions | cshbuy : Share Buybacks | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c17 :
Funding/Capital | c171 : Share Capital | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 :
Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140112ea1d0000p

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page68of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.