DESIGNED TO MATTER

Magazine
DESIGNED TO MATTER

ANNE LIM
2,076 words
4 April 2014

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN Wish Magazine (The Australian)
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

NLWISH
1
50
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

TD

UNDER THE CREATIVE LEADERSHIP OF ALBERTO ALESSI, THE ITALIAN HOMEWARES
COMPANY ALESSI HAS WORKED WITH MANY DESIGN MAESTROS OVER THE YEARS. NOW IT IS
PARTNERING WITH YOUNG AUSTRALIAN DESIGNER ADAM CORNISH, WHOSE TRINITY BOWL
WAS INSPIRED BY THE GEOMETRY OF A NAUTILUS SHELL
THE Milan-based homewares company, Alessi, is still a 100 per cent family company, even though it
employs designers from all over the world, including Australia. Late last year managing director Alessio
Alessi travelled to Australia with two of his four sons-the eldest, Giovanni Alessi Anghini, an independent
designer, and his second son, Luca Alessi, who had recently joined the company as international sales
and development manager Asia-Pacific based in Hong Kong. In Sydney, they launched a distribution
agreement with Danish jeweller Georg Jensen and celebrated the release of a new Australian design, the
Trinity bowl, by Melbourne-based designer Adam Cornish. WISH conducted a round-table discussion with
all four.

Alessio: We say that Alessi is a laboratory, a continuous activity to find a new language of design and so
we need designers from around the world to build our catalogue.

We like to say it is a kind of encyclopedia or bookstore that shows people the interpretation of different
typology for the kitchen and table in different languages, and of course we have to continue to work to
find new languages of design around the world. That's why we are very interested in collaborations with
young designers. We have already seven Australians in the catalogue.

Adam: When I had just freshly graduated, I wanted to show Alessi my work because of its reputation for
being able to work with new designers. I knew they'd be happy to have a look. Being inspired by nature, I
know that Alessi's work is often playful and has natural elements to it, so I knew my Trinity bowl, which is
based on a Nautilus shell, was a good fit from that angle. I was just working out the way to get the actual
piece to them. That turned out to be quite funny. I met the head of the Polytechnic of Milan, Arturo
Dell'Acqua Bellavitis, and with typical Italian hospitality he offered to put me up in the family home on my
first trip to Milan.

So I brought the Trinity bowl with me and tried to tee up an appointment at Alessi. It was a long shot. I
went to an address I was given by the family but the office had moved.

Luckily enough, a person in the neighbouring building could speak English and told me to go down the
road, turn right and then right. I remember just looking at all these buildings and the only thing I could see
from the outside was an Alessi Mediterraneo fruit bowl in the window.

I thought that must be it, so I went in and waited on the steps for the PR representative for Alberto Alessi,
who is president and head of marketing strategy, communication and design management.

When she returned from her meeting I showed her the bowl and she said 'This is something we could be
very interested in'. I wanted to leave it with her but she said, 'No, not necessary, just send me images'. So

Page56of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.I thought maybe this is a brush-off. I get home and a week later I get an email from Alberto saying 'Can
you please send the bowl?' The irony was I had put it in the mail, so I had to wait for it to come back to
Australia and send it straight back over. I had just graduated and I thought it might be a joke.

The Nautilus shell is an extremely lightweight yet strong structure because of the way each chamber
intersects with the other. My first prototype was just experiments in playing with cues from that structure
and it had 60 hand welds, which is not practical for a product.

So we went about streamlining the manufacturing process; now everything curves and, of course, when
stainless steel is bent it stays in that position when it hardens.

GIOVANNI, WHICH PRODUCTS HAVE YOU DESIGNED FOR ALESSI?

Giovanni: I've done many. I designed the pop-up bottle opener when I was 18 years old but it was too
early to present something, so it took five years of development and it was presented to the market in
2008. It won the 2008 Good Design award and remains in the collection of the Chicago Institute of
Architecture and Design. And then I did a salt set for grinding salt and presenting different kinds of salts
on the table. And then a bowl that is called MooM - it's a bowl that also holds a glass of wine. That I
designed because I was moving out from my family and starting university and I was eating alone in front
of the television, so I thought about an object to bring a little bit of poetics into my life. Then I did lighting
projects with Electrolux, then I designed a bottle of water [AdiAcqua] for Alessi in 2012.

In the 1970s, Alberto [Alessi] worked with freelance designers mainly. The only person who was
designing was my grandfather [Carlo], but in 1945 he had to become general manager, so he had to
leave it behind. So I'm a new outsider who is following my own passions and building my knowhow
around design on the ground. I'm working with technology companies, furniture and lighting; to explore
those areas I have to be outside the organisation because Alessi won't do a sofa or a table, so I need to
diversify.
A: Alessi is still 100 per cent a family company, so we say that the fourth generation have to get at least
two years' experience outside the company, and the more they do the better it is. They must go and be
evaluated by independent people because the evaluation is much stronger than by their own parents.
Luca just came in last October and is located in Hong Kong.
Luca: I worked in the US for De'Longhi Group and then after three years they moved me to Hong Kong,
managing the Asia-Pacific, North America, South America, South Africa, in product management and
trademarks. I've done five years outside the company but I've been knocking on the door for a long time.

WISH: HOW DO YOU TACKLE WHAT ALBERTO ALESSI CALLED THE CHALLENGE OF THE
"ANOREXIC MARKET" WHERE PEOPLE ARE RELUCTANT TO SPEND MONEY?

A: There is this situation around the world where the economics guys have brought people to be much
more cautious about spending but they want to buy good-quality products. So they are open to spend but
they want quality, so this is the challenge for the new designers-to make a good design affordable. That's
very important. It's not enough to make an incredible and innovative work with low function.

YOU NO LONGER HAVE THE LUXURY OF MAKING PRODUCTS THAT DON'T WORK VERY WELL?

A: I don't want you to understand that we expressly made products that didn't work; it's just that to work
with a designer on the border of what is possible and what is not possible functionally, sometimes the
project is so interesting from the cultural point of view that, even if they are not perfect in function, we put
it into production anyhow. This was in the past. Now we are much more careful. But with the kettle of
Philippe Starck people value it not only for functionality but from the cultural point of view.

Design for us means a project where the component of art and poetry is at the best level because we
believe that people need it; and we want that they can find it not only in the traditional way in the museum
but in everyday objects that you can use at home.

WHICH HAVE BEEN THE MOST INFLUENTIAL ALESSI DESIGNS?

A: Ettore Sottsass was one of the masters of design working for all the important companies. We began a
relationship with him in 1978 and he didn't make only very good work for Alessi but also he made Alessi
focus on what is the meaning of design. The question is to make quality of design for the houses of
people; if they will be foreign objects, people won't be so happy. I would say this is one of the most
important steps of design at Alessi.

The second one I want to mention is Alessandro Mendini because he wrote a book about Alessi and he
organised an exhibition about Alessi and he also made the building for the company.

Page57of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Alessi is a strange company-it does not do traditional marketing research. The best marketing people for
us are the designers because the good designers are able to bring inside Alessi what is the feeling and
the evolution of society. So this is the real marketing that we need and we want to follow.

WHAT ARE YOUR FAVOURITE PIECES?

A: My favourite pieces are by Richard Sapper but it's not only a matter of design aesthetic; it's also a kind
of symbolic item for the evolution of the business of Alessi.

Before his kettle we didn't produce any kettle and the reason is in Italy we do not use a kettle to boil
water, only in north of Europe and the States. So the American distributor asked us to make a kettle and
we made a kettle with Sapper and it's been very successful and enabled Alessi to be much more known
outside Italy, to open many doors to business outside Italy.

DID YOU SAY THAT THE KETTLE WAS NOT VERY FUNCTIONAL?

A: No, it was very functional. The brass whistle calcifies from the build-up of the water in the brass and
after many times it stops working, so we have to deliver new ones.

L: We have a couple of new whistles already inside the packaging.

A: So why did Sapper want this? Because the whistle makes a very wonderful sound. It's a small
instrument used for professional musician for tuning the instruments.

L: It plays two musical notes-mi and si-so the sound is a mix. It's a beautiful sound.

G: When Sapper was a little boy, in front of his house there was a ferry boat that made that specific
sound and he wanted to reproduce that memory that he had when he was a child.

Adam: There are many different ways that Alessi works with designers. Some people only send
prototypes but Philippe Starck sent a sketch on a place mat. Alessi is willing to work with a designer the
way they work. They don't force you into their way, and creating this open way for you to work you don't
feel anything you say is going to be laughed at. That's how amazing projects come about when you know
that they're willing to listen to you and take everything seriously and to work with you to get to that end
goal. Alessi is willing to experiment with you and offer you all these facilities, so I think that is why they
have an amazing catalogue of products.

WHAT WILL THE LINK-UP WITH GEORG JENSEN DO FOR ALESSI?

Alessio: We decided to go with Georg Jensen because I believe they have been able to show us how
they can underline the importance of our brand. So I think this is an important step for our business.
Their idea is to have a more select distribution than today and another important step is to focus on
shop-in-shops in David Jones where you can shop the line more completely.

L: It's also a direct distribution, and since every Alessi product has a beautiful story behind it, it's much
easier to communicate those stories when you have your own support team on the floor.
A: I think also Georg Jensen understands about good design. We just came from China. Now China is a
big market - a lot of very rich people - but there is not the ground for understanding design and they are
not prepared for that. Australia is much more like Europe, so we expect a very good business here.

CO
IN
NS

RE

georja : Georg Jensen A/S | axcind : Axcel A/S
i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i656 : Mixed Retailing | iretail : Retail
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cslmc : Senior Level Management | c41 : Management Issues | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | italy : Italy | hkong : Hong Kong | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | china : China | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European
Union Countries | eurz : Europe | medz : Mediterranean | nswals : New South Wales | weurz : Western
Europe

PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document NLWISH0020140403ea440000d

Page58of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.