Leung sought an extra £3m from UGL

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Leung sought an extra £3m from UGL

John Garnaut, Asia-Pacific Editor
774 words
16 October 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
3
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

When CY Leung parachuted out of his insolvent property business to make his run for Hong Kong's
top job, he tried to extract an additional £3 million from Australian firm UGL, emails obtained by Fairfax
show.
In return for co-operating on the £77 million sale of DTZ, the real estate advisory empire he'd helped to
build, Mr Leung wanted the Australians to not only underwrite £1.5 million in bonuses, and pay £4
million in business wealth that had been wiped out, but also to compensate him for £3 million that he'd
sunk in the firm's loss-making franchise in Japan over the previous five years.

"It was like 'Here's all my losing lottery tickets, could you buy them?'," says one party to those
negotiations in November 2011.

But it was not the audacity of Mr Leung's claim so much as the manner in which he made it that
illuminates his political predicament today, as he battles mass pro-democracy protests across the city
and widespread calls for him to resign as the city's Chief Executive.
Back in 2011 he'd bunkered down somewhere in Hong Kong or Shanghai and refused to answer
emails, get on a plane, or pick up the phone.

"He'd often go walkabout," says one of the players in those negotiations. "Most times he wouldn't
respond. So we'd send Tim to find him, or RBS," said the source, referring to DTZ chairman Tim
Melville-Ross and DTZ's main creditor, the Royal Bank of Scotland.

Repeatedly, UGL chief executive Richard Leupen prepared himself to walk away.

"I do have a busy and heavy schedule and a business to run and no time for negotiating games," Mr
Leupen told Mr Melville-Ross in an email dated November 26, 2011, obtained by Fairfax. "[Mr Leung]
communicates in one-liners and gives us nothing to think we are going to reach agreement," Mr Leupen
said.

Then, like now, Mr Leung made his demands known via intermediaries. "Please see the attached
breakdown for 3,058,565 GBP," says an email from one of his confidants to RBS dated November 24,
2011, detailing his Japan demands. "Please find attached CY's analysis of his contributions he's made
to the Japanese business and which he is looking to be reimbursed as part of his co-operation for the
UGL deal," said the subsequent email from RBS to another.

The emails show Mr Leung's preference for obdurate brinkmanship over negotiations, which may work
sometimes in business but carries greater risks in Hong Kong's noisy and quasi-democratic politics.

There was "zero chance" of the demands of pro-democracy protesters being met, said Mr Leung in the
single interview he gave to a friendly television network since the protests broke out.

Page76of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Rather than admit an error of judgment in not declaring his payments from UGL after taking public
office, Mr Leung told the network he'd done nothing "legally or morally wrong".

Then, like now, Mr Leung was acting to preserve the value of his greatest asset: the patronage of
powerful people in mainland China. Business people familiar with Mr Leung say he is wily, urbane and
successful. When UGL executives were circling DTZ they were told how Mr Leung had won over the
Shanghai mayor, Zhu Rongji, who went on to be premier of China.
"When I visit Hong Kong in June [1990] I will pay you a visit and ask for your advice," said Zhu,
according to the Wen Wei Po.
About 1994, Mr Leung resigned from his commercial real estate business, Jones Lang Wootton (now
Jones Lang LaSalle) and returned to Shanghai in time for the beginning of the world's greatest
commercial construction boom. In 2005 Mr Leung rolled his thriving business into the London-listed
DTZ.
By 2011 his business was by far the most successful real estate advisory business in China, with more
than 7000 employees and contractors.

But by the time UGL arrived on the scene, Mr Leung's shares were worth nothing because the rest of
the business beyond China was in dire straits. UGL knew that the value of the DTZ business hinged on
China which, in turn, depended entirely on Mr Leung's co-operation in keeping key managers and
clients in place. An extra £3 million for sunk costs in Japan, however, was a bridge too far.
Mr Leung signed the side-deal hours before the December 2 deadline, enabling the sale agreement to
go through.

CO
IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

uncont : UGL Ltd.
icre : Real Estate/Construction
gcrim : Crime/Courts | gcat : Political/General News
china : China | hkong : Hong Kong | austr : Australia | jap : Japan | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020141015eaag0003r

Page77of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.