Property market leaders join forces

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Property market leaders join forces

TONY RAGGATT tony.raggatt@news.com.au
379 words
5 November 2014
Townsville Bulletin
TOWNBU
Townsville
17
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

ONE of the elders of Townsville’s property scene, Richard Ferry, says he is too young to retire.

“I am too young to do that,” the 69-year-old said yesterday, almost incredulous at the suggestion.

“I still consider myself very active in the real estate profession. “I enjoy what I’m doing.” Mr Ferry, who
has headed one of the city’s leading firms, Ferry Property, for almost 40 years, has sold the business
to competitor Peter Wheeler, managing director of rival firm Colliers International Townsville, for a sum
believed to be in excess of $2 million. The deal settled on November 1.
About 20 Ferry Property staff, including Mr Ferry and shareholder and CEO Angelo Castorina, have
transferred to Colliers.
Mr Ferry will continue to work with major clients including Chinese investor Ming Kong Chan, while Mr
Castorina will focus on sales, particularly in the rural market.
Mr Ferry’s son Nick, previously a Ferry Property director, is starting his own property management
business, while former Colliers director and shareholder Stephen McDonald is also taking the
opportunity to strike out on his own, although he will continue to work as a consultant for Colliers in the
short term.

The parties gathered at a Melbourne Cup luncheon yesterday, a long-running tradition at Ferry which
Colliers has continued, including a popular Calcutta event.

Addressing a full house at The Venue, Mr Wheeler quipped it was the first time he had received an
invitation to the event although he acknowledged Mr Ferry’s and Ferry Property’s contribution to the
industry.

Merging the firms presented a wonderful opportunity, Mr Wheeler said. “Bringing together Colliers
International and Ferry Property and our significant property market experience reinforces our service
offering,” Mr Wheeler said.
Colliers International and its staff will move into premises occupied by Ferry Property at 21-25 Sturt St.
The combined firms will have a staff of about 40 people, while the combined property management
businesses will have rent rolls of more than 1000 residential properties and several hundred
commercial properties.
However a related firm, Townsville Rentals, will manage the residential properties.The Ferry name will
continue to live on in a residential sales division.

NS
RE

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

Page152of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

News Ltd.
Document TOWNBU0020141105eab50000h

Page153of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.