Glencore to Close Australian Coal Mine; Falling Prices Have Forced Mining Companies to Review Operations

SE
HD

BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
ED
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Glencore to Close Australian Coal Mine; Falling Prices Have Forced Mining Companies to
Review Operations
Rhiannon Hoyle
722 words
27 March 2014
13:37
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

SYDNEY—Glencore Xstrata PLC will shutter one of its Australian coal mines this year, the latest in a
string of closures and cutbacks in the country's once thriving coal industry as a global commodities
boom cools.
Glencore's Ravensworth underground operation will be the first coal mine suspended by the
Switzerland-based resources titan due to the sharp slide in prices for the fuel, although this follows
hundreds of job cuts over the past year as the company looked to bolster the profitability of its sites.
The company said Thursday it would stop producing semisoft coking coal at the Ravensworth
underground mine in September.

Falling prices have forced mining companies including BHP Billiton Ltd. and Anglo American PLC to
review their operations, resulting in staff cutbacks, shelved expansion plans and asset sales. BHP,
which through its partnership with Mitsubishi Corp. is the world's largest coking-coal exporter, has
already closed mines including its Norwich Park and Gregory operations in eastern Australia citing
weak prices.
The value of coking coal, used in steelmaking, has been falling since 2011 as new mines planned
during the boom times moved into production. Analysts say high stockpiles in countries such as China,
and a rise in the Asian country's own production of the fuel, are helping keep prices weak.
Australian coking-coal prices are near their lowest level since 2007.

Glencore on Thursday said it had laid off 17 workers at the Ravensworth underground site, with a
further 113 at risk of redundancy as the mine approaches closure later in the year. The company,
which has already cut more than 80 staff members from the site in the past 12 months, said it was
looking at whether it could redeploy any of those workers to its other mines in the country's east.
"Continued operations [are] no longer financially viable due to a combination of lower prices, high
production costs at the mine, a strong Australian dollar and geological constraints in future mining
areas," a spokesman for the company said in an emailed statement. Two nearby open-cut mines
won't be affected, the spokesman said.
Ravensworth underground produced 2.1 million tons of salable semisoft coking coal in 2013.

Managers at the site had been working to improve the competitiveness of the mine over the past year,
which included the reductions in the number of development, maintenance, support and services staff.
The mine, which started producing coal in 2007, is 70% owned by Glencore, with the remainder held
by Japan's Marubeni Corp. and South Korean steelmaker Posco.
Analysts and mining executives said they don't expect a substantial recovery in coal prices in the
coming months.

Page268of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."We see very little evidence of any discipline in what is a very fragmented metallurgical coal industry,"
analysts at investment bank Jefferies said in a note. "The bull case for met coal being offered by many
today is that low prices will cut high cost production [but] at best, when prices rise, high cost
production gets restarted and caps the price rise."
New Hope Corp. Chief Executive Shane Stephan earlier this week said he expects global coal
markets to remain oversupplied, and prices weak, for at least another year.
New Hope, Australia's largest listed coal mining company by market value, reported a 67% slide in
first-half profit because of weak market prices. As a result, New Hope said it had pushed back
timelines on several development projects, including plans to develop the Lenton deposit in
Queensland's coal-rich Bowen Basin.
"Coal market prospects for 2014 remain challenging," GlencoreXstrata said in an annual report. Chief
Executive Ivan Glasenberg acknowledged weak coal prices had been a drag on the performance of its
industrial business. The company said earlier in March that it swung to a net loss for 2013 after a
write-down on its acquisition of Xstrata PLC.
Still, Glencore forecast continued robust coal demand from Asia as economies in countries such as
China and India further expand.
Glencore temporarily suspended operations at its Collinsville coal mine in September when it took
control of that site from contractor Thiess, but attributed the closure to troubles with negotiating
employee conditions. Operations at Collinsville restarted in January.

mtsubc : Mitsubishi Corp | aamcr : Anglo American PLC | bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | mrubni : Marubeni
Corp | nope : New Hope Corporation Ltd | pohn : Posco Co | march : Glencore Xstrata PLC | bltplc :
BHP Billiton PLC
i111 : Coal Mining | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i61 : Wholesalers | ibcs : Business/Consumer
Services | iindstrls : Industrial Goods | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i1 : Energy | i22 : Primary Metals | i64 :
Retail/Wholesale | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i8396 : Diversified
Holding Companies | isteel : Steel Production
m14 : Commodity Markets | c42 : Labor/Personnel Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | credun :
Lay-offs/Redundancies | reqrmm : Suggested Reading Metals/Mining | mcat : Commodity/Financial
Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin :
FC&E Industry News Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested
Reading Industry News
apacz : Asia Pacific | austr : Australia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Asian Business News
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document WSJO000020140327ea3r001e1

CO

IN

NS

RE
IPD
PUB
AN

Page269of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.