Australia is at a crossroads

HD Australia is at a crossroads
WC 1,185 words
PD
6 March 2014
SN
Business and Finance Daily News Service
SC
BNFD
LA
English
CY
Copyright (c) 2014, Media World Ltd
LP

TD

Behind closed doors at City Hall, Geelong's eccentric mayor sits searching for an analogy to put into
perspective the punishing job losses battering his city.

Darryn Lyons runs his fingers through his blonde mohawk - the man leading this Australian manufacturing
hub was once a paparazzo and reality TV star in Britain - before settling on a way to describe how the
departure of companies such as Alcoa Inc and Ford Motor Co. will hurt.

"I relate it a little bit to the prehistoric age, really. The dinosaurs have been going throughout the world for
the last seven or eight years," he said, referring to the struggle to adapt in the face of growing competition
from Asia and then the global financial crisis.

Geelong, 75 km (46 miles) south of Melbourne, is a microcosm of the economic crossroads at which
Australia stands. The steps authorities and industry leaders take here - securing next-generation defence
contracts or incubating carbon fibre production - will be closely watched to see if the city becomes
Australia's Silicon Valley or its Detroit. Australia largely avoided the turmoil of the global financial crisis by
leveraging Chinese demand for its abundant natural resources. The mining boom, however, is slowing
and a high Australian dollar has helped drive its manufacturing base overseas. The announcement last
month by U.S. aluminium producer Alcoa that it would close its Point Henry smelter, putting 600 people
out of work, was just the latest in what Lyons has called a "tsunami" of manufacturing job losses across
the country. Geelong, home to nearly 180,000 people, is now wrestling with the question facing much of
Australia: what happens when there is neither a resources boom nor a substantial manufacturing sector.
FACTORY GHOSTS Alcoa's hulking Point Henry smelter, located on a desolate promontory crisscrossed
by humming high-voltage cables, feels haunted by the ghosts of manufacturing past. Behind the plant lies
the empty Moolap salt works. Across the bay sits Avalon Airport, where national carrier Qantas in
November announced the closure of a maintenance facility, shedding 300 jobs. The decision last year by
Ford to cease manufacturing in Australia by 2016 will take 600 jobs from Geelong and, together with
similar moves by Toyota and General Motors in other parts of the country, signalled the end of Australia's
rich history of car manufacturing. Alcoa's decision to shut the 50-year-old smelter was taken after a
two-year review found no prospect of it becoming financially viable. Australia was once one of the world's
biggest aluminium producers, but has slipped to fifth place as production costs climbed and prices
dropped. By some estimates, more than 10 percent of Geelong's population will be affected by the job
losses, a fact made evident by the empty shopfronts dotting the city and the "For Sale" signs sprouting
across its suburbs. Adam Oates, 42, has worked at Point Henry for nearly his entire adult life. His father
and father-in-law worked for Ford, he said in an interview at his home, and he always assumed he would
have the sort of job security they enjoyed. Lately, he said, more and more locals have been comparing
Geelong to Detroit, the American city famous for the blight and urban decay brought on by the crisis in its
automobile industry. "The community in Geelong is shattered," Oates said. "Nobody's got an idea where
we're going, what we're gonna do next ... the comparison to Detroit has been brought up a lot." "I reckon
it's gonna be a ghost town." "GIDDY UP", SAYS MAYOR Manufacturing has been declining in importance
in Australia for decades as successive governments rolled back trade barriers and exposed firms to
intense foreign competition. With a population of just 23 million, Australia never had the domestic scale to
compete with industrial giants such as China or Japan or match the low wages of other fast-growing
economies in Asia. "We can't compete with Thailand making cars. Fact. We've known that for a long time.
We can't compete with South Korea making TVs. We've known that for a long time," Lyons said. Lyons,
48, became mayor in November after a prominent media career in Britain. His smiling visage now beams
down from a billboard on the side of the highway, greeting visitors to Geelong with his slogan for
revitalizing the city: "giddy up!" Business interests initially opposed his candidacy, even taking out

Page117of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.advertisements in a local newspaper warning residents against him. But his media profile and dedication
to securing investment in defence contracts and tourism have won Lyons many admirers. Where Australia
does have a huge natural advantage is in resources, making it the world's second largest producer of iron
ore, gold, lead and zinc and the fourth largest for silver and black coal. Massive investment in liquefied
natural gas should make it the biggest exporter by 2017. Value-added products such as food, tourism and
education are seen as huge growth opportunities, as the investment phase of the mining boom dies down
over the next three years, leaving a gaping hole in the national economy. The ups and downs of Geelong's
economy have long mirrored those of the country. It rose and fell in the 19th century on booms in wool
and gold, before transitioning into manufacturing in the 20th century. Jane den Hollander's office at
Deakin University in Geelong is illustrative of that change - it started life as a sheep shed and is now a part
of the university's Australian Future Fibres Research and Innovation Centre. The centre is a Adollar 102
million research hub and home to a pilot plant called Carbon Nexus that Deakin says is the world's first
research plant capable of producing large scale amounts of industrial and aerospace quality carbon fibre.
Hollander, Deakin's vice rector, identified agriculture as a short-term possibility for those without advanced
skills in Geelong before mooting education, health care and information technology as sectors being
promoted by the university. "The longer term opportunities are these high-tech, IT, light weighting,
energy-saving type things that numbers of companies are doing and can be exploited quite significantly,"
she said. Touting Geelong's manufacturing background, Lyons is lobbying the Australian army to build its
next generation combat vehicle in the city. The Land 400 is a Adollar 10 billion project intended to
produce a suite of new armoured vehicles, which the army describes as the largest, most expensive and
most complex major capability project in its history. Competition between Australia's states - especially
those such as South Australia and Victoria that have been hit with major losses in manufacturing - is
already fierce. For Damian Young, a 39-year-old Alcoa worker, the project feels like a case of too little, too
late. A once certain future for himself and his two young sons now seems anything but, he says. "It's like
going into a dark tunnel," he said. "You don't know where it's going to end." ( C ) Reuters

CO almam : ALCOA Inc
IN
NS

i22 : Primary Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | i2245 : Aluminum | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
credun : Lay-offs/Redundancies | c42 : Labor/Personnel Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Media World Ltd
AN Document BNFD000020140306ea3600005

Page118of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.