Farmers need China dairy deal

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Farmers need China dairy deal

MICHAEL SMITH
622 words
11 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
32
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Michael Smith
The dairy industry has a lot to gain from an anticipated free-trade agreement between Australia and
China as it plays catch-up with rival markets like New Zealand, in the race to tap demand from Asia's
growing middle classes for products like cheese and infant formula.

Dairy farmers, hurting from plummeting milk prices in a market which has seen production declining
since 2001, have been lobbying hard for an agreement that puts Australia on a level playing field with
New Zealand.
China dominates global demand for dairy products, but Australia has long been disadvantaged
compared with New Zealand. That country has had a free-trade deal since 2008, which is reflected in
its dairy exports.

The challenge now for the industry is finding ways to ramp up production and tapping the demand
from China's middle classes for safe and reliable sources of products like baby formula, cheese and
long-life milk.

Foreign investment has been flooding into the Australian diary industry, but rarely the other way
round. Producers like Warrnambool Cheese & Butter and Devondale Murray Goulburn must find
ways to build scale to compete on a global scale. The competition watchdog's opposition to Murray
Goulburn's bid for Warrnambool Cheese earlier this year was a big blow for the exporter, quashing
hopes of creating a national champion in dairy.
But producers have still not given up on Asia as they explore partnerships in China. Bega Cheese in
September signed a $100 milion supply and distribution agreement with China's Chongqing General
Trading Group to supply Bega-branded long-life milk to China.
Australia still has an important role to play in China, even without an FTA, but an agreement would be
a big win for an industry that has been trying to compete with New Zealand industry champion
Fonterra.

Weak global fertiliser demand and challenging conditions for explosives manufacturers mean Orica,
Incitec Pivot and GrainCorp are unlikely to post stellar results over the next two weeks as the industry
seeks to lower costs and address funding shotrfalls.
A decision on the sale or spin off of Orica's non-mining chemicals division is also close with bids from
private equity suitors closing late last week. Investors are putting money on a $1 billion spin-off
rather than a sale if Orica does not get the price from private equity bidders it wants.

Orica reports results on November 19, but a decision could be announced before then.

Page187of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Incitec Pivot reports full-year results on Tuesday and Deutsche Bank analysts say the fertiliser and
explosives manufacturer may disappoint slightly given lower global fertiliser demand and pricing, as
well as challenging market conditions in the Australian explosives market.
Incitec chief James Fazzino is building a $US850 million ($977.5 million) ammonia plant in the US
rather than Australia.

This is because of a more favourable regulatory environment, access to cheap natural gas and lower
construction and labour costs in the United States.

While Incitec Pivot's beef is about Australia's high cost base and too much red tape, GrainCorp is
worried about the lack of badly needed investment in grain infrastructure. It is spending $200 million
over three years to improve its storage

Mark Palmquist is taking over as chief executive as chairman Don Taylor prepares to step down from
the role he has held on an interim basis since Alison Watkins left in January to head up Coca-Cola
Amatil.
While a failed takeover bid for the company by Archer Daniels Midland upset the company's
succession-planning process, it has taken too long to install a permanent chief executive.

michael.smith@afr.com.au Twitter @MikeSmithAFR

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i413 : Dairy Products | i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i2513 :
Fertilizer | iagro : Agrochemicals | i0 : Agriculture | i25 : Chemicals | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 :
Cattle Farming | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
reqrch : Suggested Reading Chemicals | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr :
Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | china : China | nz : New Zealand | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141110eabb0002q

Page188of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.