Vast Copper Mine Marks Shift in BHP Strategy

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Vast Copper Mine Marks Shift in BHP Strategy

By Rhiannon Hoyle
1,077 words
19 November 2014
08:30
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

OLYMPIC DAM, Australia—BHP Billiton is making a bold bet on China’s rising middle class,
starting here in the red sand dunes of southern Australia.

Deep beneath the ground at Olympic Dam lies one of the biggest copper deposits in the
world—and central to a new investment strategy for the resources company.

From Australia’s Outback to the Andes, BHP is rethinking how it spends the vast earnings
generated from supplying the world with raw materials used in everything from bridges to
skyscrapers. Off the table are any major new investments in producing iron ore and coal, which
have long been the company’s cash cows. Instead, BHP is turning more to copper and
petroleum, while spinning off other businesses from aluminum to manganese into a new
company that may be valued at as much as US$18 billion.
Key to BHP’s strategy is the belief that Asia’s, and particularly China’s, burgeoning middle class
is about to ramp up spending on consumer goods such as air conditioners and refrigerators,
which require a lot of copper and energy. That effectively is a bet that China is shifting to a
consumer-driven economy. Household spending accounts for only around 35% of the Chinese
economy versus nearly 70% in the U.S., according to the World Bank. In contrast, a
long-running construction boom in China that has sustained demand for iron ore and
metallurgical coal, which are ingredients in steel, appears to be losing steam as Beijing cracks
down on real-estate speculation.

The new approach will come under scrutiny Thursday when BHP hosts its annual meeting with
Australian shareholders, many of whom feel the company isn’t doing enough to boost returns.
BHP Chief Executive Andrew Mackenzie also plans at a strategy briefing for investors in
Sydney four days later to flesh out plans to refocus more on copper.

“Copper demand is going to continue to grow for a really long time,” said Mike Henry, BHP’s
marketing president. He predicted that the market would face a significant shortfall by 2018 and
that, without new or expanded mines, global copper demand will outpace supply for at least a
decade.
China will be the driving force for that demand, as it was with iron ore and coal. The country
already buys 40% of global copper output and could consume more as incomes rise.

Page51of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.BHP also will look to shift new investment into petroleum. The Anglo-Australian company,
which is mulling new projects from the Gulf of Mexico to Trinidad and Tobago, thinks energy
demand will similarly rise as China’s middle class balloons.
“Our confidence in that transition [to a consumer-driven economy in China] is as strong as it
has ever been,” Mr. Henry said.

But it is a risky bet.
China’s transition to an economy driven by consumer spending is unlikely to be smooth. The
world’s second largest economy, behind that of the U.S., faces an aging population, mounting
debt problems and persistent corruption—factors that could hobble an economy that has been
an engine of global growth while the U.S. and Europe have sputtered.

Investors also are wary about mining companies preparing substantial bets on commodities
after recent investments soured, especially in iron ore, for which prices have slumped to their
lowest level since June 2009.

But BHP expects global copper demand to rise around 50% to 40 million tons by 2030, keeping
prices high. Many analysts agree. Bank of America Merrill Lynch predicts copper prices will rise
20% to US$8,245 a ton by 2017.
Even if Chinese demand proves disappointing, BHP thinks other countries will buy more
copper. It estimates that 40% of Indian households will have air conditioners by 2030,
compared with fewer than 10% now. Each unit will require about 11.5 pounds of copper.

Both the risks and potential rewards of BHP’s new strategy can be seen in the Olympic Dam
mine, one of a handful of vast copper mines that BHP operates around the world. Located near
the tiny Australian town of Roxby Downs, where locals watch out for deadly king brown snakes
and drivers dodge mobs of emus, the Olympic Dam mine is one of the world’s biggest copper
resources and among the largest deposits of uranium and gold.

Digging up its mineral riches is difficult and expensive. Most of the copper lies deep beneath the
surface. BHP accesses it now via a labyrinth of tunnels some 170 miles long, resembling a
giant, underground, multistory parking lot. The tunnel system makes Olympic Dam Australia’s
biggest subterranean mine and home to the world’s longest automated underground train.

The mine now produces about 185,000 tons of copper a year but could yield much more if BHP
can get the metal out efficiently. In 2012, when Mr. Mackenzie headed the copper business,
BHP’s board abandoned a US$30 billion plan to quadruple output by building a huge open pit,
deeming it too expensive.

In Roxby Downs, in a testament to the fallout after the expansion plan was nixed, mining
equipment sits idled and vacant shops line the main street.

Now, BHP is carrying out a big chemistry experiment hundreds of miles to the south, in South
Australia’s capital Adelaide, which the company hopes will help it produce more copper from
Olympic Dam without such huge costs.
Dozens of 20-foot-high columns stand in sheds on an industrial estate north of Adelaide, filled
with rocks from the Olympic Dam site crushed to the width of a human thumb. BHP and
scientists from Bureau Veritas, a mineral-testing organization, are pouring acid on the rocks to
dissolve the copper and other minerals inside, then recovering the minerals from the liquid later.

Scientists say it will be years before BHP can do this on a large scale at Olympic Dam. And
even then, it will be a lengthy process; copper extraction takes around a year to complete via
this method. That is bolstering expectations of a shortfall in global copper supply and higher
prices, which could boost profits for big investments in new mines.

“If they are correct and copper is facing an extended period of deficit, then expansion [of
existing copper operations] would be a no-brainer,” said AMP Capital portfolio manager Andy
Gardner.

Write to Rhiannon Hoyle at rhiannon.hoyle@wsj.com

CO
IN

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i2114 : Copper Ore/Nickel Ore Mining | i22 :
Primary Metals | imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources

Page52of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE

IPD
PUB
AN

c11 : Plans/Strategy | mcopp : Copper Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | nimage :
Images | reqrmm : Suggested Reading Metals/Mining | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 :
Metals Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mnonfr : Non-ferrous Metals | ncat
: Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | redit : Selection of Top
Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
china : China | austr : Australia | asiaz : Asia | saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Andrew Mackenzie
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document WSJO000020141118eabi00669

Page53of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.