Design befitting our suburbs on the rise

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Design befitting our suburbs on the rise

MARTIN RASINI
504 words
30 May 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
29
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

A BROADBEACH trophy site earmarked for a project whose transformative power rivals that of the
suburb’s twin-tower Oracle precinct, is up for grabs.
The 3275sq m site, at 2709-2732 Gold Coast Hwy, forms two-thirds of Main Place, an ageing retail
and office precinct opposite the Gold Coast convention centre.

It is approved for a 50-storey tower with shops, offices, a hotel and apartments.
In a sign of growing confidence, it is the third landmark Gold Coast site to be released for sale in
recent months.
It joins Southport’s Star of the Sea holding, for which Chinese interests plan a multi-tower mixed-use
precinct, and a 42ha parcel at Mermaid Waters with mixed-use approval.

Main Place is two blocks from The Oracle, developed by the Nikiforides family, whose curvilinear
towers have transformed the Broadbeach streetscape and delivered a new shopping and dining area.
The Main Place tower will have a 1794sq m ground-level retail precinct, 2226sq m of commercial
space, 173-room hotel across six levels, and 40 levels hosting 320 apartments.

There will be extensive amenities and there is approval for a basement to hold 585 cars, and 350
bikes.

The nine-title holding was assembled by veteran Gold Coast developer John Potter, a former head of
Villa World, at a cost of $39 million between 2004 and 2008.
The developer’s Potter Group has apartment projects in progress at Doncaster in Melbourne and
Killara in Sydney, and is close to completing a major industrial precinct at Larapinta near Brisbane
where only two sites remain for sale.
The Main Place site, which offers a significant holding income, is being put to market by Tony
Velissario, of Tony V Real Estate, in an expression-of-interest campaign to be launched in coming
weeks.
Mr Potter said impetus to assemble the site was recognition that land for mixed-use highrise projects
in Broadbeach was finite.

“There are no areas available for mixed-use development except Main Place,” Mr Potter said.
“My vision for the site was further validated by development of the convention centre.

“Such facilities, wherever established around the world, attract people with high disposable incomes
and change the nature of a suburb.

Page45of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“Another motivating factor was the decision to develop a light-rail system with a terminus at
Broadbeach. Transport nodes can add 40-50 per cent to property values due to the convenience
factor.” Mr Potter said that, while he had been able to assemble the site and obtain approvals,
realisation of the vision was beyond his pocket and he was offering the site to the market.
“Simply put, it is too big for me and sale of the assembled holding was always how I saw the project
playing out.“There has been significant interest in the property and, while talks are on foot with a
number of prospective purchasers, we plan to offer it in a campaign that will take in overseas
markets.”

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020140529ea5u0000p

Page46of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.