Big miners eye OZ Minerals $500m site

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Big miners eye OZ Minerals $500m site

Simon Evans
476 words
7 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
18
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Several major global mining companies have already undertaken site visits at OZ Minerals'
Carrapateena copper-gold deposit in South Australia as up to 12 different groups jostle to take a
likely controlling stake in that project for an estimated $500 million-plus.

OZ Minerals chief executive Terry Burgess said interested parties in Carrapateena were at various
stages in the process but some had already been on the site as part of their due diligence.

He said the most likely scenario was that if a major global player was ultimately chosen as the best
financial option for the development of Carrapateena, it was almost certain that it would insist on a
majority stake and control of the project.

"Whether that be 75 per cent or 51 per cent, all options are on the table," he said on Tuesday on the
sidelines of a SA Resources and Energy Investment conference.Pockets not deep enough

Mr Burgess said he accepted that OZ would most likely have to give up control because it did not
have deep enough pockets to develop the project itself. Analysts estimate that full development of
Carrapateena could cost up to $3 billion.

He said the aim was to have a final deal in place well before the end of calendar 2014.

"We haven't got a hard and fast timetable," he said.

Mr Burgess declined to divulge who may be among the interested parties. But more broadly, he
pointed out that Chinese companies had spent a combined US$17.5 billion on 17 different copper
projects around the world since 2007, and there was a large appetite from Chinese firms for copper
assets.
"China itself is clearly demonstrating that access to copper is vital," he said.
Carrapateena has a copper resource of 6.3 million tonnes of copper and was acquired by OZ for
US$250 million in 2011 from veteran Adelaide mining prospector Rudy Gomez and the Canadian
firm Teck. It is one of the largest undeveloped copper deposits in Australia.

Mr Burgess said that while there was also major focus on the nearby Khamsin discovery, about
10 kilometres from Carrapateena, with a maiden resource estimate coming for that in the next few
weeks, OZ had also just shifted a drill rig back to the Fremantle Doctor prospect in the area.

OZ's main asset is the Prominent Hill mine in SA. Mr Burgess said SA's geology showed it had deep
but highly valuable ore bodies.
BHP Billiton in August 2012 put on ice a planned $30 billion expansion of the Olympic Dam project
at Roxby Downs in northern SA because of the cost of stripping away large amounts of overburden,

Page125of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.and a softening commodities outlook. It is now searching for a technological breakthrough that will
provide a lower-cost option.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

golpla : OZ Minerals Limited
i5020011 : Dam Construction | i502 : Heavy Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140506ea570001l

Page126of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.