GPM GPM Metals forms JV for Walker Gossan Pb-Zn-Ag project

HD
CR
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

GPM GPM Metals forms JV for Walker Gossan Pb-Zn-Ag project

Stockwatch
758 words
27 January 2014
Canada Stockwatch
CNSW
English
(c) 2014 Canjex Publishing Ltd.

GPM Metals Inc (TSX-V:GPM)

Shares Issued 110,514,514

Last Close 1/24/2014 $0.115

Monday January 27 2014 - News Release

Mr. J. Patrick Sheridan reports

GPM METALS INC. ANNOUNCES SIGNING OF EARN-IN/JOINT VENTURE AGREEMENT WITH RIO
TINTO EXPLORATION PTY LIMITED FOR THE WALKER GOSSAN LEAD-ZINC-SILVER PROJECT,
NORTHERN TERRITORY, AUSTRALIA

GPM Metals Inc., through its wholly owned subsidiary, DPG Resources Australia Pty. Ltd., has entered
into an earn-in/joint venture agreement with Rio Tinto Exploration Pty. Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of
Rio Tinto Ltd., covering base metal exploration and development rights in relation to certain granted
exploration tenements and tenement applications in the McArthur basin mining district, Northern
Territory, Australia.

Rio Tinto and GPM have entered into a definitive two stage earn-in/joint venture agreement, granting
GPM an initial 51-per-cent interest under certain conditions.

Stage one
- Payment of $1-million on signing;
- Minimum expenditure of $2-million within three years of effective date;
- Combined expenditures of $20-million over a 10-year period;

- Milestone payments within the combined expenditures as follows:

- $100,000 upon the grant of licences to all of the properties;
- $1-million upon the completion of the first drill hole on the Walker Gossan;
- $4-million upon the completion of a JORC code-compliant resource study that shows an indicated
status for minimum 20 million tons of greater than 8 per cent combined lead and zinc, or lead, zinc and
silver, within the licensed area, or a decision to mine being made.

Stage two

GPM may increase its interest to 75 per cent by completing a feasibility study within three years of
completing stage one.

Rio Tinto may elect to contribute, pursuant to its participating share, not contribute and be diluted or
convert its interest into a net smelter return (2.5 per cent) royalty.

Page178of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.There are rights of first refusal on purchase and sale of interest for both parties at fair market value.

GPM will be responsible for all negotiations with the Northern Land Council for consent to issue the
exploration licence applications and work programs to be conducted by GPM under its sole rights or as
operator.

Description of property

The 166,000-hectare Walker Gossan project is located within the Walker trough, a package of middle
Proterozoic carbonate sediments, situated in Arnhem land in the Northern Territory of Australia.
Geographical maps and geological setting illustrations are available on the company's website.
The primary area of interest is the Walker Gossan. Gossanous outcrops with highly anomalous lead
values were discovered by CRA -- Conzinc RioTinto of Australia (predecessor to Rio Tinto Ltd.) in 1970
and a tenement application was made to the government of the Northern Territory in 1972. An agreement
under the Aboriginal Land Rights Act is required prior to grant of the tenement. To date the area has
been held under tenement application and no exploration has been undertaken within the 40 years which
have followed the discovery of the gossan.

The Walker trough is part of an extensive middle Proterozoic carbonate sequence, which occurs from the
south of Mount Isa through to Darwin over an area of approximately 600,000 square kilometres, which
hosts one of the great metallogenic belts of the world.
The region includes a number of major silver, lead, zinc and copper deposits. These include the Mount
Isa, George Fisher and MacArthur River mines owned by Xstrata; the Cannington silver mine, regarded
as the largest silver mine in the world, owned by BHP; the Century zinc deposit, one of the largest zinc
mines in the world and owned by MMG Mining of China and several other deposits.

The Walker trough region was identified by the Northern Territory geological survey team as being a
direct analogy of the lead-zinc-endowed Batten fault trough which contains the MacArthur River zinc
mine. Further, it was considered the hottest untested exploration play in the Northern Territory in a 2004
publication of the Northern Territory geological survey.

Peter Mullens, president, DPG Resources (Australian subsidiary of GPM Metals), states: "We are excited
to have signed this agreement with Rio Tinto and to partner with them in this project area. The Walker
Gossan project has the potential to be a company maker."

The qualified person for GPM is Peter Mullens, PGeo, who is a member of the Australian Institute of
Mining and Metallurgy. Mr. Mullens has reviewed and approved the contents of this release.

We seek Safe Harbor.

CO
IN

NS

craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd | minsie : GPM Metals Inc. | rtz : Rio Tinto PLC
i2113 : Lead Ore/Zinc Ore Mining | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying | i2114 : Copper Ore/Nickel Ore Mining
c184 : Joint Ventures | cnatrd : Natural Reserves/Resources Discovery | npress : Press Releases | c18 :
Ownership Changes | c24 : Capacity/Facilities | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial
News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | cana : Canada | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North America
News Release

RE
IPD
PUB Canjex Publishing Ltd.
AN

Document CNSW000020140127ea1r002bt

Page179of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.