Media Release: EIG Global Energy Partners

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Media Release: EIG Global Energy Partners

978 words
14 July 2014
AAP MediaNet Press Releases
AAPMPR
English
© 2014 Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

AAPMEDIA RELEASE PR57338 Noble Group And EIG Form New Energy Company
HONG KONG and WASHINGTON, July 14, 2014 /PRNewswire-AsiaNet/ --

- Shell Veteran Linda Cook to be CEO of Harbour Energy
Noble Group Limited (SGX: N21) ("Noble") and EIG Global Energy Partners ("EIG") today announced
the formation and commitment to capitalize Harbour Energy, Ltd ("Harbour Energy"), a company that
will own and operate upstream and midstream energy assets globally. Harbour Energy will seek to own
high quality assets that provide exposure to key supply trends while capturing value up-lift associated
with control of offtake, logistics and supply chain management. Noble will be preferred offtake and
marketing partner of Harbour Energy, while EIG, together with the company's internal management
team, will serve as manager of the company and oversee the acquisition of assets. Harbour Energy's
capitalization will be funded solely through balance sheet capital of each of Noble and EIG.

EIG also announced today that Linda Z. Cook has been appointed a Managing Director of EIG, a
member of EIG's Executive Committee and CEO of Harbour Energy.
"The creation of Harbour Energy gives us the exciting opportunity of joining with an industry leader such
as EIG to exploit the tremendous opportunities that the changing global energy markets are presenting,"
said Yusuf Alireza, Chief Executive Officer of Noble. "This transaction represents a significant milestone
in the continued implementation of Noble's 'asset light' strategy, exploiting our best in class expertise in
logistics and supply chain management, while partnering with market leading asset managers and
owners."

R. Blair Thomas, Chief Executive Officer of EIG, said, "New sources of supply, together with demand
growth in Asia, are driving fundamental changes in the energy sector and related trade flows. By
partnering with Noble, we believe Harbour Energy will be uniquely positioned to benefit from the
established global platforms of each of our firms and capture value both through the ownership and
operational improvement of assets and the flow business those assets generate. We couldn't be more
pleased that someone of the caliber of Linda Cook has agreed to join EIG and serve as CEO of Harbour
Energy. She is an extraordinarily accomplished senior executive with deep operating and management
expertise across all facets of the global energy industry."

About Noble Group

Noble Group (SGX: N21) manages a portfolio of global supply chains covering a range of agricultural and
energy products, as well as metals, minerals and ores. Operating from over 140 locations and employing
more than 70 nationalities, Noble facilitates the marketing, processing, financing and transportation of
essential raw materials. Sourcing bulk commodities from low cost regions such as South America, South
Africa, Australia and Indonesia, the Group supplies high growth demand markets, particularly in Asia and
the Middle East. In order to ensure the integrity of its supply chains, the Group has a portfolio of interests
in strategic logistics and processing assets which form an integral part of facilitating its key trade flows.
Noble is ranked number 76 in the 2013 Fortune Global 500. www.thisisnoble.com.

About EIG

Page109of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.EIG specializes in private investments in energy and energy-related infrastructure on a global basis and
has $15.4 billion under management as of March 31, 2014. During its 32-year history, EIG has invested
over $16.4 billion in the sector through more than 290 projects or companies in 34 countries on six
continents. EIG's clients include many of the leading pension plans, insurance companies, endowments,
foundations and sovereign wealth funds in the U.S., Asia and Europe. EIG is headquartered in
Washington, D.C. with offices in Houston, London, Sydney, Rio de Janeiro, Hong Kong and Seoul. For
more information, visit www.eigpartners.com.

Linda Z. Cook

Linda Cook, 56, spent 29 years with Royal Dutch Shell in multiple business units in multiple countries. A
petroleum engineer by training, she joined Shell in 1980, spending the first 18 years of her career in
various engineering, operations and management roles in North American E&P. She relocated to
Europe in 1998 first to run strategy and finance for Shell's global E&P business and then to run Shell's
gas & power business, including the world's largest LNG portfolio. In 2003 she became CEO of Shell
Canada Ltd. and then in 2004 returned to The Hague as a Director and member of the Executive
Committee of Royal Dutch Shell plc with responsibility for, among other things, gas & power, renewables,
downstream technology and global trading activities, as well as general oversight for all Shell activities in
Asia, North Africa, Mexico, Venezuela and selected Middle East countries. Mrs. Cook currently serves on
the Board of Directors of The Boeing Company, Cargill Inc. and KBR Inc., and recently retired from the
Board of Marathon Oil.

Important Legal Notice

This announcement is being made for information purposes only and is not intended to be, and must not
be taken as, the basis for an investment decision or any investment activity. This announcement does not
constitute or form part of any offer or invitation to sell or issue, or any solicitation of any offer to purchase
or subscribe for, any interest in Harbour Energy or any other entity, or any other securities in any
jurisdiction including the United States, nor shall it form the basis of, or be relied upon in connection with,
any contract or investment decision. Securities may not be offered or sold in the United States absent a
registration statement or an exemption from registration.

CONTACT: Noble Group Limited: Investor Relations: Stephen Brown, +852 9235 6264,
stephenbrown@thisisnoble.com; Media Relations: Candice Adam, +44 207 397 2915,
candice.adam@argentuspr.com; EIG Global Energy Partners, LLC: Media Relations: Allison Oyster, +1
202 478 3808, aoyster@apcoworldwide.com
SOURCE: EIG Global Energy Partners

nobgrp : Noble Group Ltd
i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | npress : Press Releases | ncat : Content Types
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd
AN

Document AAPMPR0020140714ea7e0008e

Page110of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.