Sundance chairman upbeat on funding

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Sundance chairman upbeat on funding

PAUL GARVEY, resources
437 words
19 June 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
20
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

FALLING iron ore prices and a dwindling share price have done little to dent the enthusiasm of
Sundance Resources chairman George Jones, who has set a tight timetable for the group’s ambitious
$4.5 billion fundraising efforts.
Mr Jones, who resumed the chairmanship of Sundance after a plane crash that killed the company’s
board four years ago today, told a meeting of investors organised by stockbrokers Morgans yesterday
that he expected to define the terms of its proposed debt raising by Christmas.

Acknowledging that many in the market viewed Sundance’s plans to develop its large but remote
Mbalam iron ore project — which sits in jungle on the border between Cameroon and the Democratic
Republic of Congo — as an “impossible dream”, Mr Jones said there had been strong interest from a
range of potential financiers and partners.
He pointed to his previous success at iron ore miner Portman, where he grew the market
capitalisation from $12 million to $3.2bn, and the success of Andrew Forrest in financing the
development of Fortescue Metals Group’s Pilbara iron ore assets as proof that Sundance’s goals
were achievable.

“People keep looking at our market capitalisation, which is about $250m, and they say, ‘How on earth
can they possibly fund the $4.5bn total capital cost?’,” Mr Jones said. “Well Twiggy (Forrest) did it,
$10bn entirely in debt, and I’m hoping to emulate that with Sundance.” Some $3.5bn of the project’s
proposed capex cost is tied up in the rail and port infrastructure that will connect Mbalam to the ocean
500km away.
Mr Jones said the company already had indicative offers for finance in excess of the $3.5bn, with
Sundance aiming to define that by Christmas.
While iron ore prices have fallen to their lowest levels in two years amid a big lift in supply and
softening Chinese economic growth, Mr Jones said development funds and export credit agencies
around the world had shown strong interest in helping to fund the development.

“There’s a lot of people whose mandate is to help a lot of these African countries get projects off the
ground. We’ve been swamped with people who want to put money into this project,” Mr Jones said.

“We’ve also had serious interest from export credit agencies.” Sundance has appointed Standard
Bank to advise it on its funding efforts.If Sundance is unable to fund Mbalam’s development entirely
through debt, Mr Jones said the company would raise equity through the sale of a small stake in the
project itself.

IN
NS
RE

i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

Page27of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140618ea6j00015

Page28of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.