Can Redmond turn the tide for Echo in 2014?

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Can Redmond turn the tide for Echo in 2014?

Jessica Gardner
894 words
9 January 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
15
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Gaming When the casino operator named a CEO, it seemed things were looking up.

When John Redmond took the reins of Echo Entertainment Group last January pundits thought the
embattled casino operator was at its lowest point.

Even The Australian Financial Review named the experienced American operator as a chief executive
to watch in 2013, saying "things can't get worse than 2012 for Echo".

In 2012 Echo had lost its chairman while its CEO quit after a series of scandals, including allegations
of sexual harrassment against the boss of Echo's flagship casino The Star in Sydney. Echo's outlook
was beginning to improve, as a $870 million facelift of The Star was completed in early 2013.

And yet looking back over the past year it is tough to imagine how 2013 could have been more grim for
Redmond and the Echo board, lead by former rugby union boss John O'Neill. But as the former
gaming regulator's one year anniversary on January 18 approaches, investors worry that uncertainties
weighing on their minds and the share price may not be resolved in the coming year.

Echo shares plunged 28 per cent in 2013, compared to a 58 per cent climb at James Packer's Crown
Resorts and a 15 per cent rise in the wider market. Weak consumer spending plagued Echo's four
casinos and underpinned the stock's weakness, but it was big news events that really pummelled the
$2 billion casino company.

As Citi analyst Michael Goltsman says, Redmond "had his hands full" battling bad news on multiple
fronts, while trying to turn performance around.The final nail

Echo's share price first began to fall in late 2012 when the NSW government said Crown's bid to build
a $1.3 billion casino and hotel in Barangaroo had moved to stage two of its unsolicited proposals
process, Goltsman says. "It was really just a matter of putting the final nail in the coffin in 2013," he
says.

In July Redmond was told Echo would lose its monopoly grip on Sydney's casino market from 2019
after Crown's bid to build across the water from The Star in the Barangaroo precinct was approved.
And in Queensland, where the company operates casinos in Brisbane, Townsville and the Gold
Coast, the state government said it was keen for more casinos in the state, despite Redmond's refrain
that a 'one casino, one city' model was most appropriate for the Australian market.

Expressions of interest to build a casino and entertainment complex on the banks of the Brisbane
River are due in March. A shortlist will be announced in June, but the successful bidder will not be
known until 2015. Redmond has said Echo will spend over $1 billion in Brisbane if it is successful.
Perpetual's head of equities Matt Williams, who controls the largest stake in Echo, says the company
comes from a "reasonable starting position" in its bid for Brisbane, given it already has three venues in
the state that have long licences. Crown has flagged its interest in the city and the state government

Page145of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.has said international operators could be in the running, too. For its part, Echo is believed to be looking
to partner up with a foreign operator in a move that would ease its capital expenditure.
The still unknown intentions of Genting Hong Kong, which holds 6.6 per cent of Echo and for 18
months has been waiting clearance to increase its stake, are as always, hotly debated.

Williams says the two main issues weighing on Echo's share price are underperforming capital
expenditure projects and a poor track record on government relations.Poor relations

"Echo have not handled their licenses and their relations with their respective governments in NSW
and Queensland as well as Crown has and I think that's been the difference," he says. "The capex
spend at The Star has certainly underperformed our expectations and management is now working
hard to try and rectify that. I think that will continue to take time."
Nonetheless Perpetual has pounced on Echo's plunging share price to build up its stake to 14.79 per
cent, from under 10 per cent, over the past year. Williams says the market is "quite pessimistic" on
Echo, with some brokers capturing only a value for The Star and nothing for the Queensland
properties in their estimates of its market value.

Citi's Goltsman, who has a "buy" call on Echo says he sees value while the share price is "ignoring the
opportunity for operational improvements".

It is here where many in the market see Redmond's strengths. One of the seasoned casino operator's
first moves, back in February, was to announce a doubling of a cost-saving program to $60 million.
"He has stabilised the ship," one fund manager said, "but he needs to try and get some wins, small
ones initially, and give the market confidence."

Aurora Funds Management fund manager Andrew Ward, says Echo presents "too many
uncertainties". The long wait for a winner in Brisbane hangs a cloud over Echo's horizon and Redmond
is yet to articulate a strategy of how The Star would boost performance over the next six years before
Crown Sydney opens its doors.

ekoee : Echo Entertainment Group Ltd.
i97912 : Gambling Industries | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality
c411 : Management Moves | cslmc : Senior Level Management | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c41
: Management Issues | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News
Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
| nswals : New South Wales | queensl : Queensland
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140108ea190001p

CO
IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page146of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.