Wasting food can eat away the future

By The Canberra Times

HD Wasting food can eat away the future
BY
WC 1,081 words
PD
5 April 2014
SN
Canberra Times
SC
CANBTZ
PG
B009
LA
English
CY
(c) 2014 The Canberra Times
LP

Wasting food can eat away the future

Feeding the planet is a enormous undertaking - food production gobbles up resources and a third of it is
wasted.

TD

G row a few vegetables in the backyard or spend time catching your dinner in the surf and you'll get some
appreciation for the enormity of theglobal food system. Feeding 23million people in Australia every day, or
7billion-plus worldwide is analmost unimaginably complex undertaking. The release of the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report this week showed that feeding the global
population is likely to become even more complex and difficult as greenhouse gas levels rise,
temperatures increase, and rainfall patterns become more volatile around the planet. Since the 1960s,
intensive agriculture has dramatically increased our capacity to produce food. While weare now capable
of feeding 7billion, the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) has shown that some of
our food systems are incredibly inefficient. The FAO, in its Food Wastage Footprint report, estimated that
a staggering one-third of all food produced is never consumed. That's 1.3 billion tonnes a year lost or
wasted at some point between thefarm and our plates. This would need 1.4 billion hectares of land to
produce. Australia has only a little more than 45 million hectares of arable land, so it's an enormous loss
and one that has significant implications for our impact on the planet. As would be expected from the
sheer size of the undertaking, agriculture and the global food system are considerable consumers of
resources. Irrigated agriculture accounts for about 70 per cent of allfresh water used, and the food system
as a whole is estimated to be responsible for up to a third of all human-caused greenhouse gas
emissions. Embedded in wasted food are all ofthe materials, energy, water, land, and human resources
that went into

producing, harvesting, transporting, storing and preparing it. The FAO says lost and wasted production on
a global scale adds an estimated 3.3 gigatonnes of greenhouse gases to the atmosphere each year, for
zero gain. This 3.3 gigatonnes is about six times the total annual greeenhouse gas emissions from
Australia, or about a third of theannual emissions from China, with its massive industries and
1.3billioninhabitants. The IPCC has calculated a growing global demand for food of 14 per centevery
decade and has shown that yields of several of our most important crop species are already declining
under the effects of climate change. Reducing waste in the food system makes even more sense under
these conditions. A global strategy to reduce waste must include firm research and development goals
and an extensive skills training program, particularly for smallholder farmers (there are an estimated
500million smallholder farms around the planet). Governments have an important role to play in
establishing infrastructure, in promoting a global approach and in nurturing partnerships between new and
existing industry participants. Many of the necessary elements are already in place. But what is urgently
required isthe will and wherewithal to implement strategies that seriously address the shortfalls in the
system. Doing something about food waste is not restricted to those directly involved in the industry,
however. There are important things that we

can do as individuals, families and communities. As food moves from the farm to the plate, the economic
and environmental costs accumulate. Reducing food waste in our homes has an impact because it is
eliminating the waste of the often significant embedded costs of transport, storage, processing and
marketing. Like insulation and low-energy light bulbs, it's a win-win situation, with significant savings
possible for the savvy consumer and for the environment. In NSW, where it has been closely monitored, it

Page283of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.has been calculated that households waste up to 315 kilograms, or more than $1000 worth of food a year.
Multiplied across the country, that's $8billion of household food purchases wasted in Australia every year.
In the United States, the estimated cost of food loss and waste, based on

farm gate prices, is an astonishing $US750billion ($811billion). Reducing food waste in the home can be
as simple as planning purchases and meals in advance, storing food appropriately, only cooking what can
be eaten in a reasonable timeframe and making sure leftovers are consumed. We've grown accustomed
to supermarket shelves filled with blemish-free produce, but this luxury can come at a high price. All too
easily, unfavourable environmental conditions or simply natural variation can lead to produce that, despite
farmers' best efforts, fails to meet tight market specifications. Perfection is fine in principle, but not if the
cost is that good food goes to waste or that farmers are unfairly penalised for the vagaries of nature.
Shopping where a range of produce is available can be a powerful way to send a message that you care
and

that imperfect produce is acceptable and even sometimes more desirable. A single-minded focus on price
and convenience has guided the development of the current food retailing system. Of course, there's
nothing wrong with convenience and a good price. But knowing where our food comes from, or better still,
knowing the people who produce it, helps us to make informed choices and to understand its true value.
Urbanisation is often cited as one of the defining global trends of the 21st century. As our cities grow, we
can easily remain insulated from the source of our food and those who produce it. Alternatively, we can
engage more meaningfully with it so that we can make choices that support sustainable practices.
Shopping at farmers markets, buying locally produced food, or supporting food businesses that

promote transparency and connections can at the moment be less convenient, but there is real long-term
value in supporting a diversified food system that is more responsive to the needs of growers, consumers
and the environment. Advances in agriculture and logistics have meant that billions of people the world
over are food- secure. But 842 million people experience chronic hunger, malnutrition and food
insecurity, and millions more suffer from diet- related diseases such as heart disease, diabetes and
cancer. The IPCC has sent us a stark reminder that despite the successes, a fully functioning food system
is an ongoing project and we all have a major stake in its success. Dr Brian Jones is from faculty of
agriculture and environment at the University of Sydney.

RF
NS

55614493
gclimt : Climate Change | gcat : Political/General News | genv : Environmental News | gglobe :
Global/World Issues | gwea : Weather
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty Ltd
AN

Document CANBTZ0020140404ea4500022

Page284of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.