CBD

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
CBD

Colin Kruger
717 words
4 December 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
24
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Lights go out on Impulse founder's latest adventure
The sun definitely is not shining on green power provider CBD Energy or its recently stood down
boss, Gerry McGowan.

Administrators appointed to CBD Energy last month have taken the opportunity to terminate the
contract of McGowan, best known as the founder of Impulse Airlines.
He had been grounded by the renewable energy venture in October while it investigated whether its
accounts needed restating for the past three years, with McGowan's related-party transactions
fingered as a big culprit.

The investigation appears to have run into trouble.

The auditors from PricewaterhouseCoopers resigned effective November 10, "having concluded that it
is not independent of CBD ... due to non-payment of its professional fees by the company".

No beans, no bean counters.
CBD Energy thought the news was so important it disclosed it to the US SEC on December 3, and
said it was looking at alternatives for reissuing these historical and current financial statements "as
soon as practicable".
PWC helpfully advised the company that, if it had been allowed to "significantly expand the scope of
its audit" for the 2014 financial statements the additional information, combined with the results of the
investigation, "may have prevented it from rendering an unqualified audit report".
The statement from CBD Energy said its directors placed the main company and three Australian
subsidiaries into administration mid-November, after determining they "were insolvent or likely to
become insolvent in the future".

A wall of their own
The Chinese walls between Foxtel and its controlling shareholder, News Corp, are working incredibly
well.

Maybe a little too well.

Foxtel and Discovery apparently cut their 26¢-a-share bid for the embattled Network Ten after meeting
its management in recent weeks and, shocked by what was told to them , had to revise their offer for
the business.

Page195of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Foxtel bidding team might not have been so shocked if they had contacted News Corp's
co-chairman, Lachlan Murdoch, who was chairman until March this year and a had a stint as executive
chairman in 2011-12.

Sources in the industry say he, more than anyone else at Ten, moulded the broadcaster into the
business it is today.

Of course, the Foxtel-Discovery team would have to keep in mind he is said to be a seller of his
substantial stake in Ten if the right deal surfaces. So he has incentive to talk up the price a little.

Ten did not offer much detail in its update to the market on Wednesday, other than to say it "urges
caution in dealing in its shares on the basis of media speculation about potential transactions involving
the company".

Investors might lament the fact that Ten did not advise this sort of caution two years ago, when its
shares were still worth $1.

They're engaged

Western Desert Resources might have bitten the red dirt a few months ago but its biggest investor,
pokie billionaireBruce Mathieson, is making progress with a very different market punt.
Corporate husk SWW Energy said it had finally agreed to terms, under which it would be recycled as
a backdoor listing for investor relations and shareholder engagement app provider GRT App.
SWW will raise up to $5 million to fund the business, and issue 150 million shares to GRT's owners
at a value of $15 million.
A Mathieson-controlled company was named as one of the founders of GRT but there are no details
on the size of his stake.
GRT said it had signed an ASX-listed company as a customer without naming names. We don't
suppose Bruce managed to sweet talk his pokie partners at Woolworths into signing up, did he?

To boldly go

Artist & Entertainment Group, the former kiddies talent agency run by Elle Macpherson's little brother
Ben Macpherson hasn't had much luck morphing into an Indonesian oil and gas player.
More than five years after the company flagged an interest in coal, AEM chairman Ross Hill told
investors on Wednesday the company "is now progressing to finality with its acquisition of Centre
Petroleum Energy". CBD couldn't think of a better week to be getting into the energy sector.

Got a tip? ckruger@fairfaxmedia.com.au

RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020141203eac40004e

Page196of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.