Dairy demand promising

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

SN-Viewpoint
Dairy demand promising

G Adams
353 words
2 October 2014
Shepparton News
MPSHEP
M010
English
Copyright 2014. McPherson Media Group.

News our newest food processor Pactum Dairy has scooped up the buy of a big parcel of neighbouring
land is a promising sign.

The property, stretching across 7 ha, is one of the few remaining paddocks between the ring road along
the eastern boundary of Shepparton, Doyles Rd, and the city centre.

Its strategic location along the heavy vehicle bypass route made it doubly attractive to an exporter that
is counting on sending a lot of trucks to Port of Melbourne.

Anyone who has visited the factory since the opening in May would be aware it is in a growth mode and
China is the key market it is targeting.
Only last week a major Australian dairy player, Bega Cheese, announced a new deal with a Chinese
retailer, and it wants the Shepparton Pactum factory to package the UHT milk for it.
The five-year deal will result in the listed cheese company exporting 20 million litres of long-life UHT
Bega-branded milk annually to 300 supermarkets in south-west China.
Long-life milk suits the geographical disadvantage that Australia suffers from, which would otherwise
disqualify us from selling liquid milk to our distant neighbours.
UHT milk also commands a premium price compared to the bulk product that has historically been
popular with our Asian trading partners.
The agreements being made with Asian consumers represent an exciting advance for our dairy region.
Historically, Asia has been a major consumer of bulk commodities produced from milk grown in the
Goulburn Valley.

Although the appreciating Australian dollar has put considerable strain on price, as reflected in
Fonterra’s recent announcement that it has downgraded the milk price forecast, our country remains a
supplier of choice for sensitive, but big, food markets.
The Chinese company Bega recently concluded its deal with commands a 50 per cent share of all
food and general merchandise sales to the region’s 32 million people.

They are staggering numbers, which represents a huge potential demand, and with the recent decline
in the dollar value, the prospects for dairy exports are still good.

CO
IN

NS

becoop : Bega Cheese Ltd
i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy Products | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive
News Filter

Page326of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
McPherson Media Group
Document MPSHEP0020141001eaa20001s

Page327of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.