Outcry after Chinese demolish Australian houses

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

International
Outcry after Chinese demolish Australian houses

250 words
23 March 2014
Indo-Asian News Service
HNIANS
English
Copyright 2014. Indo-Asian News Service

Sydney, March 23 (IANS) Chinese buyers are bending rules related to the purchase of Australian
homes, the head of the Real Estate Institute of Victoria has revealed.
According to Enzo Raimondo, chief executive officer of the Real Estate Institute of Victoria (REIV),
foreign buyers are purchasing existing houses, demolishing them and rebuilding new, bigger homes
in Balwyn, Glen Waverley and other eastern suburbs, heraldsun.com.au reported.

The move is being alleged to be against Foreign Investment Review Board (FIRB) rules that state
foreign buyers may not purchase existing homes.They can only buy and demolish existing houses if
they subdivide the block and build two dwellings. Or they may knock over houses that are "derelict
and uninhabitable".

"There's certainly heritage-featured homes that are quite habitable that are being bulldozed for huge
French provincials selling for multi, multi-millions, three million," Raimondo added. "It may well be
that some of that doesn't comply with the FIRB rules. It's been going on for some time now."

He said it was "obvious the majority of buyers in a certain area (are) doing this".

Kelly O'Dwyer, an official chairing a federal parliamentary committee reviewing foreign investment
rules governing residential real estate, said the review would investigate whether there were
"distortions" in the market due to the operation of the rules.
"Is it increasing dwellings for Australians or are existing properties being purchased, making it more
difficult to buy homes?" she said.

RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | china : China | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales
IANS India Pvt. Ltd.
Document HNIANS0020140322ea3n0096l

Page92of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.