Industry Insight Industry comment by Peter McGregor Managing Director, Industrials, Food , Beverage and Agriculture Commonwealth Bank

SE
HD

BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Supplement - Special Report
Industry Insight Industry comment by Peter McGregor Managing Director, Industrials, Food ,
Beverage and Agriculture Commonwealth Bank
Peter McGregor Managing Director, Industrials, Food, Beverage & Agriculture, Commonwealth Bank
916 words
3 December 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
31
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

This content is produced by Commonwealth Bank of Australia in commercial partnership with The
Australian Financial Review.
The signing of the China Australia Free Trade Agreement in November, and also the announcement
that Australia would operate as a settlement hub for renminbi (RMB) trading, demonstrate how
enmeshed the economic relationship between the two countries is becoming.

When it comes to trade relations between the two countries, the attraction is mutual. Australia is the
second highest and second most attractive destination for Chinese investment, worth almost $70.1
billion in 2013.

The deep links created by these investment levels provide a strong growth platform for businesses in
both countries, and the FTA will only help to further bolster those relationships.

While the FTA has potentially a very significant impact on many sectors, the opportunities for
Australian agribusiness are enormous. Indeed even before the FTA, the global macro-cycle was
already advantageous.
Consider this. China has 19 per cent of the world's population but less than 10 per cent of the world's
arable land. That, combined with growing wealth and the huge increase in the Chinese middle class,
is driving changing consumption patterns in ways favourable to our local producers.
Michael Workman, Director Economics, Commonwealth Bank, commented, "China is our biggest
trading partner and it is also the one with the most significant growth potential. Over the next 10 to 15
years, middle income households in China are set to double or even triple in size, assuming the
economy keeps moving along the track it has followed for last five to 10 years."
That is good news for Australian food producers, given middle income households in China tend to
consume a lot more of the types of products they develop. Those products tend to be protein based
around grains, dairy products and of course seafood.
In fact, the FTA with China is the third of its kind in recent times, following similar agreements with
Japan and South Korea. Those three markets account for 60 per cent of Australia's exports, and
together they will drive demand for Australia's food beverage and agriculture exports.

There was another significant announcement in November, with broad implications for bilateral trade
between Australia and China, and that was the establishment of Sydney as an RMB settlement hub
with Commonwealth Bank acting as a foundation member of the Australia RMB working group that
helped facilitate the initiative.

The settlement hub will greatly increase cross border RMB denominated capital flows, increase RMB
liquidity in Australia and help with product innovation in relation to the Chinese currency. RMB

Page42of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.continues to grow in importance when it comes to global trade says Sangeeta Venkatesan, Global
Foreign Exchange Chief Operating Officer at the Commonwealth Bank.
''The ability to trade in RMB more efficiently has big implications for Australian business.

"Now that we have the settlement hub we can think of more innovative ways to use the RMB as a
product and also provides more direct access to the market in China. In fact, we have recently
launched RMB dealing on our electronic portal, Commbiz Markets. This enables clients to buy and
sell the currency electronically, providing a more efficient and seamless settlement process," says Ms
Venkatesan.

"By using RMB for cross border trade, companies can negotiate better pricing arrangements with
suppliers or trade partners in China. They can also access a wider array of suppliers or counter
parties in China, since many companies there can't receive funds in $US or $A and must rely on the
RMB."

For Australian food, beverage and agriculture exporters these two announcements mean better
market access and more effective and efficient tools for trade, further strengthening the trade
relationship with China.

As trade links become more embedded over time, companies need to appreciate the opportunities
and risks, and understand what they can do to mitigate them.

The first thing to realise is that while the FTA and RMB settlement hub are substantial advancements
in trade relations, they alone will not guarantee success. For starters, tariffs will not all come off
immediately. For many products, tariffs will gradually be removed over the next four to nine years, so
those expecting an immediate uptick in trade volumes may be disappointed.

Instead, production capacity needs to build up gradually and consistently over the next four to five
years as the export market opens up.

Simply increasing capacity in the hope of acquiring additional markets offshore is the wrong approach
in such a highly competitive environment. Moreover, establishing relationships in the region and
finding the right partners and customers is paramount when developing and implementing an
export strategy.

There are also other elements for exporters to consider, not least of all the competitive landscape.

Companies looking to break into this highly competitive market need to consider how they are going
to dislodge incumbents. They need to understand their own unique selling proposition and also that of
their competitors.

In addition, there are other fundamental perils to be aware of, such as cross-border and counter-party
risk.

As Adnan Ghani, Executive Director Global Head of Trade Products, Commonwealth Bank, notes:
"Companies want to get paid at the end of the day and they may fear that while they can export the
goods, there may be some challenges in getting the money out in dollars."

ctb : Commonwealth Bank of Australia
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141202eac30002c

CO
IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

Page43of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.