King’s men build PwC practice

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

LegalAffairs
King’s men build PwC practice

CHRIS MERRITT, LEGAL AFFAIRS EDITOR
625 words
15 August 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
27
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Tony O’Malley and Tim Blue will lead the regional outfit

GLOBAL accounting giant PricewaterhouseCoopers has recruited two former managing partners at
King & Wood Mallesons to build a $100 million legal practice.

The move, which aims to disrupt the current structure of the Australian legal services market, will be led
by Tony O’Malley, who is a former Australian managing partner of KWM as well as a former deputy
global managing partner of that firm.
He will lead PwC’s legal practice in Australia and the Asia Pacific and has been appointed to the
accounting giant’s global legal services board.

Tim Blue, who is a former managing partner of KWM’s corporate mergers, acquisitions and tax
practice, will become Mr O’Malley’s deputy and will lead PwC’s corporate and commercial legal
practice.

Their recruitment is part of a plan outlined earlier this year in which PwC aims to become one of the
world’s top 20 providers of legal services.
Globally, PwC has revenue from its legal practices of $US500 million ($537m) but plans to increase
that to $US1 billion, which would still be a small part of the firm’s total revenue of more than $US30bn.

Mr O’Malley and Mr Blue are due to start at PwC on Monday week, four months after they unveiled
their own boutique corporate advisory practice in Sydney, LCR Advisory. One year earlier, the pair had
resigned from KWM amid leadership tensions.

They plan a selective recruitment drive in Australia and Asia in order to increase the revenue of the
Australian legal practice from about $15m to $100m in three to four years.

“We have not settled on a hard and fast number as to how big it is to be,” Mr O’Malley said.

“But I think we would probably look to something around 20 to 25 partners of the right calibre in the
right areas,” he said.

The practice would focus on high-end corporate advisory work and transactions in areas that meet the
needs of PwC’s client base and which align with the strengths of a multidisciplinary practice, he said.
“You will see us very present in the mergers and acquisitions space, in private equity, projects and
regulatory,” Mr O’Malley said.

They do not propose to establish a commercial litigation practice but they do plan to be active in
regulatory disputes, contentious tax disputes and contentious regulatory matters. They intend to build
what Mr Blue described as “a significant transactional capability” that would work alongside the deal
teams in other divisions of PwC.

Page92of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Tom Seymour, who is managing partner of PwC’s tax and legal business in Australia, said Mr O’Malley
and Mr Blue would be responsible for rebuilding the Australian legal practice by focusing on the
provision of premium legal services.

The decision to relaunch its Australian legal practice comes more than a decade after most of the big
accounting firms tried to take a major position in the legal services market.

Mr Seymour said PwC had learned from that episode and this time would recruit leading individual
lawyers and teams instead of seeking to merge with entire firms. PwC already has legal practices in
Singapore, Vietnam and China and is in the process of adding a legal practice in Malaysia.Mr Blue,
who has just returned from talks with the legal team in Singapore, said he and Mr O’Malley aimed to
develop a beachhead in Australia and then establish complementary practices in other countries. “Tony
and I have a lot of experience in Asia, we have a lot of great relationships and we think we understand
those markets pretty well,” Mr Blue said.

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

prwth : PricewaterhouseCoopers
iacc : Accounting/Consulting | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | i836 : Accounting
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | reqrac : Suggested Reading Accounting/Consulting | redit : Selection
of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140814ea8f0001t

Page93of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.