Qantas splits in bid for investors

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Qantas splits in bid for investors

Jamie Freed
502 words
29 August 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
24
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Aviation - International division hived off
Qantas is setting up a holding company for its international division - a change that could allow it to
sell up to 49 per cent of the business to an outside investor.

The move was made possible by changes to the QantasSale Act that removed restrictions on a
single airline owning more than 25 per cent or a group of airlines owning more than 35 per cent of
the company.

Chief executive Alan Joyce said the split increased the potential for investment, but cautioned it
could take time to find an investor interested in the business, which is unprofitable.
Mr Joyce said the immediate focus was on cutting $2 billion of costs over three years, of which up
to $1 billion will come from the international division.

He said the division would benefit from the airline's reduction in employees and fuel consumption,
closure of a maintenance base at Avalon, and changes such as making better use of ground power
units.

Qantas also intends to increase the use of its international fleet by 6 per cent by adding flights that
will lead its A380s and 747s to spend more time in the air.

As it prepares to hive off the international division, Qantas is looking again at whether to pursue a
split of its Air Operator's Certificates, or licences to fly, so that the domestic and international
business each have their own. That plan was put on ice in February.

The decision to split the international business triggered the need for the airline to make $2.6
billion of write-downs on its international fleet of A380s, 747s and A330s.

The impairments could, however, help the international business return to profitability, because
future depreciation costs will be reduced by $200 million a year.

Mr Joyce would not be drawn on when he expected the international business to stop losing
money.
"I'm not going to speculate when that is going to occur, but this [international split] is aimed at
allowing us to seek further investment around the international business," he said.
Qantas has previously said it will not exercise options or purchase rights over 50 Boeing 787-9s
until its international business stops losing money. On Thursday, it pushed back the timing of the
first options to be exercised to 2017 from 2016.

Page224of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The decision to split the international business rather than the domestic business pleased
shareholders, who were concerned the airline could sell a stake in the profitable domestic arm and
dilute their exposure to it.

Potential investors in the international business could include code-share partners such as
Emirates, China Southern and China Eastern.

But StrategicAero Research strategist Saj Ahmad said he doubted any airline would be interested
in buying a stake while the business was losing money. "I honestly cannot see anyone lining up to
take a stake here - it would be like pouring money down the drain," he said.

CO
IN

RE
PUB
AN

qntas : Qantas Airways Ltd
i75 : Airlines | i7501 : Scheduled Passenger Airlines | iairtr : Air Transport | itsp :
Transportation/Shipping
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140828ea8t0003v

Page225of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.