RBA Suggests Foreign House Buying Helping In Econ Rebalancing

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
TD

RBA Suggests Foreign House Buying Helping In Econ Rebalancing

867 words
30 May 2014
10:28
Market News International
MARNEW
English
(c) 2014. Market News International, Inc.

-Foreign Buying Stimulating Local House Construction
-Foreign Buying May Be Boosting Prices At Higher End
By Sophia Rodrigues

SYDNEY (MNI) - Foreign buyers aren't the main drivers of increasing

housing
activity in Australia but their demand may be helping in the rebalancing of
the
economy, the
Reserve Bank of Australia said.

The RBA made the comments in its submission to the House of

Representatives
Economic Committee Inquiry into Foreign Investment in Residential Real
Estate.
That inquiry was prompted by media coverage
driving up prices and making it harder for locals to buy homes.

suggesting foreign buyers were

The RBA's submission is based mainly on approvals data from the Foreign

Investment Review Board and also through its liaison with housing market
contacts.

"Overall, these data suggest that foreign residential approvals have
remained relatively steady as a share of the housing market in Australia and
hence are unlikely to have been the main driving factor behind the recent
increase in overall activity," the RBA said.

"Nonetheless, there is evidence that foreign purchases play a more

prominent role in some parts of the housing market than in others," the RBA
said, referring to FIRB data on purchases by individuals of new and
established
dwellings which showed average prices have consistently been much higher
than
the average actual sales price nationally.

"Taken at face value, this suggests that the purchases by foreign and
temporary residents tend to be concentrated in the higher-priced parts of
the
housing market, although it is possible that this average is somewhat
elevated
by a few approvals to purchase very high-priced homes," the RBA said.

Australia's foreign investment laws generally permit foreigners to only
construct new dwellings or buy new dwellings. The only foreigners allowed to
buy

Page259of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.existing dwellings are temporary residents with visas that allow them stay
in
Australia for a continuous period of more than 12 months, where the home is
used
as principal place of residence and must be sold once vacated. Included in
this
are foreign-owned companies that can purchase established properties to
house
their Australian-based staff.

The RBA said FIRB data show the value of approved foreign investment in

residential property has increased to over A$17 billion in 2012-13 from
around
A$6 billion annually in the 1990s. But their share has remained broadly
steady,
fluctuating between 5% and 10%. In 2012-13 it was in the middle of that
range.
While the share of approvals to purchase established dwellings rose during
this
period, the result overall was still only 3% of the total value of turnover,
the
RBA said.

The Senate Committee is mainly looking to examine the economic benefits

of
foreign investment in residential property and whether such investment is
directly increasing the supply of new housing and brings benefits to local
building industry and its suppliers.

The inquiry follows media reports in recent months about foreign

investors,
including those from China, driving up house prices in cities like Sydney
and
Melbourne and making first home buying unaffordable.

It is possible that such reports didn't take into account that some
overseas buyers may be Australian permanent residents or citizens. RBA's
head of
financial stability Luci Ellis pointed to this at a conference earlier this
month when she said, "I will note that have also been a large number of
Australian residents who happen to come from greater China and I wonder
whether
some of the more sought-after high temperature commentary about this has not
been able to distinguish between people who have moved here versus people
who
don't live here."

In a testimony in March, RBA Governor Glenn Stevens acknowledged

wealthy
foreign investors have an interest in Australia and their role is quite
prominent in cities like Sydney.

He, however, compared such interest to any other form of foreign

investment
and noted specifically that foreign investors were generally confined to
buying
new dwellings.

In the submission, RBA said, "foreign demand for Australian dwellings

can -
and has - provided a stimulus to the local residential construction
industry,
which accounts for around 9% of total employment in the Australian economy
and
is more labour intensive than most other industries."

Page260of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Such demand has been especially helpful in boosting construction
activity
in the current stage of the economic cycle, the RBA said, adding, its
liaison
with developers showed they faced little difficulty sourcing the skilled
labour
required for the construction of new dwellings, especially given the
softening
of investment in the mining industry.

In terms of the impact of foreign residential developers in adding to

the
overall supply of new dwellings in Australia, the RBA said it was more
difficult
to determine, "although on balance it is probably positive."

The RBA said it recognizes dwelling purchases and construction by
foreign
residents can increase the exposure of the Australian housing market to
business
cycles offshore, and any net capital inflow could increase the value of the
Australian dollar. But "these inflows appear to have relatively small to
date,"
the RBA said.

--MNI Sydney Bureau; tel: +61 2-9716-5467; email: srodrigues@mni-news.com
[TOPICS: MALDS$,MMLRB$,M$A$$$,M$L$$$,MT$$$$,MGL$$$]
rbkaus : Reserve Bank of Australia
e1121 : Home Sales/Housing Affordability | ereal : Real Estate Markets | gpol : Domestic Politics | e11 :
Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir :
Politics/International Relations
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
Deutsche Boerse AG
Document MARNEW0020140530ea5u0003n

CO
NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page261of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.