Pluton assets at risk after missed royalty

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Pluton assets at risk after missed royalty

Jonathan Barrett
659 words
6 October 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
22
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Iron ore miner Pluton Resources is about to complete a capital raising of more than $47.5 million
without disclosing that its mining assets are at risk of being seized.
Evidence of the severe cash-flow squeeze being suffered at the hematite ore miner, which has
mining and exploration assets on islands off the coast of Western Australia, follows a sharp and
sustained fall in the iron ore spot price that has severely hurt all but the most established and
low-cost miners.

The Australian Financial Review can reveal that the state government lodged a "forfeiture
application" over the company's Cockatoo Island mining lease in August, because Pluton has not
paid more than $1 million in iron ore royalties owed from its hematite ore project.
Separately, in September there was also an unrelated forfeiture claim lodged over the company's
nearby Irvine Island mining assets, which is still being developed, based on allegations that the
company had not met its minimum expenditure obligations to retain a mining lease.
Together, the forfeiture notices threaten the company's sole ore producing project, and its proposed
future mine site.

Pluton chief executive Jeremy Bower said he did not believe the forfeiture notices needed to be
disclosed to shareholders. "It's public information," Mr Bower said. "We don't see there being any risk
to us."

Pluton has reached an agreement with the Department of Mines and Petroleum to pay the
outstanding quarterly royalty at a later date. However, its inability to pay on time has left the
company open to a process known as "plainting", whereby a rival can try to claim the asset for itself
on the grounds the owner had not kept the assets in good standing.
Pluton's ore on Cockatoo Island is very high grade. Its port operations are located adjacent to its
pits.
Mr Bower said he was confident that the "plaint" on Irvine Island would not be successful and he
said that he did not know the identity of the person who was claiming the asset.Under pressure

"We were a little bit late on the expenditure there but that has been dealt with," Mr Bower said.
"There are a few people who are [interested] in purchasing the tenement so perhaps one of them is
trying to get it for free."

The person claiming that asset, named Iqbahl Khan, could press their case even if the expenditure
obligations have now been met.

Pluton, which has had its shares suspended since June after announcing it would conduct a capital
raising, recently extended the closing date for the entitlement issue to October 13.

Page117of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.If Pluton's largest shareholder, Hong Kong-based General Nice Resources (GNR), which has an
18 per cent stake, takes up its full entitlement, it would become a 33 per cent shareholder in the
company. It is not known whether GNR is aware of the forfeiture notices.
All up, Pluton is seeking between $47.5 million and $80 million to pay creditors; pay down debt; put
towards working capital; and buy its estranged joint venture partner, Wise Energy, out of the
Cockatoo Island project.
The company last month told the Australian Securities Exchange that the cash would be more than
enough to restructure the company accordingly so long as there was no further deterioration in the
iron ore price below $US78 a tonne.
The falling iron ore price, which was as high as $US190 a tonne in 2011, has put severe pressure
on small miners.Almost one in five listed junior miners and explorers have a cash balance of less
than $500,000, while 50 per cent of them are sitting on less than $2 million, Grant Thornton's latest
annual survey of the sector shows.
Key points Pluton failed to make timely payment of more than $1m in iron ore royalties. Forfeiture
claims lodged over the company's mining projects on WA islands.

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
mirono : Iron Ore Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mcat :
Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E
Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141005eaa60001u

Page118of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.