FED: Iron ore price falls affect WA companies

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

FED:Iron ore price falls affect WA companies

296 words
9 June 2014
Australian Associated Press Financial News Wire
AAPFIN
English
(c) 2014 Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

MINING PERTH, June 9 AAP - Falling iron ore and uranium prices have contributed to little growth
among West Australian mining companies in May.

The overall market capitalisation of West Australian listed companies increased by just 0.3 per cent in
the month to $153.6 billion, the Deloitte WA Index shows.

The stagnant result in the resources-dependent state came despite an increase in some commodities
prices such as nickel, platinum and palladium.
Steady gains across base metals were offset by uranium and iron ore's weak performances, Deloitte
said.
"Although the local markets are feeling the impact from decreasing iron ore prices, investors can still
seek comfort from international equity markets, which have reacted positively this month on the back of
positive economic data," Deloitte's Tim Richards said.
Precious metals such as gold and silver fell during the month due to strengthening in the global equities
markets.
"Investors have been seeing less of a need to hold gold, traditionally a safe haven metal in times of
political or economic uncertainties," he said.
WA's resources-driven economy is under pressure as iron ore, the nation's largest export, experienced
a double digit fall in prices during the month for the first time in two years after China's central planning
agency said the country's period of high steel demand had passed.

"Prices tumbled by 13.1 per cent and are attributed to higher output from suppliers coupled with high
port inventories coupled with weakened demand from China," Deloitte said.
Iron ore is trading around $US94 per tonne.
Meanwhile uranium prices continued their spiral downwards, falling by 8.1 per cent in May due to
excess supply and a weak outlook for demand.

AAP krc/maur

IN

RE
PUB
AN

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys |
iuran : Uranium Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd
Document AAPFIN0020140609ea690008d

Page56of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.