Life Insurance Companies; PREI(R) joint venture sells German residential portfolio

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Life Insurance Companies; PREI(R) joint venture sells German residential portfolio

640 words
16 August 2014
Investment Weekly News
INVWK
684
English
© Copyright 2014 Investment Weekly News via VerticalNews.com

2014 AUG 16 (VerticalNews) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at Investment Weekly News --
Prudential Real Estate Investors and Kauri CAB Management GmbH announced the successful sale of
a portfolio of 25 residential 'Altbau' buildings located within the S-Bahn ring of Berlin for (EURO)78.6
million, or about $105 million. PREI(R) is the real estate investment and advisory business of Prudential
Financial, Inc. (NYSE:PRU).

The portfolio, with buildings constructed between 1886 and 1913, with more than 538,000 square feet
available to be leased in the districts of Neukolln, Kreuzberg, Schoneberg, Wedding, Tiergarten and
Prenzlauer Berg. The transaction comprised the remaining assets acquired through a joint venture that
PREI formed in August 2011 with Kauri CAB to invest in residential apartment blocks in Berlin. PREI,
which operates as Pramerica Real Estate Investors in Germany, is acting on behalf of institutional
investors.

Since 2011, the joint venture amassed 953 apartments, with Kauri CAB sourcing the acquisitions. Kauri
CAB also oversaw the day-to-day property management, rental negotiations and refurbishment.
Sebastiano Ferrante, PREI's head of Germany said, "The sale represents an excellent outcome for PREI
and our partner. Most important, this sale confirms the successful track record of European value-added
transactions we have made on behalf of our clients for the last 15 years. We intend to leverage this
experience to capitalize on future investment opportunities in the German residential sector."

Hagen Kahmann Genaral Manager of Kauri CAB Management added "We are pleased how this
transaction resulted in a win for us in Berlin's sizable market with a strong rent culture."
Real estate advisor Angermann and European law firm Beiten Burkhardt acted for the joint venture in
the sale.
Kauri CAB Management GmbH, based in Berlin, was formed in 2008. The company provides in-house a
full suite of services within the German residential real estate sector; including: deal sourcing,
acquisition, debt financing and structuring, asset management, property management, rental
optimization and architectural and construction services. The principal has nearly 20 years of experience
investing into real estate in Germany, much of that specifically into residential properties in Berlin. The
company currently has 18 employees and manages approximately (EURO)80mn of predominately
residential assets.
PREI is a leader in the global real estate investment management business, offering a broad range of
investment vehicles that invest in private and public market opportunities in the United States, Europe,
the Middle East, Asia, Australia and Latin America. Headquartered in Madison, N.J., the company also
has offices in Atlanta, Chicago, Miami, New York, San Francisco, Frankfurt, Lisbon, London,
Luxembourg, Munich, Paris, Abu Dhabi, Mexico City, Sao Paulo, Hong Kong, Seoul, Singapore, Sydney
and Tokyo. Pramerica Real Estate Investors had gross assets under management of USD $55.8 billion
($41.8 billion net), as of March 31, 2014. For more information, visit http://www.prei.com.

Prudential Financial, Inc. (NYSE:PRU), a financial services leader with more than $1.1 trillion of assets
under management as of March 31, 2014, has operations in the United States, Asia, Europe, and Latin
America. Prudential's diverse and talented employees are committed to helping individual and
institutional customers grow and protect their wealth through a variety of products and services, including

Page24of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.life insurance, annuities, retirement-related services, mutual funds and investment management. In the
U.S., Prudential's iconic Rock symbol has stood for strength, stability, expertise and innovation for more
than a century. For more information, please visit www.news.prudential.com.
Keywords for this news article include: Asia, China, Industry, Real Estate, Banking and Finance,
Financial Companies, Finance and Investment, Investment and Finance, Life Insurance Companies,
Financial Service Companies.

Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world. Copyright 2014,
NewsRx LLC

pruins : Prudential Financial Inc
i82 : Insurance | i82002 : Life Insurance | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | ifinal : Financial Services
c184 : Joint Ventures | nnam : News Agency Materials | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate
Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E
Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
gfr : Germany | usa : United States | austr : Australia | hkong : Hong Kong | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz :
Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | china : China | chinaz : Greater China | dach :
DACH Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz :
Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz :
Western Europe
Expanded Reporting

CO
IN

NS

RE

IPD
PUB NewsRX, LLC
AN

Document INVWK00020140808ea8g000e8

Page25of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.