Australia Urged to Change Rules on Foreign Investments; Country's Business Leaders Cite the Need for Predictability, Transparency

SE
HD

BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
ED
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Australia Urged to Change Rules on Foreign Investments; Country's Business Leaders Cite the
Need for Predictability, Transparency
Rob Taylor
703 words
30 May 2014
18:05
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

MELBOURNE, Australia—Some of Australia's most powerful business voices have called for the
country's new conservative government to change rules seen as deterring direct investment from
overseas companies, particularly those from China.

"Part of our problem is really creating an environment where the rules are known, and they are
predictable," said Jennifer Westacott, the chief executive of the Business Council of Australia, a lobby
group, during a conference on bolstering business ties with China.

Chinese investors have strongly criticized Australia's foreign investment regime, which requires big
potential investments to be approved by the opaque Foreign Investment Review Board. The FIRB then
makes a recommendation before a final decision by the Treasurer.

The FIRB has approved the vast majority of investments, but has rejected a number of high-profile
deals and has otherwise been seen as presenting excessively high hurdles. In September 2009, for
example, China Nonferrous Metal Mining (Group) Co. terminated a 505 million Australian-dollar
(US$470 million) bid for a controlling stake in Australian rare-earths miner Lynas Corp. over tough
conditions imposed by the FIRB.

In 2008, the country's then-Labor government imposed extra scrutiny on investments by state-backed
enterprises and sovereign wealth funds just as China's Chinalco Mining Corp. International—the
world's second-largest alumina producer—was targeting Anglo-Australian miner Rio Tinto Ltd. for a
$US19.5 billion takeover. Chinalco subsequently walked away.
Since then Chinese companies have complained bitterly about the FIRB's opaque decision-making
process. China's government has raised the issue of investment rules in negotiations with Australia on
a free-trade deal that both countries hope to conclude this year.
Chinese investment in Australia fell 10 percent last year as its total overseas investment grew, a
KPMG survey found last month. There was an increase, though, in investments in Australia involving
smaller to medium-sized Chinese investors, which haven't been hit as hard by FIRB rulings.

Heather Ridout, who heads one of Australia's largest pension investment funds and is a member of the
Reserve Bank of Australia's board of directors, said there had to be more consistency and
predictability in investment rules.
"When I talk to Chinese business, that's what they're looking for," Ms. Ridout said at the same
conference. "They want much more consistency, much more clarity and much more … ease of doing
business in Australia."
FIRB's reputation in China was probably overstated, Ms. Westacott said. She noted that the last deal
the FIRB blocked, in November, was U.S. agribusiness Archer Daniels Midland Co.'s US$2.7 billion
bid to buy Australian grain handler GrainCorp Ltd.

Page262of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Still, Australia should consider adopting practices used elsewhere, such as Canada and New Zealand,
in which decisions on foreign investment are published monthly, with accompanying reasons for
acceptance or rejection. She said this would help encourage offshore investment at a time when the
economy needs fuel for additional growth following the end of a long mining boom.
Australia should also consider a A$1.1 billion threshold for FIRB scrutiny of private investment,
mirroring arrangements for New Zealand and the United States, Ms. Westacott said. The current
threshold for other countries is $248 million.

"Could it be more transparent? Yes. Could the rules be clearer? Yes," she said. "My feeling about
foreign investment is that we should say yes until we can show why we say no. It's really part of us
being willing to be a big global player."
Prime Minister Tony Abbott's government, keen to reach a trade deal with China, is expected to agree
to a A$1 billion threshold for FIRB scrutiny for Chinese companies only, although extra scrutiny of
state-backed investments from all countries would remain in place.
Mr. Abbot's government has refused to lift a ban on Chinese telecommunications giant Huawei
Technologies Co. taking part in the construction of a new national broadband network because of
national security concerns.
Chinese officials have also privately pointed to Huawei's exclusion as also eroding investment
confidence in Australia, Australian lawmakers have said.

bucoau : Business Council of Australia | chnfm : China Nonferrous Metal Mining (Group) Company
Limited
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | efdi : Foreign Direct Investment | gcat : Political/General News |
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e51 : Trade/External Payments | e511 : Capital Movements/Invisible
Trade | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | victor : Victoria (Australia)
General News
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document WSJO000020140530ea5u003h1

CO

IN
NS

RE

IPD
PUB
AN

Page263of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.