United Kingdom : AUSTRALIAN pipeline to be purchased by APA Group from BG Group

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY

LP

TD

United Kingdom : AUSTRALIAN pipeline to be purchased by APA Group from BG Group

455 words
12 December 2014
Cyprus Mail
CYMAIL
English
Copyright © Cyprus Mail 2014. Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com Company All Rights
Reserved.

UK energy giant BG Group plc has decided to sell its wholly-owned subsidiary QCLNG Pipeline Pty
Ltd to Australia's biggest gas infrastructure business APA Group for approximately US$5 billion, as
part of its effort to decrease its debts and fund investment.

QCLNG Pipeline Pty Ltd possesses a 543 kilometre, large-diameter underground pipeline network
linking BG Group's Surat natural gas fields in southern Queensland to a two-train 8.5 mtpa liquefied
natural gas (LNG) export facility at Gladstone on Australia's east coast.

The pipeline is an important component of the $20-billion QCLNG project, which is aimed on the
development of the world's first infrastructure to convert coal seam gas to LNG.
The sale of this non-core infrastructure is compatible with BG Group's plan of actively managing its
global asset portfolio.
The pipeline was build between 2011 and 2014 and has a present book value of US$1.6 Billion.

Tariffs payable on the pipeline are set to offer a fixed rate of return on the asset base with the primary
tariff components escalating yearly with US inflation indices.
Andrew Gould, interim Executive Chairman of BG Group, stated: "The sale of the QCLNG pipeline is
in line with our strategy to focus on BG Group's core areas of oil and gas exploration and production
and LNG.

"The timing reflects QCLNG's advanced stage of development; we are now on the verge of delivering
the world's first large-scale project using natural gas from coal seams as a feedstock for LNG."

The pipeline tariff for the year ended 31 December 2016 is likely to deliver to APA Group EBITDA of
approximately US$390 million as stated by BG in a statement.
The sale is dependent on the start of commercial LNG deliveries from the QCLNG export facility at
Gladstone and on the consent of BG's partners in the project China National Offshore Oil Corp and
Tokyo Gas. BG Group and its partners have firm capacity rights in the pipeline for 20 years, with
choice to extend the duration.
Plan on completion for the first half of 2015, BG expects to make a profit of $2.7 billion through the
sale, although it will be partly offset by impairment charges to the tune of $2 billion on account of the
company's remaining QCLNG assets.
The BG Group intends to make use of the sale proceeds for reducing company's net debt and to
fund future growth investment.

BG Group is reconsidering its reference conditions, long-term price assumptions and business plans
in light of latest movements in commodity prices, mainly oil.

CO

austpi : APA Group | brgas : BG Group PLC

Page8of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

RE

IPD
PUB
AN

i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1 : Energy | i1300014 : Natural Gas Extraction | i502 : Heavy
Construction | i5020043 : Pipeline Laying | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction |
iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | uk : United Kingdom | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
(BankingAndFinance)
Cyprus Mail Ltd
Document CYMAIL0020141213eacc0005m

Page9of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.