Chinese investment in overseas real estate rises in Q1

Chinese investment in overseas real estate rises in Q1

HD
WC 267 words
PD
8 May 2014
SN
Real Estate Monitor Worldwide
SC
RSTWEN
LA
English
CY
© 2014 Global Data Point. All Rights Reserved. Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
LP

Purchases of residential housing land by institutional investors have bolstered the momentum of
Chinese overseas real estate investment, a report said Tuesday.
Figures released by real estate services firmJones Lang LaSalle (JLL) showed that Chinese institutional
investors poured 2.1 billion U.S. dollars into overseas real estate in the first quarter, 25 percent higher
than the same period last year.

TD

Major Chinese housing developers have set their eyes on the overseas property market to cope with the
slowing trend in the domestic market as well as the economy, said David Green-Morgan, JLL's global
capital markets research director.
He said investment in residential housing land from Chinese investors rose to 1.1 billion dollars in the
first quarter, up 80 percent year on year.
Britain, Australia and the United States ranked as the top three favorite countries for Chinese institutional
investors, according to the report.
Investment in overseas commercial property has exceeded 1 billion dollars, the report said, noting that
the United States and Australia are the favorite commercial real estate markets for Chinese investors.

Investment in the U.S. market in the first three months jumped to 732 million dollars, a sharp rise from 51
million dollars a year ago, while investment in the Australian market also quadrupled to 400 million dollars
in the same period.
Office buildings remain the top choice for Chinese institutional investors, according to the report.
Although investment has been expanding, the transactions remain centered on a few metropolises such
as London, Sydney, Los Angeles and Chicago, the report said.

CO
IN
NS
RE

lasp : JLL
ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i85 : Real Estate Transactions
ereal : Real Estate Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | usa : United States | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries
| dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America

IPD Real Estate
PUB Global Data Point Ltd.
AN

Document RSTWEN0020140509ea580000q

Page4of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.