Telcos Dividends to rise on back of bumper profit

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Telcos Dividends to rise on back of bumper profit

Max Mason
606 words
14 February 2014
Canberra Times
CANBTZ
B009
English
(c) 2014 The Canberra Times

Telcos Dividends to rise on back of bumper profit

Telstra to reward investors

Max Mason
Telstra has increased its dividend for the first time since 2005 after the company delivered a strong
half-year profit of $1.7billion and forecast continued profit growth. The telco will increase its interim
dividend by half a cent to 14.5ï¿½, the first rise since chief executive David Thodey took over from Sol
Trujillo in 2009. The dividend will be fully franked and paid on March 28. Mr Thodey left the door open to
further dividend increases but said the decision was one for the Telstra board. Telstra's result for the first
half of the financial year was 9.2 per cent higher than the $1.5 billion it reported in the first half of last
year. Unveiling the bumper profit on Thursday, company executives again promised that Telstra's
earnings growth would be in the low single digits for the full year. Telstra shares finished the day up 0.8
per cent at $5.15. As mobile phones continue to take over from fixed-line services, Telstra is looking to
Asia to expand. However, Mr Thodey said that while it had previously looked into buying an Asian mobile
operator, it was unlikely to do so because prices were too high. Rather, it would look to form partnerships,
where it could offer its expertise in building networks. Much of Thursday's result was underpinned by
strong growth from mobile services. Telstra added 739,000 domestic retail mobile customer services
during the first half, taking its total to 15.8million. Fixed-line revenues continued

to decline, with Telstra losing 117,000 customers during the half, but the fall was one of the smallest in
recent years. By comparison, Optus, which also announced its results on Thursday, lost 134,000 mobile
customers in the past 12months, taking its total to 9.4 million. "I remain an eternal optimist about the
mobile market," Mr Thodey said. "Demand for our products and services remains at all-time highs. We will
continue to have the normal skirmishes we have in the market - and long may competition be rich and
vibrant." The company is currently locked in a legal battle with Optus over advertisements Telstra says
mislead consumers by claiming there

is little difference between the competing mobile networks. BBY telecommunications analyst Mark
McDonnell said Telstra was able to charge a premium for its mobile service after investing heavily in
upgrading the network. "They have reduced the relative premium they charge from circa 40 per cent to
circa 20 per cent compared to their competitors. The market gets that, and customers are prepared to pay
that." Telstra's network applications services (NAS) and international business delivered extremely strong
performances, with revenue rising 29.3 per cent and 28.3 per cent respectively. After several years of
solid growth, Telstra's NAS and international businesses

make up a significant proportion of its earnings, now worth a combined 15 per cent of all revenues. "I
think [NAS and international] will be even more meaningful contributors going forward, partly because of
their own growth, but also partly because the reshaping of the business, with exiting [directories business]
Sensis and exiting [Hong Kong mobile business] CSL," Mr McDonnell said. Mr Thodey said
renegotiations of its $11.2billion NBN contracts had begun, but he did not give any indication as to when
any new deals would be complete. The Coalition's fibre-to-the- node roll-out would require rental or
purchase of Telstra's existing copper network.

Page238of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RF
CO
IN
NS

54141712
tcoma : Telstra Corporation Ltd
i7902 : Telecommunications
c1512 : Dividends | c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty Ltd
AN

Document CANBTZ0020140213ea2e00015

Page239of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.