Japan’s Watershed move to break Beijing’s grip

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Japan’s Watershed move to break Beijing’s grip

BARRY FITZGERALD
320 words
18 July 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
18
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

JAPAN has increased its support for the potential development of Vital Metals’ Watershed tungsten
project in north Queensland as it seeks new long-term supplies of the strategic metal outside the
grip of China.

The ASX-listed Vital said yesterday it had pulled in $550,000 from a share placement at 4c a share
specifically targeted at private investors in Japan where ongoing marine territory skirmishes with
China has served to heighten fears about China’s global supply dominance in tungsten.

Japan Oil, Gas and Metals Corporation (JOGMEC), the body responsible for securing raw materials
for Japan’s import dependent industry, has already earned a 30 per cent interest in Watershed, one
of the biggest undeveloped deposits of tungsten outside of China.

Vital said it viewed the involvement of private Japanese investors as a “compelling investment
opportunity’’ in light of the participation of JOGMEC.
The government agency earned its stake in the project by contributing $5.4 million towards the
completion of a definitive feasibility study.

Under the original 2011 earn-in agreement with JOGMEC, the agency has the right to transfer its
stake to a Japanese company that would have an off-take interest in future production, as well as
involvement in project financing.

A similar relationship emerged at Lynas, where “Japan Inc” got behind the development of the
group’s rare earth project, again as a way to break China’s grip on another strategically important
commodity.

Vital managing director Mark Strizek said there was a “natural linkage between the Japanese
market’s need for raw materials and Japanese project funding of Australian resource projects’’.

“The recent visit of Japanese Prime Minister Abe to Australia has underscored the importance of
natural resource projects to the development of both countries’ economies,” Mr Strizek said.The
deposit, 160km northwest of Cairns, was originally worked by Utah Development Company.

CO
IN
NS
RE

PUB

jogmnc : Japan Oil, Gas and Metals National Corp
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
jap : Japan | china : China | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.

Page113of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document AUSTLN0020140717ea7i0004w

Page114of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.