40 under 40

HD 40 under 40
WC 4,350 words
PD 1 September 2014
SN Campaign Asia Pacific
SC MEDIAM
PG 50
LA
CY Copyright 2014. Haymarket Media Limited. All rights reserved.
LP

English

TD

They are young, bold, ambitious and just hitting their stride in their careers. Here is Campaign's pick of the
industry's rising stars.

SIMON KEMP, REGIONAL MANAGING PARTNER, WE ARE SOCIAL SINGAPORE (Age 36)

Simon Kemp lives and breathes social media - an infatuation that proves infectious with clients. During
Lenovo's selection of a social media agency, the tech brand's digital director Rod Strother says Kemp
'tipped the balance for us'. 'His passion for social media was obvious from our first meeting,' says Strother,
who also notes Kemp backs up his passion with an 'incredibly well thought out understanding of the
importance and relevance of social for brands'. Kemp launched We Are Social Singapore and grew it to a
team of 30 people in just three years, before which he held regional strategy roles with BBH, Universal
McCann and Starcom MediaVest. And his commitment stretches wider than We Are Social: Kemp has fast
established himself as a champion of the sector, producing numerous free reports and content, such as
social media guides for B2B brands and managing social media crises, as well as authoring his own
ebook, Social Brands: The Future of Marketing. He is also founder of The Cartel, a collective that helps
talented young DJs and producers from all over the world find and develop their audiences.
CALVIN FU, MD, FUSE CHINA (34)
In February, at the age of 34, Fu became one of the youngest managing directors within OMD China. Fu
joined OMD in 2010 as a content director, charged with building a branded content team. Two years later
he successfully launched Fuse China, which delivers integrated marketing solutions for clients with
branded content across multiple platforms The agency has grown from just one person to 27. Fu's
collaborative management style has achieved the highest staff retention rate within OMD, and seriously
profitable growth. Last year, he brought in new business worth over USdollars 50 million and Fuse's
revenue increased by 50 per cent. Together with OMD, Fu helped to win 15 new clients, such as Yili,
Maserati and Electrolux, and has also strengthened existing client relationships, taking them beyond
traditional media solutions with differentiation and innovation. In 2013, he brought in more than 10 existing
OMD clients, including Bosch, Li-Ning and HTC, for content projects.
KISHORE PARTHASARATHY, DATA AND ANALYTICS LEADER, STARCOM MEDIAVEST GROUP,
GREATER CHINA (34)

A degree in computer engineering, a natural flair for numbers, technology and coding, and an MBA in
marketing made Parthasarathy a perfect fit for his role as data and analytics leader at Starcom. Over the
last two years he has been instrumental in elevating the planning process by creating tools, techniques
and products that enable more accountable investment decision-making for clients. One of his
developments was an innovative performance-based planning product suite grounded in advanced
econometric modelling which helped teams determine the best contact points based on the consumer
journey. Suki Luo, senior manager media planning and innovation, P&G China, describes Parthasarathy
as an 'indispensable business partner', attributing the 10 per cent rise in media efficiency experienced by
the lifestyle brand to Parthasarathy's expertise. Parthasarathy is also passionate about changing the way
the industry views data and analytics. While the sector is traditionally seen as something which only
experts can handle, he is determined to make it simpler and ensure everyone is able to use analytics to
enhance their day-to-day work.

Page97of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.MELINDA PO, DIRECTOR OF CLIENT SERVICES, AKQA SHANGHAI

With a career straddling both sides of the Taiwan Straits, Melinda Po has forged an enviable reputation for
integrity and fostering junior talent. Po initially cut her teeth in a creative role, working as a designer,
producer and film editor in Taiwan before switching to client services in 2003. She moved to OgilvyOne the
following year, and was group account director until moving to her present company in 2011. At AKQA,
she has played a key role in developing the Shanghai office's client portfolio, one of the main drivers of the
agency's China business growing by 60 per cent in 2013. New business won in the past year includes
Ray-Ban, Lego and Budweiser. 'Melinda has a knack of pulling the various client and agency teams
together, melding conflicting views and priorities and keeping the targets in sight,' says Tan Pauy-Chin, IT
director for marketing at Unilever Asia, Africa and Russia. Colleagues describe Po as a natural mentor
who has focused much of her energy on developing younger talent. During her last two years at Ogilvy in
Taiwan, she held the post of talent training director, running in-house digital training workshops and
external seminars for students. In Shanghai she has continued these efforts in collaboration with the WPP
School of Marketing and Communication.
JEREMY WEBB, NATIONAL DIRECTOR, SOCIAL@OGILVY CHINA (30)
English-born Webb moved to China to work as a journalist after mastering Putonghua at university.
Shortly after, he joined Ogilvy PR editing English then successfully lobbied his boss to set up a social
media team. He now coordinates a cross-disciplinary Social@Ogilvy community across Beijing and
Shanghai. Last year, he significantly increased social media revenue with work for a handful of blue-chip
brands, including British Airways, Crayola and Nestle. The latter involved the creation of a digital
consumer demand centre located in Beijing as the key element in a new programme that helps Nestle
better engage consumers through listening, data analysis, real-time content and monitoring. He's also a
popular voice on Weibo and his now-defunct Chinese-language blog, AngryEditor.com, has been
published into a book. Webb believes it is his knowledge of, and prowess managing things at an
executional level (the back end), in addition to his knack for strategy, which has set him apart in the
business of social marketing. His ambition now is to make Social@Ogilvy the most important team in the
agency in China and integrate it into every piece of business.
JENNY CHAN, VICE-PRESIDENT, BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AND MARKETING, ASIA-PACIFIC, THE
HOFFMAN AGENCY (35)

A seemingly insatiable appetite for work, combined with equally deep reserves of energy, have taken the
35-year-old Chan to where she is today. Until recently, she served as GM of Hoffman's Hong Kong office
- a post she took up at 30, the youngest ever within Hoffman. As GM, she moved the agency outside of its
tech comfort zone to bring in new business from the beauty, lifestyle, consumer and education sectors.
Recent new clients include Chicago Booth and AS Watson as well as brands such as China Mobile and
Siemens. Under Chan's tenure, the office posted double-digit growth every year and in 2013 recorded the
highest revenue level in its history. In her new role, Chan will drive regional new business development of
Asian companies looking to go global. 'Jenny Chan embodies what The Hoffman Agency is all about,' says
Natalie Lowe, the firm's managing director for Asia-Pacific, describing her as young, energetic, passionate
and a 'true professional'.

CHIRADEEP GUPTA, MANAGER, GLOBAL MEDIA, CATEGORIES AND PARTNERSHIPS, UNILEVER
(37)

A passion for media and communication innovations underpin Gupta's drive to spread the word about
Unilever's top global brands in Asia. A technical whizz with extensive media expertise, Gupta has been
called upon to brief some of the multinational's top executives on the rapidly evolving face of digital
communications and has developed partnerships with key mobile providers. Gupta joined Unilever in late
2011 after spending eight years at Starcom MediaVest working his way from account manager to regional
director. At Unilever, he works with the global media team to develop communication architectures, drive
innovation and integrate media thinking on initiatives for some of the conglomerate's biggest brands in
Asia, including Lux, Lifebuoy and Clear. In the past year, Gupta has been responsible for handling the
transition of Unilever's global communication planning assignment from Mindshare to PHD Worldwide, in
terms of global brands based in his region. In the wake of this major move, he has been working closely
with both agencies to develop various initiatives across multiple markets. Gupta plays an important role in
building digital capabilities throughout the company, and played a key part in launching Unilever's media
command centre in Singapore. Gupta's technical understanding has led to him acting as reverse mentor
for Unilever chief operating officer Harish Manwani and Alan Jope, president, Russia Africa and Middle
East.

EE RONG CHONG, MD, OGILVY PUBLIC RELATIONS SINGAPORE (38)

Page98of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.A mother of two, Chong is already an Ogilvy veteran, having joined 15 years ago in Kuala Lumpur. In
January, she was appointed MD of Ogilvy PR Singapore after six years as its deputy, and now
spearheads the company's most profitable public relations business in the Asia-Pacific, overseeing
day-to-day management of more than 100 specialists. Chong's efforts have seen the Singapore business
triple in size in recent years. She has added new practices including Social@Ogilvy, Ogilvy Impact for
employee communications, Social Marketing, and has developed a new content and strategic planning
division. She has also led the PR team to a number of prestigious business wins and coveted new clients
including American Express, Hyatt, Starbucks and Cadbury. Client Myrna Poon from the Singapore
Economic Development Board sings Chong's praises, describing her as 'tenacious', 'creative' and 'smart'.
'She knows her stuff and she expertly anticipates and manages the needs of her clients,' says Poon.
SAM AHMED, SENIOR VICE-PRESIDENT & GROUP HEAD OF MARKETING, APMEA, MASTERCARD
SINGAPORE (39)

A strong sense of social responsibility and a 'civic duty' to ensure economic growth benefits 'all of Asia's
citizens' might seem atypical for the marketer of a major credit card, but Ahmed is not your ordinary
capitalist. MasterCard's regional marketing head has made it his goal to help the brand connect with the
estimated 400 million people in the region who earn too little to participate in the modern economy of
electrical transfers and cashless payments. Using the latest in mobile and chip technology and financial
education, the finance company hopes to lift millions onto the bottom rungs of socioeconomic progress.
Ahmed, a Harvard Business School graduate, is no stranger to such large-scale corporate social
responsibility projects; he has long been an advocate of the benefits a good CSR policy can bring. Earlier
in his career, he instigated a programme with the dairy giant Anlene that provided free bone-scanning for
20 million women across Asia, boosting awareness of osteoporosis. At MasterCard, driving social digital
is a major component of Ahmed's strategy, and he has overseen the merging of nine separate in-house
digital agencies into a single digital lead agency to ensure consistent strategy across the region. Ahmed is
convinced social digital should not be seen as simply another advertising channel, but rather a funnel
through which the whole business flows.

ANDY RADOVIC, REGIONAL DIRECTOR, DIGITAL, ASIA-PACIFIC, MAXUS (37)

In his first year as regional director of digital for Maxus, Radovic has driven the expansion of the digital
business across Asia-Pacific, which last year resulted in 55 per cent year-on-year revenue growth for the
media agency. Having spearheaded its search, social and data insights service offerings, Radovic has
ensured Maxus has been able to attract world-class clients including the likes of Apple, Nikon and Jetstar.
He's also been a magnet for talent: Radovic has seen the digital team across the region grow in size by
around 25 per cent through his support. Prior to this, he served as MD of digital for GroupM Japan where
he drove consistent annual top-line growth of over 30 per cent during his four years at the helm and
helped the group win strong digitally focused clients like P&G, LVMH and Microsoft. In 2012, in addition to
his role in Japan, Radovic launched GroupM Digital in Korea and built the team from a zero base to a fully
operational business unit of eight with clients like Expedia, Lufthansa and Red Bull.
EMMA RICHARDS, VICE-PRESIDENT AND GM, WAGGENER EDSTROM HONG KONG (37)
Over her six years with Waggener Edstrom, Richards has dedicated herself to growing the Hong Kong
business but it's her contribution in the past year which stands out most. Since her appointment as
vice-president and general manager for the Hong Kong office in 2013, Richards has driven its evolution
from a local execution agency to one with global communications capabilities, and overseen its shift from a
technology-focused agency to one with a strong consumer portfolio and the ability to offer complete
integrated communications packages. While the agency is traditionally known for bringing global tech
brands into Hong Kong and localising them for Hong Kong activities, it has expanded its focus under
Richards' leadership, driving communications for Asian-based brands to broaden their global reach. This
has led to a mixture of client wins across various industries, including fashion brand ASH and
semiconductor manufacturer MediaTek as global remits. WE Hong Kong has been especially successful
in winning new clients for the consumer practice, including Pernod Ricard, Hong Kong Tourism Board,
Luxasia and two major retail companies.

ANITA DEVRAJ MOOKERJEE, MANAGING DIRECTOR, MEDIACOM INDONESIA

Under Mookerjee's leadership, MediaCom Indonesia has expanded exponentially over the last year,
growing over 200 per cent (nine times faster than the market) and jumping nine ranks from 15 to six,
according to RECMA. The agency added more than USdollars 200 million in new business during that
time and claims a retention rate of 100 per cent. Ed Thesiger, CEO of GroupM Indonesia, praises
Mookerjee's excellent technical knowledge, and her leadership skills have been key in ensuring
MediaCom Indonesia's staff retention is some of the best in the country, with a turnover rate of 12 per
cent. She is also passionate about giving back to society. Last year, her team resurrected two schools in

Page99of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Jakarta that had been badly damaged in severe floods. The team raised funds to buy new equipment and
books for the schools and got together to refurbish the schools and give the children a new lease of life.
ALICE ATHERTON, PLANNING DIRECTOR, GREY GROUP AUSTRALIA

Among Grey's senior partners, Atherton has a reputation as a driven perfectionist who 'will not stop
working'. This committed young planner is known for her ambition, for being a driving force in projects and
as someone who both inspires and 'pushes creatives to think hard and hunt ideas - big, powerful ideas
that build brands and create sales', according to Michael Knox, managing partner and executive creative
director of Grey Melbourne. In addition to corporate work, Atherton has a strong proven track record in the
field of health and safety awareness. She was lead strategist for a highly successful road-safety campaign
for the Transport Accident Commission (TAC) in Victoria in 2013 which contributed to the Australian state
recording its lowest road-fatality figure in almost 90 years. Also in Victoria, Atherton was behind 'Young
workers', an integrated work-safety campaign that resulted in a 13 per cent drop in workplace injury
claims. Her work on 'Wipe off 5: driving a community to slow down', again for TAC, netted a Bronze at
Cannes and the campaign was selected as an Effie finalist. Another campaign, for MS Australia, involved
a photography app aimed at promoting awareness of multiple sclerosis and as a tool to help sufferers of
the condition. Intended for the domestic market, it ended up being downloaded by users in over 70
countries.
JEFF WANG, VICE-PRESIDENT, WEBER SHANDWICK CHINA (36)

Since joining Weber Shandwick in 2006 as a consultant, Jeff Wang has proven himself to be one of the
most inventive, versatile and creative leaders in China's communications industry. While his PR career
began leading product launches and managing crises for tech companies, Wang really set tongues
wagging doing work for beauty brand Vidal Sassoon, where he conceived and executed a number of
collaborations with local and international fashion designers, such as Alexander Wang. From ideation to
identifying planning, from traditional PR to full marketing integration, his consultation and vision for the
brand helped to establish Vidal Sassoon's approach and strategy in China, and collaboration became the
model for Vidal Sassoon's marketing. In the past 12 months alone, under Wang's leadership, the Weber
Shandwick China consumer team has more than tripled its business and size, winning major new clients
including Ferragamo Perfume, Madame Tussauds Beijing, Denza and Trendiano, with 10 new retainer
clients for the Beijing consumer practice alone. In recognition of his creative abilities, Wang recently
became the first Asia-based member of staff named to Weber Shandwick's global creative council.

NICOLE TAN, MANAGING DIRECTOR, JWT MALAYSIA (35)

Nicole Tan is the embodiment of an old industry fairy tale: working your way up from the office floor to the
boardroom. After 18 years in the business, Tan is now MD of the office where her career began as a
fresh-out-of-school teenage secretary. Aside from four years with Grey Malaysia early on, Tan has spent
her whole career with JWT, and the loyalty she has shown to the company has been rewarded with a
rapid rise through the ranks. Returning to her native Malaysia in early 2013 after nearly three years as
business director of the Beijing office, Tan took it upon herself to revitalise the agency. She describes her
management style as hiring a broad mix of 'people who are better than me', then giving them the support
they need to shine. In Kuala Lumpur, she put this into practice by swiftly assembling a new team of both
local and international talent, then setting them out on a six-month 'pitch binge' to bring in new business,
while at the same time developing existing clients. The move paid off, winning contracts with clients
ranging from beer giant Carlsberg to the Line social messaging app and predicted to achieve double-digit
growth in 2014. A straight-talking leader with a hard-won reputation for drive and passion, Tan is also
known for her softer side. She is renowned for her capacity for empathy and placing strong emphasis on
the social side of team-building.

AJAY GUPTE, TECHNICAL ADVISOR/COUNTRY LEAD, MEC INDONESIA (38)

The digital revolution has changed the face of advertising, but it is hard to sell a product that clients simply
do not understand. Spotting a serious knowledge gap in the Indonesian market in 2011, Gupte set up a
conference aimed at de-mystifying the digital world. 'Navigating the sphere' has since become an annual
event, well attended by everyone from Google all the way down to small start-ups. This commitment to
digital and a bold, visionary solution to an industry-wide issue is typical of Gupte's gung-ho style. When
Gupte joined MEC Indonesia in 2011, he inherited an agency facing major difficulties, having just lost its
largest client, Telkomsel. However, the former MediaReach director has turned the situation around,
having won some USdollars 100-million-worth of billings in new business, tripling revenue and boosting
profit fivefold in the past three years. Staffing levels have also more than tripled during the period,
mushrooming from just 18 when Gupte arrived to 60 at present. But more than just adding numbers,
Gupte has diversified the staff makeup, with young, enthusiastic specialists in digital, data and analytics,
strategy and partnerships.

Page100of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.DARREN YUEN, GENERAL MANAGER, CARAT MALAYSIA (38)

Fiercely competitive by nature, Yuen is an exceptionally goal-driven rising star at Carat Malaysia who will
stop at nothing to seal a deal or exceed his financial targets. Yuen believes in measuring achievements
against three main pillars of success: financial, new business wins and awards. Since Yuen was
promoted from business director to general manager in 2012, the company has seen dramatic
improvements in financial terms, secured a tranche of new clients and improved its performance in awards
competitions. Championing greater adoption of econometrics and analytics and a more
total-solution-based approach, Yuen re-organised Carat's business model and managed to diversify the
range of services clients used the agency for. As a result, Carat notched up a 24 per cent increase in
agency billings and 66 per cent increase in revenue in 2013. In the first half of this year, Yuen played a
decisive role in winning 16 new clients, worth over USdollars 80 million in billable business, resulting in
R3 rating Carat as Malaysia's fastest-growing agency. Yuen's future potential has been noted by Dentsu
Aegis Network, as he has been selected to join its 'Route 500' programme, which is designed to fast-track
the training of the top 5 per cent of the network's talented individuals.

JAMES HAWKINS, CEO, DENTSU MOBIUS (34)

Sometimes it takes a younger mind to see the bold solution and have the audacity to put it into practice.
That was the experience of Dentsu when it chose James Hawkins to head up its new specialist digital
agency. Just 32 years old at the time, Hawkins rejected the safer, more traditional approach of finding a
small start-up digital agency taking it over and bolting it onto the group's existing structure. Instead, he set
out to build one from scratch, tailoring its scope and focus to the group's precise needs across the region.
Realising this bold vision has taken both ambition and cool leadership from Hawkins. Initially named
co-managing director of the Dentsu Mobius project, Hawkins was promoted to CEO just four months after
the launch on Valentine's Day, 2012. Two years down the line, Dentsu Mobius has grown into a USdollars
20-million business. The team currently consists of 45 digital experts based in Singapore, but is poised
to expand with offices in both Thailand and Indonesia. With such a rapidly expanding team, Hawkins
understandably places emphasis on staff development, funding training for junior executives to familiarise
themselves with client's products. Tim Andree, executive vice-president of Dentsu, describes Hawkins as
'ambitious, insightful and strategic'. 'In an era of digitalisation and convergence, James has proven to be
the epitome of the kind of executive leadership that is needed in this new advertising landscape,' Andree
says.

MARK COCHRANE, CEO, SAATCHI & SAATCHI THAILAND (37)

When he took the reins at Saatchi & Saatchi Thailand in November 2012, Cochrane was presented with a
daunting task: the office had just lost its two main clients due to regionalisation taking them to the agency's
Singapore hub. Cochrane immediately implemented an 18-month plan that involved a major shake-up of
operations and ambitiously aggressive growth targets which he believed would 'reignite and reimagine'. A
review earlier this year showed the dramatic impact this had: an astounding 63 per cent of the division's
revenue was from new business won in the preceding 12 months, including contracts with Thanachart
Bank, Virgin Active, Huawei and Garena, Asia's largest gaming company. But aside from driving new
business wins, Cochrane brought a sense of dynamism to the role, transforming the Thailand agency's
set-up into a 'creative news room'. This innovative new system switched the focus of all operations to the
real-time impact of campaigns to match the instant nature of the digital era. Chris Foster, Saatchi &
Saatchi's regional chairman and CEO, describes Cochrane as simply one of the network's most
inspirational leaders in Asia.

CHRIS HOWATSON, MANAGING DIRECTOR, CHE PROXIMITY MELBOURNE (29)

Chris Howatson raised industry eyebrows in 2012 when the then-27-year-old was named Clemenger
Group's youngest-ever managing director and placed in charge of the company's newly merged creative
agency, CHE Proximity. Taking advantage of the restructuring process, Howatson threw out established
thinking and established a radically different operational framework. This bold move introduced 'platoons'
of thinkers in place of traditional rigid hierarchies. Howatson implemented a hiring policy that insisted all
staff 'dream in digital' - testament to his dual emphasis on creative and technology. The new structure also
called for a sweeping cull of 'all senior leaders who lacked the capability or attitude to change'. It was a
high-risk strategy, but Clemenger had good reason to place their trust in the young star. Aside from eight
months working for George PattersonY&R in 2007, Howatson has spent his entire 12-year career with
Clemenger Group, having starting out as an account coordinator in Clemenger BBDO's Brisbane office in
2002. While implementing the massive upheavals in culture and working practices, Howatson personally
met with all the agency's existing clients to explain the changes, and as a result did not lose a single one.
Peter Harvie, CHE Proximity non-executive chairman, describes Howatson as 'a natural leader' and pulls
no punches in his assessment of what the youthful MD has achieved: 'He's led a revolution within the
organisation, and he's done it with grace.'

Page101of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.- Go to www.campaignasia.com for the full 40. Further featured individuals include:

Richard Newman, CMO, McCann Worldgroup APAC
Moritz Kaffsack, director, Zeno Group Vietnam

Dheeraj Sinha, chief strategy officer, Grey South/SE Asia

Shaun Tay, GM, TBWA Kuala Lumpur

Koyi Wu, associate director, Airwave

Arthur Policarpio, MD, Mobext APAC

Hari Shankar, head of paid media, PayPal APAC

Gary Teo, regional technology and projects director, VML Qais

Roopak Saluja, founder & CEO, The 120 Media Collective

Peter Bosilkovski, MD, Leo Burnett Sydney

Aimee Buchanan, MD, OMD Sydney
Samuel Lam, MD, X Social Group

Robert Woolfrey, MD APAC, Millennial Media

Jon Yongfook Cockle, founder, Beatrix

Alex Wilson, director & founder, Flamingo Shanghai

Patrick Leclercq, regional client service director, Bates CHI & Partners
Mykim Chikli, CEO, ZenithOptimediaChina
JK Shen, SVP, RazorfishChina

Chris ter Steege, regional director, head of digital APAC, Philips

Simon Ruparella, head of digital, Golin.

--------------------

Did you find this article useful? Why not subscribe to the magazine? Please call 08451 55 73 55 for more
information or visit www.haysubs.com

CO mcerk : McCann-Erickson WorldGroup | smv : Starcom MediaVest Group | brntlo : Bcom3 Group Inc |

IN

NS
RE

intpub : Interpublic Group of Companies Inc. | publcs : Publicis Groupe SA
i8395402 : Media Buying | i838 : Advertising | iadv : Advertising/Marketing/Public Relations | ibcs :
Business/Consumer Services | imark : Marketing
gpol : Domestic Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations
china : China | austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | beijin : Beijing | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz :
Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

PUB Haymarket Media Limited
AN Document MEDIAM0020140903ea910001p

Page102of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.