Greenland keen on local projects as China cools

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CommercialProperty
Greenland keen on local projects as China cools

GREG BROWN, DEVELOPMENT
455 words
19 July 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
36
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

ONE of China’s largest developers, the state-owned Greenland Holding Group, is intent on expanding
its Australian portfolio, with the group scouring for more Sydney sites and also aiming to enter the Gold
Coast market.
Greenland chairman Zhang Yuliang said the group was developing $1.4 billion worth of local projects
and had no cap on future investment here.

“Our (Australian) investment in the near future will be much larger than what we already have,” Mr
Zhang told The Weekend Australian yesterday.
“If everything goes well we will have more (purchases) in the next two quarters.” Greenland yesterday
announced a joint tender with Crown Resorts for the multi-billion-dollar Queens Wharf casino and
resort site in Brisbane. Mr Zhang also said the group was studying the Gold Coast market and was
negotiating on more sites in Sydney.
“We are discussing some new projects in Sydney,” Mr Zhang said. The group has three Sydney
developments, the first the $600 million Greenland Centre apartment and hotel tower in the CBD.

It is also planning projects in North Sydney and in the inner western suburb of Leichhardt.

Greenland Australia managing director Sherwood Luo would not be drawn on the details of the new
Sydney projects it was considering. When asked which area of the city the group was looking at, Mr
Luo said: “North, south, east and west.” Mr Zhang is in Australia for the B20 summit and will attend a
reception tonight with Tony Abbott.

“I would like to talk to (the Prime Minister) about enlarging our investment in Australia,” Mr Zhang said.
“I believe that the Australian government should be more open on Chinese investors,” he added,
saying that he supported a free-trade agreement between the two countries.

“I agree with (Mr Abbott) when he said that there are many problems in this world, but the power of
business could be the last resort to solve all these problems.” Mr Zhang said the slowing Chinese
residential market would encourage large development companies to increase their investments in
overseas markets.
“The Chinese government is adjusting its economic growth from a high-speed growth to a low-speed
growth and the Chinese real estate market is doing the consequent adjustment,” he said. “By contrast
the overseas real estate market is growing very strongly ... so large real estate enterprises that have
the capacity will go abroad to do investment.” Greenland is a Global Fortune 500 company, which had
a global revenue last year of $55bn.It has been active in China for 21 years and expanded to the US,
Thailand and Europe after the global financial crisis to take advantage of depressed Western markets.

CO

sgregc : Greenland Holding Group Company Limited

Page33of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

i501 : Building Construction | i5010021 : Land Development/Subdivision | iconst : Construction | icre :
Real Estate/Construction
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | china : China | greenl : Greenland | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz :
Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America |
nswals : New South Wales
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140718ea7j000bs

Page34of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.