Sponsored Feature: Infrastructure tide rises for Asia

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Sponsored Feature: Infrastructure tide rises for Asia

2,482 words
1 September 2014
Finance Asia
MEDFIN
27
English
Copyright 2014. Haymarket Media Limited. All rights reserved.

Private infrastructure investment in Australia and around the region is undergoing a revival providing
scope for Asian banks and non-banks to participate.

Asia's infrastructure sector is heading for a recovery in 2015 and a spike in demand for private finance
which could create challenges and opportunities for banks, export credit agencies and financial
institutions, according to ANZ Banking Group, the biggest Australian bank in the Asia region.

ANZ, which has roots in New Zealand as well as Australia, also sees the potential for a spin-off in
cross-border funding into its domestic markets.

This year's elections in two key economies - India and Indonesia - and a lessening of civil unrest
following a military coup in Thailand, are seen as triggers for the turnaround. The elections ended
periods of political uncertainty, important in helping to restore momentum to some projects and ushered
in new governments with reformist agendas that recognise the importance of infrastructure in helping to
build sustainable economic growth.

Uncertainty remains over how effectively the new governments will implement their policies. For
example, while Indonesia's new President Joko Widodo built a track record on infrastructure projects as
governor of Jakarta, few believe that replicating such success at a national level will be easy; and the
first budget of Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi following his landslide victory in May disappointed
many with its moderate approach to reform.

ANZ's own economists are cautiously optimistic in their outlook for both countries, noting that the global
system liquidity which is helping to finance both countries' twin current account and fiscal deficits is likely
to continue for some time, as the US Federal Reserve only gradually normalises its unusually
accommodative policy settings. For the countries' infrastructure prospects, Paul Finn from ANZ's project
and structured finance team has robust expectations.

'In some ways it's been a year of changing gears, or a changing of the guard,' said Finn, reflecting on the
way the two elections contributed to Asian infrastructure's relatively quiet 2014. 'I tend to think that Asia
really operates at two speeds, stop and catch up, and I really believe that next year we'll see the
beginning of infrastructure investment (in Asia), the likes of which we've never seen before.'

Private sector opportunities

Paul Richards, the bank's global head of structured export finance, agrees and points to the financial
implications: 'If these countries get going with genuine public-private partnerships in their infrastructure
agenda, there is no way the bank market on its own, even with all the liquidity available internationally
and domestically in India or in Indonesia, will be able to finance it. Governments around the region will
look to the private sector to write the cheques.'

This is because many governments, Indonesia's is a case in point, have rebuilt their balance sheets
since the 1998 Asian currency crisis and are cautious about exposing the hard-earned recovery in their
sovereign credit ratings to the vagaries of international markets. For this reason, adds Finn, Asia's
governments 'really like the discipline of private development of infrastructure'. This prompts the
question: where will the balance in infrastructure finance come from?

Page79of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It is the kind of question that plays well to ANZ's strategy in Asia, which draws on the bank's ability to
leverage its domestic-market experience into regional opportunities using what it calls 'connectivity', or
the ability to mobilise client contacts, specialised industry knowledge, local market understanding and
relationships with government and relevant regulators, and a broad and diverse product range, including
project finance, export finance and syndications/club deals across borders, and to do so in a way that
adds value for clients.

In the case of making up the shortfall in bank finance for Asian infrastructure, ANZ sees potential in
institutional liquidity and the export credit agencies (ECAs) of countries such as Japan, Korea and China
which have already played a large role in providing untied finance to resources projects in countries
including Australia. There is a challenge, however. ECAs are more familiar with mines and liquefied
natural gas (LNG) plants that have large components of imported equipment from their own home
countries, as well as home country equity in the case of North Asia's ECAs, with the underlying
commodities all traded on global markets and priced in US dollars.

On the other hand, infrastructure has a higher domestic content with less imported equipment than
resources. LNG projects, for example, require massive upfront investment in transportation and the
supply of processing plants. Infrastructure project tenders can also be time consuming and costly.
'ECAs, like everyone else, are resource-constrained and don't like long due diligences with uncertain
outcomes,' said Richards.

Engaging with ECAs

Applying the principles of ANZ's 'connectivity' model, however, Richards believes he has identified a way
for Asian ECAs to become more comfortable with infrastructure: by helping them to develop, in a
relatively low-risk environment, the expertise they will need to take advantage of Asian opportunities. 'I'm
saying to them, 'Why not build your PPP (public private partnership) capability in a developed market like
Australia, and then carry that experience over to a market like Indonesia, for example?''

According to Finn, the attraction to ECAs of using Australia as a test-bed for infrastructure finance is that
it's a market with a lot of established norms, including openness to foreign investment, a trusted legal
system and a well-traded currency. 'Australia is the most advanced market, certainly south of the
equator,' says Finn. 'While some in North Asia and Singapore for example, are pretty advanced, they
tend to rely on local currency finance and are not as open. Australia offers an incredible opportunity.'

The role of ECAs is to promote home country exports and investment into growing industry segments
such as infrastructure, and in the fastest growing region in the global economy - Asia. They facilitate
Asian infrastructure financing not only by plugging gaps in overall volumes required, potentially offering
extended tenors and sharing of political risks, but also by developing deep cooperation with commercial
banks and other private sector financiers that can be used again in other countries in the region.

The scope for Asian banks and non-banks to participate in Australian infrastructure appears to be
considerable, given the strength of the project pipeline. Private infrastructure in Australia is undergoing a
revival, having flourished in the south-eastern state of Victoria during the 1990s with the privatisation of
power stations and other assets to help restore the state government's then battered finances.

Now the eastern states of New South Wales (NSW) and Queensland, driven by budget pressures and a
new generation of political leaders seeing the benefits privately financed infrastructure have brought to
their southern neighbour, are pursuing similar programmes. After privatising three ports - Port Botany
and Port Kembla last year and earlier this year, Port of Newcastle - NSW is focusing on selling electricity
generating assets. Queensland this year sold a portfolio of toll roads.

There is more to come. NSW is part-way into a 10-year programme, known as NSW 2021, to revitalise
the state's infrastructure. Victoria and Queensland also have plans to privatise ports, and there is strong
awareness at federal government level of the need for a nationwide improvement in infrastructure. Prime
Minister Tony Abbott said during his election campaign last year that he wanted to be 'an infrastructure
Prime Minister'.

New Zealand, a much smaller market, is also pursuing privately financed infrastructure. Last year saw
completion of the PPP for Wiri Prison in Auckland and work begins soon on a 27km PPP road project
through Transmission Gully near Wellington. The rebuilding of Christchurch following the devastating
2010 earthquake continues, and investment of about NZdollars 20 billion is required under a 30-year
development plan for Auckland.
As Finn notes, domestic commercial banks, which have played an important role in financing Australian
infrastructure during the past 30 years, have abundant liquidity. Ironically, however, at a time when
public sector demand for private infrastructure finance in the country has 'never been stronger',

Page80of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.re-regulation is limiting the extent to which Australian and other OECD banks, can lend to such projects,
creating opportunities for Australian and other non-bank financiers.

While keen to promote the opportunity, Finn cautions that, for all its attractions, the Australian market
can pose challenges.

'In the electricity market, for example, there is a lot of talk about how system demand is falling for the
first time ever, just as governments are looking at privatising assets,' he said. Demand has fallen in
response to a sharp escalation in power prices, attributed to over-investment in the transmission sector.
'This has increased the incentive for people to convert to solar power. It's a highly evolved market, and
when the dynamics change they can have a dramatic impact.'

Two-way traffic

Encouraging Asian ECAs into the Australian market is just one flow in the two-way traffic that ANZ
maintains between the region and its domestic Australian and New Zealand markets. The bank has built
much of its Asian track record to date on financial solutions for Australian resource projects exporting to
Asian countries, and for Asian investors seeking strategic Australian assets, in deals brokered through
its offices in Hong Kong and Singapore.

More recently, it expanded its presence in the Pacific Basin which, though a vast area geographically,
consists of small island nations with quite specific needs, such as renewable energy,
telecommunications and, in some cases, ports and airports. As Finn points out, the cost of fossil fuel for
some of these countries is 'quite phenomenal'. In one, for example, half of total expenditure on diesel
imports is incurred simply by transporting the fuel to where it is needed.
Renewable energy is an area in which the bank has acknowledged expertise, having advised or
otherwise acted on the development and/or sale of a number of Australian wind farms to private
investors, including Asian utilities. In an example of connectivity in action, the bank has applied this
subject knowledge, its familiarity with Asian markets and broad product suite in support of the Burgos
wind power project in the Philippines.
Energy Development Corporation, the project's sponsor, and its parent company FirstGen, are
important clients of ANZ in the Philippines. ANZ had already led its USD syndicated facilities so when
EDC moved forward with its plans to develop the 150MW Burgos wind project using Vestas turbines
from Denmark, ANZ was well placed to offer its wind sector and project and export finance expertise.
'Integrating the export finance into a complete financing solution plays to our strengths, not only as a
project and export finance bank, but also our strong credentials in developed and emerging wind-power
markets and our relationships arising from that,' said Richards.

'We regard those qualities in combination as strong differentiators for the bank and that's the strategy we
will seek to adopt, whether it is on infrastructure or resources projects in the Philippines or Vietnam or
any country in Asia. That is our fundamental strategy.' Involvement in Burgos adds more strands of
connectivity that the bank can use to market itself in the Philippines and in the Asia-Pacific renewables
sector more broadly.
'Burgos will be a milestone transaction in Asia and will serve as a benchmark for other markets in the
region as they roll out environmentally-friendly development networks,' says Richards. 'These projects
are expensive to get off the ground and investors are rightly concerned about execution risk. And that's
not just about picking the right equipment supplier, everybody who provides a major input is scrutinised,
and finance is definitely part of that.'

According to Finn, the tendency of Asian countries to benchmark off each other is an important growth
dynamic, and this is particularly true among members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations
(Asean) 'The attitude seems to be that the risk of falling behind the neighbours is not acceptable,' said
Finn. 'When somebody accelerates, then it seems that everyone else has to, too.'

Philippines sets the pace

The current pacesetter in infrastructure development among Asean member states is widely agreed to
be the Philippines, with Finn describing its capital, Manila, as the centre of 'best practice' for regional
infrastructure.

This isn't an overnight success: an extensive private power programme began in the early 1990s, while
two water concessions covering Manila were created and privatised in the early 2000s. Current
milestone PPP projects include the Light Rail Transit system and Mactan-Cebu International Airport
development. The dynamism of the country's infrastructure sector is such that Philippine water
companies are now expanding internationally with investments in Vietnam and Indonesia.

Page81of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Recently the government, which has a pipeline of 47 PPP projects, said it would roll out 18 of them
worth a combined Ps602.2 billion (dollars 13.8 billion) before June 2015. They include the North-South
commuter rail project worth Ps265.3 billion and a Mass Transit subway loop worth Ps132 billion.
Others are aircraft operation and maintenance projects at six airports, regional prison facilities, a motor
vehicle inspection system and a market in Tanauaun City, Batangas.

It is not infrastructure development per se that is watched closely so much as its impact on economic
growth and hence the ability to attract investment, said Finn. 'Relative to what you would see in less
flexible labour markets, there would be a very quick pick-up in employment, and the regional response
is, 'investment is flowing in and employment is growing; many of the jobs are new and we want to share
in that growth!''

As Finn points out, there's a sense of collaboration more than competition among Asean nations that
may prove to be just as important in helping to underpin future infrastructure development. Indeed,
Asean also uses the word 'connectivity' to describe its vision of a regional community based on a
number of key infrastructure projects, including a highway network and a broadband corridor and the
harmonisation, to some degree, of regulatory frameworks.

There are tensions behind this vision, such as the need to balance the drive for regional connectivity
with the equally important need to meet demand for highly localised infrastructure in some of the remoter
areas of Asean member states.

As Finn notes, however, a rising tide lifts all boats. 'If you take the view that basic infrastructure
facilitates economic growth and trade, then what Asean is moving towards is completely identical to our
strategy.'
CONTACTS Paul Richards Global Head of Structured Export Finance ANZ Banking Group
paul.richards@anz.com Paul Finn Project and Structured Finance ANZ Banking Group
paul.finn@anz.com

--------------------

Did you find this article useful? Why not subscribe to the magazine? Please call 08451 55 73 55 for
more information or visit www.haysubs.com

CO
IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

aanzb : Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
mnatgs : Natural Gas Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | mcat :
Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E
Exclusion Filter
indon : Indonesia | asiaz : Asia | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Haymarket Media Limited
Document MEDFIN0020140916ea910000a

Page82of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.