MASTERFUL MANOEUVRES, AND BACKFIRED BET, PUT BAOSTEEL IN BOX SEAT

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
MASTERFUL MANOEUVRES, AND BACKFIRED BET, PUT BAOSTEEL IN BOX SEAT

Sarah-Jane Tasker, comment
657 words
19 June 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
26
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

The target’s boss, Tony Poli, may have lost his nerve
CHINESE steel giant Baosteel has played a truly masterful game in winning control of the next, and
possibly last, major Australian iron ore development.

In its battle for Aquila Resources the Chinese took an aggressive approach they are not usually
known for to gain a strong foothold in Western Australia’s sought-after iron ore province.
From the outset Baosteel blamed Aquila’s lack of progress on developing its main iron ore and coal
assets as the reason for the hostile approach.

It then played its final trump card when it put a stop to market speculation it would increase its bid by
warning that its $3.40-a-share offer was final and would not be increased. Baosteel’s hand was forced
last week after mining services and processing company Mineral Resources moved on to Aquila’s
share registry and got to work on a rival, all-scrip bid.

Baosteel was not happy with its new rival and it pushed back hard, warning that it would never be
involved in Aquila’s $7 billion West Pilbara iron ore project — either as financier or customer — if its
bid did not succeed.
Aquila’s top man, Tony Poli, who holds almost 30 per cent of the company’s stock, has remained
silent since the bid was launched and is yet to respond to some of the claims about his team’s
progress on its key projets.

Given the chatter after the bid was launched, and looking at some of the carefully controlled
statements Aquila made, Poli and his board were likely to be leaning towards rejecting the bid in its
original form.
But then the Chinese state-owned entity, which holds 20 per cent of Aquila, made it clear the offer
price was not up for negotiation. Poli was then left with two choices: take the cash and net more than
$400 million for himself, or agree to a friendly merger deal with his fellow West Australian mining
millionaireChris Ellison, who heads up Mineral Resources.
The battle got tense but the Chinese did not blink and Poli opted for the certainty of cash and backed
down from his natural instinct to push for a sweeter deal.

Mineral Resources is the loser in this fight and sources from its camp say Baosteel played a hard
game and that Poli lost his nerve to push for a higher price from the Chinese by backing the scrip bid.

Talk from the camps suggests that the scrip bid between the two Perth companies was being seriously
considered and it was not until late on Tuesday that the game changed from recommending the scrip
bid to throwing support behind the cash offer.

Page25of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mineral Resources may be the company left with egg on its face but it obviously believed in its
strategy of gaining a 12 per cent stake in Aquila and putting itself squarely in the middle of Baosteel’s
bid. The rationale behind that move was that it believed that with a 12 per cent stake it only had to
negotiate with one party to succeed in a deal — Poli. And betting on Poli was a chance Ellison was
willing to take.
The Chinese did not like Mineral Resources muscling in on what it continually pitched as a
“compelling” offer and that annoyance was felt at the top.
The Chinese steel giant fed its thoughts back to Mineral Resources — thoughts Aquila was obviously
aware of — and they were that its top executives would not engage with Aquila’s newest
shareholder.The Chinese will have to negotiate with Mineral Resources over its shareholding but how
that transpires is anyone’s guess. This deal has not gone according to the previous rule books, or
market speculation, so do not discount another surprise before this deal is done.

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

aqures : Aquila Resources Ltd. | baois : Shanghai Baosteel Group Corp
imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary
Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | isteel : Steel Production
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140618ea6j0001u

Page26of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.