Tourism Australia targets wealthy Chinese with exclusive holiday deal

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Tourism Australia targets wealthy Chinese with exclusive holiday deal

562 words
30 October 2014
ENP Newswire
ENPNEW
English
(c) 2014, Electronic News Publishing. All Rights Reserved.

Release date - 29102014
Tourism Australia is targeting China's most affluent travel seekers with a holiday package that 'money
can't buy.' Well, it can, but it'll set you back $70,000 per person.

The 22 day tour takes in every state and territory, showcasing Australia's nature and landscapes, its
cosmopolitan cities and culture.
The package includes international business flights and overnight stays in some of Australia's most
comfortable hotels and luxury lodges, including Longitude 131 at Uluru, Southern Ocean Lodge on
Kangaroo Island and Woodbridge on the Derwent, close to Hobart in Tasmania.

Along the way, guests will enjoy some of Australia's finest food, best wines and culinary experiences,
which include eating under the stars at Uluru, exclusive wine tastings and fine dining at hat-awarded
restaurants such as Quay in Sydney, Attica in Melbourne, Darwin's Evoo restaurant and Windy Point, just
outside Adelaide.

Tourism Australia Managing Director, John O'Sullivan, admitted the promotion was aimed at making
headlines in China but was part of a much broader China 2020 strategy, it believes will see more than a
million Chinese visitors spending in excess of A$13 billion annually by the end of the decade.
'Sure, we know this holiday may be out of the reach of many Chinese travellers, but this is also
aspirational - what we're really seeking to do is create a buzz, a sense of excitement and new news about
Australia,' he said.

Omar Chen, General Manager at HH Travel said that the exclusive holiday package was limited and
would only be available on a 'first-come-first-served' basis to 30 customers.
'Priced at CNY 375,000 (A$70,000) per person, this is targeted at China's most wealthy citizens, who are
looking for total exclusivity. We know from experience though that exclusive packages such as these
generate huge interest, and can have a knock on effect on other holiday bookings.

'We already offer a similar promotion - an 88 day world travel tour which, when we launched it earlier this
year, sold out in just seconds. We're hoping for a similar response with this, particularly as we know that
Australia is top of the travel wish list of most Chinese travellers. We expect the publicity around the
promotion to generate extensive enquiries about other, more affordable holidays,' he said.

'We already offer a similar promotion - an 88 day world travel tour which, when we launched it earlier this
year, sold out in just seconds. We're hoping for a similar response with this, particularly as we know that
Australia is top of the travel wish list of most Chinese travellers. We expect the publicity around the
promotion to generate extensive enquiries about other, more affordable holidays,' he said.

The week, Australia's national tourism organisation will launch its Restaurant Australia campaign in
Shanghai. Recently, Tourism Australia had also began building an elite network of specialist travel
agents, trained to sell high quality Australian holiday packages to the country's rapidly growing middle
classes.
The holiday package goes on sale on 31 October 2014.

Page353of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Contacts for this article

Tourism Australia

Leo Seaton

Media Relations Manager

+61 2 9361 1363

Email Address

http://www.twitter.com/TourismAus

[Editorial queries for this story should be sent to newswire@enpublishing.co.uk]

CO
NS

RE

toursm : Tourism Australia
gtour : Travel | c3141 : Sales Promotions | npress : Press Releases | c31 : Marketing/Markets | c314 :
Pricing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

PUB Electronic News Publishing Ltd.
AN

Document ENPNEW0020141030eaau000eo

Search Summary

Text

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or entitys) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
01/09/2014 to 31/12/2014
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
2,847
28 August 2018 23:15

Page354of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.