iPhone 6 launch sees people queue through the night - and you won't believe what happened to the first iPhone 6 owner in Perth, Australia...

SE
HD

BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
iPhone 6 launch sees people queue through the night - and you won't believe what happened
to the first iPhone 6 owner in Perth, Australia...
By Samantha Robinson
639 words
19 September 2014
20:22
examiner.co.uk
HUDEXONL
English
© 2014 Trinity Mirror

Apple fanatics across the UK camp out to get their hands on latest model

Thousands of technology fans up and down the country will get their hands on the new iPhone 6 and
iPhone 6 Plus handsets today.

The US company announced the new devices to much fanfare at a highly-anticipated event in
California last week, and customers will be able to buy them from Apple stores from 8am.

Some fans were so keen to get their hands on the new iPhones they began camping outside the
Apple store in Regent Street, London on Monday.

Around the world, fans have been queuing throughout the night, with vigils forming outside apple
stores in Hong Kong, Tokyo, Syndney and Germany.

Some Scots even ditched waiting for the independence referendum result result to wait outside
Glasgow's Apple store.

The first person to get their hands on the iPhone 6 in Perth, Australia, was delighted - until he opened
the box and it all went horribly wrong...

Click below to see what happened

First person to get iPhone in Perth drops it on camera 

Around 30 or so people set up camp outside the Apple store in London's Covent Garden yesterday,
with tents, tables and chairs and even bottles of wine bearing testimony to their dedication.

Among them was Lasse Maroen, who caught a three-hour flight from his home in Bergen, Norway
with friends from work to get the iPhone 6.

He said: "I have been here since this morning. We came here last year to get the iPhone 5s. We had
such a good time so we decided to go back this year."
Asked if he was a "technology geek", he said: "I have been known to buy the new iPhones on the day
they come out since the first one in 2007, so pretty much."
Mr Maroen said he planned to buy the handset outright. The iPhone 6 is expected to start at £539,
and the 6 Plus at £619.

He said: "I read a lot of iPhone blogs and news sites, and because I watched the keynote presentation
a few weeks ago, and there had been rumours about the launch being this day, so we had planned on
going here for quite some time."

Click below for pictures of hardcore fans queuing for the iPhone 6            

Page241of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Apple fans queue for iPhone 6 

On Monday Apple announced a record number of first day pre-orders of the two handsets, with over
four million in the first 24 hours.

The iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus will be available in the 10 countries from today, including the UK, the
US, Australia and Singapore, and a further 20 next Friday.

Both handsets will be available in new sizes for the first time, with the iPhone 6 offering a 4.7-inch
screen, while the 6 Plus boasts the biggest screen Apple has ever produced for a smartphone at 5.5
inches.

Network operator EE has also said it will ensure that customers who had pre-ordered new handsets
through Phones 4u, which went into administration on Sunday, would still be able to get them in its
stores.

A spokesman said: "All across the country we have set aside iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus handsets,
enough for Phones 4u customers who pre-ordered iPhones on EE through Phones 4u.

"If they go into EE stores and show their pre-order receipts they will be able to claim one of the
devices."

Did you queue at Trinity Leeds' Apple store this morning for you iPhone 6?

How far would you go for the latest model?

Let us know in the comments below.

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

applc : Apple Inc.
ismart : Smart Phones | i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | i3441 : Telecommunications
Equipment | i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods |
icellph : Cellular/Mobile Phones | ielec : Consumer Electronics | ihandaps : Handheld Electronic
Devices | itech : Technology
gptech : Personal Technology | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle
austr : Australia | uk : United Kingdom | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
Trinity Mirror Group PLC
Document HUDEXONL20140919ea9j0008d

Page242of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.