new ‘conflict’ over mate

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

General
new ‘conflict’ over mate

Daniel Emerson and Gareth Parker
602 words
9 December 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
First
6
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

Dean Nalder’s demotion from the Finance portfolio was partly punishment for “errors of judgment”
but mostly because private interests in information technology would have conflicted him out of the
role, Colin Barnett said yesterday.

The Premier said he was confident Mr Nalder’s “highly complex” business interests were fully open
and declared after a Department of the Premier and Cabinet review, which he promised to release
this week.

Mr Barnett was immediately confronted with fresh conflict of interests questions involving Mr
Nalder’s “mate” of 35 years, Paul Thompson, who has been charged in the US with conspiracy to
commit banking fraud over a global interest rate rigging scandal.
In September, Mr Nalder announced in a press release that property management company TM
Residential had won a competitive tender to manage the sale of a 1993sqm lot at the old Sunset
Hospital in Dalkeith.
Mr Thompson, who co-owns a Cottesloe investment property with Mr Nalder, works as a leasing
executive for TM Residential, according to its website.

TM Residental director Tonia McNeilly said last night that Mr Thompson was a part-time employee
and had not been involved with the company’s bid for the Sunset contract, which the company
won after a competitive process.

Ms McNeilly said she had never met or dealt with Mr Nalder and had dealt only with Landcorp
during the bidding process.

Mr Nalder said yesterday that despite announcing the contract in a press release, he had “no
involvement in any way in the selection of TM Residential” to sell the site, which had been done at
departmental level.
He said he knew his former boarding school friend worked for a residential leasing firm but did not
know which one.

“To me, he’s a mate and there’s a presumption of innocence until proven otherwise,” Mr Nalder
said.
“As a mate, I’m not going to desert him from a perception perspective just because of some
allegations.”
Mr Barnett said he was not aware of the details but he did not think the shared property investment
was significant.

“Most of those (contract) arrangements are simply done within the public sector,” he said.

Page247of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Barnett said there needed to be a consequence for several “serious errors of judgment” by Mr
Nalder in confusing his private business interests with his ministerial responsibilities.
They included making sure his business partner in a property company pursuing interests in
China was invited to dinner at the Chinese consulate, co-investing with ministerial staff in the
company and failing to declare that his superannuation fund held a stake in it.

Mr Barnett has ordered that the ministerial staffers — Sarah Boska and Richard Newton — either
divest themselves of their investment in Metier Asia or leave Mr Nalder’s ministerial office.

The Premier said the DPC review revealed Mr Nalder would have significant and unavoidable
potential conflicts of interests because of his privately held business interests in the information
technology area.

“The Finance portfolio was about to go through some significant changes,” Mr Barnett said.
“In particular it was about to be taking on the lead responsibility in terms of IT across Government,
including contracts, acquisitions of IT and so on.”

Mr Barnett put Mr Nalder’s errors down to inexperience and accepted some responsibility for
promoting him to Cabinet barely a year after he was elected.

Mr Nalder said he acknowledged his mistakes.

“I am learning, this is a learning experience,” he said. “I am a new minister and I intend to continue
to grow and do the best I can.”

RE
PUB
AN

waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020141208eac900036

Page248of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.