Fonterra CFO rules out Bega takeover

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Fonterra CFO rules out Bega takeover

Tim Binsted and Max Mason
654 words
8 April 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
22
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Fonterra chief financial officer Lukas Paravicini said he sees room for further collaboration and supply
agreements with ASX-listed Bega Cheese, but he ruled out a near-term bid for the NSW dairy
company amid a wave of consolidation in the sector.
During the heat of the $500 million takeover battle for Warrnambool Cheese & Butter (WCB) last
year, Fonterra, the world's largest dairy exporter, forked out about $50 million to take a 10 per cent
stake in Bega Cheese, fuelling speculation of an imminent takeover.

"It's a strategic decision. We made a statement there. There's no further intent but it's clearly a
statement. Bega is for sure a player that has a special relationship with Fonterra," Mr Paravicini told
The Australian Financial Review.

"They also complement our portfolio very well. There are interesting areas of collaboration we could
exploit in the future be they supply agreements, exports or nutritionals."
Fonterra licenses the Bega brand in Australia and is the major customer through Bega's Ridge Street
cheese cut and wrap facility.
There has been growing interest in Australian dairy, as evidenced during the battle for WCB, which
drew multiple suitors, including locals Bega Cheese and the Murray Goulburn Co-operative, as well as
global companies Kirin and the ultimate winner of the showdown, Canada's Saputo. The saga
stretched from September through to the start of this year and sparked a doubling of Warrnambool's
share price from $4.51 to a peak of $9.48. It last traded at $8.48 a share.

"Everyone wants in now. It will be interesting to see who wins and what valuations are like given
Warrnambool, the last transaction, went for a big multiple," RBS Morgans analyst Belinda Moore said.
Despite the increased interest in Australian dairy, analysts believe there is only room for a few brands
on supermarket shelves.
Coles and Woolworths are continuing to streamline products, forcing dairy producing to re-think
strategies, which may result in fewer brands being available on the market.
"There are too many brands in the dairy cabinet. If you go to the dairy cabinet, it's a wall of colour and
choice. There has to be some rationalisation there," PAC Partners industrial analyst Paul Jensz said.

Processing assets across Australia are underutilised, adding merit to further consolidation and use of
facilities.

On average, Australian processing assets are operating at about 75 per cent capacity, with a large
chunk of that excess in the making of drinking milk, Mr Jensz said. "There is not enough milk to go
around. That needs someone – or some group – to sort it out."

Page153of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Bega Cheese collects about 650 million litres of raw milk a year, making it the sixth-biggest
processor in Australia in terms of milk collection. Murray Goulburn is the biggest with 3 billion litres,
and its managing director, Gary Helou, has predicted the number of processors in Australia will halve.

"You can look at who the players are and the relative size and conclude what path consolidation will
take, but I'm not going to comment on that," Mr Paravicini said.

"There is room for further consolidation. You can increase efficiency and focus by having further
consolidation."
Last week French-owned giant Parmalat bought Western Australia's biggest dairy exporter, Harvey
Fresh, for $120 million and, in February, Hong Kong businessman William Hui paid $70 million to
buy United Dairy Power, the nation's biggest private processor.

"We are actively monitoring the situation," Mr Paravicini said.
Last week Fonterra sealed a 10-year deal to supply Woolworths's Select white milk in Victoria at the
expense of rival Lion (owned by Kirin).
Key points Fonterra bought a 10 per cent stake in Bega Cheese during the WCB takeover. Analysts
say there are too many dairy product brands on the market.

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

becoop : Bega Cheese Ltd | foncop : Fonterra Co-operative Group Limited
i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy Products | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cslmc : Senior Level Management | cacqu : Acquisitions |
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c18 : Ownership Changes | c41 : Management Issues | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140407ea480005x

Page154of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.