Suitors bypass largest owner in all-cash bid

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Suitors bypass largest owner in all-cash bid

Amanda Saunders
455 words
7 May 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
38
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Takeover - Aquila boss goes to ground
Momentum is fast building around Baosteel and Aurizon's $1.42 billion takeover offer for Perth junior
Aquila Resources, but major shareholder Tony Poli is shaping as the wildcard that could force a
higher bid.

The all-cash, unsolicited offer of $3.40 a share might need to be improved to convince Mr Poli to let
go of his 28.9 per cent holding.
Snaring Aquila would grant Aurizon and Baosteel - China's biggest steel maker - a 50 per cent stake
in the stalled $7.4 billion West Pilbara iron ore project.

The usually vocal Mr Poli, who is executive chairman of Aquila, has gone to ground and his position
on the bid remains unclear. But the chances of a counter bid are low given Baosteel already owns
19.8 per cent of the company.

Credit Suisse analyst Paul McTaggart said: "The fact that the bidders have gone directly to
shareholders would suggest there remains a significant gap between Tony Poli's probable price
expectations and the proposed offer price."

The suitors' plans to restructure the West Pilbara project ownership by splitting it into separate mine
and infrastructure vehicles would be easier to execute with full ownership of Aquila.

If the bid succeeds, Aurizon would look to take majority ownership in the infrastructure vehicle, worth
about $6 billion, while the roughly $1.4 billion in mining assets would be housed separately.

Sources have suggested Aquila's suitors might find it easier to tempt Mr Poli's co-founder Charles
Bass, who holds about 11 per cent, given he is no longer on the board and removed from daily
operations.

On resigning as a non-executive director in November, Mr Bass said he did not intend to sell any
shares "in the near future".

But Baosteel's bid could see him change his tune.
Aquila's biggest institutional shareholder - fund manager M&G with 13 per cent - is trying to trim its
exposure to mining and is understood to be open to the Baosteel-Aurizon bid.
The offer is conditional on 50 per cent acceptances. Given Baosteel's existing stake, if Mr Poli does
not support the offer, the suitors will need to get 30.2 per cent of an available pool of 51.3 per cent.
The attempt to buy Aquila is a vote of confidence from China Inc in iron ore, but the timing surprised
many because of volatility in the price of the commodity and talk of a softening in Chinese demand.

Page123of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The West Pilbara project includes a $6 billion port development at Anketell point, near Dampier on
the Pilbara coast.

aqures : Aquila Resources Ltd. | dorval : Aurizon Mines Ltd | hclamn : Hecla Mining Co
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources |
imet : Mining/Quarrying
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140506ea570001n

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page124of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.