Chilly wind lures bears to Woodside

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Chilly wind lures bears to Woodside

Angela Macdonald-Smith
609 words
30 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
21
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

As Woodside Petroleum shares trade around their highest for almost three years, the stock is
increasingly attracting the bears – thanks to market worries about a lack of near-term growth, the
temptation of an acquisition and expected tougher competition in gas supply to Asia.

Bernstein Research on Thursday has become the fourth broking house to downgrade its
recommendation on Woodside Petroleum stock since last Thursday's investor briefing, citing a "chilly
Siberian wind" that is blowing through the Pacific gas market thanks to last week's mega-deal on gas
supply between Russia and China.

Bernstein's downgrade to market-perform, follows similar downgrades to neutral by Citigroup and
JPMorgan, while Goldman Sachs has cut its call to "sell", all in the last few days.
Woodside last week abandoned its proposed $US2.5-billion ($2.7 billion) investment in the
Leviathan gas field in Israel, saying the deal was no longer attractive, given the risks. The decision
reassured investors about management discipline in capital spending decisions, and also inflated
investor expectations of another capital return.

However, it also highlighted the absence of production growth for Woodside over the next few years,
and the time it will take before some of its earlier-stage investments yield concrete results. Dropping
Leviathan has also sparked concerns among some market observers that Woodside will be lured into
another acquisition, despite chief executivePeter Coleman's insistence at the Sydney briefing last
Thursday he felt no pressure in that regard.Considering options

"While we applaud Woodside's decision to walk away from Leviathan, we think it is likely they will look
for something else to fill the 'growth gap'," Bernstein's Neil Beveridge said.

"Increasingly, we expect management will want to grow rather than return cash to shareholders, which
means an acquisition at some point, which is likely to be value-negative for investors."
Woodside chief financial officer Lawrie Tremaine last week outlined the company's criteria for
potential acquisitions, with a focus on deals in the $US1 billion-$US5 billion range and with a focus
on adding value. It has plenty of scope for a purchase, with some analysts estimating it will be
debt-free by the end of the year thanks to cash flows from the $15-billion Pluto LNG venture in
Western Australia, but with a targeting gearing level of 25 per cent.

Woodside's next major organic growth project is its Browse floating LNG venture, which is targeting a
final investment decision in the second half of 2015. But production is tentatively scheduled to start in
2020 or 2021, posing a challenge to drive further output growth over the next years.

Goldman Sachs analyst Mark Wiseman describes Woodside's reducing reserve life as "a concern"
and says it "has the potential to drive a more significant de-rating if not successfully addressed." He
sees peak production for Woodside occurring this year from existing assets, with declines then due to
maturing oil fields in WA and lower deliveries of gas within the state.'Not transformational'

Page47of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.While the Browse project should add reserves in the 2015-16 period, production is "some time away"
and is "not transformational," Mr Wiseman said. "More exploration and sizeable acquisitions are
necessary," he said, noting that LNG-scale assets are highly sought after, while growth from
exploration will necessarily take time," he said,
"While many oil and gas assets are for sale globally, they are typically mature or lower quality – and
we don't think Woodside can count on organic growth near term; the exploration function is rebuilding,
but will not bear fruit for several years."

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

wodpet : Woodside Petroleum Ltd
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural
Gas/Oil Extraction
c18 : Ownership Changes | cacqu : Acquisitions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c181 :
Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140529ea5u00007

Page48of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.