TWE shares soar on higher offer hopes

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
TWE shares soar on higher offer hopes

BLAIR SPEEDY, takeovers
525 words
22 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
21
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Investors are banking on a higher offer emerging for Treasury Wine Estates after a US investor
emerged with a 5 per cent stake in the company, which has knocked back an indicative $3.15 billion
proposal from US private equity firmKKR.

Shares in TWE climbed yesterday as much as 44c, or 9.2 per cent, to a peak of $5.24 — their highest
level since July last year when the company unveiled a $160 million writedown related to inventory
issues in its US division.

The stock finished at $5.07, up 27c on the day and a 7.8 per cent premium to the indicative $4.70
price KKR put to the TWE board on April 16. TWE revealed the rejected approach only this week
when it was alerted to the fact KKR had approached some shareholders to canvass their views,
thereby risking news of the move leaking to the market.
The TWE board has said the KKR proposal doesn’t reflect the fundamental value of the company,
given its own turnaround plans under new chief executive Michael Clarke, but has said it would
consider any offer that would maximise shareholder value.

Analysts said the market clearly believed KKR had not led with its highest bid, while the emergence of
US-based fund manager Harris Associates as a substantial shareholder only fuelled perception that
TWE was under siege from foreign buyers.

Harris yesterday lodged a substantial shareholding notice with the Australian Securities Exchange
declaring it had accumulated a 5.01 per cent stake in TWE since the start of the year.

Harris seeks out undervalued companies and already has major stakes in department store Myer and
food manufacturer Goodman Fielder — which last week agreed to a $1.4bn takeover from
Singaporean agribusiness Wilmar and Hong Kong investment manager First Pacific.

Credit Suisse analyst Larry Gandler said KKR had yet to gain access to TWE’s records and could yet
make another proposal, adding that $4.70 was so far above his own valuation of the company at
$3.15 a share that the board should engage with the bidders.
Analysts at Morgan Stanley said previous wine takeovers suggested the company could fetch $5.18
a share, while CIMB analysts said KKR could pay $5.10 a share. But one investment banker who has
worked on deals opposite KKR said he wouldn’t be surprised if the deal “fizzled out”, noting the firm
walked away from takeover talks with clothing and homewares wholesaler Pacific Brands in 2012 after
initial talks failed to produce an agreement.
“They have no capacity to force the board to engage, and TWE has a new CEO, so the board is likely
to be fairly committed to giving him some time to perform,” the banker said.
“KKR would have to come back with a very significantly higher offer for the board to change their
mind.”JPMorgan analyst Stuart Jackson said there was also a high risk that TWE could downgrade its

Page217of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.earnings forecast for this financial year after warning that conditions had remained challenging since
guidance was downgraded in January.

trzwn : Treasury Wine Estates Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i426 : Wine | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge :
Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods
c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | cacqu : Acquisitions | c15 : Performance | c18 :
Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter
| nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140521ea5m0000s

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page218of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.