China deal on cattle exports

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

TheNation
China deal on cattle exports

EXCLUSIVE: SUE NEALES RURAL REPORTER
1,003 words
7 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
6
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

$1bn boost from China deal on cattle exports ONE million beef cattle valued at more than $1 billion
are set to be shipped to China each year under a ground-breaking deal between the Australian and
Chinese governments that will double Australia’s live-export cattle trade.

The finalised live-cattle deal, to be formally announced after this weekend’s sensitive talks in Beijing on
the long-awaited bilateral free-trade agreement, comes after 10 years of negotiations.

Agriculture Minister Barnaby Joyce said last night that, while the deal had not yet been signed by the
two governments, “we are confident we are very close to finalising the protocols and certification
requirements for this important market”.
It is expected that as many as 50,000 beef cattle valued at more than $50 million will be shipped in the
next 12 months to China, where they will be slaughtered and eaten as beef, as soon as the deal is
signed.

Alison Penfold, the chief executive of the Australian Live Exporters Council, expects the massive
Chinese market will buy as many as one million beef cattle for slaughter from Australia each year,
within a few years.

“We’re all hopeful (it is signed) sooner rather than later, because we all see the massive opportunities
that are there for cattle producers across Australia once these Chinese live-export access protocols
are finalised,” Ms Penfold said.
A delegation of high-level Chinese agriculture officials visited Australia last week to complete the
technical details of the access standards and quarantine requirements that will underpin the new live-
export corridor.
In a boom year for live exports, Australia exported a record 1.13 million live beef cattle this year,
valued at more than $1bn, to countries such as Indonesia and Vietnam.
The new China deal will boost cattle prices across both northern and southern Australia beyond the
record $2.50/kg prices paid by exporters such as Elders and Wellard in Darwin last week.
But amid the record live-export numbers, and given an unprecedented 10 million cattle are scheduled
to be slaughtered in Australian meatworks by the end of this year as the long drought continues in
Queensland and northern NSW, it is feared there are not enough beef cattle left in Australia to meet
the new Chinese live-export demand.

Wellard Southeast Asia manager Bernie Brosnan, who saw off 7000 cattle bound for Indonesia
yesterday from Darwin, was delighted at the prospect of the huge Chinese market finally opening for
live-cattle exports.
His counterpart at the Elders-owned Northern Australian Cattle Company, Patrick Underwood,
wondered where all the cattle for the new Chinese market would be found, at least in the short term.

Page92of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“We’ve exported record numbers, killed record numbers and there’s a drought — there’s not that many
cattle left around,” Mr Underwood said.
Live beef cattle from Australia have not been allowed entry into China for slaughter, despite its
booming demand for red meat, because of the presence of some unusual strains of bluetongue virus in
northern Australia.
The Chinese have maintained that bluetongue from imported Australian beef cattle could adversely
affect China’s sheep flock.
The only live cattle sold to China in the past have been thousands of dairy heifers and a few beef
cows from southern Australia for breeding purposes, but not for red meat consumption.
It appears the new agreement between China and Australia will specify periods of the year when live
cattle from different parts of Australia can be shipped to China.

While bluetongue-free cattle from southern Australia will be allowed access all year round, cattle from
northern Australia — where producers breed stock that best suits the young live-cattle trade — will be
restricted to supplying animals during the few months of the year when the virus is less prevalent.
There will also be some zones of China where sheep flocks are common where cattle from Australia’s
bluetongue zone — north of a line from Broome to Coffs Harbour — will never be allowed entry.

Ms Penfold hoped the deal would include access for cattle from all parts of Australia at all times of the
year. “If we are to make this thing work and deliver the volumes that are needed to supply the Chinese
market, we are going to need that open access,” she said.
Before the new boom Chinese trade can begin, all exporters will have to ensure that the Chinese
feedlots and abattoirs where the Australian live cattle will be fattened and slaughtered on arrival are
internationally audited to meet Australia’s strict Exporter Supply Chain Assurance System and animal
welfare standards.
Northern Territory Cattlemen’s Association chief executive Tracey Hayes sees the new Chinese trade
as a boon for northern Australia after so many years when cattle producers have battled drought and
low prices.
“The challenge right across the board is going to be supplying the market, particularly once it rains in
Queensland and producers look to restock empty properties, because we have had record numbers of
breeding females going through processing facilities,” Ms Hayes said.
“Our national herd is significantly down (from 28.5 million head three years ago to 25.4 million now)
and the live-export trade is going gangbusters; we already have real competitive tension appearing
between buyers and that is pushing prices up.” Ms Hayes said it was wonderful to see producers
getting long-overdue profitable returns for their cattle, with prices approaching the $3/kg mark that will
spur reinvestment in rundown properties, allow debts to be repaid and encourage greater development.
Wellard chief executive Fred Troncone said he was pleased the Chinese and Australian governments
were close to finalising market access and certification arrangements to develop the feeder and
slaughter live-cattle trade.“When combined with our existing markets in Southeast Asia, the
commencement of the trade to China could help provide extra demand for cattle producers around
Australia,” Mr Troncone said yesterday.

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

i010010501 : Beef Cattle Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming |
ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
c312 : External Markets | mlvstk : Livestock/Meat Markets | mcattl : Beef/Dairy Cattle Markets | e512 :
Physical Trade | gdip : International Relations | c31 : Marketing/Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial
News | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir :
Politics/International Relations | m14 : Commodity Markets | m141 : Agricultural Commodity Markets |
mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E
Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | nterry : Northern Territory | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141106eab70005c

Page93of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.