Mammoth third buy

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Mammoth third buy

Larry Schlesinger
404 words
12 August 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
38
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Malaysian developer Mammoth has acquired its third development site in Melbourne and its first
outside the central business district.
The developer paid $12.3 million for a 2271-square-metre site on Wreckyn Street in North
Melbourne, offloaded by the veterinary organisation Lort Smith Animal Hospital

It sold well above expectations of between $8 million and $10 million, reflecting the appetite among
developers for sites close to the city centre.
It also adds longevity to Mammoth's Melbourne pipeline. The developers' 55-level MY80 apartment
tower on Elizabeth Street, with 487 apartments, is due for completion next month. Construction of its
second high-rise apartment block, Empire, with 474 apartments over 61 levels, is due to begin in
October. Just 60 remain available for purchase.
Andrew Fortey, director of PDS Group, which represents Mammoth in Australia, said the 15-27
Wreckyn Street site would suit a development of about 160 apartments.
"Part of the site's attraction to Mammoth was its smaller scale and shorter project duration," Mr
Fortey said. "It also has good amenity and is close to the city." Settlement is in 12 months.
The sale was handled by Josh Rutman, Mark Wizel and Ed Wright of CBRE Melbourne City Sales.
Charter Keck Cramer acted as transaction manager.
Mr Rutman said the sale price was a new record for a pure land acquisition in North Melbourne. "The
expressions of interest campaign attracted a total of 10 offers on the property from a range of local
and offshore groups looking to take advantage of the current demand for city fringe apartment
living," he said.
Earlier this month, a Chinese investor paid $13.2 million for a 2219-square-metre office building at
13-21 Bedford Street, North Melbourne. The price was 32 per cent more than the reserve set by the
vendor, Engineers Australia.

Mammoth Empire director Joseph Ooi told The Australian Financial Review earlier this year its
interests remained firmly focused on Melbourne, which is its only foray outside Malaysia. "We are
always looking for prime CBD sites in Melbourne to further our portfolio in the Australian sector," Mr
Ooi said.
Lort Smith's CEO, Dr Liz Walker, said she was delighted with the result of the property sale. "We
believe we got a fair price for the site. This money will be used directly to improve the welfare of
animals in our care," she said.

IN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction

Page161of239©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | malay : Malaysia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia
Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140811ea8c00003

Page162of239©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.