South Coast Brekkie Wrap

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

news
South Coast Brekkie Wrap

1,779 words
26 November 2014
Milton Ulladulla Times
FMILUT
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

9.00am: That is the end of today's South Coast Brekkie Wrap, but we will be back this afternoon to
provide updates on all the day's breaking news. Enjoy the rest of your day, and see if you can stay as
cute as this little fellow while taking the day's challenges in your stride.

8.55am: Geotechnical investigations into the location of a new bridge over the Shoalhaven River, which
involve the drilling of 13 boreholes, have started, and we have all the details here.

8.55am: Moruya Cancer Carers hope the Christmas at the Races fundraiser next month will push the
group past its $150,000 target for the new oncology unit at Moruya Hospital. You can read more here.

8.50am: The Bombala Golf Club has celebrated the end of the year with its presentation night, and we
have all the details here.

8.45am: A new Merimbula running group, Girls Run This Town, is growing in strength with 50 members
on the books after the group held a special picnic to celebrate Hug a Runner Day. The details are here.

8.45am: The fate of the Milton Library has been up in the air for several months, but there has been a
minor win for the community with Shoalhaven City Council moving the meeting that will decide the
library's fate to Ulladulla. The full story is here.

8.40am: The cricketing world continues to wait, hope and pray for former Australian opening batsman
Phillip Hughes as he battles for life, and you can add your thoughts in a message wall we have set up.
You can find it here.

8.35am: We have something a bit different here. Early last week there was quite a stir at Scripps Pier off
La Jolla in California. Initially locals were shocked and appalled to see what looked like a oil spill nearing
the beach. On closer inspection swimmers were equally shocked, but also delighted, to discover that it
was actually a monumentally-large shoal of anchovies.

8.30am: Here is a surprising way of getting down steps. Just glide ...

8.30am: An asbestos information house on wheels has visited Eden to educate local residents on the
potentially deadly loose-fill fibres, and we have the story here.

8.25am: Federal Member for Gilmore Ann Sudmalis has faced a huge backlash on social media after
she condemned BC managing director Mark Scott for deciding to close the broadcaster's Nowra office.
You can see the response here.

8.20am: One of Bega High School's year advisers is one of four across the state awarded the inaugural
Student Engagement 2014 NSW Year Adviser of the Year, and we have the full story here.

8.15am: Kiama Golf Club hosted its inaugural Pro-Am on Monday as part of the PGA Legends Tour, with
the event attracting many of the sport's big names. You can find out here who played.

8.10am: Bodalla Forest Rest Area and the Mummaga Lake Walking Track have been declared safe and
reopened following recent timber harvesting, however work to restore and improve the area will continue
over the coming months. The full details are here.

Page176of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.8.05am: Merimbula youngster Korban Jenkins loves animals and is passionate about habitat
conservation, and that passion grew when he had a chance to meet his idol - Sir David Attenborough.
The heart-warming story is here.
8.00am: Huntfest will operate a mobile air rifle range and have guns for sale at the 2015 event in
Narooma after Eurobodalla Shire Council passed a variation to its event license. The full details are here.

7.55am: The entrepreneurial spirit is alive and kicking in Ulladulla, wiuth a group of teenagers making
money doing the things they love. The full story is here.

7.50am: They start them young in New Zealand, and we have footage of a couple of six-year-olds
practicing the haka.

7.50am: This year's Merimbula Classic is going to "get loud" according to Merimbula Sailboard Club
president Glenn Brunette, with events starting today and will running through until Sunday. The full
details are here.

7.50am: Imogen Bakewell is hoping to use her selection as Kiama's representative in this year's Youth
Parliament as a stepping stone to her ultimate goal in international relations. You can read all about
Imogen and her ambitions here.

7.45am: Eurobodalla Shire Council's stance on sea-level rise flowed out with the tide at Tuesday's
meeting when councillors moved away from adopting the worse case scenario. The full story is here.

7.40am: The Bombala and District Historical Society recently held its spring excursion to Nungatta,
Nungatta South and Wangabelle, and we have all the details here.

7.35am: NSW Fire and Rescue yesterday had to give the all-clear after inspecting and removing a
suspicious package sent to a Nowra legal firm, and we have all the details and video here.

7.30am: An Eden man who suffers from leukaemia and kidney failure, and needs to travel to Bega three
times per week to undergo dialysis treatment, is being failed by the health system, according to his son.
The full story is here.

7.15am: Sisters can do it for themselves, and with the Eurobodalla and Bega Valley Tradewomen's
Guild, they will have big sisters to help them guide the way. The full story is here.

7.10am: The issue of helmets will no doubt be a topic of conversation at cricket matches across the
Bega Valley this weekend in light of Phillip Hughes' terrible head injury this week, and you can read
more here.

7.05am: Former Ulladulla woman Bronwyn Atherton has been sitting in a Peru jail for the past six years
after being convicted of being a drug mule, however an art sale could help fund hopes for an early
release. The full details are here.

Good morning. Need a national news snapshot first thing - well, we have you covered.

" To check out the front pages of Fairfax publications for today, click here

It was all about the ARIAs last night as hip young, and not so young, things from the music industry
celebrated 2014 in Sydney. Chet Faker and Sia were the big winners. Find out who won what here.

" Helmets could soon be compulsory in Ballarat cricket in the wake of the tragic Phillip Hughes incident.
" A $1 million zipline course is taking shape on the Illawarra escarpment as tourism behemoth Merlin
Entertainments Group takes off on a dramatic expansion of the Illawarra Fly Treetop Adventures site.

" Farrer MP Sussan Ley has responded cautiously to Albury Council's support for same-sex marriage,
saying she was waiting for legislation to come before Parliament before spelling out her views on the
issue.

" Few people know better than cricketer Rick McCosker what a weapon a new ball can be in the hands
of a genuine fast bowler. The former Test opener had his jaw broken attempting a hook shot against
England's Bob Willis in the 1977 Centenary Test. He reflects on the Phillip Hughes incident.
" Deakin University's Warrnambool campus is worth $53 million a year to the region's economy plus
another $6m to the rest of the nation, according to a commissioned economics report.

Page177of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved." When Debra Tropea's little boy Cruz became severely dehydrated during a traffic jam on Friday, she
never expected the kindness of even one person - let alone 30,000 of them. Read more about the
search for the kind-hearted truckie.

" Struggling graziers have been dealt another blow with the Water Reform and Other Legislation Bill
passed in Queensland Parliament.

" Qantas's new fleet of larger, faster planes will mean 10,000 more passengers can complete the trip
from Wagga to Sydney each year.

MOUNT ISA: A cattle station worker has been flown to Brisbane after she was trapped under more than
1000 kilograms of hay bales while working on Taldora Station near Julia Creek.
LAUNCESTON: The state government has chosen a Singapore-based company as its preferred
operator for a direct international shipping link. Infrastructure Minister Rene Hidding told State
Parliament the government expected to enter into a Memorandum of Understanding with shipping
company Swire ''in the near future''.

GOULBURN: Clive Palmer has vowed his party will extend its influence beyond Canberra's Parliament
House. However, they won't be in a position to stand a single candidate at the NSW election next March.

WAGGA WAGGA: Plastic is not always fantastic, especially when it comes to Christmas trees. This is
the message Dennis Blackett is promoting as he urges the community to embrace the festive spirit and
buy real pine trees.

VICTOR HARBOR: The Middleton businessman who slaughtered six miniature horses at Clayton Bay in
December 2013 may be out of jail in 18 months.

REDLANDS: Brisbane's G20 meeting of world leaders, designed to promote economic growth and
peace, has fuelled the Redlands koala wars.

WARRNAMBOOL: A long-time Warrnambool drug dealer who was so desperate to make money he
substituted rock salt for ice has been jailed for six months.

"BENDIGO: With the conclusion of the international exhibition The Body Beautiful in Ancient Greece
from the British Museum, staff at Bendigo Art Gallery have been busy working behind the scenes to
install works from the permanent collection.

" As protests spread around the United States on Wednesday night, reinforced National Guard and
police engaged in a tense stand-off in Ferguson, sparing the township much of the violence that tore
through its streets on Monday.

" Daryl Davies, a retired commercial pilot, paid the equivalent of about $500,000 in Thai baht for his
dream three-bedroom home in Chom Tawan, one of the most prestigious residential developments on
Phuket. But a Thai court has authorised an auction of the homes of Mr Davies and more than 40 other
buyers to the highest bidder if millions of dollars owed to the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China
by the project developer are not repaid by a December 17 deadline.
" Hong Kong police have arrested high-profile student protest leaders Joshua Wong and Lester Shum,
as authorities moved to clear a key protest camp at the heart of a pro-democracy civil disobedience
movement that has swept the financial hub for two months

Life is looking pretty peachy for Gracetown surfer Jacob Willcox. The 18-year-old just celebrated the end
of his high school years, as well as his success in being named this year's hottest surfing talent by
Surfing Life magazine.

RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | nswals : New South Wales | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz :
Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | queensl : Queensland
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FMILUT0020141127eabq00007

Page178of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.