AUD/USD to Continue to Face Heightened Volatility -- Market Talk

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

AUD/USD to Continue to Face Heightened Volatility -- Market Talk

1,456 words
7 August 2014
08:49
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

2249 GMT [Dow Jones] The AUD/USD has rebounded strongly but is likely to continue to face
heightened volatility through the end of the week with investors now closely eyeing the expected release
of labour market figures, says OzForex. Economists have forecasted that 13,500 new jobs were created
during the month of July. OzForex says resistance at 0.9400 remains intact "with sentiment swings this
week suggesting the market is still a little shaky off the back of geo-political tensions and broader global
growth concerns." (rebecca.howard@wsj.com; Twitter: @FarroHoward)

2241 GMT [DOW JONES] The rationale behind Orica's (ARI.AU) decision to seek a separation of its
chemicals unit is sound given the limited overlap with its other divisions, but J.P. Morgan analyst Stuart
Jackson considers it unlikely to unlock significant shareholder value. Orica said Wednesday it wants to
sell or list its chemicals business, which supplies industries including agriculture, and generates annual
revenue of about A$1.2 billion. "We estimate Chemicals has an enterprise value of A$613 million on a
passive investment basis," Jackson says. "Separation is unlikely to unlock hidden value given the
Mining Services business is unlikely to re-rate and Chemicals should trade at a discount to the broader
Orica company." J.P. Morgan rates Orica at neutral, with a A$24.50 price target. ORI last traded at
A$20.67. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)
2238 GMT [Dow Jones] Corporate Travel Management Ltd.'s (CTD.AU) acquisition of Houston-based
Avia Travel for A$4.1 million ($3.8 million) is pretty small, but it does bring exposure to the growing oil
and gas and marine industries, says J.P. Morgan. It also further expands CTD's global business, opening
the door to more global deals with multinational corporations, it says. The brokerage adds the price, at
5.5 times 2013 net profit, is reasonable and compares with previous U.S. acquisitions, including
USTravel, Travelcorp and R&A Travel. J.P. Morgan anticipates CTD will be able to continue extracting
revenue and cost synergies for its acquisition. It lifts its price target to A$7.40/share ($6.90) from
A$7.30 and remains overweight. CTD last traded at A$6.41. (robb.stewart@wsj.com; Twitter:
@RobbMStewart)

18:25 EDT - Credit Suisse cuts Adelaide Brighton (ABC.AU) to underperform from neutral as it sees
potential price-to-earnings waning due to its expectation of no more special dividends and a peak in the
global search for yield. "We believe the macro outlook, particularly in South Australia and Western
Australia, is unlikely to provide any near-term relief and with the stock trading above our revised $3.55
target price, we see better value elsewhere," the broker says. ABC last A$3.58. (david.rogers@wsj.com;
@DavidRogersWSJ)

18:16 EDT - Some investors are reacting favorably to the prospect of a $16B-plus Bank of America
(BAC) mortgage settlement. "I think this is a positive" for the bank, says Mike Frazier, president of Bedell
Frazier Investment Counselling, a firm in Walnut Creek, Calif., with $400M in assets under management
that owns Bank of America shares worth $4.5M. Frazier says while he had expected Bank of America to
pay equal to or less than what JPMorgan (JPM) had paid, he is still contemplating adding to his position.
The bank can move forward, he says, because it "unhitched the big trailer." (julie.steinberg@wsj.com)

18:12 EDT - Big power generator Dynegy (DYN) says it thinks profit margins and sales will rise as power
plants are shuttered to satisfy environmental rules. Dynegy reports a utilization rate of 76% for its coal
segment in 1H this year versus 72% a year earlier. Its utilization rates for gas-fired generating plants
were 34% for units in the western portion of the PJM marketplace (mid-Atlantic and parts of Midwest),
46% in California and 52% in New York and New England. Retirements might could help survivors with

Page45of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.surplus capacity, particularly if there's an uptick in energy demand. Dynegy slightly raises its projection
of earnings, before certain deductions. (rebecca.smith@wsj.com)

18:07 EDT - Mexican domestic sales of cars and light trucks rose by 11% in July from the same month
last year, despite a survey this week indicating a drop in consumer confidence. Noting that sales since
January are up only 1.3 %, the auto dealers trade association says unsustainable discounts and easy
financing underlie the July bump. More than 80% of the nearly 1.86M cars and light trucks produced in
Mexico so far this year have been exported, most of them to the US and Canada.
(dudley.althaus@wsj.com)

17:51 EDT - Morgan Stanley has joined the club of private-label RMBS issuers this year with a prime
jumbo deal, according to Fitch. Like most nonagency deals before it, the $256.5M issue is backed by
loans to borrowers with ultra-high credit scores. The firm has recently ramped up its team for the market,
which has grown only in fits and starts since the financial crisis. But banks, the SFIG industry group and
the US Treasury have stepped up efforts to encourage the private deals, which could eventually take
some mortgage risk off the government's shoulders and also help loosen still-tight credit standards.
(albert.yoon@wsj.com)

17:34 EDT - Brazil's lower house of congress approves a measure that would let the government raise
the proportion of ethanol in its gasoline to 25.7%, from the current upper limit of 25%, taking the country
a big step closer to boosting demand for the sugar-based fuel. Brazilian ethanol producers have been
clamoring for a higher amount of the fuel in the gasoline mix. Brazil's upper house of congress has until
the last week of September to approve the measure, which must then be signed into law by President
Dilma Rousseff. (jeffrey.lewis@wsj.com)

17:34 EDT - Time Warner (TWX) CEO Jeff Bewkes said on an earnings call this morning that the
company's Warner Bros. movie studio has "ambitious plans" to use its catalog of DC Comics super
heroes to help fuel growth after rejecting a takeover offer by 21st Century Fox (FOX). A few hours later,
Warner Bros. showed what "ambitious" means, as it revealed plans to release two DC-based movies
every year between 2016 and 2020. That's a step up from Warner's output to date of one DC film most
years, and none in 2014 or 2015. Warner is trying to catch up to the success of rival Marvel Studios,
owned by Disney (DIS), on the big screen, including this week's hit "Guardians of the Galaxy."
(ben.fritz@wsj.com; @benfritz)

17:27 EDT - Chrysler CEO Sergio Marchionne says he expects a "relatively quick resolution" to an
anti-trust investigation in China into whether car makers are engaging in monopolistic practices.
Chrysler, along with several other foreign-owned car makers, have become targets of the regulatory
investigation. "Hopefully in the next 14 days we'll be in a position to provide a definitive answer on the
exposure Chrysler has," he says, noting that any impact on earnings won't be significant. In an effort to
appease Chinese regulators, Chrysler recently cut prices on spare parts. The move came as a top
Chinese official said that investigations by local authorities into Chrysler and Audi were close to an end.
(christina.rogers@wsj.com)

17:26 EDT - Zulily (ZU) plans to build a third fulfilment center in early 2015 as the flash-sales website's
rapid sales growth is forcing it to add more capacity to handle increased order volume, CEO Darrell
Cavens says on the company's earnings call. The new warehouse will be on the East Coast as existing
facilities are in Nevada and Ohio. ZU's business model sees vendors ship merchandise in bulk to its
fulfilment centers, where ZU workers sort items into individual orders and then ship packages out to
customers. ZU is also accelerating investments to automate processing at its existing facilities, which will
pressure margins in the coming months, CFO Marc Stolzman says. (serena.ng@wsj.com)

To contact the Market Talk Editors,
Kevin Kingsbury, 212 416-2354, kevin.kingsbury@wsj.com
Cynthia Lin, 212 416-4403, Cynthia.lin@wsj.com
John Shipman, 212 416-2181, john.shipman@wsj.com
Patrick Sullivan, 212 416-2326, Patrick.sullivan@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

August 06, 2014 18:49 ET (22:49 GMT)

CO
IN

ozfopl : OzForex Group Ltd.
i831 : Financial Investments | i83106 : Securities/Commodity Exchange Activities | ifinal : Financial
Services | iinv : Investing/Securities

Page46of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE

c152 : Earnings Projections | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities
Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News |
nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
usa : United States | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North
America

PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020140806ea86004he

Page47of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.