Chinese check in

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Chinese check in

G Adams
465 words
11 November 2014
Country News
MPCOUN
M003
English
Copyright 2014. McPherson Media Group.

A Chinese company that has signed a major deal with Shepparton milk processor Pactum Dairy has
sent representatives to the Goulburn Valley to see how we produce milk.
A company director has told Country News they were impressed with what they saw.

In August the Pactum Dairy group began manufacture of a new 250 Ml UHT milk product for China’s
Bright Dairy Group which last year had total sales of $2.6 billion, through 400 000 sales outlets.
The visiting group of 25 people from the Shanghai-based company included a film crew which spent
four days with Wyuna dairy farmer John Watson, recording how the farm worked.
The group also visited the Shepparton Pactum Dairy factory.

On Friday last week the visitors were hosted at an ‘‘Aussie’’ luncheon arranged by the City of Greater
Shepparton at the Undera farm of Shepparton businessman Robin Knaggs.
When Mayor Jenny Houlihan presented a gift to return to the Shanghai mayor, the group gasped.

Shanghai has more citizens than the whole of Australia, and getting an audience with the mayor can
be difficult.
The leadership group included two internet bloggers who have more than a million followers each.

Writer ‘Gabbi’ Shi has a largely young on-line audience who follow her tips and advice on travel, food
and entertainment.
Bright Dairy executive director Min Ben said as a result of the trip they had more confidence and in
future the products would sell well in China.
Through a translator, Ms Ben said Chinese consumers wanted quality, safety and a functional
product.

‘‘We are excited by what we have seen,’’ she said.

‘‘We have seen the factory and farms and seen that living conditions of the cows are good.
‘‘We trust the purity of the milk.’’

She said she was impressed by the state-of-the-art factory and its management.
Ms Bin said the growth rate for the high end of the milk market was ‘‘very large’’.
Asked if her company wanted to buy Australian factories or farms, she replied:

Page185of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.‘‘It is our strategy to use global resources to satisfy customers’ demand, not only in China but global
demand, so we may push the product into other markets, not only China.

‘‘Whether to invest in Australia or not is dependant upon future product development strategy and the
local investment environment.’’
Pactum is producing a Chinese packaged UHT drink which is a snack drink aimed at the premium
end of the market, called U plus.

‘‘U’’ stands for ‘‘excellent’’.
The leadership group enjoyed an Australian meal at the Undera farm retreat modelled on a shearing
shed. Businessman and restaurateur Matt Innes-Irons made the arrangements with Shepparton Show
Me.
Among the hosts were ACM milk company directors Michael Auld and John Hommes.

CO
IN

RE

PUB
AN

shbdai : Bright Dairy & Food Co., Ltd | brgfdc : Bright Food (Group) Co Ltd
i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming |
ilsfarm : Livestock Farming | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy Products | icnp : Consumer
Goods | ifood : Food Products
china : China | nswals : New South Wales | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz :
Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
McPherson Media Group
Document MPCOUN0020141110eabb00019

Page186of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.