Chinese flood new property market

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Chinese flood new property market

By Max Mason
508 words
6 March 2014
Canberra Times
CANBTZ
A007
English
(c) 2014 The Canberra Times

Chinese flood new property market

By Max Mason

Close to one-fifth of new properties in Sydney are being bought by wealthy Chinese investors and the
flood of money is set to continue. Using data from the Australian Bureau of Statistics and the Foreign
Investment Review Board, Credit Suisse estimates Chinese buyers account for 18per cent of new
property purchases in Sydney, and 14per cent of the supply in Melbourne. This does not include older
residential property. "A generation of Australians are being priced out of the property market. Many
face a lifetime of renting," analysts Hasan Tevfik and Damien Boey said. Wealthy Chinese have
purchased $24billion of Australian housing in the past seven years, and Credit Suisse estimates they will
spend $44billion over the next seven years. There was $17.2billion worth of approved residential
property investment from overseas in the year to June 30, 2013, down from $19.7billion in the previous
period, according to the FIRB. Foreigners
must seek approval to buy established real estate and rural land, but can buy up to 50per cent of a new
building "off the plan". Of the 2013 total, $5.6billion was approved for residential properties in New South
Wales. That number may seem large, but across the whole property market the effect dissipates. There
is, on average, a 6per cent turnover annually in property, according to the Reserve Bank of Australia.
The total value of Australia's property market is $5.02trillion, according to the ABS, so yearly turnover in
the housing sector is roughly $360billion. Chinese buyers are spending $5.4billion a year on Australian
properties, Credit Suisse said, with the split relatively even between new settlers and others such as
investors, developers and temporary residents. The rise in domestic house prices, while marginally
affected by Chinese investors, is a result of low interest rates, increased affordability and domestic
investors, not foreigners, said Deutsche Bank economist Phil Odonaghoe.

"The point that gets lost in this debate very often is that nobody focuses on the rules, which are pretty
clear for a foreign investor. The principle that guides the FIRB policy is that foreign investment should
increase the housing stock," Mr Odonaghoe said. Chinese investors may be pushing new house prices
higher, which is locking out local first-home buyers, but they are not the reason for rises in established
home prices, Mr Odonaghoe said. That doesn't bode well for first- home buyers who struggle to break
into the market. First-home buyer activity, as a proportion of total borrowers, is near record lows at
12.7per cent, the ABS reports. In February, first-time buyers comprised less than 10per cent of all
mortgages processed by broker AFG for the first time since June 2010. The numbers are most dramatic
in NSW where first-home buyers were responsible for just 3.4per cent of AFG mortgages. Victoria's
first-home buyers took out 10.3 per cent of mortgages, down from 17.1 per cent last February.

RF
NS

RE

54737501
e1121 : Home Sales/Housing Affordability | ereal : Real Estate Markets | e11 : Economic
Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

Page115of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty Ltd
AN

Document CANBTZ0020140305ea360000f

Page116of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.