Zone Q battles glut

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Zone Q battles glut

Mercedes Ruehl
365 words
16 October 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
60
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Offshore residential developer Zone Q Investments is closing in on building its first apartment
project in Australia, with nearly 35 per cent of the units presold or under negotiation.
The group. which is the Australian arm of Chinese mainland developer JiaHe JianAn Group,
received development approval for the $100 million project in August.

But it comes along with a jump in the number of proposals from developers and a drop in the rate of
sales activity below the 20 year average, fuelling predictions of an oversupply in the Western
Australian city.

Far from seeing Perth as at risk of a supply glut, Zone Q thinks the city was the best market to enter
for its first offshore play.

"When we began considering the Australian market, we examined opportunities in Sydney and
Melbourne before looking at Perth," a Zone Q senior representative said.

"While we will continue to look at key eastern states markets such as Sydney going forward, we
believe it is the Perth market that currently offers the best opportunity and we have already secured
two more sites for development in the coming months."
Colliers International director, residential Jo-Anne Chin said while there were fewer apartment
buyers recently, a glut was unlikely.
"What many people don't realise is that if you see a crane on a site constructing apartments, the
chances are that around 70 per cent of that development is already sold," Ms Chin said.
"Most apartment developers require a high level of presales to be achieved before their banks or
financiers will provide the funds to proceed. At the moment that level is generally in excess of 60 per
cent, so by the time you see the crane on the skyline, most of the apartments will be sold."
Since launching, Pinnacle South Perth, which includes a $70 million 20-storey apartment tower with
102 apartments, has presold just over 35 per cent – worth in excess of $26 million in sales. The two
penthouses sold prior to the launch.
Elsewhere, Finbar Group, one of the biggest developers in Perth, has sold more than
80 apartments at its Concerto development, which will have 228 apartments.

IN

RE
PUB

i5010022 : Residential Building Construction | ireest : Real Estate | i501 : Building Construction |
iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited

Page78of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document AFNR000020141015eaag0003y

Page79of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.