Iron - Ore Price Helps Fortescue Speed Debt Payments; Miner's Debt to Fall to $7.80 Billion by the End of March

SE
HD

BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
ED
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Iron-Ore Price Helps Fortescue Speed Debt Payments; Miner's Debt to Fall to $7.80 Billion by
the End of March
Rhiannon Hoyle
650 words
15 January 2014
13:20
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

SYDNEY—Robust iron-ore prices are helping Australia's Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. pay down its
multibillion-dollar debt pile a lot faster than expected.
Fortescue said Wednesday it had accelerated the repayment of bonds accumulated during a
decadelong campaign to turn itself into the world's No. 4 iron-ore producer supplying China's thirst
for the steelmaking ingredient.

According to Fortescue, it will pay back US$1.64 billion in March on a pair of senior unsecured notes
due to mature over the coming two years. That follows a US$1.00 billion repayment last month, and
will chop the company's net debt down to US$7.80 billion by the end of March, compared with
US$10.53 billion on June 30.
The mining company, founded by billionaireAndrew Forrest, used large loans to build up a network
of land assets, power-and-water infrastructure, and rail-and-port facilities in the resource-rich Pilbara
region of Western Australia state.

Its massive borrowings have weighed on Fortescue's stock price, however, and forced emergency
talks with lenders to renegotiate its finances when iron-ore prices slumped in 2012.
Investors said Fortescue's decision to back away from a multibillion-dollar sale of a stake in its
port-and-rail assets last year signaled confidence in its ability to repay its debt—even as many
investment banks forecast the pace of Chinese demand for iron ore would soften.

"This debt reduction exceeded our expectations" and shows that Fortescue is well-positioned to pay
back its loans rapidly, said Chris Drew, a Sydney-based analyst at RBC Capital Markets.

Credit Suisse analyst Matt Hope said the repayments were scheduled to take place earlier than he
had anticipated too, given that Fortescue's newest operation in Pilbara, known as Kings, had only just
started producing iron ore.
Fortescue is one of a number of big mining companies prioritizing debt reduction in the face of a
cooling commodities boom that has already triggered thousands of job losses across the industry.

Last month, Rio Tinto PLC detailed plans to cut spending significantly over the next couple of
years—part of efforts to reduce debt it accumulated alongside an expansion of its own operations.
The London-based company reported net debt of US$22.1 billion as of June 30. Chief Executive
Sam Walsh said he wanted to reduce that to the "midteens."

Ratings companies have rewarded Fortescue's efforts. In November, Standard & Poor's Ratings
Services lifted the mining company's long-term corporate credit rating to BB from BB-minus. It said it
would consider increasing Fortescue's credit rating again if its debt-reduction strategy maintained a
solid pace.

Page189of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The decision to pay down the bonds early will also save Fortescue about US$111 million a year in
interest payments, even though the company will spend about US$55 million on redeeming the
notes, according to RBC's Mr. Drew.
The relatively strong performance of iron-ore prices last year has helped Fortescue take the latest
debt-reduction measures. The metal has mostly traded above $130 a metric ton since the middle of
2013, holding firm even as the value of other commodities like gold and nickel fell.
Prices plunged to less than US$90 a ton in 2012 at the height of worries that China's economy may
be headed for a hard landing. Still, the outlook for iron-ore prices this year looks less rosy, with a
great deal more supply coming onstream, slower growth expected in China, and Beijing's moves to
rein in steel production.

The benchmark price is showing signs of weakness already, dipping below US$130 a ton earlier this
week for the first time since August.

ambol : Fortescue Metals Group Ltd
i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i211 : Metal Ore
Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond Markets | c17 : Funding/Capital | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Asian Business News
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document WSJO000020140115ea1f00ha9

CO
IN

NS

RE

IPD
PUB
AN

Page190of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.