Sydney, Melbourne among the top for foreign investors

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Sydney, Melbourne among the top for foreign investors

282 words
18 October 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
39
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Sydney is the fourth most popular destination in the world for foreign investors in commercial
property – behind London, New York and Paris. And Melbourne is close behind.
At least they were the rankings in 2013-14 according to a report from global real estate group
Cushman & Wakefield – Winning in Growth Cities.

Global commercial property investment rose 17 per cent in the year to June, to $US788 billion
($900 billion), and cross-border investment, not counting the purchase of development sites, soared
even more, by 39 per cent.

Australian office towers, shopping centres and industrial facilities, attracted more than a fair share.

Global investors are attracted to the country by the generally higher yields on offer; the relatively
strong level of property rights and transparency; and, despite the local despondency about the
economy, a positive outlook for population and medium term economic growth in cities such as
Sydney and Melbourne.

Brisbane is also on the global radar, at number 19 for cross border buying, behind Berlin but ahead
of Hong Kong.
Investment out of Asia from China, Singapore, Hong Kong and Japan, surged 56 per cent during
the year.

But the largest share of global cross border investment, over $US75 billion, still comes from the
US and Canada.
The big change for 2015 will be a shift of focus to second tier cities and secondary property wrote
Cushman.

Its head of Asia Pacific capital markets, John Stinson, said because of the relatively low growth
expected in Asia in the next five years, large Asian funds and investors were re-weighting to
emerging cities, or increasing allocation to the US and Europe.

Robert Harley

IN
RE

PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia
Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141017eaai00011

Page206of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.