Lingering doubts dampen FMG's run

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Lingering doubts dampen FMG's run

Bulls and bears Michael Hobbs
798 words
13 January 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
23
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Fortescue Metals Group shares enjoyed a strong run in the lead-up to Christmas amid a healthy iron
ore price and focus on repaying debt. However, lingering concerns about its operational culture and
the long-term outlook for iron ore has somewhat divided the market on the stock.
The Western Australian-based group is pushing to expand its iron ore operations to 155 million
tonnes a year by March this year.

Fortescue maintained its full-year guidance to produce between 127 million tonnes and 133 million
tonnes in October last year.
While its large debt nearly crippled the company when the spot iron ore price in September 2012 fell
to approximately $US88 a tonne, Fortescue chairman and BRW Rich Lister Andrew Forrest indicated
the group may repay debt faster than the market is expecting. It currently holds $US9.9 billion
($11 billion) in net debt.
Fortescue announced it would repay $US1 billion out of $US2.04 billion in senior unsecured notes
in December 2013 in a move that will save an estimated $70 million a year in interest.

Mr Forrest, who is also Fortescue's largest shareholder, said management were focused on repaying
debt "so don't be surprised if in the next several weeks to several months we do another
$US1 billion".

While many metrics for FMG appeared to be moving in the right direction, a contractor death at its
Christmas Creek mine in August last year and another at the end of December have called into
question the group's safety record. Fortescue chief executive Nev Power defended the group's
workplace procedures following the second incident, adding that safety was a core value at the
company. It has not quashed lingering concerns about the operation's practices.Shares rebound from
June low
Despite these concerns, a robust iron ore price of $US130 a tonne and FMG's debt reduction efforts
so far have seen its shares rebound 78 per cent from a 12-month low of $2.92 a share in June to close
at $5.20 a share on Friday.
Sixty per cent of equity analysts have a "buy" recommendation on the stock, while 28 per cent have a
"hold" call, according to Bloomberg. Three analysts have a "sell" recommendation on Fortescue.

The average 12-month price target is $6.13 a share, while some analysts have price targets much
higher at $7.50 and $8.

Bell Potter managing director Charlie Aitken named Fortescue in his top three picks for 2014. He said
the number one variable in successful stock selection is management, particularly when they have a
lot of personal wealth invested. Mr Forrest owns 34 per cent of Fortescue.

Page65of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Aitken reckons Fortescue will be a major beneficiary of a falling Australian dollar and a
"reaccelerating Chinese economy", which will fuel ongoing demand for iron ore and keep prices
elevated.
Royal Bank of Canada named Fortescue as one of its preferred picks on expectations the iron ore
price will be underpinned by Chinese demand and predictions the company's gearing could fall to
36 per cent.

In addition, the world's largest resources investor, BlackRock Group, emerged as a significant
shareholder of Fortescue for the first time in December last year.Teck sells $503m stake
But uncertainty around the impact of additional iron ore supply on the spot price and Chinese
demand means some analysts believe the stock is fully valued.
China's iron ore futures fell more than 2 per cent to near-record lows last week, according to Reuters,
which flagged weaker appetite for the raw material.
While some shareholders have increased their positions, Canadian mining company Teck cashed in
on a rise of Fortescue's shares and sold its $503 million stake in November last year.
Prior to the sale, Deutsche Bank analyst Paul Young downgraded his call on Fortescue to "sell".
He said Fortescue is expensive on a net present value basis when compared to fellow iron ore
producers BHP and Rio.

While Fortescue is cheaper versus the majors on a price-to-earnings basis, Mr Young said that could
likely be attributed to the group's high gearing, operating risks and lower margins.
With the iron ore price likely to come under pressure, Fortescue's debt repayment strategy was not
enough for a positive recommendation.

"On our forecasts, it will take four years to reduce gearing to that of the majors," Mr Young wrote in a
note. "The de-gearing story is not compelling enough for us and they are certainly not out of the woods
yet.

"Looking at free cash flow on a post-sustaining capital expenditure and debt repayment basis,
Fortescue has a lower free cash flow yield than the majors."

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

ambol : Fortescue Metals Group Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140112ea1d0001d

Page66of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.