Fraser's power bet on AGL's future

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Fraser's power bet on AGL's future

Angela Macdonald-Smith
1,406 words
18 August 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
48
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

By any measure, AGL Energy chief executive Michael Fraser scored one over the competition
regulator when the Australian Competition Tribunal overturned the watchdog's veto of the $1.5 billion
takeover of Macquarie Generation in June.
But Fraser's win may yet come back to bite the company.

Ahead of a $1.2 billion equity raising expected next week to help fund the purchase of the giant
NSW power producer, the market remains starkly divided on whether taking the utility deeper into
coal-fired electricity is the way to go, and especially right now.
Even those not concerned about how the acquisition stacks up in light of the world's long-term
inexorable shift toward lower-emission energy sources have worries about the short-term financial
impact given the dire state of the wholesale power market.

The yet-to-complete MacGen takeover will boost AGL's generation capacity by 79 per cent to more
than 10,600 megawatts.

While AGL remains the largest private owner and developer of renewable power plants, it will now
also be the second-biggest owner of thermal power plants behind only the Queensland government.

In 2007 just before Fraser took over to steady the ship after a turbulent 18 months under predecessor
Paul Anthony, AGL was a different beast.
Its annual report of that year markets the company, then chaired by Mark Johnson, as "a breath of
fresh air", highlighting its credentials in the renewable energy and carbon abatement space.
It is a different, blacker animal now. AGL's minority stake in Loy Yang A, the largest brown-coal-fired
power plant in the country, was raised to 100 per cent in a $488 million buyout of its partners in 2012.
And then there's MacGen.
AGL, now chaired by Jerry Maycock, is far from alone in choosing the coal path.
Archrival Origin Energy has similarly left well behind its "green" tone of the late noughties, buying
large NSW black-coal generator Eraring Energy in the last wave of the state power privatisation.

Certainly the clear – if not publicly articulated – change in strategy over the years has some
justification given the changed market conditions.

Electricity demand has firmly departed from its seemingly ever-upward path, while the emergence of
Queensland's LNG export industry means gas has failed to take over from coal as a key power fuel
source, instead being priced out of that market. Carbon abatement is far from the policy driver it used
to be. Pragmatic and sensible, then, to delve deeper into what is set to remain the linchpin for
Australian power generation for likely decades to come: coal-fired power.

Page205of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.On paper it's a good match: MacGen is the lowest-cost baseload generator in NSW, with 4600 MW of
capacity split between the Bayswater plant and the older, less reliable Liddell generator, both in the
Hunter Valley. For AGL, NSW is its largest electricity market, with more than 800,000 customers.

The tighter vertical integration within AGL will provide an "internal hedge" between its generation and
retailing businesses. But picking the bottom of the market is tricky and plenty in the market fear AGL
has moved too soon. After all, in May 2012 Fraser was telling investors the Loy Yang deal was being
done "at – or near – the bottom of the cycle".
After the purchase of MacGen, AGL will be "long" generation, in that its electricity production will
exceed the supply it needs to meet the needs of its 4.1 million customers.Market plagued by
overcapacity
That poses problems in a market plagued by overcapacity. The Australian Energy Market Operator
declared last week that, for the first time in the history of the National Electricity Market, no new
capacity is required in any individual region of the market for at least the next 10 years.

It puts the excess capacity at 8950 MW in 2014-15. Even 10 years down the track, surplus capacity is
expected to be in the region of 4000-to-10,000 MW. While the expected winding back of the 2020
Renewable Energy Target would shave down the surplus, it won't eradicate the problem.

The severity of the oversupply has compounded worries about returns from power production.
Wholesale prices in the NEM so far in 2014-15 are averaging lower than they did in 2000-01.

The pain being felt in the market was put on full show by rival EnergyAustralia in its first-half earnings
report last week.
The Hong Kong-owned utility, the number three "gentailer" after Origin Energy and AGL, suffered a
sharp 12.6 per cent dive in sales volumes for electricity in the June half.

EA, the old TRUenergy, has effectively closed down its gas-fired power station at Wallerawang in
NSW and is flagging further shutdowns or mothballing of high-cost plant across the sector.

Rock-bottom-cost MacGen is not at risk from that point of view. But analysts crunching the numbers
on its sensitivity to wholesale power price declines have come up with some worrying conclusions that
make AGL's confidence that MacGen would add immediately to underlying earnings per share look
misplaced.

UBS's David Leitch notes that forward curves for wholesale power prices have softened by about $10
per megawatt-hour since February. Taking into account the equity raising and $300 million extra debt
that will fund the deal, AGL's planned offering of hedge products and the $345 million it has pledged
to invest in MacGen over five years, Leitch calculates the acquisition will actually erode earnings per
share by 5.1 per cent in the 2015 financial year.
JPMorgan calculates that after the acquisition, a $1/MWh drop in wholesale prices could reduce
AGL's earnings before interest and tax by up to 4.2 per cent.

But whereas Leitch also criticises the fundamental strategy of increasing investment in thermal
generation amid mass-market cost reductions in solar and broader decarbonisation policies,
JPMorgan analyst Christopher Laybutt has no doubts on that front for the foreseeable future, only
questioning the timing.

As to the former issues, AGL's camp points to the expected investment payback on the MacGen deal
of just seven years, hardly a long-term bet.

Still up in the air on how the MacGen takeover will play out in the short term is the fate of its contract
to supply the Rio-Tinto-controlled Tomago aluminium smelter in the Hunter Valley, its biggest
customer.

Tomago, partly owned by CSR, struck a deal with MacGen in late 2010 on an 11-year contract to
replace an existing one when it lapses in 2017. On some calculations the increase in price that would
then kick in would yield more than $130 million in increased revenues for MacGen.

But with the way the dollar and aluminium prices have gone, Tomago will be struggling to pay and has
been seeking to renegotiate it with AGL to a level that, in the words of CSR chairman Jeremy Sutcliffe,
"reflects change in the global aluminium market".

Page206of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.With the impact of Alcoa's Point Henry smelter closure on Loy Yang fresh in AGL's mind, the incentive
is there to reach a compromise. The outcome will have bearing on the future of MacGen's Liddell
generator, which is far from assured.
While AGL has said little in public, the statement of its merchant energy boss Anthony Fowler to the
ACT made it clear that Liddell's life may be cut short by five years and the plant retired in 2017, to the
benefit of Bayswater and the rest of the market.

AGL's determination to challenge the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission on the
MacGen deal also points to further ambitions in base-load power acquisitions, presumably in
Queensland.

Fraser, who has advised he intends to retire by mid-2015, likely won't be there to see those realised.

He has won plenty of plaudits for AGL's achievements on the retailing side: few would question now
the decision not to pay up for the NSW electricity retailers snapped up by Origin and the then
TRUenergy in late 2010. AGL's strategy there, to grow organically instead, has paid off.

However, there's some way to go before investors can be as convinced about his decisions in power
generation.

amacdonald-smith@afr.com.au Twitter: @angelamacd

CO

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

agkega : AGL Energy Limited | astcmb : Australian Competition Tribunal | macgen : Macquarie
Generation
i16101 : Electric Power Generation | i1 : Energy | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | ieutil : Electric Utilities |
iutil : Utilities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140817ea8i0000w

Page207of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.