Chinese investors inspect Moora land for feedlot

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

WestReg
Chinese investors inspect Moora land for feedlot

Brad Thompson
371 words
23 October 2014
The Countryman
CTM
First
10
English
(c) 2014 West Australian Newspapers Limited.

Chinese investors are circling prime farmland near Moora which carries environmental approval to
develop one of the State’s biggest cattle feedlots.
A delegation from Shanghai inspected the 1400ha property at the weekend as the State Government
tries to attract investment to boost cattle production.

The property, known as Killarney, was given a green light for the staged development of a
14,900-head feedlot in 2005.

It has the potential to reach 20,000 head based on the available land and licences to tap into
groundwater reserves.
Plans for the site, about 7km east of Moora, include an abattoir.

It is close to Brand Highway and positioned to supply live cattle or boxed beef for export from
Fremantle and Geraldton.
The Shire of Moora hosted a civic reception for the Chinese delegation on Sunday after the
Department of State Development and the Department of Regional Development helped organise the
WA visit.

The DRD believes there are multiple sites with feedlot potential in the region, but no others with
detailed development plans, environmental pre-approval and water licen-ces. Shanghai CRED Real
Estate president Guojie Gui, whose company’s recent purchases include a golf resort and vineyard
in New Zeal- and, led the Chinese dele- gation.
Killarney is owned by Jetway Holdings, a company controlled by Perth lawyer Tony McCarthy.

Under the original plans, Harvey Beef was set to operate the feedlot to prepare cattle from WA’s north
for processing at its abattoir in the South West.
The Chinese interest comes as new Harvey Beef owner Andrew Forrest grapples with ways to satisfy
growing demand in Asia. The WA billionaire wrote to producers this month and asked them to email
him with their suggestions.

“Increasing the number and weight of head produced within agreed specifications is the key that we
believe will unlock increased profitability for all industry participants,” he said.

“We know there are challenges, so please share those with us along with your ideas to overcome
them.”

Mr Forrest said he and wife Nicola saw a “once-in-a-generation opportunity that can be claimed for
WA by coming up with some new solutions”.

Page173of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE

PUB
AN

greg : Regional Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol :
Domestic Politics
china : China | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document CTM0000020141022eaan0000z

Page174of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.