Australia's Leighton to sell 50% of services business to US PE firm Apollo for A$700 mn

HD
CR
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Australia's Leighton to sell 50% of services business to US PE firm Apollo for A$700 mn

Distributed by Contify.com
491 words
18 December 2014
Domain-B
ATDOMB
English
Copyright © 2014. The Information Company Pvt. Ltd.

Australia's biggest builder Leighton Holdings Ltd yesterday agreed to sell half of its services units to
leading US private equity firmApollo Global Management LLC for A$ 700 million ($570 million) in an
all-cash deal.

The deal covers operation and maintenance services businesses of Thiess Services which includes
communications, energy solutions, asset and infrastructure services, and environmental services and
Leighton Contractors Services which includes Visionstream and infrastructure services, Leighton said
in a statement.

New York-headquartered Apollo is a leading global investment management firm with $164 billion in
assets under management.

Leighton expects the proceeds from the transaction would help it to reduce its gearing, an indicator of
financial leverage, by about 10 per cent.
The move is in line with Leighton's restructuring strategy announced in June to reduce the company's
debt and simplify its structure.

Leighton's executive chairman and chief executive officer Marcelino Fernandez said:,''By choosing to
partner with funds managed by Apollo, a leading global investment management firm, we gain access
to Apollo's expertise in creating a single, integrated and efficient business which will be better able to
compete in the Australian market place.''
With longer-term contracts and steady cash flows the company will be better positioned to allocate
funds to the improvement of its gearing and balance sheet, and to financing of future growth, he
further stated.
Sydney-based Leighton is one of the world's leading construction contractors with operations in 20
countries in Asia-Pacific, the Middle East and southern Africa.
Leighton's majority shareholder is Hochtief, Germany's largest construction company with a 53.43-per
cent stake, is also headed by Marcelino Fernandez.
Leighton's services business in one of the largest in Australia with total revenue of A$2.2 billion in
2014, approximately A$4 billion of work in hand and about 6,400 employees.

Leighton and Apollo plan to run the business independently, led by a dedicated management team to
maximise opportunities in the growing industrial and civil infrastructure services sector.

Apollo's senior partner and head of Asia-Pacific Steve Martinez said, "We are very excited to invest in
two great businesses in partnership with Leighton. We look forward to working with the services
business team to grow a world-class industrial and civil services company focused on continuing to
deliver extraordinary results to customers.''

In October, Leighton said that its gearing was reduced to 33.7 per cent at the end of Q3 compared to
39.4 per cent a year ago. Net debt, including operating leases, was A$1.65 billion at the end of
September.

Page208of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Last week, the company said that it would sell its energy and infrastructure subsidiary John Holland,
which had an enterprise value of A$1.15 billion, to China Communications Construction Company
(CCCC),

apolmn : Apollo Global Management LLC | leiho : Leighton Holdings Ltd | hocht : Hochtief AG | ocisa :
ACS Actividades de Construcciones y Servicios SA
i502 : Heavy Construction | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150203 : Private Equity |
ialtinv : Alternative Investments | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ifinal :
Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North
America
australia
The Information Company Pvt. Ltd.
Document ATDOMB0020141218eaci0005t

CO

IN

NS

RE

IPD
PUB
AN

Page209of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.