Iron ore price slump takes toll on producers

HD Iron ore price slump takes toll on producers
WC 709 words
PD 18 October 2014
SN Emerging Markets Business Information News
SC EMBIN
LA
English
CY © 2014 EMBIN (Emerging Markets Business Information News). All Rights Reserved. Provided by

Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company

LP

TD

Claims that slumping iron ore prices will lead to a shakeout of producers gained credence this week after
London Mining plc appointed administrators a day after a Brazilian producer filed for bankruptcy
protection. London Mining on Thursday, Oct. 16, said it had appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to
find a buyer for its Sierra Leone iron ore mine after failing to engineer a sale of the operation and
because of a lack of liquidity. The collapse in iron ore prices and the resulting impacts on this business
have been very dramatic and our focus is to ensure that a buyer is found for the Marampa Mine
operations given it is such an important part of the Sierra Leone economy, PwC's Russell Downs said in
a statement. Iron ore prices have fallen more than 40% this year, touching five-year lows of below $80 per
ton at the end of September, as demand from China slows while Rio Tinto Group and BHP Billiton Ltd.,
the world's two lowest-cost iron ore miners, increase output.

The slump in prices is being felt around the world. On Friday, Cleveland-based Cliffs Natural Resources
Inc. (CLF) said it would book a $6 billion non-cash impairment because of adverse market conditions for
seaborne iron ore and metallurgical coal. Cliff warned the impairment will result in it breaching a
debt-to-capitalization limit of 45% that is stipulated by its revolving credit facility. The company currently
has no drawings on the $1.25 billion facility. On Wednesday, a unit of MMX Mineracao e Metalicos SA, an
iron ore mining company controlled by Brazilian tycoon Eike Batista, filed for bankruptcy protection.
MMX Sudeste Mineracao SA, which owns most of its parent's assets, filed for protection after MMX last
year postponed an expansion of its key project and slashed the value of its assets. Analysts have warned
that other companies will fail. BHP and Rio Tinto have a strong incentive to keep iron ore prices low as
they seek to push high-cost operators out of the market and block new investments that threaten their
effective oligopoly on seaborne trade, according UBS AG analyst Daniel Morgan. An iron ore price in the
$80 a ton to $90 a ton range may mean greater long-term returns [for large miners] than one that brings
overcapacity, Morgan noted this week. We believe plenty [of iron ore producers] are unable to compete
and will make way for the new tons. UBS has cut its forecast average iron ore price to $85 for 2015 and
$82 for 2016. The strategy of suppressing iron ore prices has drawn criticism from politicians and rivals in
Australia, where BHP's and Rio Tinto's major iron ore operations are located. On Tuesday, West
Australian Premier Colin Barnett accused the pair of acting seemingly in a concert way to force iron ore
prices down by flooding the market. He later said he hadn't meant to suggest the mining companies were
colluding. Barnett, whose government receives 10% royalties on iron ore sales from Western Australia,
said he had raised the question of lower prices forcing out some producers with BHP's head of iron ore,
Jimmy Wilson. Barnett claims that Wilson responded to his concerns dismissively, telling him it's a tough
old world out there. BHP and Rio Tinto came in for more criticism on Friday from the CEO of Australian
rival Fortescue Metals Group, who warned that the pricing strategy was misguided and could cost his rival
CEOs their jobs. Investing because you're more profitable than the next guy seems to be a very flawed
strategy to me and one that will inevitably lead to self-inflicted wounds, low returns to shareholders, and
probably replacement of management teams, Fortescue CEO Nev Power told a meeting in Perth,
according to a report in the Australian newspaper. I'm not quite sure why anyone would want to be the last
man standing in a low price, low return environment. Shares in Rio Tinto traded Friday at 3,060 pence,
down 23 pence ,or less than 1%. BHP's London listed shares traded at 1,676 pence, up 17.5 pence, or
just over 1%.

CO bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | lminip : London Mining PLC | rtzcra : Rio Tinto Group | craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd | rtz

: Rio Tinto PLC | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys |
ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c16 : Bankruptcy | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ccfd : Corporate Financial
Difficulty | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter

IN

NS

Page173of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

austr : Australia | london : London (UK) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | eecz : European
Union Countries | eland : England | eurz : Europe | uk : United Kingdom | weurz : Western Europe

IPD Metals & Minerals
PUB Info-Prod Research (Middle East) Limited
AN Document EMBIN00020141022eaai00010

Page174of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.