Buyout firm Apollo in bid fray for BHP's Nickel West

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CO

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

Market Wrap - Street Talk
Buyout firm Apollo in bid fray for BHP's Nickel West

Edited by Sarah Thompson, Anthony Macdonald and Gretchen Friemann
307 words
23 July 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
14
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

BHP Billiton's Nickel West assets have lured a host of international suitors but the field lacks an
obvious front-runner.

Glencore Xstrata has been touted as the logical buyer. But as Street Talk revealed last week, the
commodities trading house has walked away from Nickel West, prompting many in the market to
warn the assets are too complex and carry too high a capital expenditure outlay to achieve the price
tag BHP is targeting.

Enter the dark horse of private equity. According to sources, Apollo Global Management – led by
Steve Martinez in the Asia-Pacific region – was among the initial contenders for Nickel West and is
sifting through due diligence materials alongside five other candidates.
The US buyout firm is understood to hold a positive view of nickel, although the commodity's
prospects have divided the market, given the world's largest exporter of the metal, Indonesia, has
banned exports of nickel core. Since then, prices have soared. The worry is a reversal of this policy
will set in train a drastic decline in nickel's value.
But many view the most pressing consideration to be the $1.5 billion capital expenditure bill, a sum
that would clearly deter private equity.

The question most will ask of Apollo is what is its exit route?
Some are sceptical the risk-return profile would suit the firm, which was last seen on a high-profile
resources bid in 2013 when it tried and failed to snare Rio Tinto's Canadian iron ore operations.
Meanwhile, it is thought rival Jinchuan, China's largest nickel company, may opt to just renew its
contract with Western Areas and stay clear of the difficulties posed at Nickel West.

apolmn : Apollo Global Management LLC | march : Glencore PLC | bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc :
BHP Billiton PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150203 : Private Equity | i8396
: Diversified Holding Companies | ialtinv : Alternative Investments | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv :
Investing/Securities | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140722ea7n0000l

Page111of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.