Media Release: Amphenol

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Media Release: Amphenol

557 words
27 June 2014
AAP MediaNet Press Releases
AAPMPR
English
© 2014 Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

AAPMEDIA RELEASE PR57199 Amphenol Offers Explosion Proof Heavy Duty Connector Series
ZHUHAI, China, June 26, 2014 /PRNewswire-AsiaNet/ --

Amphenol Industrial Products Group, a global leader in interconnect systems, offers a heavy duty
connector series that is explosion proof and certified for use in IECEx Group 1 mining hazardous
locations. Based on Amphenol's Star-Line series, the Amphe-Mine EX product line is made up of
environmentally-sealed plugs and receptacles and provides outstanding performance in harsh
environments.

(Photo: http://photos.prnasia.com/prnh/20140626/0861404513 )
Ideal for use in underground mining explosive environments and applications, petrochemical refineries,
land and offshore drilling systems, this rugged connector series is certified to the latest IECEx standards
including Group 1 mining applications in Australia and ATEX certificate Zone 1 standards. These
compact environmental connectors offer exceptional mating properties and come in high-grade 316
stainless steel. Their design provides outstanding performance in explosive-proof automatic and process
control systems as well as in instrumentation systems.
Used in power distribution for underground mining machinery, data transmission and acquisition for
underground communication systems and in motors, Amphenol's Amphe-Mine EX is threaded,
flameproof and fabricated to prevent the mixture of explosive gases and the electrical circuits by means
of tighter tolerances in mated junctions.

The Amphe-Mine EX series offers the industry's broadest range of backshell arrangements and contact
inserts for power (up to 1,135 amps at 1,000 V/AC or DC), signal (up to 143 contacts) and mixed power
control applications. All contact inserts are interchangeable and reversible to suit specific needs. Solder,
crimp and pressure terminals are available.

These rugged connectors offer a full range of hardware styles including the use of flameproof rated cable
glands. They feature high quality copper contacts with silver plating (gold plating available as an option)
as well as a hard anodic coating. Composite inserts for power, control and instrumentation services
available.

Amphenol's Amphe-Mine EX series features RADSOK technology that offers higher current ratings (up to
25% higher than standard contacts) with lower mating forces as well as high reliability, low contact
resistance, high mating cycles and a self-cleaning design.

Technical Specifications -High amperage up to 1,135 amps at 1,000 V/AC or DC -Up to 143 contacts
-Solder, crimp and pressure terminations -Anodic coating for corrosion resistance -Dielectric strength of
1,800 V -Heat resistant to 750 Fahrenheit degrees

For more information, please visit http://www.amphenol-industrial.com or e-mail
frances.tang@amphenol-industrial.com to get help from our China factory for Asia area.

EDITORS NOTE: Amphenol Industrial Products Group, headquartered in a 675,000 square foot facility in
Sidney, N.Y., provides a full range of high reliability connectors and interconnection systems specifically

Page79of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.for the industrial markets including base stations, rail/mass transit, process control, automotive
manufacturing, heavy equipment, and petrochemical/power generation.

Products include ruggedized-for-industry cylindrical, fiber optic, rectangular, and industrialized versions of
Amphenol's MIL-DTL-5015 cylindrical, MIL-DTL-26482 miniature cylindrical and GT reverse bayonet
cylindrical connectors.

Amphenol Industrial Products Group is a division of Amphenol Corporation, Wallingford, CT, one of the
largest manufacturers of interconnect products in the world, with year 2013 sales topping $4.6 billion.

Frances Tang, +86-13544125642, frances.tang@amphenol-industrial.com

SOURCE Amphenol

CO
IN

amphnl : Amphenol Corp
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i34531 : Semiconductors | ielec : Consumer Electronics | iindele :
Industrial Electronics | iindstrls : Industrial Goods | itech : Technology
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | npress : Press Releases | ncat : Content Types
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

NS
RE
PUB Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd
AN

Document AAPMPR0020140626ea6r0012y

Page80of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.