Significance of Modi's visit to Japan

Significance of Modi's visit to Japan

27 August 2014
The Times of India & The Economic Times Blogs
TOIETB
English
Copyright © 2014. Bennett, Coleman & Co., Ltd.

SD Pradhan

HD
BY
WC 975 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

The Indian Prime Minister's visit to Japan from August 31 to September 3 assumes great significance as it
is taking place when the regional security environment in India-Pacific area is undergoing a paradigm shift.
The common concerns of the two countries include the growing tension in the South China and East
China seas due to aggressive Chinese activities which are aimed at shattering the strategic balance in
the region, threatening freedom of navigation and commercial exploitation of resources in accordance
with the international law.In addition, both realize that turning the South China Sea into "Lake Beijing" (to
use Japanese PM's phrase), is only a step towards its final objective of establishing its hegemony in the
Indo- Pacific region.Hence both the countries have agreed to raise the level of the bilateral relations to
maintain status quo in the region.

During Modi's visit, a defence agreement is likely to be signed between the two countries that would
clearly mark a shift in Japanese policy. So far Japan has not signed a defence cooperation agreement
outside its traditional allies i.e. US, UK, Russia and Australia. The agreement on defence cooperation and
exchanges will include setting up of a framework for engagement in equipment purchase and production.
This means the dialogue mechanism established during the earlier term of Japanese PM is set to be
upgraded.There is likelihood of strategic partnership would be raised to the level of foreign and defence
ministers of the two countries, who would now hold annual consultations which are presently held at the
Secretary level since 2010. The Japan side is also looking for conclusion of negotiations on the sale of
US-2 amphibian aircraft to India. India expects that the civil nuclear cooperation agreement would be
signed soon.Another dimension of the visit is the possible talks on the actualisation of Asia's Democratic
Security Diamond- a concept that Japanese PM has been pressing since his last term. He had desired
that the four countries- US, Australia, India and Japan- should come closer to deal with Chinese plan to
destroy strategic balance in the Indo-Pacific region. The navies of US, India and Japan had participated in
an exercise last month. Japan's re-entry after a lapse of four years in the exercise reflected its desire to be
proactive in view continued aggression by China in the Senkaku Island area. In July 2014, the Japanese
Cabinet had taken the decision that recognised Japan's right to collective defence and thereby paving the
way for enhancement of defence relations with other key partners. India too has realised that Chinese
activities are creating instability in the region that is prejudicial to Indian commercial and strategic
interests. Earlier India had decided not to go ahead with the concept of Asia's Democratic Security
Diamond in view of Chinese pressure. India, today, is also facing increased Chinese incursions in the
Indian borders and China continues to indulge in proliferation activities along with Pakistan. China is also
strengthening its presence in the PoK. Besides constructing road and rail network to connect the Tibetan
region with Indian Ocean, it is reported that it is also constructing a gas pipe line up to Gwadar in
Pakistan.The Australian perception is also changing in view of Chinese aggressiveness. Recently
Japanese defense minister Itsunori Onodera, US secretary of defense Chuck Hagel, and Australian
defence minister David Johnston held trilateral defence ministerial talks in Singapore on May 30 on the
margins of the IISS Shangri-La Dialogue. According to US press release, 'The defence ministers
exchanged views on the regional security situation, including major threats to regional stability. They
reaffirmed the importance of working together to build a rules-based regional architecture that supports
the peaceful resolution of disputes. In discussing maritime security, the ministers underscored their shared
interest in the maintenance of peace and stability; respect for international law and unimpeded lawful
commerce; and upholding freedom of navigation and overflight in the East China and South China Seas.
They also expressed their strong opposition to the use of coercion or force to unilaterally alter the status
quo in the East China and South China Seas.' Significantly, the decision to change the Guidelines for
cooperation between US-Japan and share the details with Australia and other regional allies was also

Page193of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.taken.The US secretary of state John Kerry at the ARF meeting and US-Asean meeting voiced support for
preventive diplomacy and peaceful resolution of maritime disputes according to international law. He also
supported the Philippines proposal for a freeze on escalatory actions in disputed waters. He also
highlighted US efforts to support regional stability and regional inclusive growth in Southeast Asia. US
authorities are also changing its policy towards Vietnam. US senators John McCain and Sheldon
Whitehouse visited Vietnam in early August 2014 and met senior Vietnamese leaders including PM
Nguyen Tan Dung and Communist Party general secretary Nguyen Phu Trong and discussed the issue of
growing tension in the region. Later US joint chiefs chairman General Martin Demsey visited Vietnam and
assured help to build Vietnamese. These reflect that US may relax restrictions for the export of weapons
to Vietnam.The above clearly indicate that all the four countries have now common concerns and are
willing to take steps to check any change in the status quo in the region. Japanese PM may discuss the
steps that need to be taken for operationalization of Asia's Democratic Security Diamond. Perhaps a
group of strategic experts should be established to work out a plan. This group ought to have experts
also from main disputants like Philippines, Vietnam, Malaysia, Indonesia and Brunei to ensure their
support for the actualisation of the concept. A collective effort to deal with China's aggressive activities
can hardly be underestimated.

NS

RE

gdip : International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvdef : Defense Department | nblog : Blogs | gcat :
Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe :
Executive Branch | ncat : Content Types
china : China | vietn : Vietnam | jap : Japan | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries |
dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | indochz : Indo-China | seasiaz : Southeast Asia

PUB Bennett, Coleman & Co., Ltd.
AN

Document TOIETB0020140827ea8r0000b

Page194of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.