Weekly news through Sept. 12

The Week in Asian Real Estate; Exclusive

SE
HD Weekly news through Sept. 12
BY Megan Zhao
WC 735 words
PD
SN
SC
VOL Issue: 82178
LA
CY
LP

English
Copyright 2014. SNL Financial LC

16 September 2014
SNL Real Estate Daily: Asia-Pacific Edition
REAP

TD

Top news

Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd., controlled by Asia's richest man and investment guru Li Ka-shing, is said to
be in discussions to form a joint venture with Mitsubishi Corp.'s leasing arm, MC Aviation Partners.

MC Aviation, which owns and manages about 100 mostly narrow body jets, could give Cheung Kong
access to a pool of about 20 aircraft, Reuters noted, citing "one of the executives."

Cheung Kong in early August submitted a preliminary nonbinding proposal for the possible acquisition of
certain aircraft from the AWAS group, which is understood to be planning to sell about 100 newer aircraft
for as much as $5 billion.

The potential acquisition came as Cheung Kong continues to diversify its business, generating additional
stable revenue streams to drive its growth momentum. Chairman Li has been selling property assets in
mainland China while showing strong interest in various sectors in the European market.

Other activity
* Joining the investment rush to Europe is another Hong Kong developer Far East Consortium
International Ltd., which has unveiled plans for a £500 million mixed-use development in the Isle of Dogs
in London. The 700,000-square-foot project, located on a site on Marsh Wall in South Quay, is called
Alpha Square and would comprise three towers featuring 705 residential units, a 250-bed hotel and a
mix of tenures.
* Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. may become Hong Kong's biggest supplier of small flats if it gets approval
for the conversion of four luxury residential projects in the northeast New Territories into 4,000 tiny
apartments, the South China Morning Post reported, citing industry observers. The developer plans to
reduce unit sizes at projects in Sheung Shui, Tai Wai, Tuen Mun and Yuen Long from the original 2,000
square feet each to units as small as 200 square feet.
The company on Friday reported full-year underlying profit attributable to shareholders of HK$21.42
billion, up 15% from HK$18.62 billion in the year-ago period.
* Over in Australia, GPT Group has begun engaging with investors for the proposed listing of the roughly
A$376 million GPT Metro Office Fund. The planned ASX-listed REIT will own a fully occupied portfolio of
six metropolitan and business park office properties across Sydney, Brisbane and Melbourne.

* Westfield Corp. Ltd. priced a US$3.5 billion debt issue into the U.S. market through a four-part
transaction and will use part of the proceeds to repay borrowings under its bridge facility.
Meanwhile, sister company Westfield Group gained final planning permission for Westfield London's £1
billion expansion at Stratford in London.
* Investa Property Group and the Tieck family-backed Gwynvill Group filed a planning proposal for a
more than A$750 million office tower in place of the old Westpac building at Martin Place in Sydney's
central business district. The tower is expected to be in operation by 2018-end, with 33 stories and a net
lettable area of 30,000 square meters.

Page180of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Now featured on SNL

The Eastern Front: Temasek, JTC look abroad with merger bid: Singapore investment giant Temasek
Holdings (Pte.) Ltd. and industrial developer JTC Corp. are exploring a merger in a bid to jump on the
urbanization trend in emerging markets.
The Eastern Front: Dalian Wanda picks Hong Kong after bad luck in China: China's richest property
mogul has turned to Hong Kong for an IPO that could raise as much as US$6 billion after failing to win
over regulators in Beijing.
Cornering Markets: Pressure on SOCIMIs heats up: Spain's once-moribund real estate market has risen
from the ashes thanks to a creative REIT regime and private equity players looking to get in on the game.
With six IPOs on the books and further floats in the making, observers are left to wonder whether future
REITs will survive the heat.
Research Roundup: European Real Estate edition for week ending Sept. 11: JPMorgan Cazenove filed
two ratings changes and eight price target upgrades.
Asian property transactions to Sept. 12: Shimao Property Holdings eyes a Sydney office building with a
potential for a A$1 billion development; DEXUS Property Group's unlisted property fund is rumored to
be interested in Lend Lease's A$600 million shopping center portfolio; and Ingenia Communities
concludes divestment of overseas assets.

CO ckh : Cheung Kong (Holdings) Limited | mtsubc : Mitsubishi Corp
IN

i815020602 : Real Estate Investment Trusts | ireest : Real Estate | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial
Vehicles | i8150206 : Investment Trusts/Funds | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ifinal : Financial Services
| iinv : Investing/Securities | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
ereal : Real Estate Markets | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic
Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
china : China | hkong : Hong Kong | austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia
| ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales

NS

RE

IPD Lines of Business
PUB SNL Financial LC
AN

Document REAP000020140919ea9g00004

Page181of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.