Can gold add lustre to a pension pot?

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Finance
Can gold add lustre to a pension pot?

Pamela Newenham
766 words
15 April 2014
The Irish Times
IRTI
5
English
(c) 2014, The Irish Times.

Gold continues to exert a compelling attraction for investors - sophisticated and otherwise. The
precious metal's value almost doubled between 2008 and 2011 before slipping back t from those
highs.
Part of the impetus, of course, was the financial crisis. Gold has always been seen as a safe haven
and, as equities tumbled and the over-leveraged property sector slumped, investors increasingly
returned to it in times of turmoil.

Doubts over the very viability of the euro - and of Ireland's ability to avoid default - exacerbated the
trend. Estimates of the sums placed into gold by Irish investors have varied wildly, with some
fantastical figures circulating.
Now gold broker GoldCore has disclosed the scale of current investment in the metal. According to the
company, Irish investors and pension owners own gold coins and bars worth over $95 million in
secure vaults in Zurich, Hong Kong, Singapore and Perth
Overall, the broker has over 3,600 clients, with more than $205 million in assets under management
and storage. This includes $80.1 million of international clients' bullion stored in the Perth Mint of
Western Australia and another $50.2 million in GoldCore Secure Storage which is coins and bars
stored in secure vaults in Zurich, Hong Kong and Singapore.
The company says gold plays an important role in stabilising and reducing volatility in the overall
portfolio and as financial insurance to protect against worst-case scenarios. These include the risk of
inflation, currency devaluations and stock and property crashes.
And the presence of pension funds among its client base is an area the company sees as an
opportunity.

Time bomb
A looming pensions time bomb means millions of people both internationally and locally run the risk of
having insufficient funds for their retirement years. In Ireland it is forecast the number of pensioners will
rise to 620,000 by 2020 and to 1,018,000 in 2056.

There are currently 5.3 people in Ireland working for every retired person: that figure is projected to fall
to just 2.1 over the next 50 years - creating an asymmetric burden due to the amount of money paid
into pensions and the number of people actually receiving them.

The Government has already recognised the unsustainable nature of the current pensions system: the
current pensionable age of 66 is set to rise to 67 in 2021 and to 68 by 2028.
Most pension funds consist of a standard mix of stocks, bonds and possibly property funds managed
by external investment management firms. Yet since 2007 Irish citizens have been able to invest in
gold bullion in their pension funds after the Revenue Commissioners-approved investments in gold in
Self-Administered Pension Schemes via the Perth Mint Certificate Programme.

Page166of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Trinity College Dublin professor of finance Brian Lucey says gold is important as a long-term
diversification due to gold's "unique properties as simultaneously a hedge instrument and a safe
haven".
"Small allocations to gold balance and stabilise pensions in the long term, and gold should be an
essential part of every Irish pension fund."

Dr Lucey says there is a lack of diversification in Irish pension funds yet pensions need balance. "Irish
pension funds have been slow to embrace gold and this imbalance has cost pension holders dearly."
Pension funds need a mixture of assets - some that are safe from capital loss (at least as much as
possible), some that yield a regular income, some that act as ballast against the regular cycle of other
assets and some that offer significant capital appreciation. Dr Lucey says gold fits at least two of these
criteria.
Independent economic consultant Jim Power says gold has a very long track record and valuable
investment attributes. "In my view gold should clearly form part of a diversified pension investment."

Diversified portfolio
The UK's influential research institute Chatham House has said that gold can be used to hedge
against currency devaluation and other risks as part of a diversified portfolio. "Gold can serve as a
hedge against declining values of key fiat currencies, and can also be useful for central banks looking
to diversify their foreign reserves."
Ireland's largest and longest established gold broker, GoldCore, says economic uncertainty has led to
a renewed buying of gold by Irish people.

"Today's uncertain world makes the investment and pensions landscape a more challenging place for
pension owners and again underlines the importance of being properly diversified and not having all
your eggs in certain assets," said Mark O'Byrne, head of research at GoldCore.

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

i8150214 : Private Pension Funds | iinv : Investing/Securities | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial
Vehicles | ifinal : Financial Services | ipension : Pension Funds
gretir : Retirement Planning | reqris : Suggested Reading Investing/Securities | gcat : Political/General
News | gpersf : Personal Finance | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested
Reading Industry News
hkong : Hong Kong | ire : Ireland | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | bric : BRIC Countries | china : China | chinaz : Greater
China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
| eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
Itronics Limited
Document IRTI000020140415ea4f0003m

Page167of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.