New FeW producer Hazelwood secures $4m in financing

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

New FeW producer Hazelwood secures $4m in financing

Claire Hack
566 words
19 May 2014
Metal Bulletin
METBUL
English
© 2014 Metal Bulletin Limited. All Rights Reserved.

Emerging ferro-tungsten producer Hazelwood Resources has secured a $4 million working capital
facility from specialist resources investment vehicle Siderian Resource Capital.
Emerging ferro-tungsten producer Hazelwood Resources has secured a $4 million working capital
facility from specialist resources investment vehicle Siderian Resource Capital.

The facility has been formally completed and is available for drawdown, subject to Hazelwood finalising
a share placement to raise at least A$1.5 million ($1.4 million), the company said on Monday May 19.
Firm commitments for this placement have been received, Hazelwood said, adding that the ATC
ferro-tungsten project in Vietnam in which it owns a majority stake is on track to ramp up to an output of
1,500 tpy for the 2014 calendar year.
Earlier in the year, the company said that it had signed a term sheet with Siderian, under which Siderian
would provide $4 million to Hazelwood through a twelve-month working capital facility, which could be
raised to $6 million.
Hazelwood said on Monday that it has received firm commitments to raise A$1.5 million by way of a
share placement at 3.5 Australian cents per share.

Each participant will gain one attaching option for every two shares subscribed in the placement, and the
options will each have an exercise price of 5.5 cents, with a maturity date of 30 months from the date of
issue, the company added.
“We see this funding as representing a significant step forward in the progress of the company, greatly
improving the financial flexibility of the business as it continues to grow its share of the global
ferro-tungsten market, [and] providing a number of other benefits while minimising dilution for our
shareholders,” Hazelwood md Terry Butler-Blaxell said in a statement.

The funds raised through the working capital facility and placement will cover the capital needed to keep
Hazelwood on track to ramp up production of ferro-tungsten to 1,500 tpy this calendar year.

The placement shares and attaching options do not require shareholder approval.
Under the terms of the facility and placement, Hazelwood will issue 76 million options to Siderian and
35 million options to Australian financial services company Hartleys, which will also have an exercise
price of 5.5 cents, and an expiry date of 30 months from the date of issue.

Hazelwood’s global sales agent for the ferro-tungsten produced at ATC is London-based trading
company Wogen.
Siderian Resource Capital is a specialist resources investment company, which was jointly established
in 2013 by Wogen Pacific and Neil Herbert, who was co-chairman and md of AIM-listed Polo Resources
from 2009 until 2013.
The ATC ferro-tungsten plant is the highest-capacity facility of its kind outside China and produces
material to meet the specifications of the Japanese and European markets.

Page179of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Hazelwood is also looking at future vertical integration with its 100%-owned primary tungsten projects in
Western Australia, including the Big Hill tungsten deposit and the Mt Mulgine tungsten project, which
both have near-surface resources.
The company also has exposure to nickel sulphides and base metals exploration thanks to its wholly
owned Cookes Creek and Copper Gorge areas in the East Pilbara of Western Australia.

See also:

Tungsten industry needs more transparency to combat smuggling

Claire Hack

chack@metalbulletin.com

Twitter: @clairehack_mb

CO
IN
RE

hwrsau : Hazelwood Resources Limited
imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
austr : Australia | vietn : Vietnam | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | dvpcoz
: Developing Economies | indochz : Indo-China | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Tungsten

IPD
PUB Metal Bulletin Limited
AN

Document METBUL0020140616ea5j000j6

Page180of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.