State puts more assets on block

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Commercial realestate
State puts more assets on block

Carolyn Cummins Commercial Property Editor
457 words
30 July 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
25
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Parramatta precinct - In hot demand

The NSW government is looking at more asset sales, with the Parramatta Justice Precinct said to
be earmarked as the next building on the block.

It comes as more than $2 billion in property deals near completion across Sydney and wider NSW.
The government recently sold the NSW Police headquarters in Charles Street, Parramatta, for
$241.1 million to Growthpoint Properties. Agents said the Justice Precinct at 160 Marsden Road
could fetch a similar price.
Brett Newman, chief executive of Government Property NSW, said the government was committed
to ensuring that government-owned property assets were put to best use.

"Plans for the potential divestment of government-owned properties in the Parramatta Justice
Precinct are yet to be finalised," Mr Newman said.
"In line with the Property Asset Utilisation Taskforce, Government Property NSW will continue to
review surplus and underutilised assets which are no longer required to support the core service
provision, with a view to unlock capital and direct funds to enhance our current and future service
delivery."

In its portfolio, the government still has the sandstone former Department of Lands building and
Department of Education building on Bridge Street for sale and prefers that it go to a hotel or
tourism-style operator.
In the city this week, REST Super Fund will settle on its $550 million purchase of 52 Martin Place,
while Chinese investors are said to be in the running for the property at 4 Bligh Street.

Agents acting on the deals declined to comment.

In a separate sector, it is understood that Charter Hall is in due diligence for the $500 million,
54-freehold pub portfolio being sold by Woolworths' ALH Group together with pub baron Bruce
Mathieson.

Pub agents say the Charter Hall interest would sit well with its retail properties, most of which are
anchored by the main supermarkets.
Property analysts say the deals indicate the amount of cash in super funds that seek
higher-yielding investments while interest rates are low.

There is unconfirmed speculation that DEXUS is looking to sell its 50 Carrington Street, Sydney,
and 40 Market Street, Melbourne, office blocks, valued at a combined $160 million.Stockland is said
to be one party looking at the Leighton Properties portfolio, worth about $500 million.

Page48of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Meanwhile, Wellington property investor Caniwi Capital has bought and leased back seven of nine
New Zealand properties that house Inghams Enterprises' chicken farming operations in a $57
million deal.
Private equity group TPG is selling its $650 million investment in the Australasian Inghams
operation in a sale and leaseback of the industrial and land properties, brokered by CBRE and
Colliers International.

IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest : Real Estate
c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140729ea7u0004r

Page49of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.