Capital confidence chases the sun

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Life & Leisure
Capital confidence chases the sun

Rebecca Thistleton
824 words
24 January 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
13
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Late January is auction time for the lifestyle market – and this year things are looking up, writes
Rebecca Thistleton.

Auction activity will be quiet across the capital cities until after school holidays, but on the Gold
Coast, late January is a very busy time. This year, buyer confidence from the capitals may begin
spreading to this iconic leisure market, which has been characterised by a lack of capital growth and
an oversupply of mortgagee stock.

Property has sold at a loss throughout the Gold Coast since the global financial crisis; it was one of
the worst-affected areas across the lifestyle market.
In 2013, lifestyle property continued to make losses: about 33 per cent of Gold Coast properties
were sold for less that what was originally paid, according to RP Data. Units in particular still sell for
a loss.

In comparison, less than 5 per cent of properties resold at a loss in Sydney and Perth – two markets
notably characterised by the sort of stellar price growth and strong buyer sentiment that has evaded
the Gold Coast.

Optimistic agents have tipped a market turnaround on the Gold Coast, encouraged by a strong start
to 2014. In mid-January, Tom Offermann Real Estate held one of its triannual gala auction events
and sold five properties for a total of $8.8 million.
Firm principal Tom Offermann says the properties sold for more than 2013 prices, and in some
cases went well above reserve.

Fellow Gold Coast specialist Lucy Cole held 13 auctions last Sunday, where six properties were
sold under the hammer.Prices stabilising, not rising
Australian Property Monitors senior economist Andrew Wilson says he does not expect price growth
across the Gold Coast market for some time, but says prices have stabilised and buyer activity is
increasing. After about four years of cheap unit sales and little top-end activity, there are now more
multimillion-dollar sales.
McGrath Estate Agents notched up a list of high-end properties that traded for more than $3 million
last year. Hope Island, Mermaid Beach and Benowa Waters were the best-performing areas.

Three of the highest auction results included a Southport home for $9.8 million, an Isle of Capri
property for $6.35 million and a Mermaid Beach home for $7.35 million.
Looking broadly across the investment market, Aviate Group managing director Neil Smoli prefers
Brisbane's property fundamentals over the Gold Coast, and says he cannot buy into suggestions
the region has turned a corner.

Page17of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."The Gold Coast remains subject to oversupply issues. Taking a long-term view, there is insufficient
detail available to suggest that white-collar employment will grow in a sustainable way to absorb the
current vacancy and create compelling reasons for developers or investors to look at this market," he
said.

Smoli says the Gold Coast's lack of population growth and employment opportunities means
Brisbane has a competitive edge. Local government has been trying to kick-start investment to
generate growth and employment opportunities around the Gold Coast again to benefit the
permanent residents as well as encourage tourism.

As a result, new developments are in the pipeline. Before Christmas, a new 40-storey, 174-unit
high-rise has been approved for Surfers Paradise Boulevard near the city's new light-rail
corridor.Offshore buyers eye luxury homes
The growing trend of offshore investment into Australian property, particularly from China, has also
begun to emerge on the Gold Coast.
LJ Hooker chief executive Georg Chmiel said that high-end Chinese buyers, looking to spend about
$10 million on a luxury home, were considering the Gold Coast along with Sydney and Melbourne's
eastern suburbs. Offermann said last Friday's auction gala attracted Swiss, Middle Eastern and New
Zealand bidders.

Ray White Surfers Paradise will host its annual Gold Coast auction showcase, The Event, at the end
of January and chief executive Andrew Bell says it was well timed to coincide with Chinese New
Year.
"[Chinese buyers] have identified great value in addition to our sought-after lifestyle and subtropical
climate," he says.

Bell is gearing up for three days of buoyant activity, and says market conditions are at their best in
more than eight years. The Event 2014 will start on January 27, with residential and marine
auctions, followed by the prestige auction on January 30 at Palazzo Versace.

Wary local investors may continue to avoid the Gold Coast until it sustains a consistent period of
stable prices.

Others may choose to take advantage of the value for money it offers, particularly when stacked
against waterfront equivalents in the capital cities.
Mr Bell will auction a five-bedroom, five-bathroom Sanctuary Cove property at the prestige home
auction, which is set on almost 1900 square metres. The resort-style home has a guest suite,
Miele-equipped kitchen, outdoor kitchen and alfresco living area overlooking the pool and tropical
gardens.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

m1421 : Gold Markets | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gcat : Political/General News | m14 : Commodity
Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mpcsmt : Precious
Metals Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | queensl :
Queensland
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140123ea1o0003v

Page18of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.