Asian property transactions to Dec. 12

Richa Satikumar

SE
HD
BY
WC 1,352 words
PD
SN
SC
VOL Issue: 83409
LA
CY
LP

Exclusive
Asian property transactions to Dec. 12

15 December 2014
SNL Real Estate Daily: Asia-Pacific Edition
REAP

English
Copyright 2014. SNL Financial LC

TD

Australia
* Investa Property Group is reportedly considering the sale of an estimated A$9 billion in office property
assets in early 2015 as it seeks advice from investment banks, The Australian reported Dec. 11.

The publication said an offer, which could include Investa Office Fund, would "spark the largest contest for
Australian office assets seen for years." It would outweigh the nearly A$4 billion battle for Commonwealth
Property Office Fund won by DEXUS Property Group and CPP Investment Board.
The Morgan Stanley-owned company is expected to decide on the matter within the first half of 2015.
The publication noted that some in the industry think private equity giant Blackstone could emerge a
potential bidder for the Investa platform. However, a broader auction would likely attract "deep-pocketed"
Asian investors, as well as local firms DEXUS and Charter Hall Group.
* Mirvac Group is planning to bring to market a A$220 million portfolio of noncore office assets in Sydney,
Canberra and Melbourne, The Australian reported Dec. 9. The two towers in Sydney's George Street are
210 George St. and 220 George St. In Canberra, the company is marketing 60 and 54 Marcus Clarke St.
worth A$48.5 million and A$14.1 million, respectively.

In Melbourne, the headquarters for GM Holden in Port Melbourne is part of the portfolio, according to the
report.
* Novion Property Group is planning to boost its real estate holdings with an estimated A$110 million
acquisition of the Mildura Central Shopping Centre in Victoria, The Australian reported Dec. 11.
Federation Centres started marketing the asset last month.

The center has a gross lettable area of 20,197 square meters. It is anchored by a Woolworths
supermarket, a Target discount department store, JB HiFi, The Reject Shop and 61 specialties, according
to the report.
* Federation Centres completed the A$74 million purchase of the Currambine Central shopping center in
Western Australia, according to a Dec. 11 news release. The seller was private property group White
and Partners, the investment arm of the family-owned Ray White Group.

The center is anchored by a Woolworths supermarket and a Dan Murphy's and has 44 specialty retailers.
The company will also fund an expansion of the center, which is in the early stage of construction. The
acquisition and expansion is expected to provide a yield of 7.0%.
Federation Centres added that it sold three convenience centers as part of the strategic realignment of its
portfolio.
* Charter Hall Retail REIT has partnered with a local superannuation fund on the former Brickworks site in
Torrensville, Adelaide, where a A$75 million shopping complex is set to be built, The Australian reported
Dec. 11.

Page132of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The center is expected to be finished by mid-2015. It will comprise a new subregional center anchored by
a full-line Woolworths supermarket, BIG W discount department store and Dan Murphy's liquor store, as
well as specialty space.
* Goodman Groupsold a Kmart distribution center in Melbourne's western fringe for a price "in the
mid-[A]$90 million range" to Invesco Real Estate, The Australian Financial Review reported Dec. 9. The
yield was said to be around 6%.
* Charter Hall Group is looking to purchase a A$45 million Masters store in Penrith, Sydney, as part of a
play to secure more Woolworths hardware outlets for its new hardware property trust, The Australian
reported Dec. 9.
* Aveo Group Ltd. said Dec. 9 that it settled the A$20 million sale of 63 Miller St., a commercial building
in Pyrmont, Sydney. EG Funds Management Pty. Ltd. is the buyer. The transaction amount is in line with
the property's book value.
The company now has the following nonretirement assets for sale: Gasometer 1 and the adjoining
Gasometer 3, residential land in Currumbin, and the Albion Stage 2 residential apartment development
site.
Hong Kong

* Fortune REIT said Dec. 8 that it is buying the Laguna Plaza shopping mall in Kowloon, for HK$1.92
billion. The property was valued at HK$2.08 billion as of Oct. 31, and is estimated to have a 4.3% net
yield.
The property has a gross rentable area of 163,203 square feet and 150 car parking lots. As at Oct. 31,
the committed occupancy was 96.7%.
* Loyal Pioneer Ltd.'s HK$2.14 billion bid for a plot of land in Sha Tin, Hong Kong, received approval from
the city's Lands Department, according to a Dec. 10 news release.

Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd., Henderson Land Development Co. Ltd., Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd.,
Wheelock Properties (Singapore) Ltd., Sino Land Co. Ltd. and Kerry Properties Ltd. were among the other
bidders for the 23,500-square-meter site designated for residential purposes.

* The Urban Renewal Authority received 11 tenders for two redevelopment sites in Sham Shui Po, which
reflects the "lukewarm response of developers," The (Hong Kong) Standard reported Dec. 9.

Cheung Kong, Henderson Land, Sun Hung Kai, Far East Consortium International Ltd., Wheelock and
Co. Ltd. and China's Shimao Property Holdings Ltd. were among the nine bidders for the plot on Hoi
Tan-Kwei Lin Street, while two bidders emerged for the other plot.

* COFCO Land Holdings Ltd. said Dec. 4 that it completed its HK$12.46 billion acquisition of assets under
the Joy City projects and to date has paid 50% of the total consideration.
COFCO Land Holdings also commenced preliminary procedures for the proposed sale of the Shanghai
COFCO Tower and its 50% interest in COFCO Shanghai, the project company that held and developed
the building.

Japan
* Comforia Residential REIT Inc. is poised to acquire the COMFORIA KOMABA apartment property in
Setagaya-ku, Tokyo, in a ¥5.00 billion transaction, according to a Dec. 10 news release. The seller is an
undisclosed operating company in Japan.

The building has 7,450.62 square meters of gross floor area. It offers 136 rentable units.
* Astro Japan Property Trust said Dec. 5 that additional funding raised via the refinancing of a ¥2.72
billion loan was used to fund the purchase by JPT Omega Co. Ltd. of underlying land of the Matsudo
Nitori Parking asset.
The ¥350 million acquisition of the parking asset was sold to a Japanese company. Nitori is the sole
tenant of the property.
* Nomura Real Estate Office Fund Inc. said Dec. 10 that it is buying the PMO Nihonbashi Kayabacho
office property in Chuo-ku, Tokyo, for ¥4.91 billion from Nomura Real Estate Development Co. Ltd.
The company will fund the acquisition via debt financing.

Page133of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Indonesia

CapitaLand Ltd.'s The Ascott Ltd. has bought the Ascott Kuningan Jakarta for S$90 million, according to a
Dec. 4 report The (Singapore) Business Times.

Singapore
Cambridge Industrial Trust said Dec. 8 that it is buying a business park for S$28.0 million in its first foray
into the business park space. The three-story, purpose-built building is situated within the International
Business Park in Jurong East.
The property has a gross floor area of approximately 69,258 square feet and a remaining land tenure of
about 41.6 years. Upon completion, the property will be leased back to M+W Singapore Pte. Ltd. for 11.6
years, with options to renew for two consecutive five-year terms.

The acquisition will be partially funded from the proceeds from a note issuance. Completion should occur
by the end of December.

Malaysia

Eastern & Oriental Bhd. obtained approval from Malaysia's Penang State Department of Town and
Country Planning to carry out its land reclamation off Penang island, The (Malaysia) Star reported Dec. 8.
The reclamation is part of its master plan for phase two of Seri Tanjung Pinang.

Other geographies

Singapore's Global Logistic Properties Ltd. said Dec. 9 that it is partnering with GIC to acquire "one of the
largest logistics portfolios in the U.S." for $8.1 billion.
Sellers of the target portfolio are various companies affiliated with Blackstone Group LP, the company
said in a separate Dec. 8 release.

Some links may require a subscription.

CO ajogau : Investa Office Fund | chhaus : Charter Hall Group | cinveb : CPP Investment Board | cmpoff :
Commonwealth Property Office Fund | dbrrrt : Dexus Property Group | mirva : Mirvac Group | wptaus :
Investa Property Group | mgstre : Morgan Stanley Real Estate Funds
i815020602 : Real Estate Investment Trusts | i6560011 : Shopping Malls/Superstores | i64 :
Retail/Wholesale | i656 : Mixed Retailing | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150206 :
Investment Trusts/Funds | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv :
Investing/Securities | ireest : Real Estate | iretail : Retail | i8150214 : Private Pension Funds | i85 : Real
Estate Transactions | ipension : Pension Funds
c182 : Asset Transactions | ereal : Real Estate Markets | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate
Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic
News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales

NS

IN

RE

IPD Real Estate Property Transactions & Development
PUB SNL Financial LC
AN

Document REAP000020141218eacf00003

Page134of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.