Noosa battle hots up

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Noosa battle hots up

Mercedes Ruehl
407 words
11 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
33
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The Sheraton Noosa Resort and Spa has received record bids of more than $120 million, with the
competition on to buy the iconic Queensland coastal town asset.
The Karedis family, which has invested in a number of commercial properties, is tipped as a
front-runner, say sources close to the transaction.

No deal has been struck yet and a host of other strong domestic and offshore groups are understood
to still be in the running for the hotel.

Noosa is the second home of many millionaires and wealthy business elite and has been dubbed a
playground for the rich and famous. The 176-room Sheraton Noosa is owned by Valad Property
Group , which is controlled by Blackstone .
If investment companies associated with Theo and Greg Karedis do ultimately acquire the hotel it
would be one of the first big purchases of a hotel by a domestic buyer in some time. Theo Karedis,
who came in at number 92 on the BRW Rich 200 list for 2014, has bought hotels in partnership with
Arthur Laundy before. The pair bought the Manly Pacific Hotel back in 2003. The family invests
through Karedis Investment Group and Arkadia Property Services, which is headed by Greg Karedis.
Valad could not be reached for comment and the Karedis Investment Group was uncontactable. The
campaign is being run exclusively by McVay Real Estate, who also declined to comment. McVay is
also handling the sale of the Gold Coast Sheraton Mirage with Knight Frank.

Leased to Starwood Hotels and Resorts , The Sheraton Noosa has been reported as having
redevelopment and value add opportunities.
The sale would market yet another transaction in a record year for Australia's hotel market.

Many big ticket and iconic hotels have traded hands this year, primarily to offshore investors.
China's Sunshine Insurance Group is in the final stages of securing the Sheraton on the Park in
Sydney for about $465 million.Earlier this year the Sofitel Wentworth went to the Singaporean Frasers
property group, for $202.7 million.

Meanwhile The Australian Financial Review first revealed that Hilton Worldwide was putting its Sydney
hotel on the market.

JLL has been appointed to sell the asset although it is understood the campaign will not officially start
until 2015. Price expectations are for well over $450 million.
Key points Karedis family tipped as front-runners to buy landmark hotel. Interest from domestic and
offshore investors.

Page93of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

valpgp : Valad Property Group | blgrou : The Blackstone Group LP
i6651 : Hotels/Motels | ireest : Real Estate | i66 : Hotels/Restaurants | i665 : Lodgings | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality | itourm : Tourism | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial
Vehicles | i8150206 : Closed-end Funds/Investment Trusts | i815020602 : Real Estate Investment
Trusts | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
ceffic : Corporate Restructuring | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c11 : Plans/Strategy
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141110eabb0002x

Page94of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.