Delays ‘scare off investors’

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Delays ‘scare off investors’

EXCLUSIVE: SARAH-JANE TASKER
649 words
20 August 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian3
20
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

CHINESE-OWNED Shenhua Australia has warned that further delays to the approval of its NSW coal
project will have an impact on future foreign investment decisions in the state.
The company — a subsidiary of the state-owned Shenhua Group, which is the largest coal supplier
in the world — has been working on approvals for the Watermark project in NSW’s Gunnedah Basin
for six years.

The company, which has spent $700 million on the project to date, was already hit with a significant
setback by the previous state election and it is now concerned the 2015 state election could also
affect its final approvals.

Shenhua Australia chairman Liu Xiang has warned that the outcome of the assessment of the project
would not only shape potential future investment decisions by Shenhua Group in NSW, but would also
influence the decisions of other international investors who are on the sidelines, poised to see if NSW
really was still open for business.

Brendan Pearson, chief executive of the Minerals Council of Australia, said the approval delays in
Australia had become a major source of economic disadvantage. He warned there would be a big
economic cost to Australia as other nations became more attractive for the pool of investment for
which the country competed.

Mr Pearson said that while the federal government was working on its message that the nation was
open for business there was a risk that just as Australia further strengthened its economic relationship
with China, the Asian giant could turn away if it thought it was getting too hard to do business in
Australia.

“Delays in approvals have become a point of competitive disadvantage for Australia,” he said.

Mr Liu said Shenhua had worked “tirelessly” over the past six years to ensure the Watermark project
exceeded all standards required by the NSW government.

“The process has been challenging and we have faced delays,” he said. Mr Liu added that the most
notable delay was the receipt of the director-general’s requirements for its environmental impact
assessment, a process regulated to occur in 28 days but one that took more than 12 months. That
significant delay was because of the 2011 election and subsequent policy changes introduced by the
Coalition government.

“After six long years we find ourselves near the end of that journey, looking for a decision by the end
of November to avoid any chance of being delayed by another election,” he said.
Mr Liu said that, given the Watermark project was the company’s first 100 per cent equity investment
in the Australian coal market, it was of significant importance to the state-owned entity.

Page335of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“Unlike other miners who are struggling in this market, Shenhua is not just a coal trader but an end
user of the coal at its power plants. This means there is value in securing a long-term, stable supply
of coal from projects like Watermark,” he said.

NSW Minerals Council chief executive Stephen Galilee said the Watermark project was an example of
a project that had been caught up in a planning system in NSW that he argued was not acting to
attract investment at a time when the state “badly” needed it.

“The eyes of global investors are on these projects to determine whether or not the NSW government
is really serious about driving economic growth and attracting investment in mining projects,” he said.

Paul Jackson, project manager of Watermark, said he did not see any outstanding issues with the
regulators, including those concerning groundwater and agriculture.

“We have answered all of the questions,” he said.The independent Planning Assessment Commission
has concluded a review of the project, which now needs a merit review, to be followed by a final
assessment prepared by the Department of Planning, before the project is passed back to the PAC to
make a final determination.

CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

mncasr : Minerals Council of Australia | shengc : Shenhua Group Corp
i1 : Energy | i111 : Coal Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140820ea8k00007

Page336of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.