US giant in $2bn bid for Recall

US giant in $2bn bid for Recall

The Australian

HD
CR
WC 545 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

15 December 2014
00:00
theAustralian.com.au
NLAUSW
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

TD

TAKEOVER activity is roaring to life ahead of the new year
After being touted as a potential predator for years, Iron Mountain has pounced on Recall with a roughly
$7 a share offer, valuing the company at $2.2bn, sources said.

Recall, which stores and manages companies’ physical and digital data in 306 facilities around the world,
declined to comment on the approach, understood to have been made on Friday night.

But the offer, which may include a high level of scrip, is expected to be seen as too cheap by Recall’s
board, which is chaired by veteran company director and senior executive Ian Blackburne.
Analysts at UBS this month estimated Iron Mountain could pay $9 a share due to the stronger US dollar
and its rising share price on the New York Stock Exhange, which has been driven by its recent conversion
into a real estate investment trust to boost payouts.
The move on Recall continues the rush of corporate activity before Christmas, including China
Communications Construction Company’s $1.2bn purchase of Leighton’ contracting division John
Holland and APA Group’s $5bn buyout of BG Group’s Queensland coal-seam gas pipeline — the
second-biggest acquisition of the year.

It marks a strong end to the year for deal-making after the bumper start slowed down in the second half
amid an uptick in global concerns. It is also continues the deep history of demerged companies attracting
takeover attention.

Recall, which is listed in Australia but led by chief Doug Pertz based in the US, has seen its shares soar
27 per cent since late September when Bloomberg reported Iron Mountain was considering a move on its
smaller rival.
Iron Mountain’s interest was also touted before Recall was eventually spun out of wooden pallet
company Brambles late last year.
“The synergies are enormous (circa $200 million-plus),” said one large investor in Recall.

“Recall shareholders would want the upside shared fairly between both camps.
“Given the enormous accretion this deal delivers Iron Mountain, Iron Mountain shareholders should be
keen to pay up for this unique game-changing asset.”
UBS analyst Simon Mitchell estimated Iron Mountain could extract up to $270m in cost synergies.

Shareholders in Recall, which include notable fund managers Maple-Brown Abbott and Australian
Foundation Investment Company, are understood to be keen for at least 25 per cent of the synergies to
go to them.
Under the terms that have been proposed, it is less than half that, sources said. Iron Mountain also trades
on a multiple of 13 times versus Recall at 9.9 times, so the deal would be instantly accretive even without
the synergies.

Page212of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Iron Mountain’s move continues a surge in deals in the US records management industry, with Access
snapping up a range of businesses from Cintas and Recall this month buying Business Records
Management for $US77m.

Recall has made six acquisitions since July as it chases growth after years of being in limbo through
Brambles’ unsuccessful attempts to sell the business and then the demerger last year.

The Americas made up 42 per cent of Recall’s $836m in sales revenue in full-year 2014, ahead of
Europe, Australia and New Zealand and Asia.

CO charb : China Communications Construction Co., Ltd.
IN
NS
RE

i502 : Heavy Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction
gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North
America

PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document NLAUSW0020141214eace000p7

Page213of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.