Craig Mostyn snaps up abalone

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Craig Mostyn snaps up abalone

MAGGIE LU YUEYANG
250 words
1 July 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
28
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

AGRIBUSINESS: Australia’s biggest abalone farm, Great Southern Waters, has been sold to Craig
Mostyn, a leading food and agribusiness based in Western Australia, which outbid a few Chinese
investors to grab the Asian-focused business.

Victoria-based Great Southern Waters is now selling more than 95 per cent of its products live to
China, Hong Kong and Japan, with increasing appetites from the new middle classes in those
regions.

The value of the sale is not disclosed, but it is believed that Craig Mostyn grabbed the business for
less than $20 million from the vendors — a group of high net worth agribusiness investors based in
Victoria. Chinese interests also bid. The sale follows Craig Mostyn’s acquisition of two lobster and
abalone farms in Tasmania late last year.
Australian agriculture business has been attracting both domestic interest and overseas investors, as
they look to tap Asia’s huge market potential with high-quality Australian produce from seafood to
dairy products and beef.

With the mining boom starting to fade, Australia’s entrepreneurs are leveraging their gains and
targeting agriculture businesses.
Andrew Forrest, the man behind Fortescue Metals Group, bought Western Australia’s biggest beef
abattoir, Harvey Beef, in partnership with some Chinese investors earlier this year for $30m. It is
WA’s only accredited beef exporter to China. Craig Mostyn was outbid in that process.Kidder
Williams, a Melbourne-based investment bank focused on agribusiness, handled the sale of GSW.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | china : China | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz
: Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140630ea7100013

Page237of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.