Financial Services; Colliers Plays Key Role in Chinese Property Giant's Latest Foray Into Australia's Property Market

HD

WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Financial Services; Colliers Plays Key Role in Chinese Property Giant's Latest Foray Into
Australia's Property Market
416 words
22 April 2014
China Weekly News
CHWKNW
61
English
© Copyright 2014 Chemicals & Chemistry via NewsRx.com

2014 APR 22 (VerticalNews) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at China Weekly News -- Colliers
International's integrated capital markets platform has just scored another success by helping Greenland
Holding Group, one of China's biggest state-owned property developers, to acquire its second project
in Sydney, Australia. The deal is for a 10,130-square-metre residential plot on George Street, in the
city's Central Business District (CBD). The completed development will consist of five towers containing
about 300 deluxe apartments.
According to Eric Lam, the Managing Director of Colliers International South China, "The units are
scheduled to go on the market officially during the fourth quarter of 2014, and we expect them to sell
quickly."

Lam also points out that Sydney has become a top-tier international metropolis in recent years. "The
government's economic stimulus policies, the city's population growth, and a long-term shortage of stock
mean that the Sydney residential market still has enormous potential for value appreciation in the
coming few years."
More than 50% of buyers in Sydney's CBD are Asian nowadays. Most of them are Mainland Chinese
attracted by Australia's streamlined immigration policies and the well-established local Chinese
community. That is in line with the accelerating trend for Asian real estate investors to extend their
geographical boundaries to include Europe, Australia and the United States.

The total value of investments from Asia elsewhere in the world has grown rapidly, from around US$1
billion in the year 2000 to more than US$30 billion in 2013. Mainland China, Hong Kong and Singapore
account for the lion's share of those investments.
"Greenland Holding's latest deal highlights its optimism about the Sydney property market, and it
reflects Colliers' own in-depth understanding of both the local market and the specific goals and
requirements of Chinese investors seeking overseas property assets," adds Terence Tang, the
Managing Director of Colliers' Asia Capital Markets and Investment Services. "Seamless collaboration is
key in cross border transactions. The Australian and the South China teams worked closely to deliver
the best solution to Greenland. Our integrated capital markets platform enables us to connect Asian
investors with overseas property opportunities."
Keywords for this news article include: Asia, China, Financial Services, Investment and Finance.

Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world. Copyright 2014,
NewsRx LLC

CO
IN

NS

sgregc : Greenland Holding Group Company Limited
i501 : Building Construction | i5010021 : Land Development/Subdivision | iconst : Construction | icre :
Real Estate/Construction
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News

Page129of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

IPD
PUB
AN

china : China | austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales
Expanded Reporting
NewsRx.com
Document CHWKNW0020140418ea4m0000g

Page130of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.