*S&P Affirms Queensland Rtgs At 'AA+/A-1+'; Otlk Stable

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

*S&P Affirms Queensland Rtgs At 'AA+/A-1+'; Otlk Stable

2,896 words
10 October 2014
17:32
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

10 Oct 2014 02:32 ET Press Release: S&P Affirms Queensland Rtgs At 'AA+/A-1+'; Otlk Stable

The following is a press release from
Standard & Poor's:
OVERVIEW
Australian State of Queensland.
predictable and supportive institutional framework, exceptional liquidity,
wealthy economy, strong financial management, and low contingent liabilities.
-- Constraining the ratings are Queensland's weak budgetary performance,

-- We are affirming our 'AA+/A-1+' long- and short-term ratings on the
-- The affirmation reflects our view of Queensland's extremely

average budgetary flexibility, and high debt burden.
-- The stable outlook reflects our view that the state will largely
adhere to its fiscal strategy and that in its forecast years, operating
surpluses will sustain its budgetary performance while its debt burden levels
are expected to stabilize and gradually decline.
RATING ACTION
On Oct. 10, 2014, Standard & Poor's Ratings Services affirmed its 'AA+/A-1+'
ratings on the State of Queensland. The outlook remains stable.
RATIONALE
The ratings affirmation on the state reflects our view of the extremely
predictable and supportive institutional framework benefiting state and
territory governments in Australia. Also underpinning the ratings are: the
state's wealthy economy, exceptional liquidity, strong financial management,
and low contingent liabilities. Constraining the ratings are Queensland's
average budgetary flexibility and performance, and high debt burden.
Australia's institutional framework governs the relationship between the
Commonwealth government and the states and territories. We consider it to be
extremely predictable and supportive, and one of the strongest in the world.
Nevertheless, Australia adopts a system of fiscal equalization that results
in
a degree of structural imbalance between revenue powers and expenditure
responsibilities. The bulk of revenues raised in Australia are by the
Commonwealth government, while the states and territories have significant
expenditure responsibilities including health and education. The fiscal

Page227of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.equalization system is administered by an independent commission. This system
results in our assessment of Queensland-along with most Australian states and
territories-as having average budgetary flexibility. Specifically, around 40%
of Queensland's consolidated operating revenues come from the Commonwealth.
Queensland's economy is very strong compared to its global peers', and
supports the ratings on the state. Its nominal Gross State Product (GSP) per
capita of about A$62,000 (US$61,000) at June 2013 is high by international
standards, and reflects the state's wealthy and relatively diverse economy.
Its economic wealth is usually around the national per capita average.
However, Queensland does have an industry concentration in the mining sector,
at 11% of the state's GSP, exposing its economy to external factors such as
commodity prices and exchange rate movements for the currently strong
Australian dollar. The state's mining industry currently is reliant on coal
production, but the commencement of liquefied natural gas (LNG) exports in
fiscal 2015 would diversify the sector. Demand for Queensland's coal export
volumes has been driven by China, and as such, future growth in coal royalty
income will be reliant on China's pace of economic growth. Growth has been
above the national average for the past couple of years, with real GSP growth
of 3.6% in fiscal 2013 and 3.0% estimated for fiscal 2014. The state expects
GSP to strengthen to 3.0%-6.0% for each of the forecast years to fiscal 2018,
which underlies its employment growth forecasts of 2.0%-2.5%. Population
growth remains buoyant at 2% in the forecast years.
We consider Queensland's financial management to be strong, supporting the
state's creditworthiness. Its financial management strength is partly
reflective of the system in Australia, which incorporates a high degree of
transparency, including full consolidation of government businesses in
budgeting and accrual accounting. In our view, the state's prudent approach
to
debt management, as well as the development of medium- and long-term fiscal
and economic strategies, demonstrates its financial strength. We view the
state's revenue and expenditure management to be strong, demonstrated by the
reduction of government full-time equivalent (FTE) employees by 14,000 in
fiscal 2013. The government also continues to implement its departmental
savings requirements of A$100 million per annum from fiscal 2014 onward.
Budgetary flexibility is average for most states and territories in
Australia,
due to the country's fiscal equalization system which dictates the size of
grants Queensland receives from the Commonwealth. Under this system,
Queensland is a recipient state, meaning that it receives more than its
average per-capita share of the goods and services tax (GST) pool. Enhancing
the state's budgetary performance is its average capital expenditure as a
percentage of total expenditure, which is generally around 15%. In our view,
there are limited projects the government could cancel but it may be able to
delay some projects, such as those relating to natural disaster
reconstruction, if required. A capital expenditure program of greater than
15%
of total expenditures can often provide additional flexibility as it may mean
that several projects can be delayed or cancelled.
We evaluate Queensland's budgetary performance as weak. Over fiscal 2013 to
fiscal 2017, our base case expects a non-financial public sector cash
operating surplus of 2% of operating revenues (after Standard & Poor's
adjustments) for the state. GST revenues are expected to rise due to a
favorable movement in GST relativities, as well as growth in mining royalty
revenues driven by the commencement of LNG exports in fiscal 2015. We also
forecast an after-capital account deficit of around 11% of total revenues,

Page228of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.reflecting the state's continued elevated levels of capital expenditure.
Natural disaster reconstruction activity is continuing following damage
caused
by Tropical Cyclone Ita and other events in 2014.
We forecast Queensland's high debt burden to peak at 156% of operating
revenues in fiscal 2015, before gradually declining as a result of improved
operating balances and slower capital expenditure growth. In line with the
government, we have not factored in the proceeds from the potential A$33.6
billion of asset sales announced in June 2014, as the government will seek a
mandate on this proposal after the 2015 elections, and even if approved, it
will take some time to arrange these sales. Interest expenses continue to
remain more than 5% of adjusted operating expenses.
The Queensland government continues to maintain a fully funded superannuation
liability position, as evidenced by its QSuper fund assets plus employer fund
exceeding its QSuper accrued liabilities.
Further, Queensland's low level of contingent liabilities supports the
ratings. Quantifiable material contingent liabilities comprised 21% of
operating revenues at fiscal 2013, although we believe contingent liabilities
of only 2%-10% of operating revenues will require support in an event of
financial stress. Contingent liabilities include borrowings by local
government entities; contingent liabilities relating to some insurance
policies issued by Suncorp at the time it was privatized; guarantee provided
relating to Ergon Energy's trading activities in the National Electricity
Market; an operating sub-lease relating to 1 William Street, Brisbane; and
the
net impact of natural disasters.
Liquidity
We consider Queensland's liquidity to be exceptional, reflecting its coverage
of its upcoming debt maturities and interest expense of 103% at fiscal 2014.
Similar to other Australian states and territories, Queensland also has
strong
access to external liquidity, as shown in: a) the state's own strong market
access due to the state's proven track record of sufficient access to deep
and
liquid capital markets, and b) likely support of the Commonwealth government
in time of need, demonstrated by its offer to guarantee state government debt
in 2009.
Queensland's debt maturity profile is reasonably balanced despite a large
maturity in 2018, with Queensland Treasury Corp. (QTC), its central borrowing
agency, issuing bonds in most maturity years, thereby reducing funding
concentration risk. We also consider Queensland's liquid assets to be highly
marketable, providing ample flexibility if required.
OUTLOOK
The stable outlook reflects our expectation that that the state's financial
management will remain strong, in particular its expense management, which we
expect to lead to operating surpluses in its forecast years. Elevated capital
expenditure levels, driven in part by natural disaster reconstruction
activity, will continue to contribute to after-capital account deficits, but
continued expenditure management is expected to lead to a stabilization of
its
high debt burden through the end of the forecast period.

Page229of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Upside rating potential is unlikely within the next two years, in our view.
An
upgrade may occur with a significant and sustained improvement in
Queensland's
budgetary performance. This would be evident through a sustained improvement
in the after-capital account balance, combined with a significant reduction
in
its debt burden. While proceeds from asset sales would make a sizable
reduction to Queensland's high debt burden, we do not expect it to progress
sufficiently during the outlook period to alter our view of the state's debt
burden as being weak. However, we do recognize that a sizable reduction in
debt burden would, over time, assist in improving the state's operating
performance through lower interest expenses.
Downward ratings pressure would occur if the state allowed operating
expenditures to grow faster than its operating revenues, resulting in
operating deficits and larger after-capital account deficits further
10 Oct 2014 02:32 ET Press Release: S&P Affirms Queensland Rtgs At -2-

-- Sovereign Risk Indicators, Sept. 22, 2014. Interactive version

-- Methodology For Rating Non-U.S. Local And Regional Governments, June
-- Methodology and Assumptions for Analyzing the Liquidity of Non-U.S.

increasing its debt burden. We consider this unlikely over the outlook
period.
KEY STATISTICS
RATINGS SCORE SNAPSHOT
KEY SOVEREIGN STATISTICS
available at "
http://www.spratings.com/sri"
RELATED CRITERIA AND RESEARCH
Related Criteria
30, 2014
Local and Regional Governments and Related Entities and for rating their
Commercial Paper Programs, Oct. 15, 2009
Related Research
Study: 2012 Saw Defaults Spike, March 28, 2013
Municipalities, Feb. 20, 2013
In accordance with our relevant policies and procedures, the Rating Committee
was composed of analysts that are qualified to vote in the committee, with
sufficient experience to convey the appropriate level of knowledge and
understanding of the methodology applicable (see 'Related Criteria And
Research'). At the onset of the committee, the chair confirmed that the
information provided to the Rating Committee by the primary analyst had been
distributed in a timely manner and was sufficient for Committee members to
make an informed decision.
After the primary analyst gave opening remarks and explained the
recommendation, the Committee discussed key rating factors and critical
issues
in accordance with the relevant criteria. Qualitative and quantitative risk
factors were considered and discussed, looking at track-record and forecasts.

-- International Local And Regional Governments Default And Transition
-- Public Finance System Overview: Australian States And Victorian

The committee's assessment of the key rating factors is reflected in the
Ratings Score Snapshot above.

Page230of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The chair ensured every voting member was given the opportunity to articulate
his/her opinion. The chair or designee reviewed the draft report to ensure
consistency with the Committee decision. The views and the decision of the
rating committee are summarized in the above rationale and outlook. The
weighting of all rating factors is described in the methodology used in this
rating action (see 'Related Criteria And Research').
RATINGS LIST
Ratings Affirmed
Queensland (State of)
Issuer Credit Rating
AUSTRALIA
Standard & Poor's (Australia) Pty. Ltd. holds Australian financial services
licence number 337565 under the Corporations Act 2001. Standard & Poor's
credit ratings and related research are not intended for and must not be
distributed to any person in Australia other than a wholesale client (as
defined in Chapter 7 of the Corporations Act).
Complete ratings information is available to subscribers of RatingsDirect at
www.globalcreditportal.com and at www.spcapitaliq.com. All ratings affected
by
this rating action can be found on Standard & Poor's public Web site at
www.standardandpoors.com. Use the Ratings search box located in the left
column.
Primary Credit Analyst: Anna E Hughes, Melbourne (61) 3-9631-2010;
Secondary Contact: Craig R Michaels, Melbourne (61) 3-9631-2082;

anna.hughes@standardandpoors.com

AA+/Stable/A-1+

craig.michaels@standardandpoors.com

The article with statistical information is available in full
at www.standardandpoors.com. Registration is free. To access the full
article,
select "Ratings Actions" in the left navigation under Ratings Resources,
then choose the Press Releases tab.

No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations,
model, software, or other application or output therefrom) or any part
thereof
(Content) may be modified, reverse engineered, reproduced, or distributed in
any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without
the prior written permission of Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC or
its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any
unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party providers, as well
as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees, or agents
(collectively
S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness, or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors
or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the
results obtained from the use of the Content, or for the security or
maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an "as
is" basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR
DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT'S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED, OR THAT THE
CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event
shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect,
incidental,

Page231of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Content should not be

exemplary, compensatory, punitive, special or consequential damages, costs,
expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income
or
lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by negligence) in
connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of
such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the
Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not
statements of fact. S&P's opinions, analyses, and rating acknowledgment
decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or
sell
any securities or to make any investment decisions, and do not address the
suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content
following publication in any form or format.
relied
on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment, and experience of the
user, its management, employees, advisors, and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or
an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has obtained
information from sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an
audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of
any information it receives.
To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to
acknowledge
in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain
regulatory purposes, S&P reserves the right to assign, withdraw, or suspend
such acknowledgement at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties
disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the assignment, withdrawal, or
suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage
alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other
in
order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective
activities. As a result, certain business units of S&P may have information
that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established
policies and procedures to maintain the confidentiality of certain nonpublic
information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally
from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves the
right to disseminate its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and
analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free
of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com and www.globalcreditportal.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P
publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our
ratings fees is available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
Any Passwords/user IDs issued by S&P to users are single user-dedicated and
may ONLY be used by the individual to whom they have been assigned.
No sharing of passwords/user IDs and no simultaneous access via the same
password/user ID is permitted. To reprint, translate, or use the data or
information other than as provided herein, contact Client Services,
55 Water Street, New York, NY 10041; (1) 212-438-7280 or by e-mail to:
research_request@standardandpoors.com.
Copyright (c) 2014 by Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC.
All rights reserved.

Page232of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.(END) Dow Jones Newswires

October 10, 2014 02:32 ET (06:32 GMT)

NS

RE

PUB
AN

c174 : Corporate Credit Ratings | c152 : Earnings Projections | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | neqac :
Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | mcpdbt : Corporate Debt/Bond
Markets | c15 : Performance | c17 : Funding/Capital | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North
America
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document DJDN000020141010eaaa000ne

Page233of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.