Nathan Tinkler makes coal - mining comeback with $150m purchase

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY

LP

TD

Nathan Tinkler makes coal-mining comeback with $150m purchase

By Jeremy Grant in Singapore
580 words
14 May 2014
00:21
Financial Times (FT.Com)
FTCOM
English
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and
redistribute by email or post to the web.

Nathan Tinkler, the Australian mining entrepreneur, has signalled a comeback in coal with the $150m
purchase of a Queensland mine from Peabody Energy of the US, almost two years after the collapse of
a multibillion-dollar bid for one of Australia's biggest miners.
"It's me re-entering the coal sector, yes," Mr Tinkler said in a telephone interview. He added that he had
secured bank financing to help buy the Wilkie Creek mine in Queensland's Surat Basin, at which
production was halted in December.

The 38-year-old was for several years listed as the richest man in Australia under 40, after he amassed
a huge paper fortune based on a series of deals in the coal business, starting with a A$30m investment
in a Queensland coal licence.
That culminated in the sale of assets to Whitehaven Coal for A$2.7bn three years ago.
Mr Tinkler then made a A$5.3bn bid for Whitehaven in 2012, which collapsed after coal prices fell.

Last year, Reuters reported that Mr Tinkler, who recently left Australia for Singapore, handed shares to
creditors to pay back debts of A$634m and still owed them A$100m.
Asked how much he now owed any creditors, Mr Tinkler said: "I am not a public company so I am not
going into that."
Mr Tinkler acknowledged that the coal market was faced with significant oversupply but said: "I think we
are at the bottom of the cycle. But whether we are at the bottom or not I'm certain this is the 'value' part
of the cycle.
"It may be [a] relatively small deal, but who else do you see out there spending money on thermal coal?"

The tabular content relating to this article is not available to view. Apologies in advance for the
inconvenience caused.

<>Mr Tinkler said he was buying Wilkie Creek because he believed there would be demand for higher
quality, low-emission coal as a result of government pressure - especially in China - for greater use of
more environmentally friendly grades of the fuel.
"While the market is oversupplied we are still in a market where I believe high quality thermal coal is
hard to secure, so now is the time to buy it," he said.
"They [China] want to drop emissions and they want their people to breathe clean air. At the moment
people are burning so much coal that they are being forced to take on a lower coal quality to meet their
own demand. So when this high quality coal is available, people will be prepared to use it," Mr Tinkler
said.

He said he had secured financing for a proportion of the $150m from Jefferies, the US investment bank.

Page288of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Production would restart at Wilkie Creek "towards the end of the year". Under Peabody, 80 per cent of
the coal at Wilkie was exported to Japan and South Korea. Asked if he had any buyers for the coal, Mr
Tinkler said: "There are a number of contracts that are able to be rolled over [from the time of production
under Peabody] and we will be renegotiating them before we put the mine back into production."

The closure of Wilkie Creek resulted in the loss of 200 jobs. Mr Tinkler, who started out as a pit
electrician at a mine in 1993, said: "'We'll be rehiring a lot of those people."

CO

IN
RE

IPD
IPC
PUB
AN

pbdy : Peabody Energy Corp | whcmpl : Whitehaven Coal Limited | lehbro : Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc
imet : Mining/Quarrying | i111 : Coal Mining | i1 : Energy | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
austr : Australia | namz : North America | queensl : Queensland | usa : United States | apacz : Asia
Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Company News
CN
The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)
Document FTCOM00020140513ea5d0035x

Page289of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.