Merritt sells bakery to former apprentice

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Merritt sells bakery to former apprentice

418 words
18 September 2014
Chinchilla News
APNCHN
Main
4
English
Copyright 2014 APN Newspapers Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

AFTER a life’s work behind a hot oven, Chinchilla man Ron Merritt has been bought out by one of
his own apprentices.
The business began in 1980 when the Merritt brothers, Ronald and Kenneth, realised they were
not making enough dough and kneaded to get ahead.

So Ken left the elevator repair business and Ron sold his shop on the Gold Coast but they still
didn’t have enough to set up a bakery in Chinchilla.

They pawned what they had left, got a loan and rented the Dorney building – the current location of
Southern Cross Ford – in 1980.

After three floods in three years, they shifted further up the highway toward the Wambo St
intersection and, for 26 years, they were flood-free.
In that time the business boomed and Ron bought out his brother to become the face behind one
of Chinchilla’s most recognised brands.
This recognition stemmed from the charitable nature of the business: Whenever a church fete,
cancer walk, fun run or community information night needed bread rolls donated, Merritts Bakery
was always the best bet.

Collectively, the Dorney–Merritt legacy spans nearly a century of baked goods and Ron was happy
to announce his return to the quiet life.
This move leaves the business in the hands of 24-year-old Benjamin Menkin and his fiance,
Brittany Donnelly.
Ron met his apprentice-to-be when the lad, who was 12 years old and new to Chinchilla, became
his neighbour.

Years later, after deciding butchering did not make the cut, Ben used his connection to switch into
a four-year apprenticeship with Ron.

When Ron entered into discussions with Brisbane investors earlier in the year, Ben began to see
himself in the boss’s role and eventually bought the business.
“People think I’m mad doing this so young but it’s a good opportunity owning a business at my
age. It’s an established, respected name in the Chinchilla district and that’s worth something,” he
said.
“I plan to maintain the business, and expand into more products down the line.

“The hours I don’t mind at all because, when you leave, you’ve got a half day to do whatever you
want.”

Page90of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Ron Merritt said choosing to sell to Ben was “the best thing for the town”, and wished him luck.
Ron Merritt and his family will remain in Chinchilla.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
APN Newspapers Pty Ltd
Document APNCHN0020140917ea9i000ph

Page91of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.