Chinese tour Goulburn Valley

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Chinese tour Goulburn Valley

By SIMONE SMITH
302 words
19 November 2014
Weekly Times
HERWEK
WeeklyTimes
90
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

CHINA’S media, influential bloggers and a film crew had a taste of Australian dairy in the Goulburn
Valley recently.
Farmers, the Pactum Dairy Group site at Shepparton and local attractions including the Murray River
were visited during a promotional tour organised by Pactum and Chinese giant Bright Dairy.

Bright Dairy public relations director Min Ben said the trip was designed to “explore the purity” of the
UHT milk sent to China by Pactum.

“Australia has a large land with less population,” she said. “The cows have very good living
environment and enjoy the pastures freely, the local government has strict standard for food safety.
The quality of milk therefore is very trustworthy.” Two bloggers with about 1.6 million followers each,
including one a “gourmet appreciator-baker” and another high-profile tourist program host, travelled
with the group.

Ms Ben said the bloggers’ posts included many positive discussions among fans and in the long-term
she hoped the media exposure would improve awareness and recognition of the brands among
consumers.

Visiting the farm was the best part of the trip, according to Ms Ben, as the Goulburn Valley reminded
the group of an old Chinese proverb that’s used to describe “a nice farming area of China”.
“The old proverb in China is ‘once the wind blow away, cows and sheep are everywhere living in the
pasture’,” she said.
Bright Dairy has taken groups to New Zealand following its purchase of a majority stake in Synlait Milk
in 2010.Ms Ben said the Australian dairy industry could better sell its products to Chinese consumers
with policy support to attract Chinese dairy investment, an “international mindset,” an efficient team
and a free-trade negotiation to reduce the import duty of dairy product into China.

IN

RE

PUB
AN

i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i413 : Dairy Products | i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i0 :
Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document HERWEK0020141118eabj0002z

Page18of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.