Asian bids raise score

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Asian bids raise score

Larry Schlesinger
478 words
26 August 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
36
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Low interest rates are encouraging Australian businesses to acquire their own CBD office space, rather
than lease.

However, local corporations are facing growing competition from Asian firms setting up shop in Sydney
and Melbourne – where the allure of property ownership and access to funds is greater.

Asian firms spent $201 million on their own offices in 2013 almost treble the $62.5 million spent on
space in 2012, according to property services group DTZ. In 2014, investment stands at $81 million
for the first half of the year, down on 2013, but indicating much stronger levels of demand than 2012.

Three quarters has been invested in Sydney office space with the rest in Melbourne, according to DTZ.
Separate figures compiled by CBRE show that Asian firms – primarily property developers – have
forced up the prices of Melbourne strata offices by around 25 per cent in the space of a year.

Between May last year and April this year, the cost per square metre of unrefurbished strata office
space in Melbourne increased from $4000 per square metre to $5000.

Refurbished office space increased by 15 per cent $6200 per square metre.
CBRE strata investments director Tom Tuxworth said offshore groups, mainly from China, were
absorbing the limited supply of CBD strata offices, pushing up prices. "The commercial strata office
market has always been made up of mum-and-dad type investors and small business owners looking
to invest long term in commercial office space. "What we are now noticing is they are having to
compete with aggressive offshore groups who are in the market to purchase a new Melbourne
headquarters for their business," Mr Tuxworth said.Prestige in Australian ownership
Chinese developers AXF, The Ever Bright Group, Xing Yuan and Singapore developer Excelon have
all purchased offices in Melbourne in the past 12 months alongside Chinese miner Baosteel,
diversified conglomerate Yucai and hospitality group Shark Fin.

Strata offices have been acquired on Bourke Street, Collins Street, Flinders Lane and Lonsdale Street.
Another Chinese developer LYZ has ventured into the fringe office market paying $7 million for the
Airlie Mansion on St Kilda Road for its new Melbourne head office.
Andrew Zhu, from Longton Legal, a Sydney law firm with Asian roots, paid $1.45 million for a whole
floor on Queen Street, Melbourne in January.

Mr Zhu said Asian companies setting up in Australia preferred to own rather than lease office space.
"It is difficult to own commercial property in China, where the government controls land. In cities like
Shanghai, you can't buy property even if you have money. Therefore there is a lot of prestige in

Page225of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.owning property in Australia," he said. "There is also much more flexibility when you own – you can
lease out space you don't need or refurbish to suit your requirements. Plus there are tax benefits."

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

i5010023 : Institutional/Commercial Building Construction | ireest : Real Estate | i501 : Building
Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction
ceffic : Corporate Restructuring | c182 : Physical Asset Transactions | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c18 :
Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific
| ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140825ea8q0003i

Page226of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.