Poseidon Nickel is closer to Black Swan acquisition

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Poseidon Nickel is closer to Black Swan acquisition

506 words
18 December 2014
Middle East North Africa Financial Network (MENAFN)
MENAFI
English
Copyright 2014. Middle East North Africa Financial Network Inc.

(MENAFN - ProactiveInvestors)
Poseidon Nickel (ASX:POS) is closer to the acquisition of the Black Swan Project in Western
Australia from Norilsk Nickel with the receipt of Government and Environmental approvals.

The two companies are now working through the transfer of a number of covenants attaching to the
tenements associated with historical undertakings.
Completion of the acquisition is now expected on 27th March 2015 rather than the end of this
year.
However technical activities associated with restarting the Black Swan nickel operations are
unaffected and are proceeding to plan.

ldquo;We have made very good progress at Black Swan. This change is not expected to affect
Poseidonrsquo;s overall schedule to restart Black Swan which we expect to commence after
Windarra and Lake Johnstonrdquo; managing director David Singleton said.
Acquisition Approval
Completion of the Black Swan acquisition requires certain conditions to be satisfied. This includes
the Government and Environmental approvals associated with the site being on care and
maintenance and to facilitate re-commencement of mining operations.

Poseidon and Norilsk are working through the transfer of a number of covenants attaching to the
tenements associated with historical undertakings.

These transfers are in the normal course of business for a transaction of this nature.

All of the consents attaching to these covenants have been received and the parties continue to
work with the relevant regulatory agency to progress the satisfaction of the remaining conditions
precedent.
Simultaneously the company continues to work with Norilsk during the completion period to
facilitate the handover of this project and continuation of granted mining
approvals.nbsp;nbsp;nbsp;

Black Swan Project
In November Poseidon delivered an initial Probable Ore Reserve of 3.37 million tonnes at 0.63%
nickel for 21500 tonnes contained nickel for the Black Swan Project.
It includes 1.19 million tonnes of ore that was previously mined from the open pit but was not
processed prior to the facility being put into care and maintenance.

This Reserve represents a nominal three years of plant throughput and was achieved without any
need for drilling.

Page174of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The operating plan is based on a total initial concentrator throughput of 1.1 million tonnes of nickel
ore comprising 600000 tonnes from Mt Windarra and a further 500000 tonnes from the Black Swan
open pit.

Mill feed for the first 6 months will be sourced from the existing stockpiles which allows Poseidon to
delay production from the Black Swan pit by 6 months from start-up to allow for dewatering of the
pit.

During this time the stockpiles will be reclaimed and processed with the water from the pit being
utilised in the plant during the stockpile treatment process.
Restart costs are estimated at about $12.8 million while site operating costs are estimated to be
between $16 million and $22 million per year.

Proactive Investors Australia is the market leader in producing news articles and research reports
on ASX ldquo;Small and Mid-caprdquo; stocks with distribution in Australia UK North America and
Hong Kong / China.

gmknor : GMK Norilskii Nikel | wfgaus : Poseidon Nickel Limited
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2114 : Copper Ore/Nickel Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c18 : Ownership Changes | cacqu : Acquisitions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c181 :
Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Middle East North Africa Financial Network Inc
Document MENAFI0020141218eaci0001j

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page175of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.