Morphet joins for Asaleo float

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Morphet joins for Asaleo float

Exclusive
601 words
26 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
13
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Sue Morphet, the former chief executive of Pacific Brands, will be part of a six-person board to
oversee Asaleo Care, which is about to embark on an $800 million-plus public float.

The business, which will change its name from SCA Hygiene Australasia when it lists on the ASX, is
also set to have a much larger free float of shares, with Swedish parent Svenska Cellulosa set to sell
down its current 50 per cent stake to 30 per cent.

The other 50 per cent owner, private equity firmPacific Equity Partners, is likely to exit completely.

The newly rebadged Asaleo makes toilet paper and tissues brands Sorbent and Pura, Libra feminine
hygiene products and Handee paper towels.

The six-person board has been finalised. Sources said Ms Morphet, who in January this year became
a director of New Zealand-based appliance maker Fisher & Paykel, will be joined by JoAnne
Stephenson, who is also a director of financial services group Challenger.
Harry Boon, who is currently chairman of lotteries companyTatts Group, will be chairman.

The Swedish parent will have two representatives, Mats Berencreutz and Nils Lindholm, both
high-ranking executives with Svenska Cellulosa.

Asaleo Care's chief executive Peter Diplaris will be the sixth member.
The float has been prompted by the exit of private equity firm PEP, which originally acquired a
50 per cent stake in November 2011.

But Svenska Cellulosa, which bought the entire Australasian business in 2004 from Carter Holt
Harvey for $890 million, and was expected to retain its 50 per cent stake after the looming ASX
listing, is now thought to be cutting that back to 30 per cent.

Ms Morphet was chief executive of Pacific Brands from 2008 to 2012 when it was undergoing heavy
restructuring, and she received a barrage of criticism in 2009 for announcing plans to cull 1800 jobs
and shift manufacturing of many company brands to China.

Asaleo declined to comment on its plans or the make-up of the board.Strong position
The company's most well-known brand is Sorbent, but it is the strong market position in feminine
hygiene and incontinence products that has piqued most interest among fund managers who have
been part of road shows in Asia and Australia under pre-float marketing.
The Australasian incontinence hygiene products market is estimated to be worth about $225 million
by industry players and has grown by 12 per cent a year in the past 10 years, driven in part by an
ageing population.

Page6of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.This demographic trend is set to gain momentum.
The company's TENA brand is the market leader with around 46 per cent market share.
The Australasian feminine hygiene products market has a retail value of around $335 million and the
company's Libra brand is at the top, with a market share of 41 per cent. Joint lead managers on the
float are Citi, Macquarie and Bank of America Merrill Lynch. A prospectus may be lodged in the first
week of June.

Citi pre-marketing research by analysts Gino Rossi and Craig Woolford said Asaleo was "well-placed
to deal with competitive threats, and its margins are supported by strong brands''.

While other segments in consumer products have been hit hard by private label products pushed by
supermarket giants Woolworths and Coles, feminine hygiene products have a low level of private
label competition, which sits at around 6 per cent and which is expected to stay at low levels because
of the importance of trust in quality brands for customers in this segment.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

peprt : Pacific Equity Partners | scahld : Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget
i471 : Paper Mills | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150203 : Private Equity | ialtinv :
Alternative Investments | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv :
Investing/Securities | ipper : Paper/Pulp
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140525ea5q0001n

Page7of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.