Roc Oil 's interloper may get due diligence

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB

Market Wrap - Street Talk
Roc Oil's interloper may get due diligence

Edited by Sarah Thompson, Anthony Macdonald and Gretchen Friemann
352 words
30 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
18
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The $800 million merger of Roc Oil and Horizon Oil has taken another intriguing twist with Roc's
unnamed suitor expected to visit Australian shores this week.
Sources said the interloper, believed to be a cashed-up Asian company, was likely to be granted
some due diligence by Roc. Last Wednesday Roc said it had received a "confidential, unsolicited,
indicative and incomplete" offer, without disclosing the identity of the party.

Roc is the smaller of the parties to the merger announced late April, valued in the sharemarket at
$419 million and Horizon at $462 million. If the $800 million merger is consummated, Roc
shareholders will own 42 per cent of the merged entity and Horizon shareholders the balance.

It should also be noted Grant Samuel, the expert hired by Roc to assess the controversial deal, has
found the merger to be in the best interests of shareholders. But the visit from this latest entrant into
the battle for Roc is facing a race against time.
The company's biggest investor, Allan Gray, has formally requested an extraordinary general
meeting to vote on changing Roc's constitution. That meeting is scheduled for July 11.

The approach is not yet a competing transaction, allowing the identity to remain confidential.
Although many have pointed to a Chinese private equity company, it is worth noting Hong
Kong-listed oil trader Brightoil Petroleum cast an eye over ROC a few years ago. Another potential
candidate is Tamarind Energy, run by Ian Angell.

Meanwhile, Det Norske Veritas (DNV) has emerged as the latest prospective acquirer for SAI
Global, the standards, assurance and information business which in May received a $1.1 billion
proposal from Pacific Equity Partners.

DNV, said to be taking its counsel from Greenhill, is considering all options including a bid for SAI in
its entirety.

The due diligence process is now formal, with PEP having signed a confidentiality agreement and
getting the keys to the electronic data room. Indicative bids are due by July.

rocoil : Roc Oil Company Ltd
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas
cdued : Due Diligence | c18 : Ownership Changes | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited

Page5of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document AFNR000020140629ea6u0000j

Page6of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.