Bridging gold 's disconnect

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Finance
Bridging gold's disconnect

BARRY FITZGERALD
1,243 words
18 March 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
20
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Chesser Resources (CHZ)
VLADIMIR Putin's showdown with the West over Crimea has been good for the gold price. The yellow
metal's haven appeal has come into its own, driving prices since the start of the year 15 per cent
higher to six-month highs.

It has been a long time since gold has reacted in such a strong way to a political crisis somewhere
around the world. But, then again, this is a class A drama as it is not everyday that the world is
snubbed by a superpower with a macho guy in charge promising to make Crimea a Pussy Riot-free
zone, among other things.
That longer-term investors with a nervous disposition are flocking to gold was highlighted by the news
that the world's biggest exchange traded gold fund, the SPDR Gold Trust, last week increased its
holdings by 10 tonnes -- which is more than Australia's entire annual gold output -- to 813 tonnes,
indicating that the drastic decline in ETF holdings witnessed last year is well and truly a thing of the
past.
It's a 24-hour market but at the time of writing gold was trading at $US1383 ($1527) an ounce. While
the US dollar price remains well short of the (calendar) year averages of $US1411 an ounce last year
and $US1669 an ounce in 2012, positive margins are being generated by all but the highest cost
operations.
There has been a rub-off of all that on to local gold equities. They have been the best performing
stocks in the mining sector this year, albeit the recovery being from the trashed levels they were taken
to last year when gold's 12-year bull run came to an abrupt end. It was during that bull run that there
was much discussion about the ``disconnect'' between gold equity values and the gold price, in that
share prices were not reflecting the bumper prices for the shiny metal.
Talk of a disconnect is back with us, this time because while gold equity values have improved, the
gains have not matched the gold price improvement, remembering that an additional $US100 an
ounce on the price can be the difference from making no money and making plenty.
Where the current disconnect is at is most extreme is in the gold developers. That makes sense given
they have yet to produce.
But based on the assumption that those with advanced gold projects now have a window of
opportunity to lock away funding for their developments, it could well be where value currently lies in
gold equities.
One of the more highly rate gold developers out there is Chesser Resources (CHZ), which has been
plugging away at its Kestanelik project in northwest Turkey, overlooking the Dardanelles. It was a 29c
stock in March last year before the gold price got whacked. Yesterday it was a 12.5c stock, meaning
while it was taken down by the gold price fall, it hasn't been taken back up with gold's rise in the
Crimean-led recovery.

Page284of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.At yesterday's price, Chesser is a $27 million company. Back in October last year, when it was
knocking around 11c, Macquarie had a 52c valuation on the stock, and a 12-month price target of 24c.
More recently, Ord Minnett slapped a 31c a share price target on the stock.
So there just may be something to that earlier thought that value in the gold stocks currently resides
with the gold developers, given the longer gold stays on the up, the likelier it is that they will close the
disconnect.
Chesser's value argument also stacks up well when the economics of Kestanelik are converted to gold
equivalent ounces, a favourite valuation method of investment fund Baker Steel, a 6.1 per cent
shareholder.
Assume a $US1300 an ounce gold price and an initial mine life for Kestanelik of eight years, and after
everything is paid for in gold equivalent terms the company would be left holding 203,326 ounces of
gold, worth $US264m at the suggested $US1300 an ounce price. Make that $US340m at $US1500 an
ounce. And for a safety test, plug in $US1100 and the gold surplus of $US188m is also a multiple of
where Chesser is currently at.

Mind you, there is work to do. A pre-feasibility study is due at the end of the June quarter and it is
expected that the previous plan for a 63,000 ounce-a-year development could become an 85,000
ounce-a-year plan.
Super low labour and energy costs in Turkey mean that all-in costs for a development are expected to
come in at less than $US600 an ounce.

The capital requirement was last put at $US88m, including a 30 per cent contingency. It remains a
challenge for a company of Chesser's size. But it could be partly offset by bringing in a minority
Turkish partner, which is always advisable when operating in foreign climes. More to the point is that a
sub-$US600 all-in cost looks pretty good when viewed against the current spot price for the yellow
stuff.

TNG Limited (TNG)

PERTH-BASED TNG has been duck-like of late, seemingly motionless on the pond but paddling
furiously beneath the water to keep its Mount Peake vanadium-titanium-iron project in the Northern
Territory on a development timeline.

The rewards for all that paddling are expected to take shape this year, not that the group's current
share price of 4.5c for a market cap of $25m is saying that is the case just yet.

Last year TNG flagged that its definitive feasibility study into a development would be reviewing and
optimising the 2012 pre-feasibility study results, with the expectation that it won't be long now before
the market hears about reductions in capital and operating expenditure expectations, the possible
introduction of project-offtake partner(s) to help deal with the funding needs, and perhaps the move of
the downstream processing plant to a lower cost environment, which is another way of saying not in
Australia.

It has to be said that vanadium in this market is presently on the nose because of the debt and
fire-damage woes of Atlantic's Windimurra project in WA. But Mount Peake's planned use of its TIVAN
hydrometallurgical treatment process, and its co-product production of titanium dioxide and iron,
makes it a very different beast. If anything, Mount Peake's main challenge will be finding a home for its
planned vanadium as it represents a big chunk of current global production of the stuff.
The good news there is that China has mandated the use of better quality steels in its construction
industry, which is where 90 per cent of demand for vanadium ends up. Then there is the buzz building
around vanadium redox batteries, which are actually more like six-storey apartment blocks that Japan
and others are backing home as the answer to provide the grid-sized storage capability needed to
offset the variability from wind power when it ain't blowing, and solar power when the sun ain't
shining.

For what it is worth, some sponsored analyst research has just been posted on TNG's website. It
arrives at a 28c share valuation for the company, based on it being free-carried with a 40 per cent
interest in Mount Peake.

CO

chrelt : Chesser Resources Ltd | stgltr : SPDR Gold Trust

Page285of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining | i22472 : Precious Metals | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary
Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying |
i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
m1421 : Gold Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mcat :
Commodity/Financial Market News | mpcsmt : Precious Metals Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter
crimea : Crimea | nterry : Northern Territory | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr :
Australia | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | eeurz : Central/Eastern Europe | eurz : Europe | ukrn :
Ukraine | ussrz : CIS Countries
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140317ea3i0002i

Page286of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.