Recent Appointments: Property & Projects team at CK

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Recent Appointments: Property & Projects team at CK

420 words
18 December 2014
Mondaq Business Briefing
BBPUB
English
(c) 2014 Mondaq Ltd

JUDD LAST returns to the firm more than a decade on and has been appointed as a Partner in the
Property & Projects group at CK. Prior to returning, he was a director in the property group at a top tier
national law firm in Brisbane.
Judd has acted for and advised clients on all aspects relating to property and commercial transactions.
He has a particular specialisation in advising developers and operators of retirement villages and aged
care facilities in both the profit and not-for-profit sectors. Clients for whom he acts in the retirement living
and aged care sector have included listed companies, major banks, not-for-profit providers, benevolent
institutions and churches. Judd has been actively involved in this sector and has presented at many of
industry functions and seminars on this sector of the property market.

ROSE MACKAYANG LI and have also joined Judd from his previous firm.

ROSE has been appointed as a Senior Associate. She has significant experience in retirement village
transactions, and acquisition and disposal of commercial, rural, residential and industrial properties in
all states of Australia. She has also acted in large commercial and retail leasing matters and has
conducted legal due diligence in relation to a number of major property projects. Rose has particular
expertise and interest in the retirement village industry having acted for a number of not-for-profit and
commercial retirement village scheme operators in all aspects relating to the establishment and
operation of retirement villages.

ANG has been appointed as an Associate. He has significant experience in acting for clients in
commercial and retail leasing, and in the acquisition and disposal of a wide range of residential,
commercial and industrial properties. Ang's clients have included publicly listed property trusts and
financial institutions, as well as Chinese state-owned enterprises and high net-wealth foreign investors.
He has considerable expertise in advising foreign developers and investors on foreign investment
requirements and compliance issues. His experience also includes acting for financial institutions and
receivers in the disposal of distressed assets. Ang has a significant following out of China, he is active in
the local Chinese community and sits on the board of many Chinese community organisations.

ClarkeKann Lawyers

Level 7, 300 Queen Street

Brisbane

4000

AUSTRALIA

Tel: 73001 9222

Fax: 73001 9299

E-mail: t.justins@clarkekann.com.au

URL: www.clarkekann.com.au

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2014 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com

Page213of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE

ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c411 : Management Moves | cslmc : Senior Level Management | c41 :
Management | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin :
C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | queensl :
Queensland

PUB Mondaq Limited
AN

Document BBPUB00020141218eaci0008d

Page214of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.