Mining still solid despite slowdown

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Supplements
Mining still solid despite slowdown

Karen Jackman
698 words
7 March 2014
South China Morning Post
SCMP
1
01
English
(c) 2014 South China Morning Post Publishers Limited, Hong Kong. All rights reserved.

The slowdown in Chinese growth - to a still-impressive and better-than-expected 7.7 per cent - has
certainly hurt Australia's economy. The country expanded its mining capacity as Chinese growth
rocketed. Now, as China's expansion slows, global commodity prices have fallen and Australia's
economy is growing at a slower pace as mining investment crumples.
But that doesn't mean that Australian exports to China have fallen, according to news reports.
China's economy is much larger than it was just a few years ago, and it continues to require massive
amounts of commodities for its infrastructure projects and to build houses. China's biggest iron ore
investor in Australia, Citic Pacific, says it expects Chinese steel production to remain in the range of
700 million to 800 million tonnes a year for the next few years.

Fiducian Group funds manager Conrad Burge is still positive about the outlook for Chinese demand
for Australia's resource exports. "China's economy is still expected to grow above 7 per cent," he told
the Sydney Morning Herald. "Many analysts have forecast plans to shift the economy from being
infrastructure-led to consumer services-led will mean less demand for iron ore and coal. But we
expect China to have strong demand for Australia's commodities for some time even."
Amid the dire predictions, Australia posted an A$468 million (HK$3.25 billion) trade surplus for
December. That built on a surplus in November of A$83 million, the first trade surplus in two years.
Analysts have warned that China's appetite for imported ore would wane in the months ahead as
industrial growth cools and the demand for steel weakens. But the value of exports rose 4 per cent
on-month in December, thanks to solid gains in the sale of coal and iron ore, largely to China.
China's demand for commodities is still increasing, albeit at a slower pace. The country's iron ore
imports hit a record in November, up a fifth from the start of last year. And Australian producers also
have benefited from a weaker Australian dollar, which has fallen as much as 15 per cent from its peak
last year, boosting export values in local currency terms.
Nev Power, chief executive of Fortescue Minerals, says recent Chinese economic data is quite
strong and the demand for Australian iron ore will remain solid. "I think we've got to be careful not to
react to 0.1 per cent changes in the manufacturing index or the PMI or GDP," he says. "The big
picture is it's continuing to grow very strongly, and whether it's 7.6 or 7.7 [per cent], it's very strong
GDP growth."

However, BlueScope Steel (BSL), Australia's biggest steelmaker with 32 offices on the mainland,
says demand for industrial buildings and construction products is slumping in the world's
second-largest economy.
"We didn't expect the Chinese slowdown to be quite as dramatic," CEO Paul O'Malley told
Bloomberg News. "In building activity, in our space in particular, we are seeing negative growth at the
moment."

Page229of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Exports to China, Australia's largest trading partner, totalled a record A$95 billion last year, up
sharply from A$73 billion in 2012. China took almost 40 per cent of Australia's goods exports in
December and supplied 18 per cent of its imports, according to available statistics.
As more Australian mining projects near completion and begin production, the export volumes are
likely to rise, analysts say. Still, the export surge will only go part of the way towards offsetting the
mining investment drop in the medium term, economists warn.

Resources investment peaked at abound 8 per cent of GDP last year and is expected to fall by
around 3 percentage points over the next 30 months, according to forecasts by the Reserve Bank of
Australia.
"I think as long as China is holding up OK, the overall demand for Australian commodities will still do
alright," Kieran Davies, Barclays' chief economist for Australia, told the Sydney Morning Herald.
Demand for Australian iron ore remains strong. Photo: Bloomberg
skfdev : CITIC Pacific Limited
i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
e1101 : Economic Growth | reqrmm : Suggested Reading Metals/Mining | e11 : Economic
Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis |
reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
South China Morning Post Publishers Limited
Document SCMP000020140308ea3700009

ART
CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page230of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.