Press Release: ZBB Energy Announces New Investment Partner for China Joint Venture Meineng Energy

HD

Press Release: ZBB Energy Announces New Investment Partner for China Joint Venture Meineng
Energy

WC 1,031 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

18 August 2014
22:00
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

TD

ZBB Energy Announces New Investment Partner for China Joint Venture Meineng Energy

Investment Structure, Including Cash Investment of 20,000,000 RMB (approximately $3.24M US) by
Shenzhen Oriental Fortune Capital Co., Ltd., Results in Post-Closing Valuation Triple That of Valuation at
Inception

MILWAUKEE, WI--(Marketwired - Aug 18, 2014) - ZBB Energy Corporation (NYSE MKT: ZBB), a leading
developer of innovative energy storage and control platforms serving utilities and behind the meter
commercial and industrial buildings, today announced that its China Joint Venture Company, Anhui
Meineng Store Energy System Co., Ltd. ("Meineng Energy"), has received a cash investment of
20,000,000 RMB (approximately $3.24M US) from Wuhu Fuhai-Haoyan Venture Investment, L.P., a
branch of Shenzhen Oriental Fortune Capital Co., Ltd., for a post-closing equity position of 8%. Subject
to receipt of required governmental approval for this investment, which is expected to be received in
August or September of 2014, this investment capital will be used to fund ongoing operations and
development of the China market, and provides Meineng Energy a post-closing valuation of 250,000,000
RMB (approximately $42,000,000).
Meineng Energy was initially capitalized with approximately $13.6 million of equity capital, which
included approximately $9.5 million of cash and a contribution of technology from ZBB to Meineng
Energy via a license agreement valued at approximately $4.1 million by the company. The post-closing
valuation of the above mentioned financing increases Meineng's valuation to $42 million from $13.6
million.
Meineng Energy, incorporated in December 2011, has built a world-class assembly, test, development
and sales operation. Meineng has positioned itself as an innovative storage solutions provider for
improvement of renewable energy efficiency, and has also widely penetrated the advanced micro grid
markets. Meineng has optimized their supply chain and completed the knowledge transfer required to
build energy storage and power electronics platforms, well positioning them to capitalize on China's
volume deployment of energy storage for renewable energy.

"ZBB continues to work very closely with Meineng on product development, manufacturing and testing.
Meineng is both a highly valued strategic supplier and customer", said Eric Apfelbach, Chief Executive
Officer of ZBB Energy. "The relationship is very synergistic for both entities."
Shenzhen Oriental Fortune Capital Co., Ltd. ("OFC") is a premier venture capital firm founded in 2006.
They are headquartered in Shenzhen, with offices in Shanghai, Beijing, Wuhu and Xi'an. OFC has an
accumulated management fund of over 10 billion RMB since its establishment. Investment is in areas of
Clean Technology, Information Technology, Healthcare, Education, Advanced Manufacturing and
Consumer Products, and has invested in more than 130 companies, with 28 exiting through IPO or M&A.
"We are very happy to have OFC become part of Meineng Energy", said Brad Hansen, President of ZBB
Energy and CEO of Meineng Energy. "OFC has a proven track record of investing in key markets and
companies, and being able to help their invested companies achieve success in the China market.
Meineng selected OFC as an investor because of their excellent capability to help the company grow in
the China market."

Page139of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.About ZBB Energy Corporation
ZBB Energy Corporation (NYSE MKT: ZBB) designs, develops, licenses and manufactures advanced
energy storage and power electronics systems, as well as engineered custom and semi-custom products
targeted at the growing global need for distributed renewable energy, energy efficiency, power quality,
and grid modernization. ZBB's portfolio includes integrated power management platforms that combine
advanced power and energy controls plus energy storage to optimize renewable energy sources and
conventional power inputs for grid connected and off-grid applications. ZBB's innovative platforms solve a
wide range of electrical system challenges in global markets for utility, governmental, commercial,
industrial and residential customers. In addition, the platforms ensure optimal efficiencies today, while
offering the flexibility to adapt and scale to future requirements. ZBB's corporate offices, engineering and
development, and production facilities are located in Menomonee Falls, WI, USA with a research facility
also located in Perth, Western Australia. ZBB has a joint venture with Meineng Energy, a provider of
leading-edge energy storage systems and solutions to the greater China market. For more information,
visit: www.zbbenergy.com.

Safe Harbor Statement

Certain statements made in this press release contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of
Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended that are intended to be covered by the "safe harbor" created by those sections.
Forward-looking statements, which are based on certain assumptions and describe our future plans,
strategies and expectations, can generally be identified by the use of forward-looking terms such as
"believe," "expect," "may," "will," "should," "could," "seek," "intend," "plan," "estimate," "anticipate" or other
comparable terms. Forward-looking statements in this press release may address the following subjects
among others: statements regarding the sufficiency of our capital resources, expected operating losses,
expected revenues, expected expenses and our expectations concerning our business strategy.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to
differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements, as a result of various factors including those
risks and uncertainties described in the Risk Factors and in Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations sections of our most recently filed Annual Report on Form
10-K and our subsequently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. We urge you to consider those risks
and uncertainties in evaluating our forward-looking statements. We caution readers not to place undue
reliance upon any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. Except as
otherwise required by the federal securities laws, we disclaim any obligation or undertaking to publicly
release any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement contained herein (or elsewhere) to
reflect any change in our expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or
circumstances on which any such statement is based.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

August 18, 2014 08:00 ET (12:00 GMT)

CO
IN

NS

RE

zbbec : ZBB Energy Corporation
i342 : Electrical Components/Equipment | iindstrls : Industrial Goods | iindele : Industrial Electronics |
i3432 : Batteries
c184 : Joint Ventures | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | npress :
Press Releases | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | shenzh : Shenzhen | anhui : Anhui | guang : Guangdong | apacz : Asia
Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz
: Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020140818ea8i0017n

Page140of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.