MUSSEL UP TO THE BAR

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Taste
MUSSEL UP TO THE BAR

FIONA DONNELLY
1,026 words
11 March 2014
Courier Mail
COUMAI
CourierMail
28
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

fionadonnellybites@gmail.com If champagne and seafood make your mouth water, there’s a new place
in Newstead that’s right up your alley. Caviar tasting plates and oysters listed by region are just some of
the treats on offer Reef Seafood & Sushi is planning to pop the cork on an upscale 100-capacity
seafood-themed bar at Newstead’s Gasworks Plaza on Friday. Tucked between its existing
fish/chip/sushi venue and bustling Hatch & Co, the new Reef Oyster & Cocktail Bar will offer an oyster
selection from six to eight Australian regions, fluctuating according to season.

All oysters will be opened onsite. Champagne, sake and a variety of different caviar tasting plates will
also feature but owner Greg Kay said the team had shelved earlier plans to introduce seafood-themed
breakfasts, at least for the time being.

“We’re just focusing on getting the cocktails, bar snacks and oysters right. It’s all coming together
nicely.” Shigeki Uno, long-time chef at Reef Ferry Road Market venue, will oversee the kitchen, in
conjunction with general manager and former chef Benjamin Connolly, who’s also been helping to
design the seafood-oriented snacks.

“At the bar we’ll be serving things like karaage school prawns, whitebait, cuttlefish and steamed
mussels,’’ Mr Connolly said.

The new space features lounge seating and flows on from Reef’s existing tenancy. It will be possible to
order from Reef’s casual menu and sit in the new section and check out the 3D-mapping projector,
which will display constantly morphing imagery behind the bar.

Daniel Aitkin, ex-Pony Brisbane, will head the bar and shake the drinks. The list is specifically designed
to work with seafood – featuring twists on classics, house punches and even some cocktail ices. The
team will make its own house tonic water and ginger beer. Dirty, dirty Martini, anyone?

NEW SPACE Mise En Place (a cheffy French term for preparing ingredients ahead) is the hip new
replacement for Paddington’s Hamptons Home Living on Latrobe Terrace.

The French-inspired cafe-deli-homewares store got under way quietly at the weekend, offering coffees
and a limited pastry menu.

The owner is chef Chris Compton (ex-Cafe Urbano, Stafford). He’ll be whipping up all the cakes, muffins
and pastries as well as selling deli goods and a small selection of fruit and vegetables. He plans to
change the menu frequently, offering the likes of beans provencal and oeufs en cocotte for breakfast.
“I’m hoping to steer clear of eggs benedict but am not sure what the reaction will be,” Mr Compton said.

He has also been riffling through his chef grandfather’s old French cookbooks for inspiration. “I’m very
excited to be here. I think we’ve changed the feel quite a bit.” Mise En Place will open daily from
8am-6pm.

Page52of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.TOP TALENT Madame Wu, the glamorous pan-Asian replacement planned for the old Siana riverfront
site at Riparian Plaza, has hooked some serious talent for its kitchen. Chef Brendon Barker (left) is
quitting Noosa’s well regarded Embassy XO at Sunshine Beach and heading to Brisbane to lead the
opening team. Work has started and the doors are slated to open at the 189-seater in mid-May.

Barker already makes his own XO sauce at Embassy XO and has started experimenting with koji spores
to make soy sauce for Madame Wu. Pretty much everything that can be made in-house will be, although
some dumpling wrappers will be supplied. Barker says the main spotlight will be towards southern China,
with other dishes from Hong Kong, Korea and Japan.

“There will be a duck element and barbecue pork and dumplings – the kitchen will have a proper yum
cha steamer, but we won’t be doing yum cha. That’s not who we are.’’ Mr Barker started his career at
Stokehouse in Melbourne and is a food science graduate. He also worked at Melbourne’s Ezard for four
years. “I’m sad to be leaving Embassy XO. It was a hard decision. But my sous chef Seung Joo is
stepping up and I’m excited to see what he does over the next 12 months.” Mr Barker has been with
Embassy XO since it opened in 2010 and Seung Joo was one of the original team.

GOOD CHOICE Restaurant Rapide has speedily changed hands again. The new owner of the Camp
Hill stayer, which was sold by Ashton & Old’s Sam Walters in August, is chef Terry Parker. Mr Parker
has worked in various hotels and his resume also includes a stint as head chef at 4071 Bar & Grill. Mr
Parker said he plans to get behind the burners and son Zac Parker will manage front of house. The two
are awaiting a food licence but as soon as that’s through, they’ll reopen the doors. “We’ll be broadening
the menu somewhat. I want people to be able to come in and have a choice and, of course, we’ll be
making sure the quality is there,” Mr Parker said.

HOME BOUND Daniel Mosedale, former owner of Noosaville’s Blue Angel Restaurant, is back in Noosa.
This time he’s behind the burners at Hastings St relative newcomer Locale. After selling Blue Angel,
Angela and Daniel Mosedale worked for the Spicers Hotel Group, reopening a “glamping” property at
Warwick, and then briefly at The Balfour in New Farm. A stint in Sydney, with Daniel working at Garfish
and Angela organising events at Pier, left them homesick for Noosa. “We’re home again now,” Mr
Mosedale said. “The fitout is great and we have a strong team in the kitchen. I’m looking forward to
taking it to the next level.” NOOSA FOCUS Nearby Wasabi at Noosa Sound, one of Australia’s most
highly regarded Japanese restaurants, also has new talent on board. Jiro Numata(ex-Sushi Nakata,
Ginza) has replaced Hajime Horiguchi as head sushi chef. Mr Numata, formerly a chef at the Imperial
Palace Hotel, joins Zeb Gilbert in the kitchen. Mr Horiguchi has moved to Melbourne.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gfod : Food/Drink | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gwbs : Wine/Beer/Spirits
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | queensl : Queensland
News Ltd.
Document COUMAI0020140310ea3b0002d

Page53of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.