TITLE DEEDS Kirby commits house to market judgment | INSIDE STORY visits Glenhaven

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Domain
TITLE DEEDS Kirby commits house to market judgment | INSIDE STORY visits Glenhaven

LUCY MACKEN
1,324 words
15 November 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
6
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

TITLE DEEDS

Kirby commits house to market judgment

The former high court judge is making the most of the strong pre-Christmas rush.

The Rose Bay home of former High Court judge Michael Kirby and his partner Johan van Vloten
heads an impressive line-up of trophy properties this week as Sydney's power brokers hope to cash
in on the stronger market before Christmas.

Built in 1949 and designed by the late modernist architect Neville Gruzman for his aunt Mollie Lapin,
it should have no shortage of admirers given the current popularity for all things mid-century.

Kirby is only the property's third owner, having bought it in 1976 for $190,000 from lawyer Peter
Murphy.
Set on the waterfront with iconic harbour views, it was listed with optimistic hopes of $12 million in
the weaker market of 2011 with another agent, but is now on offer for more than $10 million through
Wayne Yates, of Laing+Simmons Double Bay.

Kirby and van Vloten have long planned to downsize to an apartment closer to the city, but only once
they've sold their prized home on Dumaresq Road.

- - -

In Bondi Beach, the penthouse of former Glencore coal executive Vaughan Blank is up for grabs for
more than $10 million.

The four-bedroom spread opposite the Icebergs was bought by the Watsons Bay-based property
investor under the hammer in 2009 for its then $8 million reserve when it was sold by restaurateurs
Terence and Elizabeth Burke. Sotheby's International's Michael Pallier is no doubt hoping to do even
better with the Notts Avenue spread when he takes it to auction on December 1.

- - -

Derivatives trader Jim Clody and his wife Amy are selling their Bellevue Hill property for more than
$10 million only 18 months after they bought and renovated it with beautiful interiors by Marco
Meneguzzi.
This is the Bulkara Road residence that was sold by former Challenger Financial chief executive and
Orica director Mike Tilley in May last year for $8.5 million.

Previously it was the home of the late Macquarie Bank chairman David Clarke and his wife Jane, until
they sold it to Tilley in 2005 for $8.4 million.

Page142of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Set on 1284 square metres with a tennis court and pool, it is on offer through James McCowan, of
Sotheby's International.

- - -

Another Bellevue Hill vendor hoping to make good in 2014 is Nudie Juice former chief executive
Andrew Binetter.

The Kambala Road property has been an investment since at least July last year when records show
it was leased for $2650 a week. Steven Zoellner, of Laing+Simmons Double Bay, said the vendor
was selling purely to reinvest funds elsewhere.
The 888-square-metre property last traded in 2005 for $4,902,000 when it was sold by Alison
Richardson, former wife of property developer Andrew Richardson.
Zoellner is asking more than $5.8 million ahead of its November 19 auction.

- - -

You know the market is smokin' when the agents start buying the bankers' houses. Alexander Phillips
has laid down $4,465,000 for the Paddington home of New York-bound Credit Suisse managing
director Paul Allen and his wife

Liz Morgan.

It must be all those commissions. The Phillips Pantzer Donnelley agency has clocked up 300-plus
sales in the first 308 days of this year to the tune of $500 million.
Before the three-storey terrace was sold by Ballard's Will Manning, it last traded in 2011 for
$3,825,000 when sold by UBS managing director Richard Saywell.

- - -
Funds manager Aaron Rowe and his wife Tracey McKinley have sold their Bronte property for some
$9 million given their upcoming move to Vaucluse.

Despite no comment from McGrath's Bethwyn Richards, local sources say the ambitious price guide
was achieved, which should cover more than half the purchase price for the Kutti Beach digs they've
bought from retailer Brett Blundy.

- - -
Jockey Hugh Bowman has returned from Melbourne with two group 1 wins during the Flemington
carnival and celebrated by listing his Queens Park home for $1.75 million-plus.

Admittedly, he and his wife Christine will probably hold the champagne until after the December 6
auction through McGrath's Mark McPherson. The plan is to trade up to something with more space
for their almost one-year-old baby girl Bambi.

Shh!

Will settlement proceed on one of Mosman's high-end sales? With a certain share price crashing
word is there could yet be a lesson in long settlements for us all.

Guess who is the well-heeled property developer set to make Bellevue Hill home?

Banking on Paddo
FOR SALE: $5.8m+

No sooner did the Commonwealth Bank announce Robert Jesudason was being promoted to head
up international financial services in Hong Kong than he and his wife, Laura Hui, have listed their
striking Paddington residence for $5.8 million-plus.

Built in 2011, the four-bedroom residence was designed by the late architect Bernard Teh-Howell,
with interiors by Greg Natale. It last traded in 2012 for $4,906,000.

Set on 257 square metres (almost double the suburb average), the three-storey property with its
double garage and a swimming pool is listed with Bill Malouf, of LJ Hooker Double Bay.

Page143of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Historic highlands villa
SOLD: About $3.75m
In the Southern Highlands, the historic Laurel Park estate in Burradoo has finally sold, freeing funds
manager Toby Phelps and his wife, Juliana, for their up-coming return to the UK, and Henley in
particular, where he is set to take up a new position.

The John Sulman-designed residence was built circa 1890 for alderman and politician John
Macintosh. The Phelpses have renovated since they bought it in 2011 for $3,525,000 from
veterinarian Raoul Wanner and his wife, Ingrid.
It sold for close to its latest asking price of $3.75 million through Drew Lindsay, of his eponymous
agency.

Californian inspiration
FOR SALE: $11 million

In Mosman, the waterfront home of businessman Shane Oxenham and his wife Sally, that was
inspired by the mid-century architectural classic Kaufmann House in Palm Springs is for sale with an
$11 million asking price.
The couple have been long-time locals on the Bay Street waterfront, having sold their home next
door in 2003 for $6.05 million.

Having bought this 1344 square metres of absolute waterfront in 2004, the three-storey house was
completed in 2008 according to a design by architect Louise Nettleton. The Oxenhams, long known
as Palm Beach regulars, have listed it with Mark Manners, of Simeon Manners.

INSIDE STORY visits Glenhaven

The Glenhaven record could be set at an all-time high when restaurateurs Frank and Rima Criniti sell
their mansion Petalinda.
The last time this 1.9-hectare estate sold in 2011 it set a then record of $5.3 million for Jennifer
Grant, wife of construction boss Steve Grant, director of Capital Corporation.
Almost $2 million of upgrades later and the vast resort-style digs with everything from indoor pool,
tennis court, wine-tasting cellar and gym is again up for grabs, this time for $8.5 million through
Mechlenne Douaihy, of Merc Real Estate.
The sale is likely prompted by the Crinitis' plans to take their Italian restaurant chain beyond the
bounds of Sydney and Melbourne to Perth and possibly also the United States.

The exclusive cul-de-sac of only nine houses has long set the bar for high-end local acreage. The
current record was set in August two doors away at $5.6 million when construction industry boss
Mark Taylor and his wife, Eleni, sold to Dural-based Angela Symons.

Symons, who is married to house and land package developer Todd Symons, of Eden Brae Homes,
has in turn sold her Dural acreage for $2.95 million.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

laisim : Laing & Simmons
irreal : Residential Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction |
ireest : Real Estate | i834 : Real Estate Agents/Brokers
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020141114eabf00058

Page144of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.