Cloud has silver lining for property developer PRIVATE PROPERTY | INSIDE STORY visits East Melbourne

SE
HD

BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Domain
Cloud has silver lining for property developer PRIVATE PROPERTY | INSIDE STORY visits East
Melbourne
EMILY POWER and MARC PALLISCO
1,432 words
18 October 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
6
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Entrepreneur John Matthies is building 80 aged-care units on the site of a landmark South Yarra
mansion.

It is the end for South Yarra's largest private land holding and one of the suburb's most flamboyant
mansions, Saint Cloud. Within weeks, aged-care entrepreneur John Matthies will start replacing the
huge 5700-square metre block with apartments, razing the semi-circular manor he bought for $12
million in 2012 from management consultant Peter Clark.

On a clifftop at the end of Kensington Road and overlooking the Yarra River, the white mansion is about
950 square metres (100 squares) has six bedrooms, four living rooms and is surrounded by a pool,
tennis court and botanic garden.
Despite being discounted from $15 million, agents took seven years to sell Saint Cloud, which some
described as a 1980s time capsule. For long periods the home sat vacant, with Clark splitting time
between other properties in Britain, Lorne, Mount Macedon and the Mornington Peninsula.
In 2009 Clark offered Saint Cloud for sale with a permit for a 12-unit complex over five levels.

After buying smaller homes abutting Saint Cloud, Matthies recently won approval to build almost 80
aged-care units over six levels in a complex which better exploits the estate's second street frontage to
Alexandra Avenue. MP

- - -

A former producer of hit television shows Rove and Big Brother is bumping out of South Yarra. David De
Guio is selling his pretty four-bedroom, two-bathroom property at 54 Tyrone Street, with price hopes
around $1.1 million.

Period features abound, including high ceilings, American oak floors and a charming open fireplace in
the lounge room. The home is not far from the Royal Botanic Gardens but has its own little verdant
haven - a neat courtyard via folding doors off the kitchen and meals area.
De Guio is the managing director of production company Project 3 and was a long-time producer and
editor for Channel Nine.

Marshall White's James McCormack and Dean Gilbert are zooming in on prospective buyers, with the
home going under the hammer on Saturday October 18. EP

- - -

Ex-Hawthorn footballer and architect Gregory Burgess is offloading his versatile home-office off
Richmond's busy Bridge Road shopping strip.

Page194of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Double-fronted and double storey, the weatherboard Victorian has three bedrooms, two studios, a
conservatory-style dining area and two balconies capturing Richmond Hill views. Separate from the
house, but also accessed from the street, 12 Francis Street includes a three-room self-contained guest
house or work-from-home studio. Nelson Alexander's Arch Staver, Petria Thomas and Rick Daniel are
expecting more than $1.1 million when the Richmond home goes to auction on Saturday October 25.
MP

- - -

Top-shelf renters have some deluxe new lease options to choose from after a shortage at the pointy,
prestige end of the market.

We believe we have identified Melbourne's most expensive rental on the market

For a cool $5000 a week - and bond as much as the price of a new small car, to protect its luxury fit-out -
4 Mulgoa Street in Brighton, is on Buxton's books. It has five bedrooms, five bathrooms and is five-star.

At the rear, a sweeping manicured lawn stretches to the the pool, making Mulgoa the kind of party pad
you dreamed of during your university days instead of enduring a squashed share house with a dodgy
hot water service and an insect problem.

Perhaps you're still dreaming.

Buxton's Michelle Murray - who will be looking for only the most discerning tenants - is also managing
another very fancy rental. The glamorous 23 Sussex Street, also in Brighton, is near the beach and has
three bedrooms and a pop-up television in the master suite.

If you desire plush, temporary digs that are even closer to the water, RT Edgar's Angie Vakrinos is
fielding applications for 50 South Wharf Drive in the Docklands, boasting bay vistas over several levels,
a wine cellar and home theatre for $3330 a week.Vakrinos has just approved an occupant for 144
Danks Street in Albert Park, a swish four-bedroom, renovated Victorian. For $4500 a week, the tenant
will even get heated towel rails in the bathroom. EP

- - -
Maddocks Lawyers senior partner Guy O'Connor is quitting the prestigious pocket of Grace Park where,
in 2007, neighbours famously teamed to buy a former Hawthorn Football Club Social Club to avoid it
winding up in the hands of developers.

O'Connor's Victorian at 38 Chrystobel Crescent, Hawthorn, has four bedrooms, a study, gym, cellar and
pool. Abercromby's Rob Vickers-Willis and Andrew Harlock have the listing with Marshall White's Antony
Woodley and Hamish Tostevin. They expect $4 million-plus at auction on Saturday, October 25. MP

Shhh!

The tears have barely dried after The Block auctions last weekend but in Darling Street, South Yarra,
production on the next series rumbles on. Among the ongoing gossip from the Glasshouse series is that
one couple didn't have the property presentation skills of their DIY peers. A well-placed property
source who walked through the couple's apartment for an inspection whispers that takeaway food
wrappers and suitcases bursting with clothes were strewn around. EP

INSIDE STORY visits East Melbourne

A terrace in East Melbourne described as one of Mebourne's finest townhouses and designed by a
prominent architect is up for auction.

An East Melbourne terrace created as a family home by the architect who designed some of the city's
most noteworthy buildings has hit the market for the first time in 40 years.

John James Clark - prolific in the 19th century - was behind the Old Treasury building, the Royal Mint,
the Melbourne Baths, the Supreme Court and 104 Gipps Street.

His family home is described on the Australian Heritage database as one of Melbourne's finest
townhouses. It adds that rooms are enhanced by "detailing" and points out a distinctive balcony, with
unusual open-work columns, unique timber fretwork and balustrade panels.

The house offers three bedrooms, two bathrooms, a rear garden and a large basement. Sited at the
corner of Powlett Street, it captures natural light from two sides.

Page195of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Clark built 104 Gipps Street in 1869 - after his son was born - but sold it two years later, shortly after his
wife died.
Kay & Burton's Mark Williams and Sarah Case are quoting more than $2 million for 104 Gipps Street,
which goes to auction at 3pm on Saturday, October 25. MP

Peek through porthole

We hear everyone in Elwood knows the so-called porthole home. Now a house-hunter with an eye for
intriguing architecture could acquire one of the bayside suburb's most talked-about properties. The
timber finish of 103 Ormond Esplanade, which carries a price guide of $2.2 million-plus, is inspired by
the St Kilda pier and the home has sparkling ocean views. Architect Jesse Judd, of Judd Lysenko
Marshall Architects, designed the angular three-level home for his sister Jackie Judd, a Sandringham
GP. Torsten Kasper and Kylie Hill, of Chisolm & Gammon, are selling it under the hammer on October
25. EP

Zen feel by the beach
Hodges agents hope a renovated period home on a leafy Brighton street, quoted at $2.75 million,
presses the right points for a prospective buyer who loves glossy modern meets stately, period
flourishes. The vendor is a reflexologist to famous patients and has won awards for her work, so we
expect 3 Weatherly Grove to have a certain calm or zen. The four-bedroom home is pretty and peaceful,
with natural light flooding open plan and formal living areas and original features like ornate ceilings,
decorative lights and stained glass windows. Hodges' Simone Chin and Simon Enticott are handling the
private sale. EP

From glossy pages
A stately Brighton property that has been in the same family for 70 years will begin a new chapter when
it goes under the hammer this month. Built in 1912, 43 Bay Street is family size with five bedrooms. It
has appeared in glossy magazines, thanks to the work of the respected names attached to its
renovation, including interior designer Fiona Austin and landscape garden designer Mark Browning,
whose verdant creations have featured at the Melbourne International Flower Show. Marshall White's
Rob Strickland and Brian Devlin anticipates the landmark home will fetch above $3.4 million at auction
on October 23. EP

IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

irreal : Residential Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest :
Real Estate
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020141017eaai0006n

Page196of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.