Roundup: Singapore property giant buys landmark building in Sydney, preluding new binge on Aussie property By Christian Edwards

HD

Roundup: Singapore property giant buys landmark building in Sydney, preluding new binge on
Aussie property By Christian Edwards

WC 897 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

7 March 2014
PNA (Philippines News Agency)
PHILNA
English
(c) 2014 Philippines News Agency

TD

SYDNEY, March 7 -- One of Sydney's exemplar development sites was snapped up by a Singaporean
developer on Thursday, in a landmark sale that "significantly exceeded" previous estimates and has the
potential, according to industry insiders, to "ring like a starters pistol," for a new Sydney-bound property
investment plunge.
Minister for Finance and Services Andrew Constance Friday announced the sale of the blue-ribbon
Ausgrid building on George Street for 151.8 million Australian dollars.

"The building has been sold to Far East Organization after they won a competitive public tender that
received strong interest from both local and international investors," Constance said.
The sale will compliment two Park Street buildings snapped up last month overlooking Sydney's iconic
Hyde Park for 127 million Australian dollars.
Constance said the 151.8 million dollars generated from the sale of the Ausgrid building "significantly
exceeded its retention value."

The minister added the funds will be used to fund essential services and infrastructure across the state.
Founded by Singaporean billionaire Ng Teng Fong in the 1960s, the Far East Organization is the largest
private property developer in Singapore by a generous distance, having seeded more than 600
properties in Singapore.

The Asian leader is exactly the paradigm that Australian industry experts and officials have been hoping
to shift toward. It has two listed subsidiaries, Far East Orchard Limited and Yeo Hiap Seng Limited. It also
has a sister company, Sino Group, among the most prolific property developers in Hong Kong.

This week the state deputy premier and minister for trade and investment, Andrew Stoner, announced a
broad relaxation of investment migration requirements, streamlining two core business and retirement
visas to add to an alluring portfolio that includes the Significant Investor Visa (888) that is aimed at
investor with an appetite for Sydney's capital-hungry economy.

"By streamlining requirements for NSW nomination for these visa pathways we are giving potential
investors and entrepreneurs from overseas even greater confidence that NSW is open for business and
ready for business," Stoner told Xinhua.
Sydney remains a global-magnet for property-hungry investors, particularly from the big three -- the
United States, Switzerland and China.
Global investment bank Credit Suisse has forecast China alone will invest 44 billion Australian dollars
into Australian residential real estate over the next seven years.
Using data released last week by the Foreign Investment Review Board (FIRB), Department of
Immigration and Bureau of Statistics ( ABS), the bank puts Chinese residential property investment at
an estimated 5 billion Australian dollars per annum.

Page245of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The FIRB said that offshore buyers, rather than withdrawing from the Australian market, broke records in
purchasing 5.5 billion Australian dollars worth of established property last financial year, compared with
just 647 properties worth 810 million dollars in 2009-10.
However, the United States remains the largest foreign investor in Australia by far -- spending 20.6 billion
Australian dollars last year -- followed by the Swiss with 18.3 billion Australian dollars.
The Credit Suisse report estimates that Chinese investors and newly arrived immigrants have spent
about 24 billion Australian dollars on Australian property over the past seven years.

According to the minister, the Ausgrid building -- which has been an instantly recognizable part of
Sydney's architectural furniture for half a century -- has the potential to be converted into a hotel, retail
and residential complex, which, subject to planning approval, will support hundreds of jobs and fast-track
critical investment in Sydney's CBD.
"The sale of this asset again highlights that investors have full confidence in our economy as a key
destination for international investment."

According to Forbes magazine, The Ng brothers that now hold sway over Far East are worth over 12
billion Australian dollars.
The magazine has valued their private real estate holdings over 6.3 billion Australian dollars.
Following a binge on Australian real estate -- notable even during the run on Aussie property since the
global financial crisis -- Far East has injected close to 1 billion Australian dollars into the local
commercial property and hotel business since the beginning of 2013.

Constance said the NSW government is committed to ensuring government-owned office space is used
more effectively or relinquished.
"Recycling non-core government property assets continues to deliver results for the people of NSW. We
passionately believe that government-owned property assets must be put to best possible use," he said.
According to the State Office of Finance and Services, a "rigorous disposal process" for the Ausgrid sale
was undertaken by the NSW government, with the assistance of independent financial advisers, to ensure
"the best outcome for taxpayers."
"The NSW government's second tranche of asset sales is progressing well, and includes the sale of the
iconic Sandstone Buildings located on Bridge Street."
Earlier in the week, a Canberra-based director of Sunrise Property Group (SPG), Richard Grainger, told
Xinhua that Australian property was "just about on par with gold as a global safe-haven."

"It's an important signal for Sydney, a starters pistol. Where Far East go, the money follows." He added.
(US$ 1 equals 1.1 Australian dollars) (PNA/Xinhua)

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Philippines News Agency.

CT

NS

RE

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com
c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | singp : Singapore | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | seasiaz : Southeast Asia

PUB Philippines News Agency
AN

Document PHILNA0020140307ea370005o

Page246of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.