Starwood in Singapore tie-up

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CO
IN

NS
RE

Finance
Starwood in Singapore tie-up

BEN WILMOT
342 words
14 January 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
17
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

HOSPITALITY: Hotel operator Starwood Hotels & Resorts has struck a deal with Singapore-listed
real estate group Hiap Hoe to run two hotels at luxury properties it is developing in Melbourne that
are worth $700 million.
The pair have struck a deal under which the group's planned hotel in the Docklands will be run as
a Four Points and the hotel component of a project in Lonsdale Street will be run under the Aloft
brand.

At Pearl River Road in the Docklands, the Singaporean developer is planning a 17-storey tower with
more than 300 rooms and two residential towers, which will together contain 425 apartments.
The company has also set its sights on a hotel development at the Lonsdale Street site, where it
intends to build a 350-room hotel and 658 apartments.

CBRE advised Hiap Hoe on selecting a hotelier and agency director Mark Wizel noted the
continuing demand for development sites from Asian buyers. He said Hiap Hoe was a proven
developer abroad and its bold entry into the Melbourne development market would be rewarded.

Singapore and Malaysian developers dominated land acquisitions in the Melbourne CBD last year,
with many new entrants purchasing their first sites for development projects.

CBRE estimated developers from the two counties made up 69 per cent of international
transactions in the city last year and Chinese developers accounted for the balance, as properties
worth just over $688m changed hands.

Striking the deal steps up Starwood's presence in Melbourne, where it is set to open a Sheraton in
late March, marking the return of its iconic brand after nine years. That hotel in Collins Street is in a
31-storey building and will have 174 rooms.
Starwood declined to comment about the Hiap Hoe deal but it would be the first Aloft hotel in
Australia.

The hotelier has also been linked to a plan by developer Jinshan Investments to construct a
30-storey W Hotel in Bourke Street on the site of the Palace Theatre.

hotinv : Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc
i6651 : Hotels (except Casino)/Motels | i66 : Hotels/Restaurants | i665 : Lodgings | ilea :
Leisure/Arts/Hospitality | itourm : Tourism
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
singp : Singapore | austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia
Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | seasiaz : Southeast Asia

Page293of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140113ea1e00024

Page294of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.