Chinese cattle investors visit WA

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Chinese cattle investors visit WA

Brad Thompson
362 words
16 October 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
First
76
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

Chinese investors are circling prime farmland near Moora which carries environmental approval to
develop one of the State’s biggest cattle feedlots.
A delegation from Shanghai will inspect the 1400ha property this weekend as the State
Government tries to attract investment to boost cattle production.

The property, known as Killarney, was given a green light for the staged development of a
14,900-head feedlot in 2005.

It has the potential to reach 20,000 head based on the available land and licences to tap into
groundwater reserves.
Plans for the site, about 7km east of Moora, include an abattoir. It is close to Brand Highway and
positioned to supply live cattle or boxed beef for export from Fremantle and Geraldton.
The Shire of Moora will host a civic reception for the Chinese delegation on Sunday after the
Department of State Development and the Department of Regional Development helped organise
the WA visit.

The DRD believes there are multiple sites with feedlot potential in the region but no others with
detailed development plans, environmental pre-approval and water licences.
Shanghai CRED Real Estate president Guojie Gui, whose company’s recent purchases include a
golf resort and vineyard in New Zealand, is leading the Chinese delegation.
Killarney is owned by Jetway Holdings, a company controlled by Perth lawyer Tony McCarthy.

Under the original plans, Harvey Beef was set to operate the feedlot to prepare cattle from WA’s
north for processing at its abattoir in the South-West.
The Chinese interest comes as new Harvey Beef owner Andrew Forrest grapples with ways to
satisfy growing demand in Asia.

The WA billionaire wrote to producers this month and asked them to email him suggestions.

“Increasing the number and weight of head produced within agreed specifications is the key that we
believe will unlock increased profitability for all industry participants,” he said.

“We know there are challenges, so please share those with us along with your ideas to overcome
them.”

Mr Forrest said he and wife Nicola saw a “once-in-a-generation opportunity that can be claimed for
WA by coming up with some new solutions”.

Page74of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

i412 : Animal Slaughtering/Processing | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods |
ifood : Food Products
greg : Regional Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol :
Domestic Politics
china : China | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020141015eaag0002b

Page75of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.