Lovisa's glittering choices

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Lovisa's glittering choices

Sue Mitchell
685 words
5 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
21
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Investment dressing is a dirty word at fast-fashion jewellery chain Lovisa, part of Brett Blundy's
BB Retail Capital.
The average purchase is just $20 and prices range from $6.99 for a peach-coloured plastic ring to
$49.99 for a Derby-Day fascinator, "antique" earrings or "simulant" diamond necklaces.

"Typically our customers are buying our jewellery to wear for an occasion in the next seven to 10
days and they'll wear it once or twice and it will end up in their side table drawer, never to be seen
again," said Lovisa founder and chief executive Shane Fallscheer. "Hence why we turn products over
– it's buy now, wear now and move on."

Founded in 2010, when Mr Fallscheer spotted a gap in the market for fashion-forward jewellery at an
affordable price, Lovisa has seen sales grow by more than 40 per cent a year over three years to
more than $100 million, and earnings have doubled in the last two years to more than $16 million.
Melbourne-based Lovisa has embraced the fast-fashion model perfected by global retailers H&M,
Zara and TopShop. An in-house design team scours runways and fashion shows for the latest
trends, products are made to order by suppliers in China, India and Thailand and delivered to stores
or distribution centres within six to 10 weeks.
Lovisa's compact 50 sq m stores carry 2500 units, ranging from hair accessories, rings, bracelets,
necklaces and fascinators to this year's big trend – the '70s-style choker.

About 100 new designs arrive every week, refreshing the range and fuelling a constant stream of foot
traffic.

"Traditionally fashion jewellery has been sold in apparel retail as a limited offering [alongside] fashion
and accessories," said 45- year-old Mr Fallscheer, who started working with Mr Blundy 25 years ago
at Sanity Music. He has run BB Retail's Sanity and Diva chains after a brief stint with Rip Curl in the
US.

"The thing that sets us aside from [others] is that we just do jewellery," he said. "Our goal from the
outset was to focus on the customer who was looking at a limited offer at department stores . . . they
can walk 10 doors down to Lovisa and have a choice of 2500 pieces."

Lovisa's fully vertically integrated operating model underpins gross margins as high as 75 per cent –
almost double those at Myer and well above margins of 63 per cent at accessories retailer Oroton.
Direct sourcing enables Lovisa to keep costs low and the company does no mainstream advertising,
relying instead on social media and direct marketing. BB Retail is now considering selling Lovisa
through a trade sale or IPO, taking advantage of a small window of opportunity before the IPO
market starts to wind down ahead of Christmas.

Page133of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.BB Retail appointed Morgans and CIMB last month to run a dual-track process, but Mr Fallscheer
says no decision has been made.
Based on forecast earnings between $18 million and $20 million, Lovisa could be worth between
$175 million and $240 million. Mr Blundy tried to sell Bras N Things through an IPO in 2011 but the
float was pulled.

Mr Fallscheer says Lovisa's Australian market is largely mature but there is plenty of growth
overseas in Asia, the Middle East, the US and the UK.
"Our goal is to open at least one new company-owned territory a year," he said.

After opening the first stores in Australia and New Zealand in 2010, Lovisa expanded into South
Africa in 2011, Asia in 2012 and the Middle East in 2013. It now has 220 stores in eight countries,
including Kuwait and Saudi Arabia.
The next market on Mr Fallscheer's radar is Hong Kong,where Lovisa is in talks with landlords to
open about 15 stores.

Another dozen will open in Singapore and Malaysia. "The model we've built works in all international
markets – all international markets are profitable and we've proven we can cross borders with our
offer," Mr Fallscheer said.

bbrtcp : BB Retail Capital Pty Ltd | inglop : Lovisa Pty Ltd
i491 : Jewelry/Silverware | icnp : Consumer Goods | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i654 : Specialty Stores |
i6540028 : Jewelry Stores | iretail : Retail
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141104eab50000o

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

Page134of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.