Chinese line up new tilt for Yancoal

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Chinese line up new tilt for Yancoal

Sarah-Jane Tasker, Resources
625 words
11 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
19
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

CHINESE giant Yanzhou could finally succeed in its aim to take full control of its Australian interest,
Yancoal, under a $US2.3 billion ($2.65bn) debt deal that looks set to dilute the minority shareholders
of the coalminer.

Just under 10 months after Yanzhou abandoned its full takeover bid for Yancoal, the 78 per cent
shareholder has agreed to take on $US1.8bn of the subordinated capital note offer — the largest note
offer in Australian corporate history — to repay a loan to itself.

Yancoal, Australia’s largest independent coalminer, said the funds raised through the notes would be
used to repay existing debt and to fund operations as well as future growth.

As well as committing to subscribe for its full entitlements in the offer, Yanzhou will also provide up to
$1.4bn in additional financial support.

“There are multiple factors here that drive something like this, but the fundamental issue is working
towards preparing our balance sheet, so it gives us the capacity to secure funding for our future
growth,” Yancoal chief executive Reinhold Schmidt said.

“It demonstrates Yanzhou’s continued commitment to invest in Australia and the local industry ... and
make sure we can ride the storm and get through really challenging market conditions.” The debt issue
comes at a time when the coal sector is deeply out of favour among investors, with prices for both
thermal and coking coal falling on softer demand from China.
Shares in the company plunged on the announcement, closing 27 per cent lower at 16c. This time last
year the share price was sitting around 70c.

The offer is likely to anger 13.8 per cent shareholder Noble Group, which also has a marketing
agreement with the miner. The Australian understands that Hong Kong-based Noble was unaware of
the offer until it was released to the market yesterday morning.

The commodities trader declined to comment until it saw the full details of the offer.

Under the offer, open to all shareholders, Yancoal will issue 2.32112 subordinated capital notes for
every 100 Yancoal shares held. The notes will be treated as equity.

If the minority shareholders shun the offer, Yanzhou could increase its holding to around 89.5 per cent
of Yancoal.
Mr Schmidt would not comment on the suggestion that the offer was a backdoor way for the Chinese
parent to creep up Yancoal’s share register.

“From an organisation point of view we see this as the best deal possible for us,” he said.

Page182of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“The independent board committee was tasked to consider many options and this one is the most
appropriate at this stage. We are yet to hear back from the minority interests. It’s in the best interest of
all our shareholders and I cannot speculate what they will do, they have only seen it, so we need to
give them time to consider it.” Yanzhou had approached Yancoal with an indicative, non-binding
takeover proposal in July 2013, but walked away from that in March this year, after Joe Hockey had
relaxed foreign investment review board rules linked to previous takeovers by the Chinese company.

Yanzhou had beefed up its Australian interests by effectively spending more than $5.5bn buying Felix
Resources in 2009 and Gloucester Coal in 2012 to form Yancoal — one of the biggest publicly listed
pure-play coal producers in the country.
With the Chinese giant’s attempt to potentially dilute the minority shareholders out of the company
with yesterday’s offer, Mr Schmidt said they were taking a long-term view on the coal market, which
had been suffering from tough market conditions.“We all understand the commodity business is a
cyclical one,” he said.

yaptyl : Yancoal Australia Limited | yankua : Yankuang (Group) Corp | ynzmn : Yanzhou Coal Mining
Co Ltd
i111 : Coal Mining | i1 : Energy | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i112 :
Coal Mining Support Activities
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141110eabb0002a

CO

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page183of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.