‘Phenomenal’ growth for uranium

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

WestReg
‘Phenomenal’ growth for uranium

Jarrod Lucas
454 words
6 May 2014
Kalgoorlie Miner
KALGOO
First
5
English
(c) 2014 West Australian Newspapers Limited

Energy and Minerals Australia boss Mike Young has predicted “phenomenal” growth for uranium
markets after wiping out the company’s debt yesterday through a $A36.5 million restructure.
The injection included $12 million from iron ore billionaire Andrew Forrest, who moved to acquire
a 27 per cent stake in EMA through Forrest Family Investments.

The EMA deal comes just days after Mr Forrest snapped up WA’s biggest beef exporter, Harvey
Beef, in a deal estimated to be worth more than $45 million. EMA has also convinced Macquarie,
Acorn Capital and Element Resources Fund to convert their $24.5 million worth of debt into shares.
Mr Young, the BC Iron founder who negotiated a lucrative joint venture with Mr Forrest’s Fortescue
Metals Group, has hit the ground running since taking over as EMA managing director in February.
He said the transactions would unlock the potential of EMA’s Mulga Rock uranium project, 240km
north-east of Kalgoorlie-Boulder, one of Australia’s largest undeveloped uranium resources.
“EMA is now set up to move the Mulga Rock project forward to meet uranium demand, which is
expected to grow at a phenomenal rate in coming years,” Mr Young said.

The deal with Mr Forrest is subject to EMA shareholder approval, and an extraordinary general
meeting is expected in early July.

“My investment is a strong vote of confidence in the executive management team of Mike Young
and Julian Tapp with whom I have had a long and successful working relationship,” Mr Forrest said
in a statement.

Mr Young said EMA was focused on completing the Mulga Rock feasibility study, and achieving its
target of production by the end of 2016.
That timeline could put it in a race with Toro Energy to become WA’s first uranium miner after a
ban on uranium mining was overturned by the Barnett Government in 2008.
The Goldfields is already home to WA’s most advanced uranium project, with Toro putting a $315.6
million price tag on its Wiluna project in January.
But both companies would need a significant boost in the uranium spot price, which averaged
about $US38 a pound last year, according to figures from the Bureau of Resources and Energy
Economics.
The market is projected to tighten due to rapid growth in China’s nuclear power industry, the end of
the US-Russian Highly Enriched Uranium program and delays in major uranium projects
worldwide.

Page155of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.With about 70 new reactors under construction around the world and with more planned, nuclear
power production capacity is projected to increase by about 20 per cent over the next six years.
BREE forecasts the uranium spot price will be $63/lb by 2019.

emaltd : Energy and Minerals Australia Limited
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | iuran : Uranium Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document KALGOO0020140505ea560000i

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

Page156of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.