Catching the takeover fever

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Wealth
Catching the takeover fever

James Kirby
734 words
10 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
28
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

The federal budget may distract for the few next days but very soon Joe Hockey is going to face a
wave of key foreign takeover decisions. In the past fortnight, two major takeover bids have landed in
our market and it is likely this burst of activity is just the beginning — takeover fever is upon us.

We might have seen it coming by simply looking overseas. Two of the biggest US takeover bids ever
seen for European assets are in play just now: a $US100 billion ($107bn) “big pharma” bid from Pfizer
for AstraZeneca and a very contentious $14bn bid by GE Electric for engineering groupAlstom of
France.

What has spurred the American move on Europe is the very same imperative that has Asia-based
companies now moving in dramatic fashion on ASX-listed companies: low financing costs, strong
company earnings and improved confidence.
Those factors underpin the bid by Wilmar of Singapore for consumer staples groupGoodman Fielder
and the same goes for Hong Kong-based Cheung Kong’s surprise late entry into the battle for local
pipeline operator Envestra.

The other ingredient that might just have lit the fuse in our market is the decline of our dollar, which
seems to be hovering for an extended period of time in the low US90c range, compared with hitting
$US1.10 this time three years ago.

These two latest substantial deals come hard on the heels of Woolworths of South Africa’s takeover of
David Jones and the one that got away … the attempt by Archer Daniels Midland of the US to buy
grain company GrainCorp, which was rejected by the Treasurer.

GrainCorp was not a widely held stock and the controversy surrounding Hockey’s rejection of the bid
was muted. But sooner or later we are going to get a foreign bid for a stock that has millions rather
than thousands of shareholders and the road will not be easy.

Away from politics, the blitz of takeover activity should mean improved prices for a range of top stocks
on the ASX, with some powerful share price action where bids are contested. We are seeing this now
happening at Envestra, which already had a suitor in locally based APA, while we had a spectacular
example earlier in the year when Warrnambool Cheese & Butter’s stock price tripled in roughly 12
months as interests from Canada, Japan and New Zealand all played a role in delivering a bonanza for
shareholders in the Victorian food group.

As well, foreign predator activity provokes domestic initiative. We’re seeing the positive development of
Australian stocks stepping up to lead global syndicates in local takeovers.
Needless to say investors should not buy stocks simply in the hope they will be a takeover target.
Rather, they should seek out companies that are good value and offer a reasonable prospect of price
improvement … and the tasty prospect of a takeover bid can be icing on the cake.

Page165of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Just now there are dozens of companies that would fit the bill, but here are three that match our criteria
particularly well.
• Treasury Wines: The hapless spin-off from the old Foster’s group has made one mistake after
another. But now it has a new CEO, Michael Clarke, and a new plan — it also has rumours that a
global drinks giant is circling — in fact it was recently forced to deny it was in negotiations with Pernod
Ricard of France.
• Bega Cheese: Fonterra of New Zealand, Kirin of Japan and Saputo of Japan were all in the frame in
the recent hotly contested bid for WBC. These groups in some combination may sooner of later take a
tilt at the well-run Bega.

• Mortgage Choice: Tom Elliott, who runs a takeovers-based fund at Beulah Capital recently named this
financial services stocks in Eureka Report as a target and it caught many investors by surprise. But
again the stock is an attractive company on a stand-alone basis yet it has the attraction of being within
the highly regarded and tightly held listed financial services sector. It also has Commonwealth Bank as
a significant shareholder and the bank may move on its partly held asset in the same way that Cheung
Kong, a key stakeholder in Envestra, has now moved to take over the pipeline operator.

James Kirby is managing editor of Eureka Report.

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

fdgl : Goodman Fielder Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140509ea5a00070

Page166of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.