DAIRY INDUSTRIES PERSIST TO INCREASE, NEW PROCESSING PLANT IN BERRY

HD DAIRY INDUSTRIES PERSIST TO INCREASE, NEW PROCESSING PLANT IN BERRY
WC 522 words
PD 28 November 2014
SN Australian Government News
SC HTAUGN
LA
CY Copyright 2014. HT Media Limited. All rights reserved.
LP

English

CANBERRA, ACT, Nov. 28 -- Minister for Agriculture Barnaby Joyce issued the following press release:

Dairy industries in Australia continue to expand, with news today that the Berry Rural Cooperative has
started building their new processing plant in Berry, New South Wales. Minister for Agriculture, Barnaby
Joyce, was in Berry with Member for Gilmore, Ann Sudmalis, to 'turn the first sod' and celebrate the bright
future of the Berry Rural Cooperative, trading as South Coast Dairy. "I congratulate Berry Rural
Cooperative on its work to establish the new plant; the plant will be able to process 18,000 litres per day,
increasing its production capacity and therefore driving more demand for locally produced milk," Minister
Joyce said. "Here on the South Coast, the Berry Rural Cooperative is focused on delivering real benefits
to local producers-of course it's about profitability, but it's also about supporting members, and in turn the
community. "Of course, the future is looking brighter not just on the South coast, but for the dairy industry
right across Australia. The Coalition Government has made trade and market access a major priority in
order to grow and strengthen our primary industries and deliver better farmgate returns to producers. "The
recently concluded China Australia Free Trade Agreement, which eliminates all tariffs on Australian dairy
exports to China means our industry will be better able to capture future growth in this burgeoning market.
Demand for dairy products in China is projected to rise 74 per cent by 2050 according to ABARES. "The
historic China Australia FTA - China's first with a major advanced economy - is one more reason that
Australian dairy has a firm foundation on which to plan and invest for a profitable future. "Dairy is an
important agricultural industry in Australia; there are over 6,300 dairy farmers across Australia and it's
estimated that the average Australian drinks 106 litres of milk per year. "As a supporter of the cooperative
model, it is so great to see Berry Rural Cooperative have the confidence to make this investment - an
investment that will support local producers and so many others that rely on the local dairy sector."
Federal Member for Gilmore Ann Sudmalis said that the sod turning of the new Berry plant represented a
new chapter in agriculture on the South Coast of NSW. "Gilmore has always been a great dairy producing
region, but over the past few years many of our local dairy farmers have been doing it tough," Mrs
Sudmalis said. "Today's sod turning marks a new agricultural chapter for the South Coast, as once
completed, we will be producing up to 18,000 litres of local fresh, high quality milk for sale both at home
and abroad every day. "I'm especially pleased that Minister for Agriculture Barnaby Joyce was able to join
us at this important milestone, expressing the Coalition Government's strong confidence in the continued
production of dairy products in Gilmore."

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com
i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy Products | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
austr : Australia | auscap : Australian Capital Territory | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

TD

CT

IN

RE
PUB HT Media Limited
AN Document HTAUGN0020141128eabs001gt

Page25of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.