Bruny locals halt project

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Bruny locals halt project

DAVID BENIUK
395 words
21 September 2014
Hobart Mercury
MRCURY
Hobart
5
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved

PROTESTS by residents on Bruny Island have resulted in construction work being halted on one of
several properties recently bought by overseas developers.
Work on a 31ha property at Simpsons Bay was stopped after complaints by several locals to
Kingborough Council.

The Sunday Tasmanian has been told gravel for a private road was being carted on to the site,
known locally as The Bog, because it is close to sea level.
It is believed a 4200sq m building has been designed for the site, with speculation it will be an
exclusive retreat for wealthy Chinese tourists. A planning application is not currently advertised on
the council’s website.

“Council has received a number of complaints into this matter and is investigating,” a spokesman
said.
“Work at the site has currently stopped and the matter is being discussed with the owner’s
representatives.” The property is owned by a company called Glory Cloudy Bay Pty Ltd, which
bought it for $300,000 in March.
It is believed the project has backing from a Chinese developer, with four other properties on the
island also attracting interest from Asia.
They include a cherry farm near the ferry terminal that sold for about $7 million several years ago
and another 120ha property nearby which sold for $1.1 million.
The owner of one of those properties, a company called Ocean Lennonville Pty Ltd,is proposing a
new jetty at Alexander Bay.

It has resubmitted plans to council to “allay community concerns”, reducing the jetty’s size by 15m.

Its new submission says the owner’s 47m boat, which was to use the jetty, will be replaced by an
Australian-flagged 30m vessel.
The submission states a seaplane may also be used to access the property “three to four times a
year”.
Locals believe the Morella Island Retreats at Adventure Bay and an adjacent property could also be
targets amid speculation a hotel development is being considered.
Also, Pennicott Wilderness Journeys has flagged the redevelopment of a former caravan park site
on the island.

Page167of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Simpsons Bay property is close to the Tasmanian Land Conservancy’s Lutregala Marsh
reserve, considered an important example of coastal saltmarsh and saline grassland.The reserve is
home to 12 different vegetation communities and waterbirds, with locals raising concerns about the
possible impact on the wetland environment.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
tasman : Tasmania | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
News Ltd.
Document MRCURY0020140920ea9l0001n

Page168of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.