The buyer: Matthew Xu

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Perspective
The buyer: Matthew Xu

Samantha Hutchinson
435 words
25 January 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
19
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Chinese-born Australian resident Matthew Xu (pictured above) was one of the hoards who snapped
up apartments in Chinese developer Greenland's residential tower midway through construction on
the site of the former NSW Water Board headquarters in Sydney's CBD.
An accounting graduate from Xi'an in China's north-east and now studying towards his CFA (Charter
Financial Analyst) exams, Xu paid around $1.05 million for a two-bedroom apartment in what is
slated to become Sydney's tallest residential tower.

It is his fifth investment property.

Xu arrived in Australia in 2009 after an aunt in Sydney suggested he try out for a Masters of Finance
at the University of New South Wales. He arrived on a student visa but quickly found the combination
of fresh air, green open space and range of great job opportunities was a compelling proposition to
make a life in Australia.Better value to buy
He became a permanent resident and embarked on his first property purchase as soon as he could
to avoid paying what he found exorbitant rents.
"It was so expensive . . . I realised it would be better value to buy as soon as I could," he says. He
now owns apartments in Little Bay, Macquarie Fields, Burwood and Rhodes in addition to the recent
purchase in Sydney's CBD.

Xu has bought some of the apartments on his own. Other apartments, including the one in the city,
were funded with help from his parents, who run an agricultural business in China and invest in
equities. They are happy to invest in Australian property, he says, because it's is a much more
secure investment than property in China.
"Property prices have gone up so much in China and a lot of people think there is a bubble," he
says. "I think it's actually safer to invest here and I can get a good return."
Affordability is also an issue, Xu says, adding that an apartment in Beijing equivalent to his central
Sydney flat would cost around $2 million.

"The prices are too high," he says of Beijing. "And people are scared in a few years the prices will go
down a lot." A lower Australian dollar has also made investment more attractive.

His parents are unlikely to ever move to Australia but now that he's married and working as an
accountant, he's here to stay.
"It's a beautiful country here, and the environment is so much better. China has really bad air quality
and terrible pollution. It makes a big difference."SH

CO

unswau : The University of New South Wales

Page218of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

i5010022 : Residential Building Construction | i501 : Building Construction | iconst : Construction |
icre : Real Estate/Construction
nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E
Executive News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140124ea1p0001p

Page219of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.