Asian property transactions to Sept. 19

Anusha Iyer

SE
HD
BY
WC 992 words
PD
SN
SC
VOL Issue: 82255
LA
CY
LP

Exclusive
Asian property transactions to Sept. 19

22 September 2014
SNL Real Estate Daily: Asia-Pacific Edition
REAP

English
Copyright 2014. SNL Financial LC

TD

Australia
* Charter Hall Group is launching a new fund with the capacity to hold properties worth A$250 million,
The Australian reported Sept. 18. The fund, which will be seeded with A$49.2 million worth of assets, has
plans to raise A$49.8 million to acquire its first two property assets for about A$88 million, the publication
noted.

The fund is looking to buy a 24% interest in Edinburgh Parks Industrial Estate in Adelaide and a 25%
stake in Coles Distribution Centre in Perth. Coles Group fully occupies both properties. The combined
initial portfolio has a weighted average lease expiry of more than 13 years, according to the report.
* DEXUS Property Groupsold the Powercor building at 40 Market St. in Melbourne's central business
district for around A$105 million, The Australian Financial Review reported Sept. 18.

MTAA Super bought the grade B building.
* Abacus Property Group and its partner Heitman are off-loading a grade A office building, Wharf 10, at
Pyrmont in Sydney, for more than A$40 million, the AFR reported Sept. 16.
The 4,346-square-meter building houses global shipping company, Hapag Lloyd .

Singapore

* Keppel REIT 's manager said Sept. 18 that it agreed to acquire a one-third stake in Marina Bay Financial
Centre Tower 3 in Singapore for a price that values the property at S$1.25 billion, or S$2,790 per square
foot.

Keppel Land Ltd . is divesting the stake in the 46-story tower through subsidiary Bayfront Development
Pte. Ltd.

The grade A office tower is jointly owned by Keppel Land , Hongkong Land Holdings Ltd . and DBS
Group and comprises more than 1.34 million square feet of net lettable area. It is 94% occupied by
tenants such as DBS Bank, WongPartnership, Rio Tinto , McGraw-Hill , Booking.com, Mead Johnson and
Lego.

Both Keppel Land and Keppel REIT went into a trading halt before the announcement of the deal.

Keppel Land owns a 44.93% effective interest in Keppel REIT .

* Cambridge Industrial Trust 's manager, Cambridge Industrial Trust Management Ltd., said Sept. 12 that
it completed the acquisition of 12 Ang Mo Kio St. 65.
Hong Kong

* Twenty-three developers expressed interest in MTR Corp. Ltd .'s Tai Wai Station residential project, the
South China Morning Post reported Sept. 16.

Page74of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The project received 15 expressions of interest when it was released for the first time two years ago. This
time around, interests have come from developers such as Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd ., New World
Development Co. Ltd ., Nan Fung Development , Kerry Properties Ltd . and Wheelock Properties, as well
as China Vanke Co. Ltd .

Emperor International , Lai Sun Development Co. Ltd ., Kowloon Development Co. Ltd ., CSI Properties
Ltd ., Asia Standard International Group Ltd . and Link Real Estate Investment Trust have also submitted
expressions of interest.

Total investment, including land premium, construction and interest, is expected to be about HK$20
billion, according to surveyors.

Thailand
* Mitsui Fudosan Co. Ltd . and Mitsui Fudosan Residential Co. Ltd. said Sept. 16 that they decided to
invest in two high-rise condominium projects in central Bangkok.

The companies will invest through their joint venture Mitsui Fudosan Asia Pte. Ltd.

Mitsui Fudosan Asia is collaborating with Ananda Development Public Co. Ltd. for the projects, which are
the Ashton Asoke located in Asok and the Ideo Q Siam-Ratchathewi located in Ratchathewi.

Mitsui Fudosan Asia will inject 2.5 billion Thai baht into condo projects in 2015, including the Ashton
Asoke and Ideo Q Siam-Ratchathewi, the Bangkok Post reported Sept. 16.

Philippines

* Manila-based Megaworld Corp . said Sept. 16 that its unit, Suntrust Properties Inc., will spend 5 billion
Philippine pesos to venture into industrial park development with the building of a mixed-use industrial
complex.

Indonesia

* Singapore's Lippo Malls Indonesia Retail Trust said Sept. 15 that it agreed to acquire the Lippo Mall
Kemang shopping center in south Jakarta, for S$385.7 million.

The shopping mall comprises a gross floor area of 150,932 square meters, a net lettable area of 59,377
square meters, 2,326 car park lots and 1,311 motorcycle lots.

As of April 30, it has four anchor tenants, including Debenhams , Hypermart, Cinema XXI and ACE
Hardware . It also has 14 large tenants and 182 specialty tenants.
China

* Sino-Ocean Land Holdings said Sept. 15 that its unit, Beijing Yuandong Xindi Property Ltd., on June 23
agreed to acquire a 20% equity stake in Zhongshan Yuanjian Real Estate Development Co. Ltd. from
Daxin Real Estate, for 72.5 million Chinese yuan. Upon completion, the unit held 100% of the equity
interest in Zhongshan Yuanjian, which became an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of the company.
On Sept. 15, the company inked a Daxin cooperation agreement to buy a 51% equity interest in
Zhongshan Daxin Caihong Homes Real Estate Development Co. Ltd. held by Zhongshan City Realty
Ltd., for 10.2 million yuan.
Zhongshan Daxin and Zhongshan Yuanjian hold two residential and commercial property
developments, namely the Ocean New Era project in San Sha Village, Zhongshan City, and the Caihong
Project in Zhongshan City West.
* COFCO Land Holdings Ltd . said Sept. 12 that it agreed to buy companies primarily engaged in the
development, operation, sale, leasing and management of mixed-use complexes under the Joy City
brand for a total consideration of HK$12.46 billion.

The sellers are COFCO Land Ltd. and Sheen Jade Ltd. The Joy City brand has a portfolio of six
mixed-use complex property projects in Beijing, Shanghai, Tianjin, Yantai and Shenyang.

Upon completion of the acquisition, each of the target companies will become a wholly owned subsidiary
of COFCO Land Holdings.

Japan

Page75of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.* Hulic Co. Ltd . said Sept. 12 that it bought the Toyosu Senior Residence mixed-use facility in Koto-ku,
Tokyo. The property comprises a total floor area of 29,604.55 square meters.

Some links may require a subscription.

CO abap : Abacus Property Group | chhaus : Charter Hall Group | dbrrrt : Dexus
IN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150206
: Closed-end Funds/Investment Trusts | i815020602 : Real Estate Investment Trusts | ifinal : Financial
Services | iindreit : Industrial/Office REITs | iinv : Investing/Securities
c22 : New Products/Services | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | guang : Guangdong | thail : Thailand | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | china : China | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | seasiaz : Southeast Asia

NS

RE

IPD Real Estate Property Transactions & Development
PUB SNL Financial LC
AN

Document REAP000020140925ea9m00002

Page76of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.