Tinkler lowers shield

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Tinkler lowers shield

IAN KIRKWOOD
760 words
23 June 2014
The Newcastle Herald
NEHR
First
10
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

opinion OUR SAY

THE back page of Saturday's Newcastle Herald featured a Robert Dillon story on the Newcastle Jets,
generated by an interview with Nathan Tinkler in the UK's Financial Times.

Given that face-to-face Tinkler interviews are rarer than hen's teeth, I thought I'd have a look at what the
former "pit leco" had to say about things. Written by the FT's Singapore senior editor Jeremy Grant and
its Australian correspondent Jamie Smyth, there's a photo of the smiling subject, posed in front of a map
of the world and wearing a blue open-necked shirt and a dark suit coat - one of the many, perhaps, that
he'd ordered over the years from Newcastle's Rundles.

The article opens: "Nathan Tinkler's boardroom has a commanding view across Singapore - one that,
on the face of it, denotes success and corporate power. The offices are on the 51st floor of a tower
owned by United Overseas Bank, one of Singapore's biggest. A few minutes' walk away are the local
headquarters of other big names in Asian finance. But for this one-time star of the Australian rich lists,
life of late has been less gilded than the workplace trappings suggest."

While chronicling the well-trodden tale of Tinkler's rise and fall, the article covers Tinkler's recent
purchase of Wilkie Creek, a steaming coal mine on the Darling Downs that was shut last year by its
seller, US company Peabody.
Peabody said the price was $70 million in cash, with Tinkler to take over its take-or-pay rail contracts
and other liabilities.
Tinkler announced the deal as a $150 million sale, but as journalist and author Paddy Manning - author
of Boganaire - put it recently in Crikey, Tinkler usually cut his deals by "putting down small deposits . . .
in staged deals that give him time to scrape together the rest of the equity".
The FT says: "[Tinkler's] thesis - with which many analysts agree - is that, with thermal coal prices
having halved in three years, now is the time to invest in extraction of the commodity, in anticipation of
increasing demand in China for lower-emission fuels such as cleaner burning thermal coal."
Tinkler also expects India to want more coal as it ramps up investments in road and rail.

"The long-term believers in the cycle, I think, are starting to move now," Tinkler says.
"China's now got power stations built and has built an amazing amount of infrastructure over the last 10
years."

Tinkler says much of his previous backing came from Singapore, which has "a huge investor base".

"I've never raised a dollar, really, out of Australia. I wore out a lot of shoe leather in places like Sydney
and Melbourne trying to get things funded."

Page93of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.A "close associate" of Tinkler defends him against his critics: "His unwillingness to put a veneer over
who he is a weakness. He's a classic price arbitrageur, a 'barrow boy', but he can still pick up the phone
to anyone big in the mining sector and they will talk."

Showing uncharacteristic modesty, Tinkler says: "I still don't think I've learnt to find my way around the
financial world. It's something I still probably struggle with today. Like I said, I'm probably short on detail;
big on ideas and short on detail."

On "sections of the Australian media that have documented his rise and fall", Tinkler says: "I have a low
tolerance for fools. They're fundamentally against mining, they're fundamentally against resources and
they're fundamentally against anything that's not socialist."

The FT says Tinkler lives on Sentosa, a Singaporean "haven for the ultra-wealthy", although his
four-bedroom house is a rental. He pays a team of "a dozen or so guys" in Brisbane to "help evaluate
opportunities".

A single reader's comment, from "Galena", refers to Tinkler's "low tolerance for fools".

"The fool knows after he has suffered - Hesiod," Galena says. Hesiod (circa 750BC) was a Greek poet
sometimes called "the first economist". The quote is from Works and Days, in which Hesiod lectures his
"less than responsible" brother, Perses, to stay away from violence, which was bad for poor and
prosperous alike: "For justice beats outrage when she comes at length to the end of the race." Sounds
like "Galena" - an ore of lead and a source of silver, as it happens - has put some thought into that
quote.

CO
IN
RE

PUB
AN

uob : United Overseas Bank Limited
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
austr : Australia | singp : Singapore | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document NEHR000020140623ea6n0000e

Page94of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.