Boom year for M &As in 2014

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Boom year for M&As in 2014

Sally Patten and Joyce Moullakis
596 words
28 January 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
17
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Surging share prices and a rise in business and consumer confidence are expected to lead to a sharp
increase in global mergers and acquisitions this year.
Analysis of early-stage deals by transaction software firm Intralinks suggests that globally the number
of mergers will rise between 10 per cent and 17 per cent in the first six months of 2014, led by deals in
the property, telecommunications and energy sectors.

Intralinks' forecast is in line with an earlier prediction by investment bank JPMorgan, which said it
expected the value of mergers in 2014 would rise 10 per cent.

The forecasts will be welcomed by investment bankers who have suffered a drought of deals in the
past 2 years.
"We are reasonably confident that 2013 will prove to be the bottom for M&A deal volumes and that
2014 will be the year of recovery for M&A markets both globally and especially in Europe, Middle East
and Africa, North America and Asia Pacific," said Philip Whitchelo, Intralinks president of strategy and
product marketing.
Australia bucked the global trend last year. Figures from research firm Dealogic show that announced
deals involving Australian targets rose to $US86 billion in 2013, reflecting 1393 transactions, up from
1584 deals worth $US78 billion in 2012.

Local bankers are also optimistic that 2014 will be better.

"There are good reasons to think momentum will continue to build in 2014," a senior Australian
banker, who declined to be named, said.
"Our M&A pipeline is much stronger than it was 12 months ago, both in terms of deals already
announced and deals that will be announced in the first quarter if things fall into place."

In Australia, Mr Whitchelo said he expected mergers among real estate investment trusts would
continue following the recent takeover of Commonwealth Property Office Fund, which has $4 billion
of office buildings across Australia, by DEXUS and the Canada Pension Plan Investment
Board.What's the dollar got to do with it?
By contrast, the Intralinks executive predicted deals in the metals and mining sectors would slow due
to falling demand for commodities from China. The value of acquisitions of Australian companies by
offshore entities fell 18 per cent last year, suggesting that this trend had already begun. Mr Whitchelo
dismissed suggestions that the decline in the value of the Australian dollar would crimp local
companies' appetite for offshore acquisitions.

Page142of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."Foreign currency doesn't play a large part in transactions. Currencies go up and down all the time
and they can be hedged. Companies will go where they think there will be demand for products and
services and where there are attractive assets," said Mr Whitchelo.

Bankers in Australia expect infrastructure will also prove a ripe area for deals locally as the federal
and state governments sell assets to raise money for new projects.
An Intralinks survey of nearly 2000 global merger and acquisition specialists found that 64 per cent
were "optimistic" about the prospects for 2014.Nearly three-quarters said they expected merger
activity to increase over the next six months. Respondents were least optimistic about the outlook for
deal flow in Latin America.

Intralinks argued that renewed interest in the telecoms sector would be driven by deregulation. Activity
is expected to be particularly strong in Europe.
Energy and power sector deals were being driven by high levels of foreign direct investment from
developing economies, such as India and China, as these countries sought to secure global energy
supplies.

NS

RE
PUB
AN

c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140127ea1s00030

Page143of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.