Asian developer plans $400m block

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PrimeSpace
Asian developer plans $400m block

SARAH DANCKERT, APARTMENTS
356 words
11 December 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
27
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

CHINA’S Eastern International, backed by one of Indonesia’s richest men, has filed ambitious plans for
a soaring apartment tower on City Road in Southbank that will have an end value of $400 million.
The application comes amid a wave of developers from China, Malaysia and Singapore setting up
shop in Melbourne.

It will also be one of the many applications awaiting approval that will be decided on by the new state
Labor government’s Planning Minister, Richard Wynne.
Eastern International is a joint venture between prominent Chinese-born media entrepreneur Zhao
Qing Jiang and the Cayman Islands arm of Hong Kong’s $9 billion group First Pacific Finance,
according to company documents filed with the Australian Securities & Investments Commission.
The project marks First Pacific’s first foray into the Australian apartment market.
First Pacific was founded by Sudono Salim, who died in 2012. The company, which also owns
Indonesia’s largest conglomerate Salim Group, is now run by his son Anthoni Salim.

Mr Salim’s personal wealth was estimated by Forbes this month at $7.12bn, making him the
third-richest person in his native country, a touch poorer than the Lowy family, whose wealth is
estimated at $7.16bn.

The development located at 158 City Road will be 66 storeys, stretching 218m. The as yet unnamed
development will hold a staggering 722 apartments, with 1377sq m of office and retail space on its
ground floor.

Currently the block features Hanover House, a low-rise office building, and it was home to Pacific
Shopping Centres’ headquarters.
Eastern International purchased the site in December last year for $22.5m from Sam Alter, scion to
the Alter family’s multi-billion-dollar property and financial services business.Eastern International
purchased the property, in a deal managed by CBRE’s Mark Wizel and Josh Rutman, with a 2010
permit for a 44-level apartment project. Doncaster-based Mr Jiang is a director of several Chinese
language media companies in Australia, including The Chinese Weekly, Sydney Chinese Radio,
Canberra Chinese Radio and Australian Oriental Film & Television Production.

CO
IN
NS
RE

liem : Salim Group
i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

Page162of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141210eacb00004

Page163of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.