Adani moves a step further in $15.4B Australian coal & rail project

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

CO
IN
NS

RE
IPD Other
PUB Mosaic Media Ventures Pvt. Ltd.
AN

Document MMVVCC0020140508ea58000dy

Infrastructure
Adani moves a step further in $15.4B Australian coal & rail project

Bhawna Gupta
301 words
9 May 2014
VC Circle
MMVVCC
English
Copyright 2014. Mosaic Media Ventures Pvt. Ltd.

Earlier media reports had suggested the company is planning to sell half its stake in the project and was
in negotiations with a few Chinese firms.

Gautam Adani-led Adani Enterprises has received approval from a local government in Australia for a
A$16.5 billion ($15.4 billion) coal and rail project which has the potential to become one of the biggest
coal mines in the world.

The mega Carmichael Coal Mine & Rail project is located at Queensland state and the local government
approved the project on Thursday. Adani, however, faces some more challenges besides a green signal
from the federal government to execute the project.
Earlier media reports had suggested the company is planning to sell half its stake in the project and was
in negotiations with China Rail Corporation and another unnamed Chinese company.
The Carmichael Mine and Rail project will produce up to 60 million tonnes of coal per annum and is
expected to operate for 90 years. The rail project aims to sort out the problem of infrastructure and
transportation of coal from the Galilee Basin.

"We welcome the decision of the Queensland Government and this allows us to move to the next stage of
the project, ensuring that local and regional communities continue to be involved in the development of
our projects and share the economic benefits," said Gautam Adani, chairman of the Adani Group.
The group planned to start production soon and start exporting thermal coal by 2016. The initial
production is expected 15 million tonnes per year.

Adani Enterprises’ scrip closed at Rs 423 a share, down 1.19 per cent on the BSE in a flat Mumbai
market on Thursday.

(Edited by Joby Puthuparampil Johnson)

adexns : Adani Enterprises Ltd
i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

Page255of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.