Blackham board dumps Gutnick as chairman

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Blackham board dumps Gutnick as chairman

ANDREW BURRELL
508 words
19 July 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
27
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

JOSEPH Gutnick has been dumped as chairman of junior miner Blackham Resources, which has also
launched legal action against the controversial magnate over claims he defaulted on a deal to
subscribe to $6 million in convertible notes.

The bitter corporate stoush could be set to escalate further, with Mr Gutnick attempting to remove the
board and appoint his own directors amid speculation he may be planning a takeover bid Mr Gutnick
invested in Perth-based Blackham last year as his chosen vehicle to re-enter the West Australian gold
sector after more than a decade, saying he viewed the company’s Matilda gold deposit as an
excellent investment opportunity.

In February, the Gutnick-chaired Blackham announced it was acquiring the nearby Wiluna gold mine,
which once formed part of the entrepreneur’s Great Central Gold empire.

But Blackham said yesterday that Mr Gutnick — who is based in Singapore — had not attended a
board meeting since November last year, which it said breached company rules.

“The board (excluding Mr Gutnick) no longer have confidence in Mr Gutnick to perform his duties in
the best interests of the shareholders of the company,” the company said.

Mr Gutnick, who owns 27 per cent of Blackham, has been replaced as chairman by managing director
Bryan Dixon.

Blackham has also filed a writ in the West Australian Supreme Court against Mr Gutnick and Great
Central Gold over allegations they breached a promise to subscribe to 24 million convertible notes as
part of last year’s agreement to inject $10m into the company.

It alleges $6m remains outstanding under the deal and that Mr Gutnick has been in default since April.

Blackham’s writ, filed this week, alleges misleading and deceptive conduct by Mr Gutnick and Great
Central.

Mr Gutnick has requested a general meeting of shareholders to remove Mr Dixon and fellow directors
Greg Miles and Alan Thom, to be replaced by Ian Daymond and Stuart Munroe.
“The company is currently receiving legal advice on this notice,” Blackham said.

In May, Mr Gutnick transferred some of his shares in Blackham to London-listed Polo Resources,
sparking speculation of a potential takeover bid.

Polo has links to a network of listed Singaporean companies, including LionGold, which last year
acquired Mr Gutnick’s Canada-based explorer Acadian Mining.
One of LionGold’s biggest shareholders is Wong Chin Yong, the chief executive of listed Singaporean
investment firm InnoPac Holdings.

Page38of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.InnoPac launched a mysterious $60m takeover bid for Merlin Diamonds last year that eventually
collapsed after revelations that Mr Gutnick had switched allegiances during the offer period.
Mr Gutnick sold his controlling stake in Merlin and became the biggest shareholder in InnoPac.
He sold the Merlin stake to a group of Singaporean businessmen who all have links to InnoPac.Mr
Gutnick, who was a major player in the West Australian gold sector in the 1990s, could not be
reached for comment yesterday. His personal net worth was estimated at $255m in this month’s BRW
rich list.

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

blckre : Blackham Resources Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal Action | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140718ea7j000a6

Page39of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.