Hot tickets for chilling out

SE
HD
BY

WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

S
Hot tickets for chilling out

George Palathingal, Garry Maddox, Jo Casamento, Peter Vincent, Andrew Hornery, Elissa Blake,
Susan Wyndham, Nicole Elphick
2,230 words
1 June 2014
Sun Herald
SHD
First
6
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

COVER STORY

It's the first day of winter but the cool attractions keep coming, from splendorous sounds and a
comic-book genius to cosy hangouts and beachside ice skating. Here's the guide.

FESTIVALS

A collaboration between Sydney record label extraordinaire Modular and Carriageworks, the
mini-festival Modulations features Los Angeles alt-rock adventurers Liars and English electronic-pop
titans Pet Shop Boys blurring the line between art and music in separate shows. There will also be a

pop-up bar and grill from Porteno restaurant, which will join forces with LA label Wild Records for a day
of rock'n'roll and classy food entitled Wild Porteno. June 6 (Liars), $49.80; June 8 (Pet Shop Boys, June
6-7 sold out), $135.60; June 9 (Wild Porteno), $49.80; Carriageworks, Eveleigh, ticketmaster.com.au.

Tourists come from far and wide to visit Bondi Beach - admittedly not usually during winter, much less
to ice-skate, but that makes Bondi Winter Magic even more special. You can skate on the rink outside
Bondi Pavilion between 10am and 9pm, or hire it for yourself and 199 mates for $3000. What's more,
the beach is usually still inviting and spectacular, even in winter. June 27-July 13, Bondi, from $10 for a
45-minute session (depending on the skater's age), starsonice.com.au/cal-bondi.htm.

True Believers, your time has come. Leading the comic-book heroes appearing at pop-culture
extravaganza Supanova is the biggest living name in the Marvel field, Stan Lee. Joining the 91-year-old
co-creator of The Avengers, Spider-Man, X-Men and more will be cult screen stars including Rose
McGowan (Charmed, Planet Terror), the only Australian James Bond, George Lazenby, Laurie Holden
from The Walking Dead and Napoleon Dynamite himself, Jon Heder. June 13-15, Sydney Showground,
Olympic Park, day passes from $27.50, moshtix.com.au.

George Palathingal

MOVIES

Sydney Film Festival opens with an imaginative documentary on Nick Cave, 20,000 Days on Earth.
Over 12 days, the festival screens a very promising range of films, including American director Richard
Linklater's Boyhood, a sweeping drama about growing up that was shot over 12 years; the acclaimed
Chinese film noir Black Coal, Thin Ice; the romantic Indian charmer The Lunchbox; and a Robert
Altman retrospective that includes Nashville, M*A*S*H and Short Cuts. The festival starts June 4.

Since Australian writer-director David Michod struck gold with Animal Kingdom, there has been keen
interest in what he would do next. It has taken a while, but his post-apocalyptic thriller The Rover is
headed for cinemas after debuting at Cannes Film Festival. Guy Pearce and Robert Pattinson head into

Page156of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.the outback to settle scores. Michod developed the story with Joel Edgerton, who also wrote and stars
in another Australian film, the police thriller Felony. The Rover opens on June 12, Felony on August 28.

Remember the Irish romance Once? The musical won Glen Hansard and Marketa Irglova an Oscar for
the achingly beautiful Falling Slowly in 2008. Director John Carney is back with Begin Again, which is
another heartfelt film about how music can change lives, and has won warm reviews overseas. It stars
Keira Knightley as a British singer-songwriter and Mark Ruffalo as a jaded American music executive in
New York. Opens August 7.

Garry Maddox

CELEB SPOTTING

If you're looking to spot a Hollywood star such as Gerard Butler frolicking in the waves, or a
triple-A-lister such as Naomi Watts teaching her boys to surf - not to mention a ripped Hugh Jackman
running up the sand - then Bondi Beach is the best vantage point. It's not just the flesh on display;
Bondi's restaurants, from local cafes such as Speedos to Matt Moran's North Bondi Fish and Maurice
Terzini's magnificent Bondi Icebergs, are not only fabulous dining experiences but regularly come
served with celebrity eye candy.

The Intersection in Paddington is home to Australia's best fashion labels, with a walk of fame that
includes Carla Zampatti, Scanlan and Theodore, Willow, Zimmerman and Ginger and Smart. When
visiting stars arrive, it's often the first place their hire car will head. Paula Abdul, Pink, Katy Perry,
Reese Witherspoon and Princess Mary are among the famous faces who have sunk a bucketload of
cash (or credit) here. After you've handed your last pair of luxe heels to your assistant, you can grab a
coffee at Jackies, home to models, stylists and musos.

With some of Sydney's most spectacular views of the harbour, the Opera Bar and Kitchen is the perfect
place to sip cocktails at the water's edge, grab a quick pre-show pizza and pasta or enjoy Sydney rock
oysters and watch the sun set over the Harbour Bridge while listening to live jazz. Though very touristy,
this place is magical.

Jo Casamento

MUSIC

Kristin Hersh, former songwriter from Boston band Throwing Muses, was one of the first indie-rock
chicks to emerge in the early '80s, when everyone else was fooling themselves that synth-pop was the
future (OK, so it was, but it took a while). What makes Hersh so special is that her luminous vision and
talent never waned. She performs an intimate gig with songs and readings. June 6, Factory Theatre.

It's a tragedy that Splendour in the Grass headliners Outkast aren't playing side shows, but the north
Byron Bay festival is sending us plenty of musical treats. Top of our list are genre-busting New York
pop star Kelis (at The Hi-Fi, Moore Park, July 23), cheeky English pop star Lily Allen (Hordern Pavilion,
July 25), indie-pop trio London Grammar (Hordern, July 24) and Baltimore synth-pop act Future Islands
(Oxford Art Factory, July 27).

So Adam Lambert isn't Freddie Mercury, but he's good enough to do justice to Queen's amazing back
catalogue, from We Are the Champions to We Will Rock You and Radio Gaga. Those great songs
deserve to be heard again live - it's been 29 years between tours, after all. August 26, Allphones Arena.

Peter Vincent

SO SYDNEY

Twenty years ago, Cabramatta was a no-go zone, riddled with crime, gangs, drugs and corruption, but
the dealers have since moved on and the suburb has morphed into a glittering jewel of south-west
Sydney. An incredible array of dining options and bustling shops are on offer, selling everything from
exquisite fabrics and blinged-up fashions to beautiful bonsai and underwear with built-in buttock
implants. For the hungry, the choices are endless, from street stalls to restaurants such as my favourite,
Bau Truong on John Street, a family-run institution serving delicious banquets of lemongrass chicken,
spicy quail and steaming bowls of pho. It's food fit for a king, but at prices commoners love.

Perched high above downtown Sydney, O Bar and Dining , atop the iconic Australia Square building,
has one of the best watering holes in town, quietly spinning around in our city's best-loved revolving
restaurant. The views are spectacular, and as the cocktails slide down, guests have been known to get
a little giddy during their venture to the stationary bathrooms, only to discover on emerging that the bar

Page157of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.and their companions have moved, providing much entertainment for onlookers. The iconic space is
perfect for showcasing our town.

It's not so much city views but the people views that are on offer at Harry's Cafe De Wheels in
Woolloomooloo. A favourite with tourists, sailors, showgirls and spivs, Harry's is a fun place to grab a
pie piled high with mushy peas. The fare is far from fine dining, but this is more about people-watching.

Andrew Hornery

STAGE

The friendship forged between young Eora woman Patyegarang and English naval officer William
Dawes is one of the few heartening stories to come from the period of first contact between Australia's
indigenous people and the colonists. Informed and inspired by Dawes' notebooks, Bangarra Dance
Theatre brings a remarkable sharing of knowledge to life in Patyegarang , its major new production of
2014. Sydney Opera House, June 13 to July 5, $29-$89, sydneyoperahouse.com.

The role of Hedda Gabler is one of the greatest in theatre - one any actress would prize. Makes you
wonder what the feeling out there in theatreland is now that Belvoir's resident director, Adena Jacobs,
has cast a man - Ash Flanders - in the role in Hedda Gabler. It will be no drag act, however. Flanders'
tragic heroines are brilliantly articulated creations. Belvoir, June 28 to August 3, $35-$68,
belvoir.com.au.
The Sydney Theatre Company's new version of Macbeth , starring Hugo Weaving, invites its audience
to peer into the cavernous darkness. Director Kip Williams (Under Milk Wood, Romeo and Juliet), in
cahoots with designer Alice Babidge (The Maids), will turn Sydney Theatre back-to-front to present the
audience, seated on the stage, with a new perspective on this brutal tale of betrayal and revenge.
Sydney Theatre, Walsh Bay, July 21 to September 27. $50-$109, sydneytheatre.com.au.

Elissa Blake

BOOKSTORES

Sydney's branch of the old Japanese chain Books Kinokuniya is big, bright, well-organised and has
more than 300,000 titles in English, Japanese, Chinese, French and German. Go no further if you are a
fan of manga, graphic novels and international magazines. There's an in-store art gallery with changing
exhibitions and a cafe. Open seven days, 10am-7pm (Thursday to 9pm, Sunday from 11am). Level 2,
The Galeries, 500 George Street, city, kinokuniya.com.au.

Behind the quaint shopfront at Gleebooks is a serious independent bookshop with dedicated owners,
smart staff and Sydney's best events calender. This month's speakers include political diarist Bob Carr,
poet Judith Beveridge and science-fiction author David M. Henley. On two crowded floors you'll find
surprises in philosophy, politics, poetry, children's books, new and classic fiction, and DVDs. Open
Sunday-Wednesday, 9am-7pm, Thursday-Saturday, 9am-9pm. 49 Glebe Point Road, Glebe,
gleebooks.com.au.

Owned by a woman with a romantic sensibility, Gertrude & Alice Bookstore Cafe is a beachside cultural
hub that oozes soul. Second-hand books line the walls, where I have found first-edition fiction and an
enthralling history of surgery. Pretend you are Gertrude Stein as you read or write at the old tables or
on a velvet couch, while sipping a Campos coffee or "Alice's famous chai". Open daily 7am-9pm. 46
Hall Street, Bondi, gertrudeandalice.com.au.

Susan Wyndham

GALLERIES AND MUSEUMS

With a history spanning more than 600 years, no (or noh) is often referred to as "Japanese opera" for
its mix of music and epic theatricality. An extensive display of costumes, masks and paintings
associated with the form awaits at the exhibition Theatre of Dreams, Theatre of Play at the Art Gallery
of NSW. June 14 to September 14, $10, artgallery.nsw.gov.au.

The eclectic oeuvre of French artist Annette Messager is examined in the exhibition motion / emotion at
the MCA. The retrospective covers her career from the '70s to now, working across drawing, sculpture,
embroidery and photography. Her large-scale kinetic installations are eye-catching and eerie. July 24 to
October 26, MCA, free, mca.com.au.

The theme for this year's Sydney Design festival is Design Futures, so expect an in-depth exploration of
how the pace of technology has influenced the discipline. Highlights include the fabrication-focused

Page158of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.FabLab, featuring 3D printers and laser cutters, and interactive light and architecture work Orkhestra.
August 16-24, Powerhouse Museum, Ultimo, various prices, sydneydesign.com.au.

Nicole Elphick

BINGO TO BANISHED

Actor loves Potts Point in winter

David Wenham's first job on the Sydney entertainment circuit was as a bingo caller at the Town Hall in
Marrickville, where he grew up.

Since those auspicious beginnings, Wenham has become a fixture of screen and stage, and most
recently has been spotted filming the BBC drama series Banished in Manly, playing Governor Arthur
Phillip. '

Winter is one of the actor's favourite times in Sydney, and his neighbourhood of Potts Point. "Especially
with all the leaves on the ground, and just running through and being silly and kicking up the leaves -
it's fantastic," he says. "If the Sydney Swans are playing, I walk from my place through Darlinghurst, out
to the SCG."

He goes to dance events more than theatre. "I have a huge love of dance, probably because I can't do
it." When eating out, the 48-year-old's favourites include Potts Point spots Fratelli Paradiso, Fratelli
Fresh and Fei Jai. He's also a fan of Porteno in Surry Hills for "the best brussels sprouts around".
The Theatre Bar at the End of the Wharf, in the Sydney Theatre Company complex in Walsh Bay, is a
favourite. "It's a unique view of Sydney Harbour. It's a different perspective to what one imagines the
picture-postcard of Sydney is."

Another regular is the cafe at the top of the MCA, one of the city's best views, "but don't tell too many
people", he says. Oops.

Sarah Thomas

NS

RE

PUB
AN

gmovie : Movies | nartrw : Art Reviews | gart : Art | gcat : Political/General News | gent :
Arts/Entertainment | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nrvw :
Reviews
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SHD0000020140601ea610003d

Page159of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.