Buoyant sale puts meat on the industry’s bones

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

TheNation
Buoyant sale puts meat on the industry’s bones

ANDREW BURRELL
522 words
23 August 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
8
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Way out west, the good times have only just begun

FITZROY Crossing’s rodeo ground, in the heart of Western Australia’s Kimberley, doesn’t immediately
feel like the sort of place to gauge the health of economic activity in Asia.

But if yesterday’s annual bull sale in the dusty town, 400km east of Broome, is a reliable barometer, the
hungry nations to our north will be eating plenty more Australian beef in coming years as their middle
classes grow more affluent and demand higher-quality food.
The average sale price at the Kimberley’s biggest livestock sale was $3800 per head, up 23 per cent
on last year’s price of $3100 per head, signalling a return to confidence in the industry.

Almost 150 bulls — red brahmans, grey brahmans, droughtmasters, Queenslanders and charbrays —
went under the auctioneer’s hammer.

The top price was $6500 for a droughtmaster bull, bought by Jubilee Downs pastoralist Keith Anderson.
The sale came after official data this week showed Australia’s live-cattle trade has now officially
recovered from the federal Labor government’s controversial 2011 export ban to Indonesia, up 78 per
cent to $1.05 billion for 2013-14.

The cattle industry hailed the data as proof of a long-awaited turnaround that was being driven by
unprecedented Asian demand.
West Australian Agriculture Minister Ken Bastion told the 150 buyers at the bull sale that the potential
of the state’s cattle industry was limitless, but he did not like to use the word “boom” to describe the
surge in activity.

“It’s not boom time,” he said. “We’ve only just begun.” “A boom time is when you are just about to fall
off the cliff.” Queensland pastoralist Johnny Edwards and his father, Jim, trucked 25 of their best red
brahman bulls to Fitzroy Crossing for the sale because of the lower levels of confidence in their
drought-ravaged state.

“We had the Indonesia export ban and then we had BJD (bovine Johne’s disease) last year, plus we’ve
had drought,” he said.

“But confidence is picking up, especially over here.” Australia’s richest person, Gina Rinehart, boosted
confidence in the industry this year when she paid about $40 million to snare a 50 per cent stake in
two Kimberley cattle stations.
Mrs Rinehart’s mining rival, Fortescue Metals Group chairman Andrew Forrest, bought Western
Australia’s biggest beef producer, Harvey Beef, for more than $30m in May.

Page244of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The deals confirm that Mrs Rinehart and Mr Forrest view the potential growth in demand for Australian
beef in the same way they grew rich from China’s soaring demand for the Pilbara’s iron ore over the
past decade Mr Baston also announced $15m initiatives for Kimberley and Pilbara cattle producers to
enable them to expand into key markets with the aim of reducing their heavy reliance on live exports to
Indonesia. Mr Baston said the government would set up a northern beef development hub in
Broome.The reporter travelled to Fitzroy Crossing courtesy of the West Australian government

IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

ifood : Food Products | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods
c312 : External Markets | mlvstk : Livestock/Meat Markets | grodeo : Rodeo | c31 : Marketing | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | gspo : Sports/Recreation | m14 : Commodity Markets | m141 : Agricultural
Commodity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | nrgn : Routine General
News
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140822ea8n000bc

Page245of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.