(AEFWL) Ferrowest provides funding agreement update

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

(AEFWL) Ferrowest provides funding agreement update

375 words
2 June 2014
Ralph Wragg Australian Business News
AAPRAW
English
Copyright 2014 RWE AUSTRALIAN BUSINESS NEWS PTY LTD. All Rights Reserved.

Sydney - Monday - June 02 (RWE) - Ferrowest Limited (ASX: FWL) advises that the company's
Managing Director, Mr Brett Manning and its Chief Financial Officer and company Secretary, Mr Daniel
Bredenkamp have recently returned from a due- diligence visit to China in connection with the proposed
Funding Agreement announced to the market on 30 April 2014.
It is a condition of the Funding Agreement that Ferrowest notifies the counterparty to the transaction,
TFA International Pty Ltd (TFA), if it is satisfied with its due-diligence inquires in respect to the proposed
investment by Ferrowest in the Chinese company Hubei Taifeng Investment and Development Co, Ltd
("HTDC").

Subject to various conditions previously advised to the market, Ferrowest would acquire a 21.8%
interest in HTDC through the issue of 111,251,158 Ferrowest shares to TFA at a total value of
A$2,002,520.

It is expected that the investment would then provide ongoing funding for Ferrowest's main business
activities in Australia, being mineral exploration.

Importantly HTDC is not expected to require any further equity or funding from Ferrowest to conduct it's
business going forward.
HTDC is a special purpose vehicle established by the parent company of TFA, Sichuan based Tai Feng
Group ("Tai Feng") of China.
Tai Feng is a diversified company with property development at its core.
HTDC is undertaking the development of a residential and commercial precinct in Jia Yu, just south of
Wuhan, the capital of the Hubei province.

The development is called the Taifeng International City.
The due-diligence visit by Ferrowest is part of a process whereby the Board of the company will assess
the suitability of the investment and advise shareholders of its findings.

This process is expected to be completed in time for inclusion in the Notice of Meeting to be sent to
shareholders for the vote on whether to proceed with the Funding Agreement.

The information will also assist the Independent Expert in the preparation of a report for shareholders
that will also be included in the Notice of Meeting.
The Board will be required to notify TFA once it is satisfied with its due-diligence investigations.

This process is expected to be complete in the next few weeks.

CO
IN

NS

frrwt : Ferrowest Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News

Page142of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd
Document AAPRAW0020140602ea62000mh

Page143of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.