PROPERTY WARS Trade Me's stoush with real estate agents over its fee increases...

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PROPERTY WARS Trade Me's stoush with real estate agents over its fee increases...

1,065 words
14 February 2014
The New Zealand Herald
NZHLD
C010
English
(c) 2014 The New Zealand Herald

PROPERTY WARS Trade Me's stoush with real estate agents over its fee increases for property
listings has driven a down-grade from one analyst.
Stephen Ridgewell at Craigs Investment Partners has dropped his rating from buy to hold and
believes the online auction company will miss its consensus earnings estimates for the 2014 financial
year because it will need to up its marketing spend to counter competition from rival real estate
sitewww.realestate.co.nz.

Some real estate agents in Hamilton and Hawkes Bay have removed listings from Trade Me in recent
weeks in protest at its fee increases, prompting a Commerce Commission investigation.

Trade Me is moving from a capped subscription rate to a fee per listing rate for agents.

Ridgewell said the agent boycott to date had been small with an estimated impact of less than 3 per
cent but he warned it was early days and the problem may escalate.

Industry-owned website realestate.co.nz had also launched a TV advertising campaign for the first
time since 2006, prompting Trade Me to launch its own ad campaign on TV, radio and print.
``We think Trade Me will spend an extra $3 million promoting Trade Me property in the second half of
2014 than assumed in full-year guidance.''
He also expects negotiated fee increases with the big-six property agencies to be at the low end of
expectations.
Ridgewell said property was a key growth engine for Trade Me, prompting him to lower his 12-month
target price from $4.81 to $4.45 based on lower earnings and a 15 per cent probability real estate
agents migrated to realestate.co.nz.

The issue is already weighing on the stock with Trade Me shares hitting an 18-month low of $3.76 on
Monday. The company is to report its half-year result to December 31 on Wednesday. Its shares
closed on $3.95 yesterday.
OUT OF FAVOUR Morningstar has ditched Telecom from its best ideas list ahead of the company's
result next Friday. The research firm said it had removed Telecom on relative valuation grounds.
Telecom shares have been slowly edging upwards after hitting a year low of $2.16 in June. Yesterday
they closed on $2.42. Instead of Telecom, Morningstar has picked up SkyCity Entertainment Group
on the back of its competitive advantages in gaming at its New Zealand and Australian casinos.

Shares in the casino operator plunged ahead of its result this week touching $3.60. It reported a drop
in its normalised net profits from $72.1 million to $66.4 million for the six months to December 31.
But Morningstar is betting on bullish growth for the company.
``We believe the firm's growth trajectory is likely to accelerate going forward, driven by the $800
million expansion of the Adelaide and Auckland casinos.''

SkyCity shares closed on $3.66 yesterday.

Page234of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NO LOVE FOR OZ BANKS Despite another record result from an Aussie bank this week, analysts
from global asset manager MFS told Kiwi clients Australian banks did not stack up and they preferred
banks in India, Indonesia and the Philippines.

Vipin Narula said neither the risk nor the rewards looked favourable for the Aussie banks. He said
Australia had seen 21 years of uninterrupted credit growth and he questioned whether it could
continue.

Australia's largest bank, Commonwealth Bank of Australia, which owns ASB Bank in New Zealand,
was valued at three times its book. ``I look at all this and say `can this go on for much longer?' I see a
price correction.''

Narula said MFS looked very closely at bank balance sheets when choosing where to invest and did
not like to see loan books exceeding deposits, which was the case in countries in Europe and
Australia.

To meet their funding shortfalls the banks issued bonds and the problem with that was they needed to
be rolled over and that could create issues if people did not want to continue to buy the bonds. He
was also concerned about a decline in the housing market affecting the banks.

``When economies turn the house prices fall, which is a big problem for the banks. Australia,
Singapore and Hong Kong all look stretched. If there is a downturn people lose their jobs and can't
pay their mortgages. Banks liquidating assets could be painful.''

HALF STEPS The NZX is hoping to encourage more trading in some of the lower-priced listed stocks
by introducing a half-cent price step. From Monday, 10 companies whose share prices range between
20c and 50c will drop from the current 1c tick up or down option.
The change follows a successful trial of the half-cent option for all listed property stocks and
dual-listed companies priced under $2.50, which the exchange introduced a year ago.

The change at the smaller end of town is designed to help reduce the volatility in share price
movements, given a 1c change for a 20c stock equates to a 5 per cent move.

The change is also hoped to boost trading in those stocks as it will potentially make the gap between
buyer and seller bids much closer.

Varying levels of price steps between different stocks is not a new tool - it's commonly used at
exchanges around the world including the ASX.

BIG AND LITTLE Fund manager Milford Asset Management has opened an office in Sydney to
enhance its research capabilities into Australian companies.
Three of the firm's 11-member investment team have moved across the ditch in a first for a New
Zealand boutique.

Milford managing director Anthony Quirk said the move was primarily about getting better results out
of its Australian investments. Of the $2.7 billion Milford manages $580 million is in Australian equities.
Quirk said it would also consider expanding the team over time and launching into the Australian
managed funds space.

``The Australian market - managed funds and investors - is very large but very competitive. We would
have to do that in a considered fashion.''

Despite the expansion plans Quirk said Milford still considered itself boutique because of its staff
ownership and culture. ``We are still very much of a boutique mindset.'' But being larger also meant it
could make decisions like expanding into Australia, he added.

stocktakes14
abncrg : Craigs Investment Partners Ltd. | trdme : Trade Me Group Ltd | ffaxj : Fairfax Media Ltd
icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest : Real Estate | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i656000301 : Etailing
(B2C) | i814 : Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | ibnk :
Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | ionlauc : Online Auctions | iretail
: Retail
ereal : Real Estate Markets | reqrcr : Suggested Reading Construction/Real Estate | e11 : Economic
Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr
: Suggested Reading Industry News

RF
CO
IN

NS

Page235of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | nz : New Zealand | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
W & H Newspapers Limited
Document NZHLD00020140213ea2e00023

Page236of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.