Greenland changes tack with ‘village’ development for suburban market

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CommercialProperty
Greenland changes tack with ‘village’ development for suburban market

GREG BROWN, APARTMENTS
308 words
9 August 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
38
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

CHINESE development giant Greenland Holding Group is preparing to push ahead with its third
Australian development — the Leichhardt Green project in Sydney’s inner west.
The state-owned group is in the process of getting the final approval for its plans at the site, at 22
George Street, where it aims to build 288 units.

Greenland has applied for the apartments to be spread over five buildings, four to nine storeys high, a
far cry from Greenland’s first project in the Sydney CBD, where it heaped 500 apartments in one
66-storey tower.

The designer of the Leichhardt Green project is Bates Smart. “This development is important for
Greenland to establish its presence in the suburban market and show that we don’t just develop
ultra-high-rises, but developments that target a range of buyers,” said Greenland Australia managing
director Sherwood Luo.

“Leichhardt Green will be different from Greenland Centre and Lucent (Greenland’s other Sydney
project) as it’ll be more than simply an apartment building, rather a new urban community comprising
five buildings and featuring a village-like atmosphere.’’ Mr Luo said that there would be an emphasis
on landscaping and gardens. Leichhardt’s VIP launch is scheduled for late October, with the display
suite opening for viewing late next month.
Greenland bought the site, previously an industrial property controlled by Koltex, in March for about
$47 million. It will be one of the first significant urban infill apartment projects of its kind in Leichhardt.

The Australian reported last month that Greenland was preparing to launch its $200m Lucent
apartment complex in North Sydney.The group’s global chairman, Zhang Yuliang, said last month
that Greenland was negotiating to buy other Sydney sites and was also scouring the Gold Coast
market.

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

sgregc : Greenland Holding Group Company Limited
i501 : Building Construction | i5010021 : Land Development/Subdivision | iconst : Construction | icre :
Real Estate/Construction
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | greenl : Greenland | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | namz : North America | nswals : New South Wales
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140808ea8900051

Page110of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.