New chief looks to grow Lion’s share

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
New chief looks to grow Lion’s share

Simone Smith
747 words
28 May 2014
The Weekly Times
HERWEK
WeeklyTimes
81
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Speciality cheese will be heading offshore as new Lion boss focuses on the company’s strengths,
writes Simone Smith GROW what you are good at is the motto of new Lion dairy and drinks managing
director Peter West.
Mr West’s plans for the liquid milk giant include slashing brands and moving into export.

The areas of focus for the former Mars Chocolate regional president include milk beverages, Lion’s
branded milk and speciality cheese.

He also wants to offer security for its farmer suppliers.

Underpinning all of this is a growth agenda.

“We have to be clear which categories offer you the most opportunity for growth and making sure that
you win in those categories, the best predictor of that is what’s happened over the last three or four
years the trends tend to be your friend,” he said.
“There are some categories we have got, like yoghurt and specialist cheese and milk beverages, that
are growing, and growing faster than the retailer’s own growth, then there’s areas of the business that
don’t represent the same sort of growth opportunity, such as white milk.” Lion has lost the private label
Coles milk contract for Victoria and NSW, as well as the Victorian Woolworths private label contract.
The pitch for private label milk was “not a win at all costs”, according to Mr West who has been with
Lion for four months.
Murray Goulburn is building two factories for the house-brand Coles contract, while Fonterra is
refurbishing a factory to supply Woolworths.

“If you go to put in a new factory you take a certain assumption how efficient a new factory can be
versus a stand-alone,” Mr West said.
“You have to invest significant amounts, and we have been talking over $100 million here, the types of
investments our competitors have made, and we still have to validate that it can work for that.

“In my experience, having invested in new factories myself, what you think a factory can cost you and
what it does, and the actual performance, they don’t always (match).
“Their business model is unproven, I wish them luck to prove it over time, but it is still unproven.” Mr
West wants growth outside the 2-4 per cent domestic rise and will look to China and Indonesia to sell
speciality cheeses.
He said a brand such as King Island would have a great marketing story and speciality cheese was
something in which Lion had invested more than $150 million.

Page176of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Growing the $1 billion a year revenue base, with 6 per cent growth a year, in Australia is the primary
focus of Lion followed by export.
“Over time it won’t be enough just to ship powder because China consumers would want to have more
confidence in the whole supply chain,” he said.
“What they will have confidence in will be products sold here on a day-to-day basis that are also
exported, as opposed to powder, or that it might be from a company from Australia or New Zealand
won’t be enough ... they will want confidence of those brands are also available in Australia.” From a
farmer perspective, Mr West said Lion could offer fixed or variable pricing and give people “options on
how they want to do things into the future”.

Providing security to “invest against” would also be important for farmers, according to Mr West.

“What the farmers hate and what Lion hate is the same thing, volatility,” he said.

“We do need stability overtime, therefore things like longer term contracts and how you use fixed
pricing becomes a mechanism to do that.” He also said Lion would draw on its buying power as the
largest packaged goods company in Australia to offer “unique benefits” to farmers on the cost side of
their operations.

He wouldn't be drawn on that plan or speculation about next season's price. He did stress Japanese
parent company Kirin and the Lion board were supportive, and understood the long-term gain and
value of its dairy business despite margin pressures.

“Most industries consolidate overtime,” he said.

“Most of the people who talk consolidation here in Australia, it is in their self-interest to talk
consolidation — either need to raise money or they have got something they want to sell while the
multiples are high.“The consolidation game is driven by self-interest.”

IN

RE
PUB
AN

i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming |
ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document HERWEK0020140527ea5s0001r

Page177of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.