Anti-counterfeit play could be real McCoy

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

MarketWatch
Anti-counterfeit play could be real McCoy

Tim Boreham, Criterion
832 words
12 June 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
25
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

AUV Enterprises (suspended) THE proposed IPO of You Pin Bao — Mandarin, apparently, for
“excellent brand protection’’ — has the $US1.7 trillion ($1.8 trillion) global counterfeiting market in its
sights.
According to YPB’s prime mover, John Houston, companies spend $US80 billion a year experimenting
with holograms, tamper-evident closures and hot stamping (a la Australian passports).

His philosophy is that “if you can see it, it can be copied”: anyone wanting to knock off a security
hologram has the choice of 34,000 Chinese suppliers.
Overseen by lead manager KS Capital, YPB is seeking to raise $3 million-$6m at 20c apiece via the
shell of former sapphire explorer AUV, which has been dormant since 2005. This would ascribe a
market cap of $19.5m-$22.5m.

Houston says counterfeiters have become so clever that real and fake packaging are indistinguishable
— although the contents usually give the game away.
“There are more bottles of Penfolds sold in China per year than what Penfolds makes,’’ he says.

YPB’s remedy is an invisible tracer called realProtection, a compote based on rare-earth ingredients
and a secret formula.

The material is incorporated into the manufacturing process — be it plastics, fabric, fibre and even food
— and is detectable by a scanner even in minute amounts.
Not surprisingly, YPB is targeting the Chinese market, which accounts for 68 per cent of global
counterfeiting. As a start, it has signed up nine contract manufacturers covering sectors including food,
clothing, hardware and tobacco.
YPB estimates that if its protection were applied to each of the 123 billion cigarette packs sold in
China annually, revenue of $146m would ensue.

In the case of a tamper-proof soy sauce cap, he says, the process would add a quarter of a cent to the
7c-per-unit production cost.
Between 200,000 and 300,000 Chinese die each year because of fake pharmaceuticals.

With the backing of others, Houston has spent $10m developing the technology over four years.

Houston held numerous global roles for Hutchison and Orange. He also built up the Singapore
broadband supplier Intertouch, sold to NTT DoCoMo for $US70m in 2004.
The YPB board includes Geoff Raby, a former China ambassador and a director of Fortescue Metals
and Macquarie Group.

Page84of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Also on the board is Houston’s co-investor George Su, who headed Citic Securities locally.

YPB’s next step is a mobile app enabling consumers to differentiate fake barcodes from the real
McCoy.

DataDot (DDT) 2.3c DESPITE YPB’s real (as opposed to fake) — potential, we caution that start-up
tech plays are notoriously difficult.

Take DataDot, which has patented DataDotDNA and CopDots, polymer and metallic spots that
attaches to an item.
One of DataDot’s target markets is brand protection for Australian wine exports, especially to China.

Despite being at it for years, DataDot reported a December-half loss of $539,000 on revenue of
$3.55m.
Given our last spec buy on the stock at 2.2c last November was mildly fulfilling, we’ll stick with it.

As for YPB, its existing revenues and management pedigree hopefully it’s a case of Houston, we have
lift-off.

Dick Smith Holdings (DSH) $1.88 AFTER a deep and meaningful with Dick Smith’s management,
Foster Stockbroking theorises the warm weather that was such a headwind for The Reject Shop and
PacBrands is a mild benefit for the private-equity spin-off.

That’s because if consumers aren’t buying clothes there’s more discretionary spend for electronics
retailers.

Criterion isn’t quite convinced Dick Smith will be given a leg-up from sagging consumer sentiment, but
we’re heartened by management’s efforts to boost profits rather than generate more sales for the sake
of it.

“Another change has been an increase in sales staff and reduction in management,’’ Foster says.

“Various supplier rebates are now booked at time of sales to the customer, as opposed to the time of
ordering from the supplier (which occurred in the past).

“This incentivises staff to sell in contrast to amassing inventory.’’ A month ago, Dick Smith reiterated
2013-14 pro forma sales of $1.22bn and net earnings of $40m.

Dick Smith shares are wallowing below their $2.20 issue price of last December, having touched $2.40
in January.

As a PE spin-off, the IPO was never burdened by the weight of expectations. Dick Smith is a cheaper
entry to the sector relative to JB Hi-Fi (JBH, $17.75), which also last month pointed to a healthy 8-11
per cent earnings increment, to $126m-$129m.

Personally, Criterion’s few spare shekels are staying in the biscuit tin behind the teapot but we’ll call
Dick Smith a buy and JB Hi-Fi a long-term buy.

The Australian accepts no responsibility for stock recommendations. Readers should contact a
licensed financial adviser. The author does not hold shares in the companies mentioned.

IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

iinv : Investing/Securities | ifinal : Financial Services
gcount : Counterfeit/Forgery | c1711 : Initial Public Offerings | reqris : Suggested Reading
Investing/Securities | c02 : Corporate Changes | c14 : Stock Listings | c17 : Funding/Capital | c171 :
Share Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General
News | gcrim : Crime/Courts | gfinc : Financial Crime | gfraud : Fraud | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | redit :
Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140611ea6c00029

Page85of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.