Rio hoses down Glencore deal

Rio hoses down Glencore deal

The Australian

HD
CR
WC 815 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

8 October 2014
00:00
theAustralian.com.au
NLAUSW
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

TD

ANALYSTS say any deal is unlikely despite the lure of $US2 billion cost savings.

The potential for a deal was widely downplayed by Rio, analysts and investors but the prospect of
$US2bn ($2.27bn) of annual savings and a re-rating of Rio’s relatively underperforming stock saw Rio’s
shares log their biggest one-day percentage gain in more than a year.

Yesterday’s gain came after a Bloomberg report said Glencore had recently held talks with Rio’s biggest
shareholder, China’s state-owned Chinalco, about a deal, prompting Rio to reveal it had in August
knocked back a merger proposal.

It is understood Mr Glasenberg, the South African chief executive and second-biggest shareholder of
British-listed Glencore, made a direct approach to his compatriot, Rio chairman Jan du Plessis, in London.

GRAPHIC: How a merger would shape up

Protocol in merger approaches is normally chairman-to-chairman, but Mr Glasenberg’s direct approach is
reflective of the influence he exerts on the board with his 8.3 per cent stake.
The Bloomberg report said Glencore was targeting what it hoped was Chinalco dissatisfaction at both a
failure to gain a Rio board seat with its 9 per cent stake in the company and delays to the $US20bn
Simandou iron ore project in Guinea, where Chinalco is a partner but where progress has slowed.

The hurdles to a potential deal include Glencore’s $US49bn debt load, potential regulatory blocks,
including from the Foreign Investment Review Board and China, culture clashes, potential dividends and
buybacks coming Rio shareholders’ way and the fact Glencore would be unlikely to offer a significant
premium.

“When it comes to Glencore, you can never say never, but the reality is I don’t see the attraction from a
Rio point of view,” Arnhem Investment Management managing partner Neil Boyd-Clark said.

“Glencore shareholders might like the idea because you’re upgrading asset quality, taking advantage of
higher-priced scrip and improving your balance sheet ... but the only reason for this to happen from a Rio
Tinto perspective would be an outrageous premium, which I don’t think Glencore is in a position to offer.”

Rio’s statement on Mr Glasenberg’s approach indicated a premium may not even be enough to get the
offer across the line, unless Glencore’s publicising of the deal is successful in pressuring the board.

Unlike most deal knock-backs, Rio’s statement made no mention of the approach being undervalued,
saying only that it was not a good idea.

“The Rio Tinto board, after consultation with its financial and legal advisers, concluded unanimously that a
combination was not in the best interests of Rio Tinto’s shareholders,” Rio said.

The lack of any mention of value contrasts with Rio’s rejection of BHP Billiton’s proposed takeover in
2007, where Rio said the board had concluded the bid “significantly undervalues Rio Tinto”.

And again in March, when Rio chief Sam Walsh hosed down comments from Mr Glasenberg revealing
Glencore wanted to merge Hunter Valley coal assets with those of Rio, value was the only problem.

Page22of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“If somebody is interested in putting a worthwhile proposal to us, well that’s exactly what they should do,’’
Mr Walsh said at the time.

There was speculation that Glencore’s goal in talking up a merger was to put more focus on a potential
Hunter Valley tie-up, a proposition Glencore promoted to analysts in a site tour last week.

“It (the merger proposal) may pressure Rio ... to come to the table with Glencore on a potential Australia
thermal coal joint venture,” Credit Suisse analyst Liam Fitzpatrick said.
In what should further placate shareholders yesterday, Rio indicated a recent slump in the iron ore price
would not dampen capital return plans flagged in August.

“The board believes that the continued successful execution of Rio Tinto’s strategy will allow Rio Tinto to
increase free cash flow significantly in the near term and materially increase returns to shareholders,” Rio
said.

The dividend statement may have contributed to the biggest one-day price rise in Rio’s shares in more
than a year, Rio’s Australian-listed shares rose $2.48, or 4.3 per cent, to $60.07, more than doubling the
1.7 per cent gain in BHP.

Analysts at Credit Suisse and UBS estimated annual savings of $US2bn a year could be achieved
through the merger of Rio and Glencore.

One local fund manager said Rio’s recent history of overpaying for acquisitions, including Alcan and
Riversdale Mining, could support an argument for bringing in Glencore’s management but that the big
Glencore debt could be a worry.
Another said a deal was not out of the question because combined potential involvement of Chinalco and
any London funds that had big cross-shareholdings could provide unexpected outcomes.

CO almcor : Aluminium Corporation of China Limited | march : Glencore PLC
IN

i22 : Primary Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | i2245 : Aluminum | i8396 : Diversified Holding
Companies | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

NS
RE
PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document NLAUSW0020141007eaa7000mg

Page23of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.