Farmers’ message is that China is good for all of us

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

OpEd
Farmers’ message is that China is good for all of us

ED GANNON
640 words
29 August 2014
Herald-Sun
HERSUN
HeraldSun
42
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

WE all hate being told what is good for us — stop smoking, stop speeding, stop voting for Clive
Palmer.

Yet, rarely do we have to be convinced to get behind something that is going to put dollars in our
pockets and create jobs for our children.

But that is the case now, with Australia’s farmers launching a social media campaign next Monday
to build support for Australia to sign a free trade agreement with China.
We are in intense negotiations with China at the moment, with an end-of-year deadline set by Prime
Minister Tony Abbott only days after he took office.
The benefits of a deal with China are enormous. And not just for farmers. We only have to look at
New Zealand to see the impact of a trade deal with China. The Kiwis struck a deal in 2008. At the
time it was exporting less than $500 million worth of dairy products to China each year.
Now, with import barriers slashed, New Zealand exports $4.5 billion of dairy annually to China.
And that is before the real growth in the Chinese middle class, which is yet to come, that will really
drive exports of products such as dairy.
The Victorian Farmers Federations says the China trade deal is worth an extra $400,000 for each
New Zealand farm.
No wonder New Zealand is called the Saudi Arabia of milk.
Meanwhile, Australia’s milk production has declined over the past decade. That is a disaster for
Victoria, the biggest dairy state in the country.
Currently, more than 60 per cent of our dairy products are exported, generating $13 billion and
creating 43,000 jobs, according to the industry.

Imagine if our exports took off like the Kiwis’ have. The explosion in transport, processing, services,
manufacturing and administration would be spread from Cohuna to Collins St.
And it is not just dairy. Sheep, wool, grains and horticulture would all benefit if barriers to trading
with China are cut.
So, if it is obvious we stand to benefit from a China deal, why do farmers have to convince the rest
of us that this is the case?
The answer is in the trade deal signed with Japan earlier this year. Dairy was very disappointed with
that outcome, with only a slight tariff cut for our exports.

Page230of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Government, in turn, blamed dairy for not getting its act together and sending mixed messages
during those negotiations.
The dairy industry now realises it must get the public on board, to make sure the message gets to
the politicians that they can’t afford to stuff up the China deal.

So on Monday they are launching the #FTA4dairy and #FTA4farmers campaign in an attempt to
swamp social media with the message a China trade deal is good for all Australians.

It is ironic that although the campaign has been planned for some time — hindered by the usual
inability to co-ordinate all arms of agriculture — it comes at a critical time in the Chinese trade
negotiations.

First, there was the disgraceful rant of self-centred Palmer United Party leader Clive Palmer against
China, aided by his uninspiring Tasmanian colleague, Jacqui Lambie.
Palmer has sold himself as the friend of rural Australia, but the words of those two plodders could
cause untold damage to the future incomes of Australian farmers.

His grovelling apology on Tuesday looked like too little too late. Second, there are rumblings from
Canberra that negotiators may have to give more ground on agriculture to China than farmers will
accept.
It is clear Australia must secure a deal with China to benefit all of us. We shouldn’t need a hashtag
to convince anyone of that.ED GANNON IS EDITOR OF THE WEEKLY TIMES

i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy Products | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
e512 : Physical Trade | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document HERSUN0020140828ea8t00056

IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

Page231of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.