Time to prepare for China 's big steel scrap

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Time to prepare for China's big steel scrap

1,147 words
13 September 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
41
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Rarely has scrap metal loomed so important to the future health of the Australian economy.
In an increasingly fractured discussion over the state of global iron ore markets there is general
agreement that the most critical unknown is exactly when China's boom will start eating itself.

"If you think iron ore is bad now, wait until the market goes to negative growth – which it will as the
scrap kicks in," a senior miner warned me last week. As things stand, there appears to be subtle but
distinct divergence of opinion between Australia's two masters of the iron ore universe over whether
China's scrap cycle has started.
Australia's biggest iron ore miner, Rio Tinto, remains cautiously comfortable that the immaturity of the
Chinese scrap metal industry will leave it unable to exert dampening structural influence over the iron
ore market until well into the next decade.
Rio's view, informed by a broadly sourced bottom-up analysis that starts on Chinese factory floors and
ends with complex scenario modelling, is that China currently does not have the volume of mini-mills
needed to recycle metal in the volumes necessary to put a pre-emptive cap on growth in raw steel
production.
This narrative leaves Rio still wedded to a long-standing conviction that iron ore demand will peak
between 2025 and 2030. And that informs a view that the current price shakes down short-term
supply-side dynamics rather than a shift in the longer outlook for demand.

BHP Billiton, on the other hand, appears to have down-shifted its outlook to a more defensive setting.A
big deal?

For some time the Big Australian has warned of the recovery of routine price cycles in the bulk
commodity markets. But it has also pondered whether China's iron ore demand would peak earlier
and at lower volumes than imagined just two years ago. How could this be such a big deal? China
uses recycled scrap steel at a quarter the rate of the rest of the world and at 14 per cent the rate of
the US. Yet over the past decade, China has added steel to its economy at three times the rate the US
did during the 20th century.

As Christian Lelong from Goldman Sachs reported this week: "On a per capita basis, the average
household in China is accumulating steel at a rate equivalent to the purchase of a new car every eight
months (without disposing of its older cars). In other words, the volume of steel stock in China is
racing towards the US level of 13 tonnes per person."
According to Lelong, this means "the day when steel production in China will peak gets even closer".
The Lelong assessment is echoed in a Macquarie note that forecast iron ore prices would orbit the
$US90 a tonne level for the next two years and the corollary of that is that profits for Australia's big
three producers would fall $US8.6 billion ($9.5 billion) shy of previous forecasts. Ahead of this
analysis, a former senior BHP executive offered a more colourful and blunt assessment of where

Page139of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.global markets are and what that means for bulk commodity miners specifically, and Australia
generally.

Alberto Calderon is presently a director of Orica and has plans to be a serious private investor in
resources. He is also a former chief commercial officer at BHP and most recently ran its aluminium
and nickel businesses.

On Tuesday he offered a presentation that, it seems to me, most likely channelled much of the state of
thinking inside BHP. And freed from the commercial shackles of recent executive life, Calderon left
nothing to the imagination.

The joyride for bulk commodities is over; there is potentially lethal pain ahead for anyone but the
biggest and cheapest producers (Rio and BHP) and Australia's political classes need to acknowledge
and adapt to the crisis already in play.
Calderon says it is "not difficult to see why iron ore prices have collapsed, and will go even lower
during the next years". The Yale-trained economist, once touted as a future president of Colombia,
says the oversupply in the seaborne market will hit 100 million tonnes this year, will grow to
250 million tonnes in 2015 and to 340 million tonnes in 2017.Ballooning surplus
To put that into context: that 2017 surplus is slightly more than the 330 million tonnes that Rio hopes
to be shipping into the global system by then. It is about 30 per cent of the current seaborne market.

There are two reasons why this surplus will balloon. First, even with prices travelling in the $US80
range, the big diggers sitting at the bottom of the cost curve, such as Rio, BHP and Vale, are still
incented to grow. Deutsche Bank estimates Rio's move from 290Mtpa to 330Mtpa will drive cash costs
down below $US20 a tonne by 2015 and that, even at $US84 a tonne, its FY15 iron ore margins
would run at 50 per cent.
The other driver is that, surprise, surprise, China is not responding "rationally" to the pricing signals.
It is not closing down the 120 million tonnes tonnes of high-cost mining capacity with the alacrity that
was predicted. "The conventional wisdom was that the production tonnes that would be displaced
would be in China," Calderon reports. "This is probably not true."
Calderon reckons China's production will hold at 400 million tonnes during the next years. "China will
repeat what it has done already with aluminium and thermal coal," he predicts. "[That is] create an
oversupply of iron ore that will benefit them as a consumer country. I won't go in to details, but their
strategy in aluminium has knocked $US1000 off the aluminium price and created a gain of
$US250 billion for China."
If China will not budge then the rest of the market must. And if we chop Chinese production from the
iron ore cost curves guess where the first big breaking point is? You guessed it. About $US80 a
tonne.
The reason this matters to us all is that iron ore makes up 22 per cent of our exports by value, while
the resources sector last year generated 55 per cent export earnings. Even as the sun was setting on
the boom during the second quarter of 2014, Australia's current account deficit was already close to
5 per cent of GDP. "If current trends continue, the deficit may reach unsustainable levels of 7 per cent
to 8 per cent," Calderon says.

If he is right, our terms of trade will wither rapidly, the Aussie will break, reversing our currency wealth
effect and Australia will take a decade to regain its competitiveness, in part, because our various
parliaments are incapable of manufacturing solutions.

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | isteel : Steel Production |
ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140912ea9d0004r

Page140of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.