FOSSICKING

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CM2
FOSSICKING

DAVID COSTELLO
364 words
6 June 2014
Courier Mail
COUMAI
CourierMail
86
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

BUNNYCONNELLEN Buy online; also Deli Delicious, Toowoomba; Sourced Grocer, Teneriffe;
Standard Market Company at Gasworks, Newstead IT IS all happening up at Crows Nest with Peter
and Janie Simmonds offering yoga classes, pop-up cooking schools and classical concerts at their
Bunnyconnellen olive grove and vineyard. There is also bed and breakfast accommodation and catering
for rustic weddings and corporate retreats. The star attraction remains the product range of wines, table
olives, extra-virgin oils and spreads like this Petanque smoked tapenade.

bunnyconnellen.com.au IVYHOME See website for stockists MARK and Pamela Comello run 120
jerseys and friesians on their certified organic property near Kingaroy. The healthy soils and pastures
add rich and complex flavours to the milk, cheese and yoghurt produced on the farm. Check out this
luscious mud cream which has no additives and is thick enough to mould. Also look for ivyhome fetta, a
firm ricotta, quark, plus a traditional European-style yoghurt, sold in glass jars. The Comellos opened
their farm factory in 2002 and are one of the success stories of the diverse food scene in the South
Burnett.

WESTCOUNTRY Available at Wray Organic stores WE WERE surprised to find that the Westcountry
range of organic curry mixes and condiments is made in Devon, the UK region best known for cider and
cheddar. The company has won numerous awards and has exported Europe’s first organic Hoisin
sauce to China. The Thai paste packs make enough curry for four. Westcountry is owned by an
enterprising chap called Chris Carnegie and is produced in Buckfastleigh, a small market town right on
the edge of the forbidding Dartmoor National Park.
westcountryspice.com KINGAROY KITCHEN Buy online. Stockists on website HAZEL Patterson of
Kingaroy Kitchen has been busy of late turning crates of Burnett-region citrus into zesty marmalades
and lemon butter. She runs the very successful Endeavour Foundation facility which makes home-style
biscuits, jams and chutneys to be sold across the state. Lately the enterprise has expanded to two
commercial kitchens and has landed some substantial corporate catering contracts. The top-selling
product is mango and port chutney.

kingaroykitchen.com.aufossicklife@gmail.com.au

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document COUMAI0020140605ea660004x

Page104of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.