Neighbours team up for sale bonanza

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Neighbours team up for sale bonanza

Toby Johnstone
695 words
4 October 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
13
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Real estate boom - Developers bulk-buy property

Neighbours in Sydney suburbs are doubling, and in some cases, tripling the value of their homes by
teaming up and selling rows of homes to land-starved developers.

Agents say the recent influx of Chinese money is generating stiff competition between local and
offshore players with savvy home owners reaping the rewards. In Lane Cove and Epping, wealthy
Asian firms have purchased as many as nine houses at a time, a growing trend that is not lost on
the owners of a block of flats at Bondi Beach.

When investor brothers Nicholas and Andrew Peros decided they wanted to sell their two-bedroom
Bondi unit they called a block meeting and proposed that all four neighbours band together.

Nicholas, who works in construction, had "tested the waters" and found sufficient developer demand
for the site at 171 Glenayr Avenue, which is 500 metres from Bondi Beach.

Neighbour Carolyn Lockhart, who has lived in the block for 20 years, said she was surprised that
everyone jumped on board so quickly. "There was no convincing needed ... we could all see that it
was an opportunity that was too good to miss."

Tony McGinley from Richardson and Wrench Projects, who is selling the block with Ian Wallace, said
based on comparables the individual apartments might be worth about $1.25 million each. But now
the price guide is above $5 million - just how much will depend on who battles it out on auction day.
Although Mr McGinley said beachside properties were not something Chinese investors "would
automatically look at", he noted increased competition between local developers and overseas
groups looking for safe havens.

In suburbs on the train line the demand from overseas developers is much more pronounced.
Matthew Ramsay from CBRE recently negotiated the sale of eight freestanding homes on Cliff Road
in Epping. The total sale price was about $30 million, meaning that each home owner will pocket
roughly $3.75 million.

"If they weren't rezoned and if they were selling them just as a house they would be worth $1.1
million to $1.2 million," Mr Ramsay said. "They've tripled their value."
A caveat has since been placed on all eight properties by a company called SJD Epping, the three
directors of which are from Shanghai.
In Lane Cove a group of homeowners has had similar success with Holgate First National agent
Scott Henry.

Page153of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Henry was approached by two home owners wanting to sell but when word got out two became
four and four became nine.

"To get a number of properties together is always difficult at the best of times," Mr Henry said.
"You need to be a psychologist sometimes more than a real estate agent.

"The secret of it was keeping everybody in check because everyone started to hear about real
estate agents knocking on doors and developers were offering them trips to Shanghai to sell now to
them."

In the end, an offer from a local developer of about $20 million was trumped by an "Asian-based
company" who agreed to pay close to $3 million per property as well as the deposit upfront.

"If you looked at what they would get for their original homes, it would probably be $1.4 million
maybe $1.5 million," Mr Henry said.

Save Our Suburbs president Tony Recsei said the trend was "a very serious concern" and people
who sold their suburban houses to developers were "selfish".

As well as increased congestion, he noted that "people who live in those new units will look onto the
gardens of the people that remain and the people that remain have got to look onto units".

"It is a theft of amenity," he said.

But in already heavily built-up areas such as Bondi Beach, selling to developers is not as
contentious.

For Ms Lockhart it will mean she can move closer to Royal North Shore Hospital where she educates
nurses. "I'm nervous, it is a big unknown and it is hard to know what will happen until the night," she
said.

IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

icre : Real Estate/Construction
reqrcr : Suggested Reading Construction/Real Estate | redit : Selection of Top
Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020141003eaa400058

Page154of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.