Major coup or selling the farm? Australia's free trade agreement with China

HD Major coup or selling the farm? Australia's free trade agreement with China
BY
Sabra Lane
WC 1,330 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

17 November 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation Transcripts
ABCTRS
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

TD

Australia's historic trade deal with China looks to offer opportunity to dairy and livestock producers and
resource companies and is a major coup according to some, but critics say Australia is selling off the farm.

LEIGH SALES, PRESENTER: Cheaper cars, discount electrical goods, booming exports - they're a few of
the benefits Australians can expect from an historic free trade agreement just signed with China.

The deal's been 10 years in the making and the Federal Government says it'll deliver around $20 billion
worth of benefits to the Australian economy.
But critics worry that it's selling off the farm. It allows greater access for Chinese students, workers and
businesses at a time when some Australians already feel that cashed-up foreign investors are crowding
them out of things like buying real estate, for example.

Political correspondent Sabra Lane was at Parliament House today for the signing of the agreement
between the Prime Minister Tony Abbott and the Chinese President Xi Jinping.

SABRA LANE, REPORTER: Australia's not seen anything like it. The biggest gathering of world leaders
here for the G20 and many of them opting to stay before and after the event to improve diplomatic ties,
trade and business links with Australia.
In Canberra today, Chinese President Xi Jinping met with the federal cabinet, addressed Parliament and
finalised negotiations on a multibillion-dollar free trade deal that the Federal Government hopes will be the
signature item in a week of positives.

President Xi addressed a special joint sitting of the Parliament this afternoon. He's only the second
Chinese leader to do so.
XI JINPING, CHINESE PRESIDENT (voiceover translation): After all, China is a large country of over 1.3
billion people. It is like a big guy in the crowd. Others will naturally wonder how the big guy will move and
act and be concerned that the big guy may push them around, stand in their way or even take up their
place. So here, let me address several key issues that are of interest to you. First, China remains
unshakeable in its resolve to pursue peaceful development. China will never develop self at the expense
of others.

SABRA LANE: The ANU's Professor Hugh White watched the speech in the public gallery.

HUGH WHITE, PROFESSOR OF STRATEGIC STUDIES, ANU: I thought he went out of his way to press
all the right buttons and say things he wanted Australians - he thought Australians would want to hear. He
also I think made it clear that there were things that China held dear and things that China was going to
be pretty tough on, but he wanted to put that in a very reassuring context. And even the way he described
China as the big kid in the room is a kind of a slightly jokey, slightly reassuring way of referring to the
undoubted fact of China's growing power.
SABRA LANE: Two-way trade's currently worth $150 billion. For more than a decade, Australia and
China have discussed a free trade deal. The talks started under John Howard. Australia's former
ambassador to China, Geoff Raby, was involved in earlier discussions.

Page199of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.GEOFF RABY, AUST. AMBASSADOR TO CHINA, 2007-2011: It may not be the great, changing,
transformative agreement that we had once hoped to do, but it's important that we do it, get it out of the
way in the bilateral relationship and we now have a platform that we can build on and expand it and enrich
it and deepen it over the coming years.
SABRA LANE: In today's deal, 93 per cent of what Australia exports to China will be tariff-free within four
years. Big winners include dairy and beef producers as well as the resources and energy sectors. But as
with other countries, Australia hasn't been able to budge China on cutting tariffs on rice, wheat, cotton or
sugar. Those things will be reviewed in three years. Overall, the former ambassador Geoff Raby argues
it'll be good for jobs, and late today, 14 commercial agreements were signed with a potential worth of $20
billion.
GEOFF RABY: I mean, I'm an avowed free trader, so I can't see that there are negatives in trade deals as
long as markets are being opened.
IAN MCCUBBIN, AUSTRALIA CHINA BUSINESS COUNCIL: It's understandable that certain sections will
not get the benefits that they had hoped for out of this agreement and there are always good reasons for
that and these agreements are of course negotiated in the context of domestic influences in each of the
countries. But that said, there is overwhelming benefit to the Australian economy from this agreement.

SABRA LANE: The Government will be mindful though that some in the community are cautious,
sceptical, even hostile about forging closer ties. Mr Abbott gained first-hand experience of that this
morning from radio shock-jock Alan Jones.

ALAN JONES, RADIO COMPERE: To win an election, you've got to pass the pub test. But can Tony
Abbott go and buy a farm in China?

TONY ABBOTT, PRIME MINISTER: Well ...

ALAN JONES: No! The answer's no, Prime Minister! The answer is no, he can't!

SABRA LANE: It is a huge deal, yet, another world leader ensured his agenda's also captured some of the
headlines.
BARACK OBAMA, US PRESIDENT: And if China and the United States can agree on this, then the world
can agree on this. We can get this done.
SABRA LANE: Barack Obama's fresh climate pact with China and weekend announcement of a $3
billion commitment to help poor nations adapt to global warming effectively gate-crashed the G20
agenda.

The Federal Government had pushed back on including climate change at the talks. The President's
speech forced it into the spotlight.

It also overshadowed Mr Obama's other main point on America's rebalancing of its strategic interests in
this region.

BARACK OBAMA: We'll deploy more of our most advanced military capabilities to keep the peace and
deter aggression.

PETER JENNINGS, AUSTRALIAN STRATEGIC POLICY INSTITUTE: I think it was a very strong speech
in terms of his continuing commitment to the rebalance, which is really his own signature policy and a very
strong statement of saying, "Don't imagine we're drifting. We really are very focused on this and the region
is important to the US."

SABRA LANE: For Professor White, today's speech from President Xi provided a sharp contrast.

HUGH WHITE: This was a speech which contained no barbs or jabs at the present government at all. He
didn't mention climate change in any significant way, for example. And the contrast there with the very
pointed criticism of the Government by President Obama could not be starker. Tony Abbott would have
been completely happy with every line in this speech.

SABRA LANE: It's a complex political juggling act for Australia, nimbly managing the significant
Australia-US alliance - Australia's most important strategic relationship - with that of the nation's most
important trading relationship, with China.

On that score, Peter Jennings, a former deputy secretary of Defence, who was in the audience for the
Obama speech, says the Federal Government's doing well.

Page200of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PETER JENNINGS: I mean, we have the signing of a free trade agreement today between Australia and
China. There is really no sense in a practical way that Australia is being asked by China or Washington to
favour one country over the other. And until we actually see that playing out in real, hard decisions that
governments have to make, I think we're travelling rather well. I would say the bilateral relationship
Australia has with China has frankly never been better and of course the alliance relationship with the US
has never been closer and so far we're managing this somewhat complex balancing act.

NS

RE

gdip : International Relations | e512 : Physical Trade | gpol : Domestic Politics | gtrade : Tariffs/Trade
Barriers | ntra : Transcripts | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News | gcat :
Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters
| nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | auscap : Australian Capital Territory | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

IPD FTA
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCTRS0020141117eabh0008e

Page201of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.