Chinese copper junior Emperor Range targets ASX

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Chinese copper junior Emperor Range targets ASX

IPO watch Scott Parker and Sally Rose
467 words
6 October 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
27
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Copper exploration hopeful Emperor Range Group is the latest Chinese company to take a tilt at
raising money through a listing on the Australian Securities Exchange for a highly speculative,
early-stage resource project.

The entrepreneur behind Emperor Range Group is Chen Yuhan, a government lawyer turned mineral
prospector, who wants to buy two unproven tenements in the Xinjiang Province of north-western
China.

"Under the Chinese system of resources classification the resources have been classified as
discovered," Mr Yuhan said. However, there is no classification yet on the size of the potential
resource.
Mr Yuhan is trying to raise $4.5 million through floating 25 per cent of his new company in an initial
public offer on the ASX. If the offer is successful, at listing, Emperor Range Group will have a market
capitalisation of $18.2 million.
Shares are priced at 20¢ apiece. Novus Capital is acting as lead arranger and broker on the offer. A
minimum $1 million is available to be allocated to on-market bidders through the on-market
bookbuilds service. The minimum parcel for investors to participate is $2000. The updated offer is
scheduled to close on November 3, with a target listing date of November 11.

An original prospectus targeted an early September float but the offer had to be extended due to a
lack of interest.Australians recruited
Of the money raised, almost $1 million will go towards listing costs, while $1.8 million is need to
complete the purchase of the two prospective tenements: Kyzyl-Leto Copper and Wutonggou
Copper/Gold.

It is estimated that the rest of the capital raised will fund early exploration and fund the cost of
applying for a mining licence on the Kysl-Let project. Kyzyl has an exploration licence area of 13.05
square kilometres and Wutonggou has an exploration licence area of 18.70 square kilometres.

Emperor Range Group estimates the money raised in the IPO will fund its working capital needs for
two years.
If an exploitable resource is found, the company intends to sub-contract the mining of the ore. Mr
Yuhan has recruited two Australian non-executive directors, Mick Billing and Brendan Connell.
The Emperor Range deal is the latest in a string of China-backed junior resource deals to target the
ASX in the past year with mixed results.
The December listing of U&DCoal was one of the worst-performing and controversy-plagued floats of
2013. After that, planned listings from HuaYi Resources and China Mining were both shelved.

Page122of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.After a few false starts, Fifth Element Resources finally got its IPO away in May, and since then has
perplexed market watchers with a 3880 per cent rise.

ergauz : Emperor Range Group Ltd.
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2114 : Copper Ore/Nickel Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
| imet : Mining/Quarrying
c1711 : Initial Public Offerings | c14 : Stock Listings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c02 :
Corporate Changes | c17 : Funding/Capital | c171 : Share Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141005eaa60000t

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page123of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.