Luck turns feral goats into gold

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Luck turns feral goats into gold

TAYLOR AUERBACH, BROKEN HILL
930 words
9 August 2014
Daily Telegraph
DAITEL
Telegraph
19
English
Copyright 2014 News Ltd. All Rights Reserved

A thriving new business is revitalising Broken Hill

AT sundown, their horns sparkle like diamonds.

Squealing, they charge in single file out of the dusty truck that carried them hundreds of kilometres
across the red outback.

Covered in an unappetising slurry of their own creation, the goats shower anyone within a stone’s throw
of the B-Double with cheeky spite.

But it is futile. Goats that land at this property never get the last laugh. Their arrival at Kevin Stubing’s
Broken Hill holding yards is not good news. At least not for them.
Down the rusty iron gangway they trot unknowingly into the great goat gulag. With Aussie pragmatism,
their human minders wrestle and shuffle them between gates, referring to them as “granny” and
“matured meat”.

There is beauty in the irreverence of the bush.

Today’s haul is 441 live feral goats, worth about $20,000.
Broken Hill, whose mining workforce has been decimated by machinery — has found a new way to
make a buck.
Conservative estimates say the mines have only 10 years of minerals left in them. Pubs and Chinese
restaurants tell that story better than most — brandishing “For Sale” signs to uninterested passers-by.

But the city famously built by its underground has discovered a precious new element above the
surface. In Broken Hill, goat is the new gold.

Kevin Stubing is the town’s only buyer. Station owners, sheep farmers and graziers from beyond every
horizon flock to his network of gated pens to cash in.

In a good week he greets 12,000 head of goat and sorts them personally by gender and size. Like the
patriarch of some remote meat mafia, he is the Goatfather.

“People in town ask me why I spend my days covered in shit,” says Mr Stubing. “But to me it’s the smell
of money.” The truck’s arrival is followed by a heady chorus of goat gospel. Turn your back on them
and you could be listening to a blooper reel from The Voice.

But as the seconds turn to minutes, like when the Titanic slipped into the Atlantic, the off-key yelps turn
to silence.

“I like the ones with blue eyes,” Kevin’s wife Sonja says from beneath a baseball cap.

Page108of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It’s late afternoon in the Silver City and, on cue, the goat horns are shining. “It’s just like digging up a
gold nugget,” Mr Stubing, an ex-miner, smiles. “Oil was once just black gooey stuff, now if you strike
oil you think ‘how lucky am I?’ Goats were seen as vermin, now they’re a commodity.” The introduced
species, feral from beard to tail, was once to the grazing land of Australia as beetles are to her cane
fields.

The “born survivors” live up to both their legendary appetites and their horny visage. They eat like
horses and breed like bunnies.

“If it wasn’t for the goats, in the hard times there were people that wouldn’t be able to stay on the land,”
says Mr Stubing. “For those that manage them, it’s like money in the bank.” Landowners across the
endless hectares of western NSW simply sit back and wait for the sneezing, snorting paychecks to
wander on to their properties.

John Blore, a local former sheep farmer, musters them up in staggering numbers using motorbikes and
gyrocopters.

Others head out to the paddocks just before July and collect their bounty from the leader of the caprine
Cosa Nostra Stubing. Goats keep the tax man happy in these parts.

Some locals spend half a day mustering and by sunset have enough money to buy a new vehicle.
Broken Hill Mayor Wincen Cuy, who likes his goat stewed, says without the grunting gold the town’s
population would have dwindled even further than it has (there were more people in Broken Hill in
1900).

“When we come into drought the goats are a form of stable income that can actually keep the people on
the property,” he says.

“They are a feral pest you can turn into an opportunity ... a way to instil an income in a very harsh
environment.
“Basically a no-brainer.” An exceedingly wise herd of feral goats has colonised a patch of mining
ground near the local RSPCA office. They march, symbolically, over train tracks that used to service a
flourishing industry.

About 5000 people were once employed by the mines of Broken Hill. There are now fewer than 600.

Street names like Oxide and Sulfide hint at the love once felt for the minerals below the Hillians’ feet.
Today, the slow-cooked goat curry on the menu at the Junction Hotel speaks more of the local vogue.

So prolific is the spread of wild goat mustering in the red centre, Australia has become the world’s
largest exporter of the meat. Roughly 30,000 tonnes is sent around the world each year, but some
stays in Sydney.

In Granville, yet another customer chows down on a $17.95 dinner of goat karahi from the Himalayas
restaurant — oblivious to its outback origins.

Meanwhile, back at Kevin Stubing’s yard, 900km to the northwest, another pack is weighed for
transport to a Halal abattoir in Nyngan.

Content and carefree, the goats munch on dry grass under the last rays of sunlight.

“It never ceases to amaze me how many goats there are out there,” Kevin Stubing says.He leans on
rusted iron and drinks in the view of a good day’s work.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document DAITEL0020140808ea890005j

Page109of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.