Chinese puzzle

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Perspective
Chinese puzzle

Christopher Joye
1,494 words
1 February 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
20
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

International relations Emphasis on trade with the US highlights the tensions between Australia's
economic interests and national security, writes Christopher Joye.

When the Foreign Minister, Julie Bishop, boldly told AFR Weekend that Australia's "best economic
friend" was "undeniably the US" and, pointedly, not our biggest trading partner, China, the stark
rank-ordering of relations sent another shock wave through Beijing.

It was especially difficult for Chinese officials to stomach after Prime Minister Tony Abbott had
declared that its arch-rival, Japan, which is a smaller trading partner and makes nothing like China's
contribution to Australia's immigration intake, was actually Australia's "best friend in Asia".

Many economists, policymakers and academics have assumed that because the value of exports and
imports flowing between Australia and China swamps all other states, the world's most populated
country is naturally our "most important" economic ally.

The emphasis on trade has accentuated an emerging debate about tensions between Australia's
economic interests, presumed to rest with China, and our national security, which largely relies on the
goodwill of America – via the ANZUS alliance – given Australia has no nuclear deterrence capability and
has, in the view of some US officials, chosen to "free-ride" off their taxpayers' far higher per capita
defence expenditure.

In the week since Bishop's comments, AFR Weekend has asked top analysts whether they agree with
her approach of accounting for both trade and investment, and publicly signalling a hierarchy which
puts the US at the top.

HSBC's chief economist, Paul Bloxham, says "both trading and investment linkages with other nations
are welfare-enhancing".

"Trade allows economies to focus on their comparative advantage in terms of production. Borrowing
and lending to the rest of the world allows investment in growth opportunities that might otherwise not
be funded due to lack of savings.

"Without strong trading relations with Asia, Australia may not have had access to cheap manufactured
goods which have undoubtedly lifted our living standards. Without strong financial relationships with
the West, Australia would not have had as much investment in the mining sector, which is now
boosting our incomes."

Factoring in trade and investment, as Bishop did, presents a striking contrast to the conventional
method. Analysis by AFR  Weekend shows that while China is undoubtedly Australia's top trading
partner, it sits fourth behind the US, UK and Japan once you recognise investment.Disparity in
investment

Page107of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.While Australia invests $434 billion into the US, both directly and via superannuation, we are
investing only 9 per cent, or $20 billion, into the comparatively closed Chinese economy, which has
historically posed rule of law and property right challenges for foreign business.
Americans are responsible for $618 billion of investment into Australia. In contrast, the Chinese have
allocated just $23 billion here. Other major funders of the debt and equity used by Australia's private
and public sector enterprises include the UK ($496 billion) and Japan ($126 billion).
Catherine Tanna, a Reserve Bank of Australia board member and chairman of gas company BG
Australia, says the US is crucial to developing Australia's emerging gas industry.

"The US and their companies have contributed a great deal to the technical capability of the industry
in Queensland," Ms Tanna says.
BG, a British company, is investing more than $20 billion in LNG projects in Queensland, including a
joint venture with US energy giant ConocoPhillips, which has multiple investments in the state.

Yet analysts say that crudely summing, dollar-for-dollar, the "flow" of trade with the "stock" of
investment is misleading. There is a difficult-to-disentangle duality between the activities, which
makes differentiating between Australia's interactions with China and the US awfully hard.Chinese
demand drives growth
"Chinese demand, particularly for our commodity exports, has been the biggest factor that has driven
Australia's continued economic growth through and since the GFC," says Monash University's
Stephen King.

"But we can only produce these exports with foreign investment in mines, railways, ports, processing
plants, and so on. And that investment comes from the US and, to a lesser extent, the UK. So both
are required for long-term prosperity in Australia and we cannot have one without the other."

UBS's chief economist, Scott Haslem, concurs. "It's not clear to me that it's beneficial to try to
distinguish between whether the US or China should be considered Australia's 'most significant
economic relationship'," he says. "Both countries are at the top of such a list, if there was one."
"China's dominant trade position is embodied in the fact that they take about one-third of all our
exports – the most of any country –  and likely set the price of three-quarters of our goods exports, while
the US plays a much more significant role in inbound investment and is the largest economy in the
world."
Haslem highlights that movements in US equity and bond markets, and the US Federal Reserve's
policy decisions, which exert tremendous influence over the global price of money, are also the
biggest external drivers of Australian asset prices.
"But China's impact in this area has intensified over recent years, as we see from current market
jitters around rising leverage and non-performing loan risks in its financial system," he says.
Westpac's China watcher, Huw McKay, agrees that "the US dominates pricing and sentiment in
equity and bond markets". He notes, however, that "monetary policy in the US impacts this pricing
directly in real time, whereas China affects Australia's pricing indirectly and with a lag through its
impact on their demand for our resources".China trumps US
McKay says he weights "China's real economy impact far higher, as fundamentals will assert their
influence on asset prices over time". And he thinks that while "China's financial footprint is tiny relative
to its real economic footprint", this will "change as it liberalises its capital account and it gravitates
towards more natural shares in financial transactions globally".

One economist who definitely disagrees with Bishop's rank-ordering is Barclays' Kieran Davies. "The
US has important financial links with Australia, but China trumps the US as the most significant
economic relationship for Australia," he claims.
"The rapid industrialisation of China and associated lift in living standards has underpinned the largest
and longest commodities boom in Australia's history, providing an unprecedented boost to Australia's
income."
"Some of this windfall is cyclical and the best of the boom is well behind us, but China's
transformation has led to a structural rise in commodity prices that will continue to benefit Australia for
many years."

Page108of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Combined with China's role as the leading global manufacturer, which has kept a lid on consumer
prices, Davies says this "makes China's policy settings hugely important to Australia, as the
management of its economy will be a major influence on our medium-term outlook".

There is no unanimity on how Australia's ties with each nation might evolve over time.
UBS's Haslem believes that while "it's easy to think China's 'influence' could grow, there is just as
much chance that the US's influence will grow faster, through its ability to better utilise advances in 3D
manufacturing and cloud technology in an environment of lower (shale-induced) energy prices".
Professor King predicts that Australia's "current 'export dependence' on China will fade in the next
decade". "This basically reflects that I do not believe China can keep growing for another 10 to 15
years at its current pace. So China will still be a key Asian trading partner, but I would expect other
countries – possibly India and African nations – to emerge."
On the other hand, HSBC's Bloxham sees "Australia's economic relationship with China growing
much larger over coming years".

"This is already set in train for the next five years, as new capacity comes on line in the resources
sector to meet Chinese demand. But Australia's links to China are also expected to broaden, with
strong demand for tourism and education services, as well as agricultural products, as China's middle
class incomes rise."
Missing from this analysis is the fact that ongoing trade with China is predicated on a stable national
security environment. Financial market commentators frequently take security as an exogenous given,
when history suggests that major power conflict is a constant. If security is a condition precedent for
prosperity, then there is a case that Australia's indivisible economic and defence nexus with the US
supersedes all others.

Bishop was right to point out the hazards of trade-based judgments of Australia's relations and the
need to acknowledge investment. Singling out America as our "best economic friend" is nevertheless
a more contentious claim that only stacks up by simplistically imputing equality between the trade and
investment data. It is easier to embrace if one thinks security enables trade and investment.

with John Kehoe

NS

RE

PUB
AN

nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E
Executive News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | jap : Japan | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140131ea210001z

Page109of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.