Uranium -enriched alliance

OPINION & VIEWPOINT
Uranium-enriched alliance

12 September 2014
DNA - Daily News & Analysis
DNADAI
English
Copyright 2014. Diligent Media Corporation Ltd.

Harsh V Pant

SE
HD
BY
WC 932 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Canberra and Delhi have buried their past to open a new chapter in bilateral relations

TD

Burying their past differences, Australia and India opened a new chapter in bilateral ties when during
Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott's visit to India the two nations signed the long-awaited agreement
on civil nuclear cooperation that entitles India to buy uranium from Australia after years of negotiation. It
was Abbott's predecessor, Julia Gillard, who had paved the way in 2012 for a uranium safeguards
agreement that has finally allowed Australia to export uranium to India. The safeguards pact is viewed as
critical by those who have opposed the changing Australian policy of nuclear trade with a country like
India that has not signed the Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT). By underlying strict requirements on the safe
use of nuclear fuel and specifying regulations in consonance with the global nuclear regime, Canberra is
keen to signal its continued adherence to international nuclear standards even as it reaches out to New
Delhi to give a boost to its mining industry. Though the safeguards pact took almost two years to finalise,
the change of policy by Canberra has been a remarkable development and needs to be recognised as
such.
Australia has the world's largest deposits of uranium, and major Australian mining companies are
looking to expand production as the global demand for nuclear power grows over the next decade. India's
civilian nuclear industry is expanding, as the number of operating plants is expected to increase from 20
to more than 60 over the next decade. Gillard was successful in persuading her Labour Party in 2011 to
overturn the party policy of opposing uranium sales to a nation that was not a signatory to the NPT,
despite significant opposition. The Labour government's decision to reverse the Australian policy of
allowing the sale of uranium to India as enunciated by its predecessor had been a big blow to
Australia-India ties. It was Kevin Rudd, the former Australian Prime Minister, who had imposed the ban,
on the grounds that India was not a signatory to the NPT.

Washington had to pull out all the stops in convincing the Julia Gillard government that, given the strategic
importance of India, Canberra needed to change its policy on uranium sales. And Gillard could point to
the US-India civil nuclear pact that has brought India into the global nuclear mainstream.
Australia has the world's largest deposits of uranium, so it always made economic sense for it to sell
more to an energy-hungry India. Moreover, it is difficult for Canberra to justify a ban on uranium exports
to India, a fellow democracy and a country with impeccable nonproliferation credentials, while continuing
to send uranium to China, which has been the most important factor in the weakening of the
nonproliferation regime in view of its relationship with Pakistan. Australia has 22 bilateral nuclear
cooperation pacts with countries, including the US, China, Taiwan and South Korea.

Even as other nuclear-supplier nations have been lining up to sign civil nuclear pacts with India, Australia
found itself marginalised. After the Nuclear Suppliers Group, of which Australia is a member, decided to
carve out an exception for nuclear materials exports to India in 2008 by granting it a special waiver, there
was no logical reason for Australia to continue with its policy of a ban on uranium sales to India.

Moreover, the geostrategic environment in the Indo-Pacific has undergone a rapid transformation in
recent years, with the rapid rise of China. Washington has been working to transform the US-Australian
partnership from "an Asia-Pacific alliance to an Indo-Pacific alliance." Australia's ties with China have also
been difficult in recent years and building bridges with India underlines the evolving strategic reality in the

Page172of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.region. The two states have a shared interest in managing the Indo-Pacific commons, including the very
important sea lanes of communication. Closer maritime cooperation between New Delhi and Canberra is
crucial in managing the growing turbulence in the Indian Ocean region. In a sign of growing defence ties
between the two sides, AK Antony became the first Indian defence minister to visit Australia in 2013.
Bilateral trade between Australia and India is growing and is projected to reach $40 billion by 2016 as
negotiations on the Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement continue. India is now the fourth
largest market for Australian exports. As the Indian economy grows, Australia will continue to be a major
supplier of minerals and fuel. Despite recent tensions regarding attacks on students of Indian origin,
Australia has continued to grow in importance as a destination for higher studies. The Indian community is
Australia's fastest-growing immigrant community.

It was in 2009 that the two sides decided to elevate their ties to a "strategic partnership." But as is true of
all such 'strategic' partnerships, nothing substantive has come out of it. Indian bureaucracy has mastered
the art of scuttling momentum in any relationship, and India-Australia is no exception.

With Tony Abbott's visit, Australia has underscored its commitment to its ties with India and signalled its
seriousness about a robust partnership. It is time now for New Delhi to reciprocate. The last trip to
Australia by an Indian Prime Minister was in 1986, 26 years ago. There is more to the India-Australia
relationship than "cricket, Commonwealth and a common language." And New Delhi should not be shy of
taking advantage of this growing convergence.

The author teaches at King's College, London

IN
NS

RE

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
gdip : International Relations | nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | gcat : Political/General News | gpir :
Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive
News Filter
india : India | austr : Australia | canbrr : Canberra | ndelh : New Delhi | delhi : Delhi | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | auscap : Australian Capital Territory | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | indsubz : Indian Subcontinent |
sasiaz : Southern Asia

PUB Diligent Media Corporation Ltd.
AN

Document DNADAI0020140911ea9c0004d

Page173of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.