Asian model tests western traditions

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Wealth
Asian model tests western traditions

STIRLING LARKIN, GLOBAL INVESTOR
1,081 words
23 August 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
33
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

A new book highlights the challenge posed by the rise of China In their recently published book, The
Fourth Revolution, two senior newsmen from The Economist, John Micklethwait and Adrian
Wooldridge, discuss the global race to reinvent the state and posit that a rapidly modernising Asian
authoritarian model — seen most prominently in Singapore and China — is seriously challenging our
liberal democratic ways.

They suggest that whoever wins this contest in modern governance and leadership stands the best
chance of dominating the global economy hereafter.

Beyond any abstract or Orwellian interpretations, this work is extremely important for the Australian
economy, markets and investors, as it is one of the first and rare contributions that pragmatically
explores what a successful China and Asia will look like, not in some theoretical future but indeed
soon.

From where we are standing, it is difficult for Australian institutional and ultra high net worth (UHNW)
investors to envisage: ● The Chinese renminbi ascending to the status of a global reserve currency,
or: ● How decisions made by Temasek Holdings — the investment company owned by the
government of Singapore — could seriously affect Australia’s terms of trade, purchasing power parity
or regional competitiveness in areas such as energy, agribusiness and transport.

But these investors need only look back just shy of a century ago, when it was unconscionable to think
that Australia’s terms of trade would not rely on the robustness of the British pound, which was backed
by gold bullion reserves that were supported at the time by the resilience of the British Empire.

History teaches us that many investors throughout the Australian community lost significantly when the
omnipotence of the British pound was subsequently challenged in the late 1920s and early 30s.

This sea change saw domestic direct and listed investments suffer, life insurance policies pegged to
the currency debased and incomes reliant on the convertibility of the Australian to British pound
detrimentally degraded.

What this experience teaches us in Australia is that today, although it is likely that the US dollar and
economy — at present the world’s leading economic powerhouse — will continue to play a leading
role, the rise of Asian authoritarian markets should be taken very seriously.

Strong considerations should be made when developing long-term domestic, regional and international
investment decisions not only for the economy but also at the individual investor level.

This would not only provide a natural hedge, but also assist in broadening the opportunities that
investors could access in the foreseeable future.
In Taiwan this could mean considering equity, debt or credit market investments related to companies
such as Chailease Holding (5871: TT), which specialises in direct financing services, such as leasing,
instalment sales and trade factoring.

Page246of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Or companies such as China Life Insurance (2823: TT), which as well as offering traditional insurance
solutions, offers life insurance funds such as securities, real estate investments and loan services to
Chinese, Cantonese and Taiwanese communities.

Because of the inherent rigid controls on insurance and trade financing solutions across both
democratic (Taiwan) and communist (China) jurisdictions, entities such as these enjoy competitive
advantages that liberal democratic, free market competitors do not. Airports of Thailand (AOT: TB), for
instance, under the current military junta’s supervision, is expected by Western and Asian analysts
alike to perform well as a risk-adjusted investment in 2014 as the company generates strong cash
flows from the opening of low-cost terminals at Don Muang (DMK) airport.
The junta has also introduced measures that will see easier entry into the country for citizens of China
with the approval of a special visa-free entry program.
As Chinese are Thailand’s fastest-growing tourist base, this autocratic decision is seen as a boon for
the DMK airport as well as the Thai economy.

Unlike BHP Billiton, which is looking to dissolve its international holdings to extract greater value within
its free market listed vehicle, Chinese domiciled groups such as China Merchants Holdings (144: HK)
are looking to “roll up” a greater number of industrial investments, directly and through subsidiaries.

They are looking to do so in areas such as airport cargo handling, port transportation, toll roads,
shipping and even divergent businesses such as securities and property investing.
Despite China’s President Xi Jinping’s reining in of excesses, the future prospects for entertainment in
Macau, for example, remain alluring.
Groups such as Melco Crown Entertainment Limited (6883: HK) and MGM China (2282: HK), albeit
challenged in the short term, continue to be well placed in the long term in respect to both growth and
return on investment.

Of course, it is not only in Asian autocratic economies where such large-scale entertainment
complexes can flourish but the unique status of government as a stakeholder in Macau adds a level of
permanence that, say, those in Nevada or Atlantic City do not and cannot share.
More holistically, if a successful China and authoritarian Asian model continues to challenge the
existing monetary system’s status quo, UHNW and institutional investors need to position accordingly
today to ensure that their cash investments are “fungible” across a wider collection of currencies.

As Argentina and Russia recently experienced, having corporate and sovereign debt priced and
denominated in US dollars has ramifications when jurisprudence, access to markets and geopolitics
intertwine. China, which has been blatantly aware of this, has made concerted efforts to allow greater
access to the renminbi not only for international trade but also for capital markets.

The Monetary Authority of Singapore, which has wanted to enjoy the best of both worlds, has placed
significant resources towards facilitating trade, investment and speculation in multiple denominations,
often over the exact same underlying asset or entity. This has meant that, unlike the Reserve Bank of
Australia, the Bank of England or Bank of Japan, the MAS has had the capacity to directly support
commerce, trade and investment not only at a macro-economic level but even at a company-specific
one.
They also tellingly remunerate their top staffers in the vicinity of $US2 million-plus ($2.1m) a year,
which is more akin to a top-tier investment banker in the City of London or Manhattan than a public
servant working for a ministerial department.

Micklethwait and Wooldridge’s conversation is an eye-opener not only for avid readers but for
Australian investors too.

Larkin Group is a wholesale wealth adviser focusing on high-yielding global
investments.www.larkingroup.com.au

NS
RE

PUB

gcat : Political/General News
china : China | austr : Australia | taiwan : Taiwan | thail : Thailand | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
News Ltd.

Page247of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document AUSTLN0020140822ea8n000ba

Page248of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.