Mine for $10, says ex-Tinkler exec

The Australian

HD Mine for $10, says ex-Tinkler exec
CR
WC 443 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

3 October 2014
00:00
theAustralian.com.au
NLAUSW
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

FORMER Nathan Tinkler lieutenant Hamish Collins is looking to capitalise on his old boss’s demise.
Mr Collins was chief executive of the Tinkler-controlled listed coal companyAston Resources, which
housed the Maules Creek coal project and which was taken over in 2012 by Whitehaven Coal.

TD

But a lesser-known part of the old Tinkler empire, copper interests near Mt Isa owned by the privately
held Aston Metals, has again drawn in Mr Collins.

Through Aeon Metals — the Sydney-based junior he now runs — he has bought Aston’s Walford Creek
copper project from the administrator for just $10.

The catch is that former Tinkler creditor Orchard Capital — now OCP Holdings — has taken a 16 per cent
stake in Aeon.
And if Aeon has not paid back $20 million of what was $25m of debt owed in the next three years, OCP
gets the project.

“We think the market will turn in that time,” Mr Collins said in Melbourne yesterday. “This (Walford Creek)
is probably the best copper-zinc project in Australia, in terms of size and quality.”
Aeon, in which the Millner-controlled Washington H Soul Pattinson has an 8 per cent stake, leveraged Mr
Collins’ knowledge of Walford Creek to strike a deal with OCP, the senior secured creditor, to continue
proving up the project. The acquisition was finalised in June.

As happened with many of Mr Tinkler’s employees and business partners, Mr Collins fell out with the
former tycoon as the empire crumbled under its huge debt.

Mr Collins sued Whitehaven for $188m over Maules Creek and the pair settled for an undisclosed sum
last year.
Shares in Aeon, which also has copper projects near Gladstone, doubled after the acquisition, pushing
the junior’s market value to $80m. But the rally was not sustained in the past month, when continued
negative market sentiment brought the shares back down to where they traded before the acquisition. If
all goes to plan, and using $8m from a recent raising, Aeon hopes to continue drilling that will prove up a
resource at the prospect and support a pre-feasibility study by the end of next year.
Walford Creek, sold to Aston (as Mr Collins searched for copper assets for Mr Tinkler) by Tom Eadie’s
Copper Strike, is a Western Mining discovery near the soon to be closed Century zinc mine.
Century is run by the Melbourne-based, Hong Kong-listed, Chinese-controlled MMG Resources.
Development of the project using Century infrastructure would appear a logical move, though Mr Collins
says so far there have been no discussions between Aeon and MMG.

CO astnrz : Aston Resources Limited | ausq : Aeon Metals Limited | whcmpl : Whitehaven Coal Limited
IN

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i1 : Energy | i111
: Coal Mining
gcat : Political/General News

NS

Page289of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document NLAUSW0020141002eaa2000ur

Page290of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.