Community anger over BHP coalmine plan

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

TheNation
Community anger over BHP coalmine plan

Matt Chambers, Sarah-Jane Tasker
493 words
9 April 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
1
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

BHP Billiton has revealed plans to build what is tipped to be the world’s biggest underground coalmine
beneath the fertile Liverpool Plains near Gunnedah, hardening local opposition to the project. The
mining giant has kick-started the environmental approval process for the contentious Caroona thermal
coalmine 40km southeast of Gunnedah, submitting documents to federal and state governments
showing it could produce 10 million tonnes of thermal coal a year, or more than 5 per cent of
Australia’s current exports.
But the mine and a neighbouring site planned by China Shenhua have sparked opposition from farmers
in the region, including Rod Grant, who acccused the mining giant of misleading the town.

The Liverpool Plains has the highest agricultural productivity in NSW and Continued on Page 4
Continued from Page 1 accounts for about $280 million of agricultural production a year. BHP says it
will protect water reserves and agricultural land in the area. If the mine goes ahead, it would bring in
$US700 million ($750m) of export revenue a year, even at current depressed thermal coal prices.

Yesterday, farmers said they were surprised at the scale of the mine and raised further concerns about
the potential impact on the region’s water. Mr Grant, a farmer with two properties near the proposed
mine, said he was shocked at its extent and how far under the floodplains it went. He said he was not
opposed to mining outright but was concerned about the impact of such a huge development.
BHP’s head of NSW thermal coal assets, Peter Sharpe, said environmental studies showed the
proposed mine would not affect the alluvial irrigation aquifers essential for agricultural production in the
area. “We will only mine at Caroona if we can satisfy the strict environmental requirements for each
stage of assessment and show real benefits of the project for the economy and community.” BHP has
said it could start construction at Caroona in 2018 if government and board approvals were received,
which would mean production would start in 2021. At a rate of 10 million tonnes a year Caroona would
be by far the nation’s biggest underground coalmine and potentially the world’s biggest. The world’s
biggest mine, in Russia, produces 9 million tonnes a year.

There is a chance Caroona, even if it overcomes local opposition, would not be built by BHP, with the
miner understood to have approached potential buyers or partners. Getting government approvals
would substantially boost the value of the mine in any asset sale.

Not all locals are opposed to the mine. Gunnedah Chamber of Commerce president Anne Luke, said:
“There is recognition in the business community that coalmining may well bring economic prosperity.”
Farmer Tim Duddy, who is chairman of the Caroona Coal Action Group and whose property is 700m
from the proposed mine, said the community was alarmed by admissionsprivate bores would be
affected.

CO
IN

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i111 : Coal Mining | i1 : Energy | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i211 :
Metal Ore Mining

Page69of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE
PUB
AN

greg : Regional Politics | npag : Page-One Stories | gcat : Political/General News | gpir :
Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140408ea490005l

Page70of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.