Clarence grabs a bargain deal

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Clarence grabs a bargain deal

Matthew Cranston
343 words
30 October 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
52
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Developer Peter Fahey's Clarence Property Group has bought a massive residential development
site at Lennox Head from Royal Bank of Scotland for a 75 per cent discount to its 2007 purchase
price.
The 80 hectare site on Hutley Drive was purchased by failed developer Petrac in a joint venture with
Valad for $60 million.

When the global financial crisis hit, Petrac failed and RBS, which was the mortgagee, took possession
of the property which has a master plan for more than 500 lots.
Clarence Property Group has just scooped up the site for $15 million and is likely to develop both
the residential lots and a small shopping centre on the site.
CBRE's Tim Grossman and Nicholas Heaton, alongside Byron Bay Property Sales' Jeremy Bennett
and Graham Dunn, negotiated the deal.
The deal is a major win for Clarence Property Group, which will place the development into the
Westlawn Property Trust.
Clarence Property Group managing director Peter Fahey declined to comment on the transaction.
Mr Fahey has been on a buying spree, picking up residential land bargains along the east coast of
Australia at a time when there has been strong competition from both private and listed developers.

In 2012 he snapped up 21 hectares at Casuarina Beach, close to the Queensland-NSW border, for
$6.5 million in cash.

The former financier of that Casuarina land, Bank of Scotland International, was owed well over
$10 million. Mr Fahey then spent $10 million on upfront infrastructure and has sold the majority of the
lots at a profit.
Mr Fahey is developing a strata title office park at the Gold Coast's Robina Quays as well. Clarence
Property Group's Westlawn Property Trust has also been selling office towers, including its half
share in the Octagon in Sydney's Parramatta for about $83 million to Hong Kong's Longbow Holdings
this month. Last year it sold its 307 Queen Street office tower in Brisbane for about $120 million to
GDI Property Group, which listed.

IN
NS

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter

Page37of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | tasman : Tasmania | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141029eaau0001b

Page38of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.