Caltex and Goodman attract close scrutiny for block trades

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Caltex and Goodman attract close scrutiny for block trades

Bridget Carter, trades
503 words
19 June 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
20
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE largest shareholders of oil refiner Caltex and property developer Goodman Group are under
close scrutiny for potential block trades worth a collective $3.8 billion after Shell’s $6.1bn exit from
Woodside Petroleum this week.
Should sovereign wealth fund China Investment Corporation and energy giant Chevron exit
Goodman Group and Caltex, they will follow Royal Dutch Shell’s selldown of its 19 per cent stake in
Woodside Petroleum on Tuesday, $3.2bn of which was subject to a block trade.

The value of block trades to date this year is close to $5.2bn, according to figures from investment
bank Citi, which was one of the banks involved in the sale of the Shell stake.

The bank’s managing director of Capital Markets Origination, John McLean, said Shell’s selldown
demonstrated that there was a lot of liquidity in the system.

“Conditions are certainly good,” he said.

“Our market is interesting. There are good interest rates and high yields and the currency … all it
does is strengthen at the moment.” Adding to the deals could be sales by vendors of interests in
companies they have recently floated.
Private equity firm Pacific Equity Partners alone has close to $2.3bn tied up in its recently listed
companies, including Spotless and Veda.
Its 69 per cent stake in Energy Developments, worth about $592 million, is not believed to be
subject to escrow, and while some have suggested that company could be the next to sell, others
are sceptical because the share price has stagnated.
With China Investment Corporation’s 9.75 per cent of Goodman Group and Chevron’s 50 per cent
holding in Caltex, investment banking advisers were likely sounding them out about selling down their
interests, according to market sources.

CIC’s $870m-odd interest in the industrial property giant Goodman has been subject to speculation
for some time, but despite the share price trading strongly, an analyst questioned where the Chinese
sovereign wealth fund would reinvest the money, given it was partial to Australian exposure.

Senior resources analyst Mark Taylor from Morningstar said the Caltex block was much larger than
Shell’s and a block trade was possible depending on tax arrangements.

“I think Chevron would be quite happy to exit that position if the price was right.” One Caltex analyst,
who did not want to be named, said Caltex would also not have the money to buy back stock, as was
the case with Woodside, and the size of Chevron’s stake (around $2.95bn) would make it challenging
to sell down in its entirety.

A foreign trade buyer could face issues from the Foreign Investment Review Board.

Page23of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Given Chevron’s Asian refining presence, it had a strategic interest in Caltex, where the company
wanted to have a route to market.Caltex’s share price had recently increased, and with the currency
currently favourable, it would be a good time to sell from a trading perspective.

chinvm : China Investment Corp. Ltd. | magmgp : Goodman Group | wodpet : Woodside Petroleum
Ltd | socal : Chevron Corporation | rnlp : Royal Dutch Shell PLC
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | i81502 :
Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150206 : Investment Trusts/Funds | i815020602 : Real Estate
Investment Trusts | icre : Real Estate/Construction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction | ifinal :
Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | ireest : Real Estate | isover : Sovereign Wealth Fund
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140618ea6j00024

CO

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

Page24of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.