Tiny counterfeit busters prove the genuine article

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Tiny counterfeit busters prove the genuine article

269 words
15 July 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
35
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

INVISIBLE “tracer” particles could stop you from inadvertently being sold a fake when shopping for
high-quality products.
Anti-counterfeiting technology firm YPB Group is already deploying the anti-counterfeit solution in
China, the world’s biggest source of counterfeit products.

The tracer particles can be used in plastics, paper, inks, textiles and coatings, and cannot be
destroyed or damaged because they form part of the product.

They can be detected by a scanner which can be used at any point in the supply chain, from
manufacture to the point of sale.

The scanner confirms the authenticity of the product.

The tracer particles, which are as tiny as the particles polluting the air of Beijing, are made from rare
earth elements. A rare earth element or rare earth metal is one of a set 17 chemical elements in the
periodic table.

YPB is also developing a smart phone app that will enable consumers to authenticate a product as
real or fake.

YPB hopes to spread its anti-counterfeiting technology across Asia and has raised more than $3.7
million through a public offer of shares ahead of an expected listing on the Australian Securities
Exchange.

YPB chief executive John Houston said the spread of counterfeit goods – such as fake
pharmaceuticals, wine, cigarettes and even salt – was an enormous, pervasive and growing problem
globally.
“Historically, it’s been largely isolated to Asia, and China in particular. Now it’s starting to pervade
other markets,” Mr Houston said.YPB is an abbreviation of “You Pin Bao” in Chinese, which means
“Excellent Brand Protection”.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020140715ea7f00007

Page40of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.