Mick Davis likely to keep close eye on Aquila takeover

Drilling Down Under; Blog

SE
HD Mick Davis likely to keep close eye on Aquila takeover
BY
Angela Kean
WC 1,065 words
PD
7 May 2014
SN
SNL Metals & Mining Daily: East Edition
SC
SNLMMDE
VOL Issue: 80407
LA
CY
LP

English
Copyright 2014. SNL Financial LC

TD

With high-quality iron ore and coking coal assets in the politically stable jurisdiction of Australia, it is
perhaps not surprising that Aquila Resources Ltd. is the target of an unsolicited takeover attempt by
China's Baosteel Resources International Co. Ltd. However, there is every chance that a rival bidder may
emerge given the attractiveness of Aquila's assets.
MineLife senior resource analyst Gavin Wendt told SNL Metals & Mining it is likely that ex-Xstrata boss
Mick Davis is watching the Aquila bid "particularly closely."

"I would find it surprising, given the quality of the assets, that Mick Davis' group hasn't at least looked at
them; they would've had to," he said.

Aquila announced May 5 that an Australian subsidiary of Baosteel, in partnership with a subsidiary of rail
freight operator Aurizon Holdings Ltd., has launched a A$1.4 billion takeover bid for the company.
Aquila, which had a prebid market capitalization of just more than A$1 billion and a May 2 closing share
price of A$2.45, received a A$3.40 per share cash offer for all the shares that the two companies do not
yet own.

The news sent shares soaring to a high of A$3.41 the day of the announcement, an almost 46% increase
on the low of A$2.34 recorded May 2. Aquila's shares have since settled back to A$3.37 as of 3:11 p.m.
Sydney time.

Wendt said any group that is going to bid for Aquila's assets is going to need to have "reasonable
confidence" that it can access project financing to turn the company's Eagle Downs hard coking coal
project in Queensland's Bowen Basin and its West Pilbara iron ore project in Western Australia into a
commercial reality.

"That's the big advantage that Baosteel has, but of course somebody like Mick Davis could access
funding with a click of the fingers because he has run major companies, he's got a tremendous support
base and he knows how to turn large bulk commodity projects into commercial realities," he said.
"I'm not necessarily saying that he is going to come out with a bid, but I think he is the sort of potential
rival bidder that could emerge."

Even with Baosteel already owning a 20% interest in Aquila, Wendt believes an alternative bidder may still
join the race.
For Baosteel, it is the perfect deal because it provides the company with access to two much-needed
bulk commodities to support its steelmaking operations.

"Due to market circumstances this has provided them with the opportunity to acquire these sorts of assets
at effectively a fire sale price," Wendt said. "I think it's a bid that Aquila's shareholders are going to like
and it's a tremendous acquisition for a company like Baosteel."
Aquila has struggled in recent times to lock in the roughly A$4.5 billion needed to fund its share of the
50%-owned Eagle Downs and 50%-owned West Pilbara iron ore developments, and is unlikely to be able
to access that level of funding anytime soon given market conditions, according to industry watchers.

Page82of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Essentially, Baosteel and Aurizon's joint bid presents a very attractive "cash exit" for shareholders, as well
as Executive Chairman and CEO Tony Poli, who collectively owns a 40% stake in Aquila with his
founding partner.

Regardless of who the actual final bidder is, the general consensus is that a buyout of Aquila will proceed.

"I think it's fairly likely that there will be some sort of deal go-ahead, perhaps not in its current form, but in
some form," an analyst who did not want to be named told SNL.

Meanwhile, Wendt said he does not see shareholders knocking back the offer. "It's a very generous [offer]
in the context of the current market," he said. "So I think it's going to be difficult for directors, after giving
the offer consideration, to go back to shareholders and say, 'Look, don't accept it,' and even if that is the
case, I still think shareholders are most likely to accept the offer anyhow."

Certainty of infrastructure development

Aurizon and Baosteel have struck agreements for the proposed development of a 432-kilometer heavy
haul rail line linking to a new deepwater port to be built at Anketell Point on Western Australia's Pilbara
coast.
The new mine, rail and port system is planned to have an initial capacity of 40 million tonnes per annum
of direct shipping iron ore.
The analyst who did not want to be named said it is a positive for the Australian mining sector because it
increases the likelihood that rail and port infrastructure will be built.

"I think Baosteel and Aurizon will be willing to allow third-party access and therefore it will improve the
economics of some of the other players in that area," the analyst said.

However, while Wendt agrees that the deal will allow the development of appropriate infrastructure in the
Pilbara region to proceed, he does not believe Baosteel will want to provide third-party access.

"Most companies tend to look after No. 1, and they don't want anything that is going to potentially impinge
upon the efficient running of their own iron ore operation," he said. "You have to say, on the balance of
probability, that the Chinese won't want to share their railway line. They'd probably have the view that
'We've built this thing and we want it for our own purposes and we want flexibility around using it.'"
If Baosteel is successful in its bid for Aquila, the deal will mark the biggest entry into an undeveloped iron
ore project in Australia by a Chinese investor since CITIC Pacific bought into the US$10 billion Sino Iron
project, Reuters reported May 5.
The company first invested in Aquila in 2009 via a placement and at the same time struck a cooperation
agreement relating to the company's projects, including the 2.2 billion tonne West Pilbara project.
Baosteel CFO Wu Yiming reportedly said that after five years, the company has not seen any projects
started. "So we have been very patient, but we've become frustrated," Yiming said.

CO aqures : Aquila Resources Ltd. | qrntnl : Aurizon Holdings Limited | dorval : Aurizon Mines Ltd | hclamn :

IN

NS

Hecla Mining Co
i111 : Coal Mining | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | imet :
Mining/Quarrying | i1 : Energy | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining |
i71 : Railroads | icargo : Freight/Cargo Transport | irailtr : Road/Rail Transport | irfrght : Railroad Freight |
itsp : Transportation/Shipping
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | reqrmm : Suggested Reading
Metals/Mining | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | redit : Selection of Top
Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
IPD Deal Announcement
PUB SNL Financial LC
AN

Document SNLMMDE020140512ea570000j

Page83of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.