Oz billionaire delivers the beef

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Oz billionaire delivers the beef

685 words
30 May 2014
The New Zealand Herald
NZHLD
C014
English
(c) 2014 The New Zealand Herald

Chinese shoppers are calling for steak, says Andrew Forrest ... so he's packing a bagful
2014 Bloomberg News Rebecca Keenan May 29 (Bloomberg) - CHINA is so desperate for good beef
that Australian billionaire Andrew Forrest will be taking sample parcels of steak in his luggage on his
next trip.

After recently visiting Chinese supermarkets and seeing limited Australian beef available, Forrest,
who made his fortune exporting iron ore to China, returned home and developed a plan, including
buying a processing company, to boost shipments of the meat from his country, the world's
third-largest exporter.
"In China, I am being asked, 'Andrew where can I get high quality reliable beef'," says Forrest in the
Perth office of his Fortescue Metals Group, Australia's third-biggest iron ore company.

When he goes back next month, "I am going to take it in and give everyone a pack".
Forrest, who this year bought Western Australia's only licensed beef exporter to China, says
Australia could boost its production by 50 per cent if it secures a supply position in the Chinese
market.
He sees "longer term, higher sustained prices" driven by steady demand from China.
China, already the world's biggest consumer of meat, could double beef imports by 2018 as rising
wealth changes diets, Rabobank International said in December.

Forrest is considering buying more farms or companies to help boost output.
He met Chinese premier Li Keqiang last month to discuss an agricultural partnership under which
Australia would boost food supplies to China.

He is also having talks with Australia's Agriculture Minister, Barnaby Joyce, about the partnership and
has contacted state and territory ministers.
Australia, which last year exported 1.1 million tonnes of beef, putting it third in the world behind India
and Brazil, has an industry worth A$12.3 billion ($13.4 billion) , according to Meat and Livestock
Australia.
China's meat imports accounted for 9.2 per cent of world meat consumption last year, up from 6.8
per cent in 2000, the Commonwealth Bank of Australia said in January.
"The middle class is now the size of America and it is growing by 28 million people a year and if you
think about how many extra mouths that means, it's quite mind-blowing," says Rabobank animal
proteins analyst Matthew Costello.
"China has a declining local production and their herd is declining because of urbanisation."

Page42of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.A 2011 report from the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation says the world may need
200 million more tonnes of livestock products every year by 2050 as its population grows to 9 billion
from 7 billion.
The purchase of Harvey Beef, with the capacity to process 4500 cows a week at its plant 140km
south of Perth, marked Forrest's return to the industry.

He grew up on his family's Minderoo ranch, which at 225,080ha is almost double the size of New
York City. It was established in 1878 by his great, great uncle, Sir John Forrest, first premier of
Western Australia, and his two brothers.

"It is a very easy industry for me to work in because of my childhood and background," Forrest says.
That tie also prompted him to give millions of dollars to struggling farmers in the state.

"We have now stepped out of that and said it hasn't helped. It is not the long-term solution. The
long-term solution is to change the market."
Forrest joins bigger iron-ore rival Rio Tinto Group in holding agriculture assets.

Rio owns six ranches in the Pilbara region of Western Australia and says that with 24,000 head of
cattle it is the largest owner in the state.
China's food industry has been racked by scandals ranging from tainted milk to the substitution of rat
meat for mutton, driving consumer preference for imported fresh food.

"Food safety is a really big concern and for very good reason," says Forrest.

When people in the Asian region wanted to eat meat, "they need to know the origin is clean, secure
and trustworthy".-Bloomberg

30BeefMF
i412 : Animal Slaughtering/Processing | i4122 : Meat Processing | i0 : Agriculture | i41 :
Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
c312 : External Markets | c21 : Output/Production | reqraf : Suggested Reading Agriculture/Forestry |
reqrfb : Suggested Reading Food/Beverages/Tobacco | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial
News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | redit :
Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
china : China | austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
W & H Newspapers Limited
Document NZHLD00020140529ea5u00030

RF
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page43of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.