Ruffles in hands of Chinese investor

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Ruffles in hands of Chinese investor

QUENTIN TOD
342 words
8 April 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
5
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

CHINESE investment in the Gold Coast has reached new “heights” with the purchase of the hilltop
Peppers Ruffles Lodge and Spa at Willowvale.
The luxury 5-star property, which has commanding views of the Gold Coast, has been bought for
$4.5 million.

The deal ends a near two-year effort by the couple who developed Ruffles, John and Jan Nicholls, to
find a buyer and head into retirement.
Stewart Gilchrist, director in charge at Colliers International on the Gold Coast, negotiated the
off-market deal.
He said yesterday the buyer was a private investor from China who resided on the Gold Coast
part-time.
“The new owner saw the Peppers Ruffles Lodge and Spa as an income-producing property and,
sitting on more than 26ha, it has potential for resort development in the future,’’ Mr Gilchrist said.
“There will be no changes to the operations or the management of the resort. “The quality and profile
of Ruffles will be maintained by the new owner.” Mr Gilchrist said the Nicholls intended to move
interstate to be closer to family and grandchildren.

Ruffles, at 423 Ruffles Rd, includes 12 luxury villas and guest rooms and a two-bedroom private
residence.

The resort’s facilities include a health spa, golf practice range, restaurant, and an infinity pool from
which guests can lap up views that stretch from Coomera to Coolangatta.
The Nicholls bought the Ruffles site for $500,000 in 2002, five years after selling Sydney harbour
business Sail Venture Cruises to Amalgamated Holdings.

They engaged Whitsundays architect Chris Beckingham to design the resort. The Nicholls managed
the property and in 2010 signed a marketing services agreement with the Mantra group which
enabled Ruffles to operate under the Peppers brand.
Mr Gilchrist said the branding had seen Ruffles’ occupancy rise by 20 per cent.The sale of Ruffles
continues a Chinese love affair with top-shelf Gold Coast property that has included buying the
Palazzo Versace Hotel and the $7.2 million Bellagio La Villa.

NS

gcat : Political/General News

Page128of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020140407ea480004k

Page129of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.