WA hotel nets $16.5m

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
WA hotel nets $16.5m

Larry Schlesinger
415 words
12 August 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
39
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The Criterion Hotel in Perth has sold to Singapore investment company Sunland Australasia
Properties for $16.5 million.
The 3.5 star hotel with 69 guest rooms, a restaurant, bar, bottle shop and conference facilities was
formerly the Regatta Hotel Complex and is notable for its art deco facade.

It was offloaded by a Singaporean family, who had redeveloped the Hay Street site, building a 134
apartment complex on one half and retaining the hotel.
It is the first Australian acquisition for Sunland Australasia Properties, a private company unrelated
to listed Australian developer Sunland. Criterion business manager Edwin Hartono is one of its
directors alongside three Singaporeans.
The company plans to renovate the hotel and re-open it as a boutique hotel offering. The sale of
The Criterion was brokered by Aaron Desange of the JLL Hotels & Hospitality Group.
Mr Desange said the Perth CBD hotel market remained attractive as an investment destination for
offshore capital with interest in The Criterion and other CBD hotel coming from south-east Asian,
Chinese and domestic investors.

"Within a 20-kilometre radius of the city, there is strong interest. It's a little softer outside of this
market," he said.Boutique hotels are desirable

"Mid-scale boutique hotels that are available with vacant possession and have the ability to be
repositioned are exceptionally desirable to purchasers."
The Perth CBD hotel market has softened recently due to a drop in demand from business visitors
as the mining investment boom slows , but it remains an overall strong market with an occupancy
rate close to 85 per cent and an average nightly room rate of $213, according to STR Global/JLL
May figures.
Deloitte has forecast a fall of 5 percentage points in Perth hotel occupancy rates from 84.8 to
79.8 per cent between now and 2016 as more than 2000 rooms are added to the market

Mr Desange said many of these projects were only mooted. "Only three or four are real projects," he
said.
Hong Kong-based Langham Hotels is eyeing a new five-star hotel in Perth and Singapore's
SilverNeedle Hospitality is set to announce a second Sage Hotel to be built in west Perth.

Hilton hotels has announced plans to open two further DoubleTree hotels in Perth and Fremantle,
while serviced apartment operator Quest will open five hotels across Perth, Fremantle
and Rockingham over the next 2½ years in partnership with local developers and investors.

Page155of239©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

i6651 : Hotels (except Casino)/Motels | ireest : Real Estate | i66 : Hotels/Restaurants | i665 :
Lodgings | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality | itourm : Tourism
gtour : Travel | gluxtr : Luxury Travel | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle
singp : Singapore | austr : Australia | perth : Perth | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140811ea8c0002a

Page156of239©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.