FED:Winemaker predicts challenging times

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

FED:Winemaker predicts challenging times

380 words
26 November 2014
Australian Associated Press Financial News Wire
AAPFIN
English
(c) 2014 Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

AUSTRALIAN MELBOURNE, Nov 26 AAP - The company behind McGuigan wines expects
challenging times ahead, due to fierce competition at home and overseas and higher prices because of
a low vintage.

Australian Vintage chairman Ian Ferrier says margins should be improved by further falls in the
Australian dollar, but the currency had not dropped as much as he expected.

"Competition remains fierce across the Australian and overseas markets," Mr Ferrier told the
company's annual general meeting.
"The low 2014 vintage has resulted in a higher cost of wine which has, and will continue to impact
margins in the short term."

Australian Vintage's brands include McGuigan, Miranda, Nepenthe and Tempus Two.
Mr Ferrier said the company's sales for the four months to the end of October 2014 were encouraging,
with demand and growth stronger than last year.

But margins remained tight.

"We remain confident that our brands will continue to grow and that we can achieve sustainable sales
growth," Mr Ferrier said.

"Subject to normal 2015 vineyard yields and forecast FX (foreign exchange rates), we expect our 2015
net profit (after tax and one-off items) to be slightly above the 2014 result."
Mr Ferrier said a recently-signed distribution agreement with COFCO Wine & Spirits in China, and
Australia's free trade agreement with China which will see a phase-out of tariffs on wine imported into
China, made Australian Vintage confident of long-term success there.
Enhancing the company's presence in China would require a lot of hard work, and progress was likely
to be slow at the start, he said.
"For the medium to long term, we are very optimistic about the potential of the China market," Mr
Ferrier said.
Australian Vintage also announced the sale of the Yaldara winery and brand for $15.5 million, which
resulted in a profit of $5.4 million.

After the write-off of incentive payments made to overseas customers and legal costs associated with a
vineyard lease dispute, Australian Vintage expects to reap $1.8 million from the Yaldara sale.
Australian Vintage booked a 49 per cent increase in net profit to $10.5 million in the 2013/14 financial
year.

Shares in Australian Vintage closed steady at 41 cents.

AAP tsc/gfr

Page139of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

i426 : Wine | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge :
Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods
m132 : Foreign Exchange News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market
News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd
Document AAPFIN0020141126eabq000uq

Page140of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.