Big international players drink up WA dairy farms

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Big international players drink up WA dairy farms

Brad Thompson
494 words
22 September 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
First
1
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

Chinese and other international interests are mulling major investments in the WA dairy industry
which could see them swoop on farms producing 30 million litres of milk a year.
Two companies, including Chinese heavyweight COFCO, inspected WA’s biggest single milk
producer and surrounding farms at Scott River in the past week.

The visit to Lactanz Dairies, which is on the market for about $30 million and churns out some 16
million litres of milk a year, comes amid renewed interest in a Department of Agriculture and Food
WA blueprint for investment in a major processing plant.

Lactanz has been in the hands of receivers Ferrier Hodgson for more than 12 months but is now
being marketed as a complete asset after a breakthrough deal allowing the dairy herd to be sold
with the farm land and associated infrastructure.

A number of neighbouring farmers have put their dairies on the market. There is also speculation
about land devoted to blue gum plantations being converted to dairy production based on the
long-term investment plans of a big overseas player.

A DAFWA spokeswoman confirmed yesterday that overseas interests had assessed WA assets in
the past week.
“DAFWA has assisted an international dairy company visit and meet with producers and processing
businesses in Perth and the South-West region to gain an overview of the industry and
opportunities,” she said.
With WA’s three big processors — Harvey Fresh, Brownes and Lion — battling for milk supply amid
falling production, a sale of farms to overseas interests focused on export would send a shockwave
through the industry.
Brownes’ exclusive milk supply agreement with Lactanz expires on June 30 next year. It sold back
more than 4000 milking cows to the farms that make up Lactanz in June.

The cows and some 1500 rising heifers on the farms are considered a major attraction for companies
based in China looking for quality genetics and scale to import dairy cattle.

CBRE will officially take Lactanz to the market at the end of this month but has already been in talks
with potential buyers.

CBRE regional director of agribusiness Danny Thomas said the new owners were likely to come from
a group of about 10 highly qualified overseas companies.
“Unashamedly, we are making sure we contact those Hong Kong and mainland Chinese groups that
have been interested in WA in the past,” Mr Thomas said.

Page131of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“There are a whole range of Japanese, Malaysia and Singapore-based groups who are also keenly
interested. They have engaged with us very strongly. Domestic players . . . are less engaged.”
Interest in Australian and WA dairy assets has intensified since 2012 when China’s Wahaha Group
considered investing $200 million in a processing plant.
Global dairy giant Parmalat paid $120 million for family-owned Harvey Fresh in April. China’s Bright
Foods snapped up WA yogurt-maker Mundella this year. It already owns Margaret River Dairy
Company.

ferhod : Ferrier Hodgson & Company | wadafo : Western Australia Department of Agriculture and
Food
i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i413 : Dairy Products | i0 :
Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming | i836 : Accounting | iacc :
Accounting/Consulting | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
mcattl : Beef/Dairy Cattle Markets | mdair : Dairy Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m141 :
Agricultural Commodity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mlvstk : Livestock/Meat
Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter
waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140921ea9m0002i

CO

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page132of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.