(AE) Ferret's MOVING FACES

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

(AE) Ferret's MOVING FACES

902 words
5 November 2014
Ralph Wragg Australian Business News
AAPRAW
English
Copyright 2014 RWE AUSTRALIAN BUSINESS NEWS PTY LTD. All Rights Reserved.

Sydney - Wednesday - Nov 5: (RWE Australian Business News) - A list of changes of management
within ASX-listed companies.

Moving in ...

* Scott Evans has been appointed chief executive officer and managing director of Noni B Ltd. He has
more than 20 years' experience in Australian and international retailing in both womenswear and
menswear. His previous roles include group CEO of Bras N Things.

* Neil Verrall will be appointed non-executive chairman of Resource Star Ltd on completion of the
acquisition of Cloud Lands Digital Fortress Ltd. Mr Verrall is a well-known and respected information
technology and communications (ICT) industry veteran with more than 30 years of industry experience.
Throughout his career he has held senior executive sales and marketing positions with a variety of
successful ICT companies including Telstra, Leighton Telecommunications Group, Nextgen Networks
and Powertel.

* Greencross Ltd has appointed Ian Kadish as chief operating officer, Veterinary Services to replace the
retiring Glen Richards, effective December 9. Dr Kadish is a seasoned professional, having over 25
years' experience in the healthcare industry. He joins Greencross from Primary Health Care Ltd, where
he served as CEO of the Laverty Pathology division. He is the former managing director of Pulse
Healthcare and a former executive director of Netcare Ltd.
* Leighton Holdings Ltd has appointed John Easy to the role of group general counsel and company
secretary. Mr Easy was previously the general counsel and company secretary of all DEXUS Group
companies, where he was responsible for the legal function and compliance, risk and governance
systems and practices.
* Freelancer Ltd has appointed Pete Cooper as regional director, Australasia to lead media,
communications and business development in Australia and New Zealand. Mr Cooper has held a number
of senior and executive leadership roles in regional and global financial and technology companies and
founded SydStart, the largest specialist Australian tech startup conference, expo and professional
community.

* Stuart Grimshaw was appointed to the board of Cash Converters International Ltd on November 1. Mr
Grimshaw has been appointed as the chairman of the Audit Committee, and Lachlan Given chairman of
the Remuneration Committee.

* Andres Antonini has been appointed as an independent non-executive director of Ecosave Holdings
Ltd. He brings to the board a host of marketing and advertising expertise ranging from content-driven
lead generation to creation of customer insight-driven strategies.

* National Storage REIT has appointed Stuart Owen as chief financial officer. After nine years with
National Storage, CFO Thomas Rice has decided to pursue other opportunities. Mr Rice will work with Mr
Owen in the coming months to ensure a smooth transition until Mr Rice's departure in February 2014.
Stuart Owen has more than 20 years' experience in commercial management and accounting roles. Most
recently he was CFO and company secretary for Blue Energy Ltd.

Page148of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.* Carolyn West has been appointed company secretary of Energy Action Ltd. She joined Energy Action
following the acquisition of EnergyAdvice Pty Ltd on August 18. She had been employed by
EnergyAdvice for the past 11 years in the role of finance manager and company secretary and will
undertake the Energy Action company secretary role in conjunction with her EnergyAdvice finance
manager responsibilities.

Ms West has more than 30 years' accounting and compliance experience which includes finance and
audit roles at Woodside Petroleum Ltd, Bank of Melbourne Ltd and PricewaterhouseCoopers. She takes
over the role of company secretary from Energy Action's CFO and company secretary Nathan Francis,
who submitted his resignation.

* Munkshaikhan Dambiinyam has been appointed CFO of Xanadu Mines Ltd. Located in Ulaanbaatar, he
is a finance professional with more than 10 years of experience in mining, mining services and financial
advisory. Mark Langan, CFO since September 5 2012, will assist Mr Dambiinyam with the transition and
has agreed to consult with Xanadu on a part-time basis.
* Graeme Scott has been appointed as company secretary and chief financial officer of Peak Resources
Ltd. Mr Scott is a fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (UK) with more than 20
years' experience in professional and corporate roles in both Australia and the UK.

Moving On ...
* Robert Pearce has retired as chairman and a director of Marenica Energy Ltd. Mr Pearce has been the
chairman since 2010 and has played an importance role in developing the company and guiding the
board over this time. Non-executive director Doug Buerger has been appointed as the new chairman. Mr
Buerger specialises in exploration, geochemistry and geology with over 40 years' experience in the
resources industry in base metals, gold and uranium. He has extensive experience in project
management, general management and executive management.
The company also announced the appointment at its annual general meeting held Monday of Hanlong
nominee Lou Guo Qing as a non-executive director. Mr Lou is the managing director of Hanlong Group.
He was formerly the president of China Construction Bank, Panzhihua Municipality branch in Sichuan
province and has 26 years of experience in credit management and financial investment.

* Jurgen Hendrich will leave MEO Australia Ltd on January 31 2015, having been MEO's managing
director and chief executive officer since July 2008.
* Stef Weber has resigned as company secretary of Decimal Software Ltd. He was replaced by Andy
Watt, who joined the company on May 1 as CFO. Mr Watt is a Chartered Accountant with extensive
senior finance and commercial management experience with technology-based companies in Australia
and the UK.

CO

IN

NS

bnthpl : Bras N Things Pty Ltd | gowret : Resource Star Limited | grevet : Greencross Ltd | nexnpl :
Nextgen Networks Pty Limited | nonib : Noni B Ltd | hocht : Hochtief AG | leiho : Leighton Holdings Ltd |
ocisa : ACS Actividades de Construcciones y Servicios SA
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i645 : Clothing Stores | i654 : Specialty Stores | i7902 :
Telecommunications | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences | i95111 : Veterinary Services | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | iphhp : Healthcare Provision | iretail : Retail | iuran :
Uranium Ore Mining
c411 : Management Moves | cslmc : Senior Level Management | c41 : Management | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive News
Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd
AN

Document AAPRAW0020141105eab500105

Page149of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.