RMB Experts Active in Mining Development

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

RMB Experts Active in Mining Development

509 words
28 May 2014
21:35
All Africa
AFNWS
English
(c) 2014 AllAfrica, All Rights Reserved

May 28, 2014 (Namibia Economist/All Africa Global Media via COMTEX) -- RMB Namibia has
participated in most of Namibia's pre-eminent mining deals since it entered the market about three years
ago though some of its team members were involved in the Namibian mining sector long before they
joined the RMB. Its ability to identify and support good projects years before the deals are concluded
means RMB Namibia has gained a reputation in the Namibian mining community as an important
contributor to the sector's development.

The result of RMB's knowledge of the Namibian mining industry has been its involvement in various
capacities in the four major mining sector investments over the past three years. "We have participated
in some of the most significant, recent mining deals in Namibia mostly because we are able to offer
globally competitive rates while building long-term, lasting relationships with our clients," said RMB
Namibia's Steve Galloway. "RMB Namibia is increasing its capacity in the country to position itself for the
expected interest from investors particularly in sectors such as infrastructure, energy, real estate and
resources."
One of RMB Namibia's current priorities is the Chinese-owned Husab mine development. China General
Nuclear Power Company's new Husab uranium mine, discovered by Extract Resources in 2008, was
purchased by China General Nuclear in 2012, and is soon to be the second largest uranium mine in the
world. "Husab is the largest mining project-build in Africa and is expected to contribute 20% of Namibia's
export earnings and 5% of its GDP and will be a major source of uranium for China's nuclear power
industry for many years," said Galloway who served as Extract Resources non-executive chairman from
2009 to 2012.
The RMB Namibia team is also working on other uranium, diamond, and base and ferrous metal
projects, from advanced project advisory work, to capital raising, funding and a range of trade, hedging
and banking products.
Prior to joining RMB Namibia, some members of the team were involved with Australian uranium
production companyPaladin Energy's establishment of the Langer Heinrich uranium mine, with RMB
Namibia more recently funding the stage three uranium mine. RMB Namibia also acted as the only local
funder in the US$150-million revolving credit facility provided for the funding of B2Gold's current Otjikoto
mine project, as well as acting as co-funder in Debmarine Namibia's acquisition of the US$80-million
Mafuta, the world's largest mining vessel.
Namibia's mining sector continues to attract investors mostly as a result of the government's consistent
policies while the expected adoption of a mining charter by the Chamber of Mines of Namibia is
considered positive for investment in the country's mining sector. Namibia's growth potential is also an
attraction for mining investors with GDP growth of around 5.7% per year over the last five years
expected to increase to 6% to 7% as major projects are built over the next five years.

IN

NS

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iuran : Uranium Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | ifinal : Financial Services | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News

Page139of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

namib : Namibia | africaz : Africa | austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | souafrz : Southern Africa
acquisition

IPD
PUB All Africa Global Media
AN

Document AFNWS00020140528ea5s000zc

Page140of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.