Miner MMG's Las Bambas mine swallows more cash

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Miner MMG's Las Bambas mine swallows more cash

375 words
17 October 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
27
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Chinese-backed miner MMG revealed it would have to cough up another $US2.7 billion to
$US3.2 billion to complete the construction of its newly acquired Las Bambas copper mine in Peru.
MMG's $US5.85 billion ($6.7 billion) purchase of Las Bambas, set to become the world's
third-largest copper mine, was a result of a merger between Swiss resources trader Glencore and
Australian coal miner Xstrata in 2013. Glencore was forced to sell the mine to gain China's approval
for its takeover of Xstrata.

"Time has been the greatest variable at Las Bambas," chief executive Andrew Michelmore said in a
conference call. "The start-up time had an impact. It's a big project and we're trying to get our [heads]
around it as fast as we can."

The higher capital expenditure forecasts were released for the first time on Thursday during MMG's
third-quarter production report.
Mr Michelmore said the company was aware of the higher costs and delays to the Las Bambas
completion during its earlier negotiation process with Glencore.

Some of the roadblocks include a lack of skilled labour in Peru to fill temporary construction roles,
changes in the project scope and delays and higher than expected costs in the construction of a new
town, Nueva Fuerabamba, for the relocation of the local community from the site.

MMG now plans to start production in the first quarter of 2016 and reach full production by the end of
2016. It had previously been scheduled to commence production in 2015. Mr Michelmore also said it
already had sale agreements in place and would be selling most of its share of Las Bambas's
production to its parent, China Minmetals. "There won't be a lot of residual risk for MMG," he said.
MMG's production at other mines was in line with guidance. Copper production to September 30 was
higher by 2 per cent against a year earlier because of strong performance from its Kinsevere mine in
Congo. Its quarterly zinc production was 10 per cent lower than the previous quarter due to stockpile
management at its Century mine in Queensland.

Su-Lin Tan

CO

IN

NS
RE
PUB

march : Glencore PLC | orieml : MMG Limited | cminmc : China Minmetals Corporation | imreht : Inner
Mongolia Baotou Steel Rare-Earth (Group) Hi-Tech Co Ltd | lawspr : Minmetals Land Limited
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2114 : Copper Ore/Nickel Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources |
imet : Mining/Quarrying | i22 : Primary Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | i2245 : Aluminum | i8396 :
Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited

Page323of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document AFNR000020141016eaah0000z

Page324of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.