Charter Hall reaps tax benefit from office sale

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business - Commercial Property
Charter Hall reaps tax benefit from office sale

MARC PALLISCO
1,162 words
18 October 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
12
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Capital Gain
Charter Hall has sold a suburban office near the Moonee Ponds Junction for a speculated $83 million
- $3 million more than the asset's book valuation four months ago.

The seven-level, 21,034-square-metre building at 6-22 Gladstone Street is fully occupied by the
Australian Taxation Office, which in 2011 renewed a lease - due to expire in 2013 - until 2020.
Based on the $7.5 million annual rent the ATO pays, the investment sold on a yield of about 9 per
cent.

It could have longer-term redevelopment potential, with sites around retail strip Moonee Ponds
proposed to make way for 20-plus-level towers.

The ATO has occupied the Gladstone Street office since it was developed in 1991, with Charter Hall -
as the authorised representative of Perpetual - the landlord since 1993. The Commonwealth
government department recently committed to a 20-level, 19,600-square-metre office under
construction in Box Hill.

Colliers International's Peter Bremner and Leigh Melbourne marketed the Moonee Ponds office with
CBRE's Justin Clarkson and Mark Coster. The new owner is a consortium including Cyprus-based
private investors.

Delicate dance

The businessmen who decades ago acquired neighbouring sites at a prominent CBD intersection -
including the Kilkenny Inn, which currently trades as the Goldfingers strip club - are about to lap up.

Avi Silver and Eddie Hirsch are offering the properties at the north-east corner of Lonsdale and King
streets with a lease. However, the owner can break it if the Kilkenny is to be demolished.

This clause has previously turned off potential business operators. Silver and Hirsch founded service
station giant United Petroleum.
The four-property portfolio, which sources expect will sell for about $40 million, could accommodate
an 80-plus-level tower incorporating what would be a disused council laneway. CBRE's Josh Rutman
and Mark Wizel are the marketing agents.

Golden Mile deal
The Pearson Australia office in Nunawading has sold for a speculated $5.7 million, reflecting a yield of
8.5 per cent.

Page197of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The modern, two-storey, 3674-square-metre building is next to what commercial agents call
Nunawading's "Golden Mile" - a bulky goods retail precinct.
Dawkins Occhiuto's Andrew Dawkins and Walter Occhiuto declined to comment about the sale.
Super-site moves

Rather than complain about new housing estates being developed on neighbouring farms, more
outskirts landholders are uniting to offer super sites that would be more attractive to the
biggest-spending builders.
In Melton West six landowners controlling a site that is walking distance to QIC's Woodgrove
Shopping Centre are selling. Their 82-hectare parcel is expected to sell for about $30 million and make
way for more than 1200 lots, plus open space and commercial zones.

Biggin & Scott Land's Frank Nagle said it was the third time the agency had worked with ABC Project
Management to package a site. ABC helps rural landowners handle aspects such as rezoning.
Redevelopment master plans and fair valuations are also important for these kind of sell-downs.

In 2000 Stockland paid six individuals $43.5 million for 200 hectares of adjoining farms now known as
Mernda Villages.

Last year four owners of prime farms overlooking the Melton Reservoir gorge reaped $26 million
offloading a combined 62-hectare parcel.

Goods Shed listed

Equiset has listed a highly acclaimed Docklands asset with valuable redevelopment potential.

The Goods Shed North at 710 Collins Street includes a green office fitted into a heritage building and
fully leased to the state government until 2024. Importantly, the site has a wide frontage to Collins
Street. The shed would require little modification for airspace to be developed with one or more
skyscrapers.

In March Equiset unveiled plans to replace the airspace with a 34-level building.
Sources say the site is expected to sell for about $75 million, but this could not be confirmed with
selling agents Jones Lang LaSalle's Robert Anderson and James Kaufman and Colliers International's
Leigh Melbourne and Nick Rathgeber.

Nice reception
A developer has swooped on the prominent Footscray site known for 34 years as 501 Receptions.

The 6271-square-metre block at the T-intersection of Barkly Street and Summerhill Road is speculated
to have sold for about $8.5 million after being listed a few months ago.

Offered with vacant possession, the campaign also targeted owner-occupiers, with a
3000-square-metre building comprising five functions rooms capable of accommodating 1160 guests.
The vendor offered 495-507 Barkly Street with a permit for a five-level apartment building. Fitzroys
selling agents James Gregson and David Bourke were the marketing agents.
Nearby, an 8000-square-metre site covering blocks between 41 and 49 Robbs Road, Footscray West,
has been listed and is expected to sell for more than $7.5 million. Currently a collection of industrial
sites, the land has a valuable "general residential" zoning, allowing for medium and high-density
development.

Southbank flip
In a blatant example of developer flipping, the new Chinese owner of a Southbank development site is
selling just six months after receiving ministerial approval to replace the land with a 55-level, 295-unit
apartment tower.
Moreover, Financial Fook only settled on 84-90 Queensbridge Street last month after agreeing to buy
it in February for $18 million.

At the time the lucrative permit application had been lodged but not approved by the Planning Minister
Matthew Guy. The landmark tower will be prominent, the site also abutting the West Gate Freeway.

Page198of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Predictably, CBRE is marketing the land as 88 Queensbridge Street - eight being considered a lucky
number in China.

Mr Guy approved Financial Fook's permit on the same day as a landmark 100-level building, also in
Southbank.

Josh Rutman, Ed Wright and Mark Wizel are representing Financial Fook, which bought the asset
under the company name Starryland Melbourne. It is expected to sell for at least $20 million this time.

High excitement
A hilltop Doncaster site - for years owned by the Myer family - is being prepared for sale by the Asian
developer who bought it four years ago.
The 8395-square-metre site at the south-east corner of Doncaster and Tram roads has since been
permitted to make way for a mixed-use village with offices and nearly 300 apartments in towers rising
nine levels.
Like many properties in Doncaster Hill, the site captures postcard views over the eastern suburbs to
the CBD. It's also opposite Westfield's Shoppingtown complex.
At present the retail showroom site is leased to Officeworks, Autobarn and Clark Rubber. Sources
expect the site to sell for about $40 million, but this could not be confirmed with the selling agent,
GormanKelly's Sandro Peluso.
Andrew Myer, the grandson of department store founder Sidney, sold the building at a depressed time
for the market a few years ago.

marcpallisco@gmail.com

Twitter: @marcpallisco

IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
ecgtax : Capital Gains Tax | e21 : Government Finance | e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue |
e2111 : Direct Taxation | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020141017eaai00064

Page199of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.