Chinese sales are ‘a boon for housing’

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

TheNation
Chinese sales are ‘a boon for housing’

TURI CONDON PROPERTY EDITOR
545 words
15 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
5
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Chinese buyers have brought Australia’s mansion sales back to life and are underpinning prices by at
least 10 per cent across Sydney and Melbourne, according to developer Harry Triguboff.

Mr Triguboff’s granddaughter missed out last month on a prestige home in Sydney’s exclusive eastern
suburb of Vaucluse. “She was willing to pay $4.7 million, but a Chinese buyer bought the house before
auction,’’ he said. “He paid $5.5m. I would have paid $5m.” Mr Triguboff, whose Meriton group sells 20
per cent of the 3000 units a year it builds to offshore buyers and 70 per cent to local buyers of Chinese
origin, is philosophical about the sale. “We are always concerned that foreigners are keeping our
children without ownership of houses. Without the Chinese, there would be no houses in the first
place,” he said.

The sale made that vendor wealthier, Mr Triguboff said, but there was a bigger picture, with foreign
investment having a multiplier effect. Offshore buyers created confidence in the level of house prices,
while their presence flowed on to job creation in construction and associated industries, he said.

Local councils gained $20,000 for each new unit built through developer contributions, which went to
roads, parks and public works. The Residential Development Council estimates that about 8 per cent
of new homes — or 15,0000 out of total new dwellings of 180,000 — were sold to offshore buyers last
financial year.
Foreign investment approvals to buy new dwellings doubled in the last financial year, increasing from
$4.22 billion to close to $10bn in Victoria, and $4.24bn to about $10.3bn in NSW, the council said.
Property Council chief executive Ken Morrison said dwelling starts would not be at their currently high
levels without offshore investment. “Foreign investment means developers are able to hit their pre-sale
targets faster, therefore commencing construction and getting product to market earlier,’’ he said.
“That’s good for housing supply and eases price pressures into the future.” Not many of the top-end
properties had been snapped up by offshore buyers, according to RP Data researcher Cameron
Kusher.
However, he noted it was often difficult to tell whether a property had been sold to local buyers of
Chinese origin — Australian citizens, permanent and temporary residents — or to a citizen of another
country. A parliamentary inquiry into real estate purchases by overseas buyers is due to report this
month and could recommend tougher penalties for breaches of foreign investment rules.
In Sydney’s eastern suburbs, McGrath Estate Agents partner Ben Collier said the majority of sales
above $30m had been to Chinese buyers, but they were dominant only in very specific areas and types
of homes. “In the $15m-plus or $30m-plus market, Chinese buyers want contemporary-style homes
with bridge and city views,” Mr Collier said.
Last month, recruitment queen Julia Rosssold her Sydney home in Point Piper for $39m to Chinese
billionaire Xu Jiayin. Also in October, a Shanghai-born Australian resident purchased the late hotelier
Salvatore Paino’s Point Piper home for $30m, with plans to knock it down and build a new one.

Page140of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Prestige Property Inside Weekend A Plus

NS

RE

PUB
AN

c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141114eabf00051

Page141of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.