Spike in defaults raises fear of China collapse

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Smart Money
Spike in defaults raises fear of China collapse

Karen Maley
991 words
22 March 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
26
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Big picture

Investors in Australian resources stocks were given more to worry about this week as the collapse of a
Chinese property developer fanned fears the country could be on the verge of its own "Minsky
moment".

This week Chinese government officials from the eastern town of Fenghua held meetings in an attempt
to hammer out a plan for dealing with Zhejiang Xingrun Real Estate Company, which collapsed under
the weight of a 3.5 billion yuan ($620 million) debt burden, of which 2.4 billion yuan was borrowed
from banks, and the remaining 1.1 billion yuan came from other creditors.
Markets fretted that Zhejiang Xingrun's collapse highlights the growing cracks in China's real estate
sector as Beijing cracks down on runaway credit growth. Many developers borrowed heavily to buy
land, and then turned around and used the land as collateral for further borrowings to fund
development.

Investors, of course, had already become concerned about the possible side effects of Beijing's efforts
to dampen credit growth after solar panel maker Chaori Solar this month became the first Chinese
company to default on a publicly traded corporate bond in China. They found little reassurance in
Chinese prime ministerLi Keqiang's comments that further defaults on bonds and other financial
products were "unavoidable".
Fears of a Chinese liquidity crunch have been heightened by Beijing's recent move to guide the yuan
lower to choke off "hot money" flowing into the country. This year the PBOC, which keeps a tight grip on
the currency, has pushed the yuan down by more than 2 per cent against the US dollar, reversing much
of the 2.9 per cent rise it saw in 2013.Foreign funding access
The PBOC's move has made it much more expensive for riskier Chinese borrowers to access
low-interest rate foreign funding. Typically, Chinese firms were able to able to use commodities –
primarily gold, copper and iron ore, but also soybeans, palm oil, natural rubber, nickel, zinc and
alumnium – as collateral for highly leveraged, low-interest-rate foreign currency loans.
But by pushing the yuan lower, the PBOC has clamped down on Chinese commodity financing deals.
The lower currency makes these deals much less profitable, and chokes off some of the foreign funds
flowing into China's shadow banking system.
Already the PBOC campaign appears to be having some success, with foreign money entering China
falling to a five-month low of $US21.1 billion in February, and well down from the $US72.3 billion
inflow in January. But some analysts fear that the rising number of defaults are a sign China is fast
approaching its "Minsky moment" when its credit boom starts to unwind.

This refers to a theory developed by the US economist Hyman Minsky who argued that after long
periods of financial stability, borrowers tend to take more and more risk. As a result, the credit system

Page122of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.transitions from its initial point – where borrowers have large enough cash flows to cover their interest
and principal repayment – to a second phase of speculative finance, where borrowers can meet their
interest payments but can't repay their principal, so they are forced to roll over their borrowings. The
final phase, of Ponzi finance, occurs when borrowers don't have large enough cash flows to meet their
interest payments, and so need to borrow more money or else sell assets.Unstable state

In a research paper released this week, Morgan Stanley analysts argued "Our analysis indicates that
China's economy has arrived at that unstable state where speculative and Ponzi finance appear to
dominate.
"Very few economies have created as much debt as China in the past five years. China's private sector
debt has increased from 115 per cent of GDP [gross domestic product] in 2007 to 193 per cent [by
December] 2013."

They point out "that 80 per cent increase over five years compares to the US's 26 per cent in
2000-2005". "In recent years, only Spain and Ireland have achieved debt growth greater than China's.
Every year China is now adding $US2.5 trillion of private sector debt to a $US9.7 trillion GDP."

Even worse, they note, "there is evidence this debt growth has become excessive and non-productive".

Minsky argued there is a tipping point – usually when central banks tighten policy to fight inflation –
when the credit boom unwinds.
As the Morgan Stanley analysts note, the Chinese central bank has been tightening credit for nine
months, and in its latest monetary report it signalled it will continue to tighten liquidity to control rapid
growth of shadow banking credit.Investors unnerved

At the same time, the spike in defaults has unnerved investors and caused them to worry they won't get
all their money repaid. So interest rates on trust products, wealth management products, corporate
bonds and bank loans have risen by roughly 200 basis points in the last year. Adding to the pressure is
the almost $US600 million in trust loans from the shadow banking sector that come due for repayment
this year.

"So [while] large amounts of debt come due and borrowers are stretched, growth is slowing, monetary
policy is being tightened, and market rates are beginning to rise, making new borrowings even more
expensive and difficult. The combination indicates to us that China's Minsky moment is approaching,"
says Morgan Stanley.
Its analysts say the unwinding of China's credit boom will cause its economy to grow much more
slowly.
"Our baseline case is China may slow from 7.7 per cent GDP growth to 5 per cent over the next two
years. But a disorderly unwind could take growth down to 4 per cent in a shorter time with potentially
disastrous consequences for levered Chinese assets (banks, property) and the commodity supply
chain (commodity stocks, equipment stocks, commodity-sensitive countries and their currencies)."

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gpersf : Personal Finance | gcat : Political/General News
china : China | austr : Australia | beijin : Beijing | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140321ea3m0002y

Page123of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.