Chinese riddle unravelling over the lucky penthouse 88 in Sydney's The Residence

Chinese riddle unravelling over the lucky penthouse 88 in Sydney's The Residence

HD
WC 1,029 words
PD
7 March 2014
SN
Property Observer
SC
PMPROP
LA
English
CY
Copyright 2014 Private Media Partners Pty Ltd
LP

TD

Huang Shannian, 黄善年, a Chinese billionaire, was foundation chairman of the Zhouji Group, which
became one of the top 20 shipbuilders in the world.

But in 2009 the Zhoushan Jinhaiwan Shipyard Co Ltd (舟山金海湾船业有限公司) executive was queried
by the CPC Central Commission for Discipline Inspection accused of constructing docks without National
Development and Reform Commission approval.

Huang Shannian had been on the Huran Richest Chinese People 2008 list in 128th place, then in 2009,
he ranked as the country's 88th-richest person, at 8,000,000,000 yuan in fortune. That was around A$3.5
billion.

But within a month of the list's 2009 publication, Huang Shannian, born October 1962, disappeared from
public view.

Perhaps until now.
Last month Sydney's mystery purchaser of the $17 million penthouse in the Residence apartment
complex over looking Hyde Park emerged as a Huang Shannian.

And Title Tattle can't but tempt the irresistible conclusion that they are the same tycoon, especially as the
Sydney Huang Shannian directed an ASIC registered company, Zhouji Investments (Australia) Pty Ltd
which was established in 2005.

He too was born in October 1962.
Title Tattle notes he has owned an apartment in Meriton's World Square since paying $1.3 million in
2006, with Min Lu, who was born in Zhejaing China.
Lu directs a series of companies under the Austino name which have invested at least $45 million in
shopping centres, residential projects and offices. Min Lu and Zhou Ji Pty Ltd are behind the Austino
property development group in Sydney.
But would such a high ranking Chinese tycoon really take a Westpac mortgage on the $17 million
apartment?
The Sydney Huang Shannian did so, signing his name in Chinese (see below) with Jimmy Siu as his
eligible witness. His lawyer was Derek Xu in the stamped signed paperwork showing the $1,130,000
stamp duty.

And did he really operate initially out of a West Pennant Hills house on Mungarra Place when he first
came from China? Title Tattle expects the answers will come from the cn internet chatrooms.
What makes Title Tattle really want to believe they are one and the same is the apartment was expressly
marketed as number 88.

That's a lucky number hopefully even for Huang Shannian who in buying the penthouse would have
bounced back quite nicely from the loss of his 88th place Huran rich list status.

For a while in 2011  there was premature speculation that Judith Neilson, the founder of the White Rabbit
Collection, one of the world's most significant collections of Chinese contemporary art, had bought the
penthouse. But it was not to happen.

Page242of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Title Tattle wrote the sale of the penthouse of The Residence had become akin to pulling a rabbit out of a
hat. The initial premature Australian Financial Reveiw September 2011 sale report even suggesting a very
bullish $25 million.
Back then Title Tattle envisaged any sale price as more likely to be somewhere around $18 million for
the 810-square-metre two-level penthouse – known as apartment 88 at 18 College Street.  
The initial $25 million expectations purely came from when the penthouse was marketed to offshore
Chinese buyers who the Australian developers hoped would pay a premium for the lucky number. 
There's no doubt the Hyde Park precinct, on the green fringe of the central business district, ranks
among Sydney's priciest addresses. This 24-level Scott Carver designed College Street building – the
gutted former NSW Police headquarters – has 87 five-star apartments with views across Hyde Park, the
Opera House, St Mary’s Cathedral and Sydney Harbour. 

The facilities include a gymnasium, all-weather lap pool, sauna, spa and steam room, a residents’ lounge
with a fully equipped kitchen and barbecue area and a 24-hour concierge service.The development also
features a lockable, humidity-controlled wine room that can store a 100-bottle wine cellar for each
resident.
The $350 million CBD tower was developed by Parmada in a venture with AMP Capital Investors, Galileo
Group and Cbus Property, with the the sales through CBRE, Savills, Christie's International, Laing Real
Estate, and Pagdens. The $17 million  sale of the Sulman penthouse was brokered through Nigel Napoli
at Savills Residential Projects, according to the only offiicial comment to emerge from the sales network.
The lesser three-bedroom Archibald penthouse (pictured bewlow) in The Residence apartment tower
remains on the market through CBRE.

{yoogallery src=[images/stories/2014/02/14/hyd]}

The last remaining penthouse in the complex comes with 690 square metre space designed by
Sydney-based architectural firm Scott Carver with attention paid to its environmental efficiency. It was
pulled from recent auction.
It's not the first time there's been unravelling knowledge about the status of high ranking Chinese buyers
of Sydney property.
Back in 2008 a Wolseley Road, Point Piper property sold for $32.4 million property.

Set high on a hill, above a towering sandstone wall and overlooking Sydney Harbour with picture
postcard-perfect views of the bridge, Craig-y-Mor, the Point Piper non-waterfront residence  purchase
was made just in the name of Jiang Mei.

Quietly during 2009, the name of the Wei Zeng was subsequently added to the title.
By late 2009 the couple were seeking its demolition, to be replaced by a $5 million new home, so they
were both named for the first time in my much anticipated end-of-year Sydney Morning Herald Title Deeds
Christmas party column.
Soon after the Chinese internet chat rooms had drawn the stunning conclusion it was owned by a son of
a former vice-president of China and his wife, Jiang noted for studying at the Beijing Dance Academy.
The proposed demolition hasn't taken place. But the buses of tourists from China seeking an insight into
how the families of their leaders have made it in the outside world occasionally drive past. Title Tattle
guesses College Street will soon be added to the itinerary.

news@propertyobserver.com.au

                        

CO zhjshp : Zhoushan Jinhaiwan Shipyard Co Ltd
IN
NS
RE

i36101 : Shipbuilding | iship : Water Transport/Shipping | itsp : Transportation/Shipping
greest : Real Estate/Property | gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | china : China | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries
| dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales

Page243of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB Private Media Partners Pty Ltd.
AN

Document PMPROP0020140307ea370000m

Page244of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.