Trading in Nexstim Plc's shares commences today on Nasdaq First North Finland and Nasdaq First North Sweden

HD Trading in Nexstim Plc's shares commences today on Nasdaq First North Finland and Nasdaq First

North Sweden

WC 1,236 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

14 November 2014
18:30
Thomson Reuters ONE
HUGNEN
English
© 2014 All Rights Reserved. Thomson Reuters.

TD

NOT FOR RELEASE, PUBLICATION OR DISTRIBUTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART, DIRECTLY OR
INDIRECTLY, IN THE USA, AUSTRALIA, CANADA, HONG KONG, JAPAN OR SOUTH AFRICA OR
ANY OTHER JURSIDICTION WHERE SUCH PUBLICATION OR DISTRIBUTION IS UNLAWFUL.

Trading in Nexstim Plc's shares commences today on Nasdaq First North Finland and Nasdaq First North
Sweden

Helsinki, 14 November 2014 at 9:30 am
Nexstim Plc ("Nexstim" or the "Company"), a medical technology company aiming to improve
rehabilitation for stroke patients through the use of non-invasive brain stimulation, announces its flotation
today on Nasdaq's First North market in Helsinki (NXTMH) and Stockholm (NXTMS).

 "Our listing today on First North in Helsinki and Stockholm is a significant step in the growth of Nexstim
and shows the quality and enthusiasm for our medical technology for navigated brain stimulation",
commented Nexstim's CEO, Janne Huhtala.
Nexstim has raised gross proceeds of EUR 15.3 million with a total of 2,408,339 new shares issued in the
initial public offering (the "Offering"). The new shares were registered with the Finnish Trade Register on
13 November 2014. The Company's previous major shareholders, HealthCap, the Finnish Innovation
Fund Sitra, Capricorn Health-Tech Fund, Life Sciences Partners (LSP) and Lundbeckfond Ventures have
all increased their holdings and they have been joined by international institutional investors and retail
investors in Finland and Sweden.
The proceeds of the Offering will be used to finance Nexstim through the Company's next development
stage through to the end of the Phase III multi-centre trial and FDA clearance for marketing its NBT
System in stroke therapy, expected to take place at the end of 2016.

"We are delighted to welcome our new investors and would like to thank them, and existing shareholders,
for their support. We look forward to updating the market on our Phase III multi-centre trial for NBT in
stroke rehabilitation, which continues to progress according to plan, and on the progress of our newly
launched NBS 5 System, our next generation device for pre-surgical mapping in neurosurgery", says
Janne Huhtala.
In the Offering, Pareto Securities AB acted as Lead Financial Advisor and Joint Arranger and UB
Securities Ltd acted as Financial Co-Advisor and Joint Arranger. The Company's Certified Adviser under
the First North rules is UB Capital Ltd. Krogerus Attorneys Ltd and Advokatfirman Vinge KB acted as legal
advisors to the Company in the Offering.

Additional information on the Offering is available in the prospectus published by Nexstim on
13 October 2014, supplemented on 30 October 2014, available at www.nexstim.com/IPO.

For further information please visit www.nexstim.com or contact:

Page189of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Nexstim                                                                                                                                                      
+358 40 8615046

Janne Huhtala, Chief Executive Officer                                                              janne.huhtala@nexstim.com

UB Capital Ltd                                                                                                                                       +358
(9) 2538 0225

Consilium Strategic Communications                                                                                      +44 (0)20 3709
5700

Mary-Jane Elliot                                                                                                   
nexstim@consilium-comms.com

Amber Bielecka

Ivar Milligan

Laura Thornton

About Nexstim
Nexstim, formed in 2000 and based in Finland, is a medical technology company aiming to improve
rehabilitation for stroke patients. Nexstim has pioneered its technology in brain diagnostics with the
Navigated Brain Stimulation (NBS) system as the first and only FDA-cleared and CE-marked navigated
Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (nTMS) device for pre-surgical mapping of the motor and speech
cortices. Based on the same technology platform, the company has developed a device for stroke
therapy called Navigated Brain Therapy (NBT®). In H1 2014, Nexstim initiated a two-year pivotal Phase III
study at 12 sites in the US aiming to demonstrate the effectiveness of NBT® and gain FDA clearance for
commercialisation in post-acute stroke therapy in the US. For more information please visit
www.nexstim.com.

IMPORTANT NOTICE

This announcement is not a prospectus. The information contained herein does not constitute an offer to
sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of the securities referred to herein, in
any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration, exemption
from registration or qualification under the securities laws of any jurisdiction. The Offering is made solely
on the basis of the prospectus approved by the Finnish Financial Supervisory Authority on 10 October
2014, as supplemented on 30 October 2014, and passported by way of notification to the Swedish
Financial Supervisory Authority.

This communication is not addressed to the public in any Member State of the European Economic Area
other than Finland and Sweden. With respect to each Member State of the European Economic Area
other than Finland and Sweden (each, a "Relevant Member State"), no action has been undertaken to
date to make an offer to the public of the securities requiring a publication of a prospectus in any Relevant
Member State. As a result, this communication is only addressed to and directed at qualified investor in
the Relevant Member States in circumstances not requiring the Company to publish a prospectus for the
purposes of Directive 2003/71/EC (together with any applicable implementing measures in any Member
State).
This announcement is not an offer for sale nor a solicitation of an offer to buy any securities in the United
States or outside the European Economic Area. The securities referred to in this announcement may not
be offered or sold in or into the United States of America absent registration or an exemption from
registration under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Nexstim has not registered and will not
register any part of its contemplated offering in the United States nor will it offer any securities to the public
in the United States.

This communication is only being distributed to and is directed only at (i) persons who are outside the
United Kingdom, or (ii) investment professionals falling within Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the "Order") and (iii) high net worth entities, and
other persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated, falling within Article 49(2) of the Order, and (iv)
other persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully be communicated (all such persons together being
referred to as "relevant persons"). Any investment or investment activity to which this communication
relates will only be available to and will only be engaged in with, relevant persons. Any person who is not
a relevant person should not act or rely on this document or any of its contents.

Page190of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Securities in the Company have not been, and will not be, registered under the applicable securities laws
of Australia, Canada, Hong Kong, Japan or South Africa and may not be offered or sold within Australia,
Canada, Japan or South Africa or to, or for the account or benefit of, citizens or residents of Australia,
Canada, Hong Kong, Japan or South Africa except under circumstances which will result in full
compliance with the applicable laws and regulations promulgated by the relevant regulatory authorities in
effect at the relevant time.

Nexstim press release

This announcement is distributed by NASDAQ OMX Corporate Solutions on behalf of NASDAQ OMX
Corporate Solutions clients.

The issuer of this announcement warrants that they are solely responsible for the content, accuracy and
originality of the information contained therein.

Source: Nexstim Oyj via Globenewswire

HUG#1871307

CT
CO nexsto : Nexstim Oy
IN

NS
RE

itheradv : Therapeutic Devices/Equipment | i372 : Medical Equipment/Supplies | i951 : Health Care/Life
Sciences | iphmed : Medical/Surgical Instruments/Apparatus/Devices
npress : Press Releases | ncat : Content Types
fin : Finland | swed : Sweden | austr : Australia | helsnk : Helsinki | hkong : Hong Kong | jap : Japan | safr :
South Africa | usa : United States | africaz : Africa | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | china : China | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union
Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | nordz : Nordic Countries | scandz : Scandinavia |
souafrz : Southern Africa

IPD Healthcare
PUB Thomson Reuters (Markets) Norway AS
AN Document HUGNEN0020141114eabe000ji

Page191of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.