Corporate News: Beijing Fund Buys Waste Manager

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Corporate News: Beijing Fund Buys Waste Manager

By Rhiannon Hoyle
530 words
4 March 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
21
English
Copyright © 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

SYDNEY -- State-owned Beijing Capital Group has agreed to buy New Zealand's biggest waste
manager from Australia's Transpacific Industries Group Ltd. for 950 million New Zealand dollars
(US$796 million).
Chinese investors, after splurging on Australian mines, have been pursuing overseas infrastructure
assets to garner both returns and industry knowledge. Given China's increasing urgency about
cleaning up the nation's filthy air and water, its companies are eager to gain expertise in waste
management.

"Waste management is going through massive growth in China, and given how new the industry is
they're likely looking to extract what they can in terms of expertise," said Hasan Tevfik, a
Sydney-based Credit Suisse strategist. "Infrastructure is also a natural beneficiary of this search for
yield."
The agreement with Transpacific, which is still subject to regulatory approval in China and New
Zealand, would give Beijing Capital ownership of landfill sites, recycling depots and hazardous-waste
treatment facilities across New Zealand.
Beijing Capital Group is owned by the Beijing municipal government. In addition to infrastructure, the
investment group targets the financial-services and real-estate sectors, according to its website. Its
assets were worth US$21 billion at the end of last year, while annual revenue was more than US$3.7
billion.

Beijing Capital's general manager, Wang Hao, said he sees scope for extensive cooperation with the
waste-management business, the group's first purchase in New Zealand.
"The investment carries significant and mutual technical and commercial benefits for both companies
and will open further strong commercial links between the New Zealand and Chinese markets," Mr.
Wang said in a statement Monday.
Transpacific said it expects to complete the sale by the end of June. Its chief executive, Robert
Boucher, said the deal would improve Transpacific's "financial flexibility."

Transpacific said it is also considering using some revenue from the deal to make new investments,
and to resume dividend payouts to investors.

Many more infrastructure assets are expected to come up for grabs in places like Australia and New
Zealand as cash-strapped utilities and governments look to strengthen their balance sheets. Such
assets are often attractive as a reliable source of income, not so tied to economic cycles.

Li Ka-shing, Asia's richest man, acquired New Zealand waste-management business EnviroWaste last
year for NZ$501 million. Before that, his companies, including Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings
Ltd., bought stakes in Australia-listed infrastructure businesses Envestra Ltd. and Spark Infrastructure
Group.

Page233of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Cheung Kong last year also bought AVR Afvalverwerking BV, the largest company in the Netherlands
generating energy from waste, for about 9.7 billion Hong Kong dollars (US$1.25 billion).
Chinese investors have become more cautious about investing in Australia's mining industry as
growth in China's demand for commodities slows and after various projects hit operational delays and
technical setbacks. Credit Suisse's Mr. Tevfik estimates that mining assets accounted for about half
of Chinese investment in Australia in the 12 months ending last June, compared with nearly all of
Chinese investment there four years earlier.

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

CO
IN

NS

RE

IPC
PUB
AN

bjcg : Beijing Capital Group | tinptl : Transpacific Industries Group Ltd
ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | iewm : Environment/Waste Management | iindstrls : Industrial
Goods | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | i9211 : Waste Management/Recycling Services
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | neqac : Equities Asset
Class News | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | nz : New Zealand | sydney : Sydney | beijin : Beijing | apacz : Asia
Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia |
nswals : New South Wales
AEQI
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document AWSJ000020140303ea3400015

Page234of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.