MMG buy starts mining deal rush

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
MMG buy starts mining deal rush

Peter Ker
569 words
15 April 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
21
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Mining

A major domino in the mining industry's year of transactions has fallen, with the long-awaited sale of
GlencoreXstrata's $US5.85 billion Las Bambas project expected to trigger several other deals in
Australia and around the world.

Melbourne-based, Chinese-owned miner MMG led a consortium of Chinese entities that reached an
agreement to buy the prized Peruvian copper mine from its Swiss owners on Monday.
MMG's Australian chief executive Andrew Michelmore described the purchase as "transformative"
for his Hong Kong-listed company, and it could prove transformative for several other companies
too.
The sale was required by Chinese authorities before they would give their blessings to a merger of
Glencore and Xstrata, having previously expressed concerns about the power the merged entity
would wield over copper markets.
ASX-listed PanAust was also an interested spectator to Monday's events, having needed the sale of
Las Bambas to occur before it could proceed with its preliminary deal to buy one of GlencoreXstrata's
other assets: an 80 per cent stake in Papua New Guinea's Frieda River copper project.
Clarity over the Las Bambas sale - which still requires approval from MMG shareholders and
regulators in Peru and China - could also precipitate long-awaited asset divestments for Rio Tinto
and BHP Billiton, given GlencoreXstrata is considered a suitor for the assets that could be discarded
by both miners.
GlencoreXstrata boss Ivan Glasenberg has indicated interest in Rio Tinto's Australian coal assets
and BHP's nickel assets in WA.
MMG will own 62.5 per cent of the joint venture that will buy Las Bambas, with Chinese investment
firm Guoxin International taking 22.5 per cent and CITIC owning 15 per cent.

The transaction will see the joint venture buy 100 per cent of the corporate entity through which
GlencoreXstrata owns Las Bambas, using a share purchase agreement.
The deal will involve equity and debt, and was made possible by a banking syndicate organised by
China Development Bank.

Mr Michelmore would not reveal the cost of debt on the deal, but promised to reveal more about the
funding package and MMG's plans for developing the asset in May.

Construction of Las Bambas is 56 per cent complete and GlencoreXstrata had expected it to be
finished in 2015, but Mr Michelmore said that after its own investigations, MMG may believe a
different schedule is required. "The addition of Las Bambas to MMG's international portfolio delivers

Page154of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.on our growth strategy and vision to build a global diversified minerals and metals company," he
said.

MMG operates the Rosebery base metals mine in Tasmania as well as Queensland's Century zinc
mine, which will close in 2015.

MMG recently deferred plans to build a new zinc and silver mine at Dugald River in Queensland, but
Mr Michelmore stressed that Dugald River was still a priority despite the acquisition of Las Bambas.
Las Bambas will produce more than 2 million tonnes of copper concentrate in its first five years of
operation and will be one of the world's three biggest copper producers by 2017.

Baillieu Holst analyst Adrian Prendergast said clarity over Las Bambas would "clear the long-term
growth prospects for PanAust", which he said was likely to favour development of Frieda River over
another option in Chile.

march : Glencore Xstrata PLC | orieml : MMG Limited | cminmc : China Minmetals Corporation |
imreht : Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel Rare-Earth (Group) Hi-Tech Co Ltd | lawspr : Minmetals Land
Limited
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i22 : Primary
Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | i2245 : Aluminum | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs :
Business/Consumer Services
c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | peru : Peru | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | lamz : Latin America | samz :
South America
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140414ea4f0002u

CO

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page155of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.