Fitch: Emeco's Rating Incorporated Possibility of Lower Earnings 18 May 2014

HD Fitch: Emeco's Rating Incorporated Possibility of Lower Earnings 18 May 2014
WC 1,038 words
PD
19 May 2014
SN
News Bites - Private Companies
SC
NBPRCO
LA
English
CY
Copyright 2014. News Bites Pty Ltd.
LP

NEWS BITES - PRIVATE COMPANIES
[Company Release]

TD

Fitch Ratings-Singapore/Sydney-18 May 2014: Fitch Ratings says that Emeco Holdings Limited's (Emeco;
B+/Stable) ratings already incorporated the possibility that earnings for the financial year ending 30 June
2014 would be lower than the company's previous guidance. Emeco, which supplies heavy equipment to
the mining industry, on 14 May 2014 revised its FY14 EBITDA guidance to AUD72m-75m, 12%-20%
lower than its previous estimates. The lower guidance is not a surprise - Fitch had already factored in the
possibility of a slower pick-up in utilisation rates than management's initial estimates, especially in the 12
to 18 months following the initiation of the ratings in February 2014. Fitch does not view the lower earnings
guidance as a material weakening of Emeco's business or credit profile, especially as it is driven by
one-off events and a delay in the commencement of operations for some of its new contracts.

In Fitch's opinion, the lower earnings in FY14 would not materially hamper its ability to deleverage in line
with our expectations. Emeco's ratings factor in our expectation that Emeco would reduce its leverage, as
measured by net debt to EBITDA, to below 3x by FY16 (2.3x in FY13).
Emeco's Canadian operations have been impacted in FY14 by an earlier than expected onset of autumn
and unplanned outages at its largest customer. Emeco expects seasonally adjusted business volumes in
its Canadian operations to return to normal by July 2014. In Australia, the company has not been
awarded as many new contracts as it initially anticipated, although it has already secured some sizable
contracts, which should boost its utilisation rates in Australia starting early FY15.
The company's overall utilisation has trended downwards since early 2012, driven by weak volumes in its
Australian coal business, as coal miners have been reducing overburden removal volumes in response to
weak global coal prices. The agency however does not expect this trend to continue due to both
increasing Australian coal production and gradual reversion by miners to regular strip ratios requiring
higher overburden removal volumes.
Emeco's ratings, including the "BB-"/"RR3" rating on its senior secured bonds issued under Emeco Pty
Ltd, reflect the high sensitivity of its earnings to commodity cycles. The ratings also take into account
Emeco's low operating leverage, Fitch's expectation of a gradual improvement in Emeco's financial profile
and Emeco's flexibility in managing capex, which allows it to preserve operating cash flows during industry
downturns.

Click here for the full original announcement
COMPANY BACKGROUND

ACTIVITIES

Fitch Training Ltd. designs, develops, and delivers credit, risk, and corporate finance training courses for
individuals and corporate clients in the United Kingdom and internationally. Its training courses include
workshops for corporate; non-bank financial institutions, insurance, and banks courses; risk and capital,
and risk applications courses; and securitization courses. The company was founded in 1987 and is
based in London, United Kingdom with locations in Dubai, Frankfurt, London, Paris, Riyadh, Stockholm,
Beijing, Hong Kong, Singapore, Sydney, Chicago, New York, San Francisco, Sao Paulo, and Toronto;
and Washington, D.C. Fitch Training Ltd. operates as a subsidiary of Fitch Group, Inc.

BUSINESS NEWS ROUND UP

Page209of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.18 May 2014: Fitch Affirms and Withdraws Taiwan Cooperative Bank Ratings
[Company Release] Fitch Ratings-Taipei/Singapore-18 May 2014: Fitch Ratings has affirmed the ratings
of Taiwan Cooperative Bank's (TCB) and its affiliated companies, Taiwan Cooperative Bills Finance
Company (TCBFC) and Taiwan Cooperative Securities (TCS), with Stable Outlook. The ratings and
outlook of TCB are simultaneously withdrawn as they are no longer considered relevant to the agency's
rating coverage.

Click here for the full original announcement
16 May 2014: Fitch: CNPC Pipeline Sale is Positive, State Linkages Unaffected.
[Company Release] Fitch Ratings-Hong Kong/Singapore-16 May 2014: Fitch Ratings has today said that
a proposal by China National Petroleum Corporation's (CNPC; A+/Stable) subsidiary PetroChina
(A+/Stable) to eventually sell its interest in some of its pipelines does not affect CNPC's ratings nor its
linkages with the state.

Click here for the full original announcement

16 May 2014: Fitch Affirms Lifestyle at "BBB-", Outlook Stable
[Company Release] Fitch Ratings-Hong Kong-16 May 2014: Fitch Ratings has affirmed Lifestyle
International Holdings Limited's (Lifestyle) Long-Term Foreign Currency Issuer Default Rating (IDR) at
"BBB-" with a Stable Outlook. The agency also affirmed Lifestyle's foreign currency senior unsecured
rating at "BBB-". KEY RATING DRIVERS Strong asset, prudent expansion: Lifestyle enjoys stable
revenue from its flagship Causeway Bay (CWB) Sogo property, which provides strong support to the
company's cash-flow in the event of an economic down-cycle.

Click here for the full original announcement
16 May 2014: Fitch: Sunac Has Sufficient Liquidity for Greentown Stake Acquisition
[Company Release] Fitch Ratings-Hong Kong/Singapore-16 May 2014: Fitch Ratings says Sunac China
Holdings Limited's (Sunac; BB-/Stable) proposal to acquire up to 30% of Greentown China Holdings
Limited's (Greentown) issued shares is not likely to have any impact on the ratings on Sunac, which has
sufficient liquidity. Sunac, a China-based homebuilder, achieved CNY14.2bn of contracted sales in
January-April 2014, an increase of 27% from a year earlier, and had CNY16.0bn of cash equivalents and
restricted cash at end-2013.

Click here for the full original announcement

16 May 2014: Fitch Affirms Telkomsel at "AAA(idn)"; Withdraws International Ratings
[Company Release] Fitch Ratings-Jakarta/Singapore/Sydney-16 May 2014: Fitch Ratings has affirmed
Indonesia-based P.T. Telekomunikasi Selular's (Telkomsel) National Long-Term Rating at "AAA(idn)". The
Outlook is Stable. Simultaneously, Fitch has affirmed and withdrawn the following international scale
ratings as they are no longer considered by Fitch to be relevant to the agency's coverage: Long-Term
Foreign-Currency Issuer Default Rating (IDR) at "BBB"; Outlook Stable Long-Term Local-Currency IDR at
"BBB+"; Outlook Stable Foreign currency senior unsecured rating at "BBB" "AAA" National Ratings denote
the highest rating assigned by Fitch on its national rating scale for that country.

Click here for the full original announcement

CO emecho : Emeco Holdings Ltd
IN
NS

i32 : Machinery | i3254 : Construction Machinery | iindstrls : Industrial Goods
c1521 : Analyst Comments/Recommendations | c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | npress :
Press Releases | c15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat
: Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | taiwan : Taiwan | uk : United Kingdom | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | easiaz : Eastern Asia |
eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe

RE

IPD ACTIVITIES; BUSINESS NEWS ROUND UP
PUB News Bites Pty Ltd (Europe)
AN Document NBPRCO0020140519ea5j000um

Page210of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Page211of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.