TEXT - Minutes from Reserve Bank of Australia June 3 board meeting

HD TEXT - Minutes from Reserve Bank of Australia June 3 board meeting
WC 1,591 words
PD
17 June 2014
SN
Financial Services Monitor Worldwide
SC
FINSMEN
LA
English
CY
© 2014 Global Data Point. All Rights Reserved. Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
LP

Glenn Stevens (Chairman and Governor), Philip Lowe (Deputy Governor), John Akehurst, Roger Corbett
AO, John Edwards, Kathryn Fagg, Martin Parkinson PSM (Secretary to the Treasury), Heather Ridout AO,
Catherine Tanna

Others Present

TD

Guy Debelle (Assistant Governor, Financial Markets), Christopher Kent (Assistant Governor, Economic),
Jonathan Kearns (Head, Economic Analysis Department), Anthony Dickman (Secretary), Peter Stebbing
(Deputy Secretary)

International Economic Conditions

The global data released over the past month suggested that the pace of growth in Australia's major
trading partners had remained close to its long-run average. In China, growth in a range of key indicators
had been running at a somewhat slower pace than over the course of 2013, with outcomes having been a
little mixed of late. Growth in industrial production increased a touch in March and April, and PMIs picked
up in May, while, in contrast, a range of other indicators, including various measures of freight, had shown
more moderate growth than in 2013. The slower growth in residential investment was consistent with the
broad-based decline in residential property inflation and transaction volumes over recent months. While
there had been a number of reports that the extent of overbuilding had been greater in smaller cities, the
decline in price inflation and downturn in sales were larger in the biggest cities, which had earlier
experienced a more pronounced increase in prices and sales.

In Japan, GDP picked up sharply in the March quarter, driven in large part by a strong increase in
consumption ahead of the rise in the consumption tax from the start of April, although business investment
was also stronger. Preliminary indicators suggested that household expenditure fell back subsequently, as
had been expected. In Thailand, GDP declined sharply in response to political unrest. In the rest of east
Asia, GDP growth moderated slightly in the March quarter from the strong pace seen in the December
quarter; taking the two quarters together, growth was around its longer-run average pace. More timely
indicators suggested that this had continued over recent months. Members noted that economic
conditions in India remained subdued but with potential for stronger growth if structural reforms were
pursued.

Recent data suggested that the US economy was growing at a moderate pace. GDP recorded a small
decline in the March quarter, in large part reflecting the unusually severe winter weather. More recent
indicators had been stronger and forward-looking indicators of business investment pointed to further
growth.

The gradual recovery in the euro area economy had continued through the year to date. Indicators of
economic activity had improved of late and measures of household and business confidence were around
their average levels. Business credit, however, had continued to decline, reflecting a combination of weak
demand for, and constrained supply of, loans. Members noted that large corporations were raising funds
through bond issuance but smaller businesses were not able to access this source of finance.
Iron ore prices fell further over the past month, in part reflecting softer conditions in the Chinese steel
market but also in response to the increase in iron ore production capacity globally. Other commodity
prices were little changed overall, with coal prices relatively stable, rural prices declining a little and base
metals prices slightly higher. Members noted that at current prices most iron ore production in Australia
was thought to be profitable, but that some iron ore producers in other countries were likely to have
begun to incur losses.

Page139of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Domestic Economic Conditions

The wage price index rose by 0.7 per cent in the March quarter and by 2.6 per cent over the year. The
year-ended pace of wage growth was 1 percentage point below its long-run average and around the
slowest pace in the 17-year history of this series. Members noted that the decline in wage growth over the
past 18 months or so was consistent with the increase in the unemployment rate over the same period.
Business surveys and liaison suggested that wage pressures were likely to remain constrained over the
year ahead.

The labour market had shown some signs of improvement. In April, employment increased to be almost 1
per cent higher since the end of 2013 and the unemployment rate remained steady. Forward-looking
indicators had improved over the past year but remained at low levels, consistent with relatively moderate
growth in employment over coming months.

The 2014/15 federal budget estimated that the deficit would narrow by slightly more over the next two
years than estimated in the 2013/14 Mid-year Economic and Fiscal Outlook. Members observed that the
change in the budget position over the next couple of years was forecast to proceed at a similar rate to
earlier episodes of fiscal consolidation. Beyond that horizon, the budget implied a more substantial fiscal
consolidation than had earlier been projected.

Household consumption spending had continued to increase, with growth in the volume of retail sales in
the March quarter around the same strong pace as in the December quarter. Following strong growth in
January, growth of the nominal value of sales had slowed over the three months to April, and the Bank's
retail liaison suggested that growth had moderated further in May. Measures of consumer sentiment had
fallen sharply over the past month and were now below their long-run average levels. However, it was
noted that while low-frequency movements in confidence measures had been broadly associated with
trends in consumption spending, there was little evidence from the historical record that high-frequency
movements carried much predictive content.

A range of indicators of housing construction confirmed that a significant recovery was underway.
Residential work done picked up strongly in the March quarter. Forward-looking indicators of new
dwelling investment were at high levels relative to recent years, although building approvals had declined
in recent months. In the established housing market, dwelling price growth had eased from the rapid pace
seen in 2013 and auction clearance rates in Sydney and Melbourne had declined from the high rates that
prevailed during much of 2013.
Resource exports grew very strongly in the March quarter. Iron ore exports had continued to grow in April,
while coal exports had declined somewhat. Private non-residential building approvals had continued to
trend lower, although the high level of work yet to be done was likely to sustain construction activity for
some time. The ABS capital expenditure survey for the March quarter suggested that mining investment
fell in the quarter, while non-mining business investment appeared to have increased a little. Looking
ahead, firms' investment intentions implied that mining investment would fall quite sharply over the course
of 2014/15, but the same survey pointed to a modest increase in non-mining investment over this period.
Surveys of business conditions and confidence in April remained around their long-run average levels. In
the Bank's liaison, non-mining firms continued to report a reluctance to commit to significant new
investment projects until they saw a sustained improvement in demand conditions.

Members noted that the March quarter national accounts were scheduled to be released the day after the
Board meeting. GDP was expected to have grown at an above-average pace in the quarter, led by a large
increase in resource exports. Dwelling investment had shown signs of improvement. Mining investment
looked to have declined while growth in public spending was likely to have been subdued.

Financial Markets

With financial markets continuing to be characterised by markedly low volatility, the main focus over the
past month had been the outlook for monetary policy set by the European Central Bank (ECB). At its
meeting in early May, ECB President Draghi had emphasised that the ECB Governing Council was
dissatisfied with the subdued outlook for inflation and would take action if necessary at its meeting in early
June. Likely actions to be considered included a further reduction in policy rates - which would reduce the
ECB deposit rate to below zero - as well as long-term refinancing operations aimed specifically at
supporting small and medium-sized businesses. Over the past month, market expectations for the future
path of the ECB policy rate had shifted down by around 10-20 basis points.
The US Federal Reserve was widely expected to continue reducing its asset purchases by US$10 billion
at each policy meeting, until such purchases end later this year. Market expectations for the future federal
funds rate had also declined modestly over the past month.

Page140of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The decline in sovereign bond yields was another feature of financial market developments in May, with
yields in the major markets around 60 basis points lower than at the start of the year. Reasons for lower
yields cited by commentators included market expectations of lower long-term real rates worldwide and
heightened demand for sovereign bonds from pension funds and banks. Members noted that most of the
posited explanations had emerged after bond yields had actually declined.
Yields on longer-term government bonds in Australia had fallen by a similar amount to those in the major
markets. The Australian Government's budget had little effect on financial markets, with sales of
Commonwealth Government Securities (CGS) continuing to be well received. Interest rate spreads
between CGS and state government debt had also remained at around their lowest levels since 2007, as
had spreads on investment grade corporate bonds both in Australia and elsewhere.

Government bond yields in emerging markets had also declined further from their peaks earlier in the
year. Election outcomes in India and Indonesia

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

CO rbkaus : Reserve Bank of Australia
RE
IPD Financial Services
PUB Global Data Point Ltd.
AN Document FINSMEN020140617ea6h0002b

Page141of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.