Oil and gas companies brace for $10b deal wave

HD Oil and gas companies brace for $10b deal wave
WC 605 words
PD 17 September 2014
SN Energy Monitor Worldwide
SC ENRGYMEN
LA
CY © 2014 Global Data Point. All Rights Reserved.
LP

English

TD

Mergers are set to sweep through Australia's oil and gas sector with close to $10 billion of assets
currently on the market as international players head towards the exit and local operators seek out new
partners in an effort to stave off mounting cost pressures. The selling spree has provided a fillip for
investment banks and comes as new research shows China's demand for liquefied natural gas will rocket
over the next decade as its relentless industrialisation continues to strain existing energy sources. While
Chinese appetite will have a significant influence on LNG supply, forecasts from Bernstein Research point
to a doubling of natural gas consumption in Asia to 1200 billion cubic metres by 2025. In a recent
presentation, analyst Neil Beveridge claimed Asia's gas deficit will accelerate .?.?. and non OECD
[Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development] Asia will switch from being a net exporter of
gas to being the world's largest net importer.

The bullish assessment follows a tough few years for the fast-growing Australian LNG industry as the
intensity of development and cost blow-outs forced a slew of high-profile projects to be shelved or
abandoned. Apache Corporation, the US oil and gas producer, accounts for the bulk of the asset sales
with Macquarie Group and Goldman Sachs running a first-past-the-post auction for its $2.4 billion stake
in Chevron's Wheatstone LNG project in Western Australia. Much of the interest in the stake stems from
Asian investors, and Apache remains determined to complete a deal by the end of the year. However,
sources said Woodside Petroleum still ranks as a strong contender with Apache hoping to persuade the
Perth-based company to take its stakes in both Wheatstone and the planned Kitimat LNG project in
Canada, also led by Chevron. A brisk pace has been set also for Apache's mooted spin-out vehicle,
designed to hold its international assets, as the company's board heeds advice from activist hedge fund
investor, Jana, and renews its focus on the US market. Smaller projects struggle So far Apache has
steered away from appointing investment banks and initiating a formal sales process on the rest of its
international portfolio. But well placed sources said investors are already sifting through the assets, valued
at between $2.5 billion and $3 billion. Another international player, Thai oil and gas giant PTTEP, is
trimming its exposure to Australia with JPMorgan appointed to sell its $2 billion Montara gas venture in
the Timor Sea and the Cash and Maple gasfields. Origin Energy and Santos are understood to have cast
an eye over these assets, which have been on the market since March. The slow pace of the negotiations
has become a feature of the market with smaller scale deals often failing to close. Santos has had its
Mereenie gasfield in central Australia on the market for over a year, with Morgan Stanley drafted in to run
the process, according to sources. The Australian oil and gas producer is understood to be also testing
interest in its stake Caldita-Barossa gasfield in the Timor Sea, worth around $300 million. Santos's
partner in its Bonaparte project, GDF Suez, previously attempted to sell down its stake, without success.
The pair have since dropped plans for a floating LNG plant at Bonaparte and are seeking to develop a
land-based project. Origin Energy also sought a partner for its $24.7 billionAustralia Pacific LNG project
in Queensland in 2012 before shelving that process and retaining its 37.5 per cent interest.

CO oecode : Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
IN

i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil
Extraction
c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

NS

RE
IPD Oil & Gas
PUB Global Data Point Ltd.

Page125of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN Document ENRGYMEN20140917ea9h00019

Page126of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.