Grollo recycles into Rialto

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Grollo recycles into Rialto

Exclusive
603 words
10 October 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
34
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Lorenz Grollo has sold a prize Collins Street site, doubling its value in less than two years, as he
prepares to revamp the iconic Rialto Towers.

A prominent Melbourne player, Mr Grollo is also releasing a second Collins Street landmark into the
market, the $75 million Goods Shed North, which he redeveloped at the Docklands end of the
boulevard.

The Golden Age Group, headed by Jeff Xu, has acquired the Makers Mark building at 466 Collins
Street for $25 million. Set on just 483 square metres with an 11-metre Collins Street frontage, the
historic three-storey building was snapped up in late 2012 for just $10.5 million by Mr Grollo.

But Mr Grollo, who has experience building high on narrow sites, saw it as an opportunity for a
modish but slender "pencil tower".

He bolstered the vision by acquiring air rights over a neighbouring building, allowing to expand the
floorplates, and then secured planning approval for a 55-level tower this year.

Amid growing interest from offshore players, Mr Grollo changed tack in May, putting Makers Mark on
the market through CBRE's Mark Wizel, Josh Rutman, Tom Tuxworth.New focus

"Jeff is one of Melbourne's pre-eminent developers. I've got a lot of respect for him," said Mr Grollo,
whose building firm has constructed some Golden Age projects. Divesting 466 Collins St allows Mr
Grollo to focus his efforts on the Rialto, which his father Rino built with brother Bruno Grollo. When
the brothers divided the company in 2000, the Rialto stake stayed with Lorenz's side of the family.
With co-investor, Kuwaiti-controlled St Martins Property, Mr Grollo plans to launch a $100 million
rejig of the Melbourne landmark, adding 9000 square metres of retail space in the forecourt and
refurbishing the towers.

"We're going through a once-in-a-generation reset of this asset," Mr Grollo said. "Once we get this
project completed we'll be redeploying capital and interest into other projects elsewhere, but it's
important to get this right."

To that end, Mr Grollo has opted to put the heritage-listed Goods Shed North to market as well,
through JLL's James Kaufman and Robert Anderson, and Colliers' Nick Rathgeber and Leigh
Melbourne. It is well covenanted to government tenants with a lease expiry close to 10 years.

Mr Grollo won accolades for his transformation five years ago of the 1889 building, although the Town
Hall slammed a recent proposal to add a 34-storey commercial tower on the site.

"We've decided to sell 466 and we've done that successfully with the right buyer. We are looking to
put the Goods Shed on the market. It's largely about the Rialto for us," Mr Grollo said.New name
coming

Page241of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Meanwhile, Golden Age's Mr Xu hoped to launch construction at Makers Mark as early as next year,
with a 280-apartment project designed by Bates Smart, to be called Collins House.
The Chinese-born entrepreneur who came to Melbourne 16 years ago to revive his family's ailing
Chinatown restaurant now heads a property and hospitality empire.

It has expanded to Sydney with Mr Xu's recent acquisition of a $50 million building at The Rocks,
partnered by engineering firm, Hannas Group.
The per square metre rate for the Makers Mark site is close to $52,000, a clear record for the CBD.
But Mr Xu says his focus is unit cost, around $85,000.
"It's not a big site, but it's one of the best. The address is quite amazing."

IN
RE

PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141009eaaa0002y

Page242of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.