The bling is back

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
The bling is back

KATHLEEN SKENE
371 words
17 May 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
6
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

First new five-star hotel for Gold Coast since the GFC SINGAPOREAN hotel giant Banyan Tree
Group will build the Coast’s first five-star hotel since the GFC after paying a record price for land on
the Esplanade at Surfers Paradise.
The group paid $11.5 million for two beachfront blocks, at 158 and 162 The Esplanade, a combined
971sq m.

The same blocks sold together for $7.1m in 2010. It is believed to be the best price per square metre
paid in the area since businesswoman Katie Page paid $15.5 million for an 882sq m block at Main
Beach in July 2007. It would be the first hotel in Australia for the group, which has luxury hotels
across the world.
The sale was negotiated by Roland Evans, through his new business Canford Property Group.
Mr Evans sold the property in 2012 to AMP Capital Investors from the Howard Group for $7.35
million. He said it was likely to set a new price benchmark for the area.
“This sale highlights the growing confidence in the Gold Coast market among Asian investors, and is
expected to draw increased attention from other investors looking for similar opportunities” Mr Evans
said.
Plans for the oceanfront land include a luxury hotel and serviced residential apartments built under a
new Banyan Group brand that will deliver high-end accommodation to meet the growing Chinese
tourist market.
Mr Evans said the sale had been aided by the recent Gold Coast City Council mission to China and
Macau.

Mayor Tom Tate, who attended the mission, said the city’s confidence and attraction to investors was
growing.

“Confidence is coming back in the city,’’ the mayor said.

“It’s not just confidence from investors in Melbourne and Sydney, but from further afield
internationally.” “On the back of the Commonwealth Games, arts and cultural precinct, Broadwater
Marine Precinct and new town plan, they see that it’s all happening here and they want to get in on the
ground floor.

“They’re coming – and it’s fantastic for the city.”Mr Evans said the strong demand from Asia for
properties in Sydney and Melbourne was spreading to southeast Queensland.

CO

ampcil : AMP Capital Investors Limited | austmp : AMP Ltd

Page266of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

i6651 : Hotels (except Casino)/Motels | i66 : Hotels/Restaurants | i665 : Lodgings | ilea :
Leisure/Arts/Hospitality | itourm : Tourism | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
gluxtr : Luxury Travel | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gtour : Travel
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020140518ea5h0001x

Page267of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.