Rio scales new heights in Guinea

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Rio scales new heights in Guinea

Matthew Stevens
1,363 words
7 February 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
28
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Matthew Stevens
Rio Tinto has confirmed plans to outsource the $US6 billion ($6.7 billion) engineering nightmare that
will be the construction of the railway and port needed to link its iron ore riches in Guinea's Toura
Mountains to the steelmakers of the world. Rio has also confirmed efforts to broaden the investment
gene pool for the $US20 billion Simandou mine, rail and port project with soundings being taken
among the state-owned investment agencies of the Middle Eastern Emirates.

Back in 2010, Rio earned itself $US1.35 billion by introducing its Chinese imbedded Chinalco as a
partner in the occasionally controversial and oft-delayed Simandou development.
That deal left Chinalco with a 47 per cent interest in Rio's 95 per cent share of the project and has
subsequently opened doors to continuing funding discussions with a host of China's most powerful
lending institutions including China Development Bank, China Investment Corporation and the daddy
of them all, ICBC. Now, according to reports from Cape Town by the Financial Times, Rio is in talks
with Abu Dhabi's state-owned Mubadala investment fund and with the sovereign wealth funds of
Kuwait and Qatar.
The FT reported that Rio's Alan Davies is looking for about $US3 billion of new equity to underpin the
construction of Simandou's rail and port infrastructure, with expectations that would be at least
matched in debt funding. The coincidence of those reports and a speech in Cape Town on Wednesday
by Davies is compelling. Davies is the quietly spoken Australian who runs Rio's largely African-based
mineral sands business and has been charged with delivering on Simandou's mighty promise.

In an address aimed at promoting investment alliances and joint ventures as solutions to the
challenges and risks of big-ticket investment in Africa, Davies identified Rio's plans for Simandou as
classic case in point.

"With our partners, including the people of Guinea, work is under way to develop a world-class mine
that will produce 100mtpa a year. That is over a third of the size of Rio Tinto's production from the
Pilbara.

"The contribution of the mine to the Guinean economy will be significant," he continued. "Current
estimates suggest that it will more than double its size, fundamentally raising the country's economic
trajectory. While transformations of this scale have on occasion been seen in the oil industry, they
have seldom been triggered by a single mining project." With that Davies went on to say that "the size
and scale" of the plan "requires an innovative approach to bringing new partners to the table in order to
fund the investment required and share the risk".

"A consortium partnership approach is being considered, to allow new investors and infrastructure
owners to be mobilised to raise a portion of the required capital," he said. "We are even open to
investors taking a leading role in the infrastructure," he finished. Of course, generating a sense of

Page43of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.progress on Simandou continues to be a priority for Davies and Rio given the Guinean government's
expressed frustration over the apparently stuttering progress on what is potentially a nation-changing
project.

To some degree, Rio is the father of its own problems there given the expectations that were seeded
during the company's defence of BHP Billiton's takeover offer back in 2007-08. At that time Rio
reckoned Simandou could enter production as early at 2014.

Needless to say, that is not going to happen. Indeed, if everything goes well from here, Rio and Guinea
might just get around to signing the project-critical investment framework by year's end. That
framework is a collection of documents that will define and govern the relationships, commercial and
otherwise, between government and project investors.

Its effect will be to translate previous agreements into a transparent and legal form stout enough to
support the quantum of funding needed to make Simandou happen. Outside of its size, complexity and
exotic (occasionally dangerous) location, what makes Simandou really important is that it is such a
high-profile litmus test of Rio's differentiating strategy to persist with the risk of investment on mining's
emerging frontiers.
Like Rio's more recently acquired Mongolian copper play, Simandou is proving a test of corporate
patience, preparation and diplomacy as this distinctly first-world miner attempts to cope with the
profound and unpredictable challenges of generating wealth in (and for) the third world.
Stanwell Corporation is not alone in pondering an energy price arbitrage that makes it more sensible
to resuscitate a mothballed, coal-fired generator so it sells the gas that would have been burned in a
more modern and carbon-friendly gas-fired facility.
This sort of input and capacity swapping in the face of increasing dynamic energy markets is common
in the US and will likely become more routine here as regional Asian gas prices are imported into the
east coast Australian market through Gladstone's troika of liquefied natural gas export plants. And the
fact that locally delivered thermal coal prices seem stuck at long-term cyclical lows only adds currency
to the dilemma.

Only recently we had a chat to a major aluminium operator who speaks for smelters globally. He noted
that one of the cost and revenue mitigating strategies being contemplated should the current
aluminium glut force further capacity closures was the opportunistic re-sale of power that is converted
to metal in his plants.
Stanwell's informed opportunism is all the more instructive because its arrives as the anti-coal lobby's
growing momentum starts to generate real concern and reflection within and without the mining
sector.
But this input-shifting shows how, for all that the clicktivists might wish it otherwise, coal's immediate
underlying economics remain irresistible to the world's power producers. The facts of coal remain
compelling. About 75 per cent of Australia's power is the product of burning coal and a whole lot of the
options that generate the rest, from wind to solar and now gas, only increase the retail price of
electricity.

Meanwhile the latest emissions figures for Australia released on Wednesday show emissions from
coal mining are increasing because production here is expanding.
Why is that? Well, because the world wants to buy the stuff. The International Energy Agency says
China's coal consumption will grow by 13.5 per cent between 2011 and 2020 by which time demand
will exceed the rest of the world put together.
Indian demand for coal doubled between the turn of the century and 2011; the IEA expects demand to
double again by 2035. That will put it in front of the US as the second-largest coal consumer. At the
same time the 10 ASEAN economies will walk the same path to coal dependence given expectations
their collective electricity demand will double by 2035.

One of the fundamental flaws of the Fair Work Act is the protected industrial action that it offers so
easily to unions can take so many and varied forms. Take a look at the ballot being run by the good
folk working for UGL that are represented by the WA branch of the AMWU.

UGL is a specialist contractor and in WA its biggest client seems to be BHP Billiton's offshore
petroleum operations. On Wednesday the AMWU filed a ballot application with the Perth office of the
Fair Work Commission. The union is asking for permission to run the usual list of stoppages ranging
from hours to full 12-hours shifts. But it is also seeking approval for options that are clearly aimed at

Page44of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.ensuring the employer carries the cost of a workforce delicately constrained from actually doing their
jobs.

The union wants to be able to ban working "in confined spaces for an indefinite period of time" and the
use of company vehicles similarly.

More remarkably for people that might be working on an offshore rig, it has also asked to be able to
enforce bans "on the performance of work at heights greater than three hundred millimetres for an
indefinite period of time".

almcor : Aluminium Corporation of China Limited | chinvm : China Investment Corp. Ltd. | rtz : Rio Tinto
PLC | rtzcra : Rio Tinto Group | craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd
i5020017 : Harbor Construction | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i502 : Heavy
Construction | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | iconst : Construction | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | i22 : Primary Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | i2245 : Aluminum | i81502 :
Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | isover :
Sovereign Wealth Fund
reqrmm : Suggested Reading Metals/Mining | coutsc : Outsourcing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
c33 : Contracts/Orders | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | gurep : Guinea | africaz : Africa | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
dvpcoz : Developing Economies | wafrz : West Africa
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140206ea270005i

CO

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page45of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.