China Nuclear Firm in Africa Uranium Deal

Rhiannon Hoyle

CLM Top Stories
HD
BY
WC 773 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

China Nuclear Firm in Africa Uranium Deal

20 January 2014
19:29
Dow Jones Top News & Commentary
DJCOMM
English
Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

TD

China National Nuclear Corp. bought a large stake in one of Africa's biggest uranium mines in a deal
that gives the state-owned generator better access to cleaner-burning energy that Beijing is eager to
promote.
A unit of China National Nuclear Corp, or CNNC, bought 25% of the Langer Heinrich operation in
Namibia from Paladin Energy Ltd., the Australian uranium producer said Monday.

CNNC is one of China's largest generators of nuclear energy, and has been rapidly expanding its fleet of
reactors at a time when the world's No. 2 economy is trying to reduce reliance on coal for its ballooning
energy needs.
The $190 million deal allows CNNC to buy a quarter of the Namibian mine's output at the prevailing
spot-market price--which can often be cheaper than negotiated long-term contracts--with the option to buy
more at normal market rates. Paladin still owns the remaining 75% of Langer Heinrich.
China's leaders have recently stepped up efforts to introduce cleaner energy, while penalizing polluters
more harshly after the worst smog in recent memory hit cities like Beijing last year threatening a political
backlash. Up to 80% of China's energy is produced by burning coal.

Beijing's strengthening rhetoric on pollution underscores top-level-leadership concerns that environmental
problems represent a growing threat to economic prosperity and social stability, and a deviation from the
growth-at-all-costs philosophy followed for years.
China now has the largest pipeline of new nuclear power plants in the world. There are 20 reactors in
operation on the mainland and another 28 under construction, according to the World Nuclear Association,
an industry body.
"China has ambitious nuclear-electrification programs extending for decades into the future," Paladin said
Monday. "Obtaining direct access to sufficient global uranium supply is an essential element for China to
be able to safeguard and grow this strategically important sector."

The agreement gives Paladin, based in Perth, Western Australia, a much-needed cash injection after a
prolonged period of losses incurred largely as a result of a sharp fall in uranium prices since an
earthquake triggered an atomic crisis in Japan in early 2011.
As far back as October, Paladin said it was looking to sell a stake in Langer Heinrich to help repay debt,
including a $300 million convertible bond due in 2015. The announcement came after Paladin reported a
$420.9 million loss for the year through June, which widened from a loss of $172.8 million the year prior.

The world market for the radioactive fuel hasn't yet recovered from the earthquake and tsunami that
devastated Japan's Fukushima Daiichi power plant, bringing the country's massive nuclear industry to a
halt. The crisis also prompted countries elsewhere, like Germany and France, to look at reducing their
reliance on nuclear power, while in the U.S., some utilities have abandoned plans for new plants.

The spot price is currently $35 a pound, near an eight-year low and around 50% below where it stood
before the disaster. Still, Paladin's Chief Executive John Borshoff told reporters Monday that he saw

Page189of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.China, as well as the Middle East, Russia and India, as the growth engine for nuclear power in coming
years.
"The big positive is that the Chinese have returned to the uranium market to complete a new deal after a
hiatus of two years," said Simon Tonkin, a Perth-based analyst at Australian stockbroker Patersons.
The last one was when China Guangdong Nuclear Power Group Co., as it was then called, bought
Australia's Extract Resources Ltd. in 2012. "This should be positive for the uranium market sentiment and
could flow through to the uranium price in the short term," Mr. Tonkin said.

The Langer Heinrich mine, with an anticipated two-decade life span, has been expanded twice since it
began producing in 2007. It is currently capable of producing 5.2 million pounds of uranium concentrate
a year. Paladin has said productivity improvements this year may help bring the level up to 5.7 million
pounds.
In Paladin's statement, CNNC's director-in-general of the department of geology and mining, Du Yunbin,
described the deal as mutually beneficial. Spokespeople for CNNC couldn't be reached for further
comment.
Paladin said the deal with the Chinese unit, China Uranium Corp. Ltd., required approval from Chinese
regulators, including the National Development and Reform Commission, the country's economic planner.
The green light was expected midyear, the company added.

Write to Rhiannon Hoyle at rhiannon.hoyle@wsj.com

CO
IN

NS

RE

chinuc : China National Nuclear Corp. | palrs : Paladin Energy Limited
i1610109 : Electric Power Generation - Nuclear | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | iuran : Uranium Ore Mining |
i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16101 : Electric Power Generation | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources |
ieutil : Electric Utilities | imet : Mining/Quarrying | iutil : Utilities
ribcol : IB Collection | ribtst : IB - Top Stories | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | ncolu : Columns |
c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | redit : Selection of Top
Stories/Trends/Analysis
china : China | africaz : Africa | sydney : Sydney | beijin : Beijing | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New
South Wales

PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJCOMM1120140120ea1k008ki

Page190of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.