Origin to avoid 'grief'

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Origin to avoid 'grief'

Angela Macdonald-Smith
530 words
17 September 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
19
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Origin Energy chief executive Grant King has singled out geothermal energy and hydropower as
targets for long-term investment but will stay away from markets where projects rely on subsidies as
they "always end in grief".
Mr King, a critic of Australia's renewable energy target legislation, said Origin saw significant scope to
invest further in geothermal energy in New Zealand, where it is a player through majority-owned
Contact Energy.

He hinted Origin could also invest elsewhere in geothermal, while the company has hydroelectric
investments in Chile and is studying a potential project in Papua New Guinea. But Australia, where
renewable energy relies on subsidies through the Renewable Energy Target, looks to be unlikely to
attract new investment.

"We just think subsidised businesses always end in grief," Mr King said at a Bloomberg summit in
Sydney, where he named "some aspects of renewable energy" as a potential area of investment for
the $1 billion of cash flows that are expected from Origin's 37.5 per cent stake in the
$24.7 billionAustralia Pacific LNG project in Queensland.Dividend payout ratio

Mr King noted Origin had committed to lifting its dividend payout ratio to 60 per cent after APLNG
starts up, due in mid-2015. He also signalled that further investment in gas development and LNG
would be higher up the list in investment priorities than renewables.
Origin has been sinking cash into gas resources around Australia, most recently in its $US600 million
($666 million) buyout of Karoon Gas's stake in the undeveloped Poseidon field in the Browse Basin.

It also has an unconventional gas exploration venture with US giant Chevron in the Cooper Basin, and
interests in the Bonaparte and Beetaloo Basins in the north. Meanwhile APLNG could "double in size"
in time, he said.

Mr King said those gas development ventures would focus on "backfill" for existing LNG projects to
replace declining gas supplies, or for "brownfield" expansions of existing LNG plants. He said only in
those sorts of projects could cost-challenged Australia match up against international competitors, and
ruled out any investments in new "greenfield" LNG plants. US factor

"All of [Origin's] opportunities are addressing what we call backfill and brownfield opportunities
because the economics are far more robust and far more competitive against other global
alternatives," Mr King said. He said the only reason the US was emerging as an LNG exporter from
the Gulf coast was the cost advantage enjoyed by converting gas import terminals into export ones,
and that terminals built from scratch wouldn't be so competitive.

"It's not because [US] gas is cheap, it's because there's a significant sunk investment already in a
number of previously import facilities that can be turned around into export facilities," he said. "That
opportunity is finite."

Page158of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr King said he believed gas demand in Asia was being underestimated and that LNG would play a
greater role than was being assumed. He said a slashing in China government estimates for 2020
indigenous shale gas production, to 30 billion cubic metres from 100 bcm, supported his bullish
stance on LNG.

boral : Origin Energy Ltd | ctengy : Contact Energy Ltd
irenewf : Renewable Energy Facility Construction | i1610107 : Electric Power Generation - Hydro | i1 :
Energy | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16101 : Electric Power Generation | i502 : Heavy Construction |
i5020044 : Power Station Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ieutil :
Electric Utilities | iutil : Utilities | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas
mlpg : Liquid Petroleum Gas Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | m14 : Commodity Markets |
m143 : Energy Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mcrntg : Crude Oil/Natural Gas
Product Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140916ea9h0002y

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page159of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.