Goodman in trading halt as Asian bidders push for lower takeover price

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Goodman in trading halt as Asian bidders push for lower takeover price

BLAIR SPEEDY, Food
631 words
1 July 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
19
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

SINGAPOREAN agribusiness giant Wilmar and bid partner First Pacific are expected to lower their
$1.4 billion takeover offer for food manufacturer Goodman Fielder after spending the past four
weeks poring over the target company’s accounts.
Goodman, the company behind consumer staples including Wonder White bread and Meadow Lea
margarine, yesterday put its shares in a trading halt pending an announcement on the takeover deal,
in which the Wilmar consortium has made an indicative offer of 71c per share for the entire company.

It is understood the bidders do not intend to walk away from the deal altogether, but are arguing for a
slight reduction in the purchase price.

The move comes as a blow to Goodman, which in April knocked back the consortium’s initial
65c-per-share offer as both undervalued and opportunistic, coming just weeks after the company
had announced its fourth profit downgrade in three years amid increasing input costs and a series of
factory breakdowns.

However, Goodman signalled it was willing to entertain higher offers, and was understood to be
holding out for at least 70c per share in return for granting a potential buyer access to its accounts for
due diligence studies.

That deal was finally forthcoming on May 16, when Goodman announced it had received a
“non-binding, conditional proposal” from Wilmar and First Pacific at 71c per share, including a
1c-per-share dividend to be paid by Goodman.
The target company agreed to recommend the deal to shareholders in the absence of a higher offer,
and granted the prospective buyers four weeks’ access to its books.
After more than $700 million worth of restructuring costs and asset writedowns over the past three
years, analysts including Deutsche Bank’s Michael Simotas had raised concerns about further
one-off costs.

However, while it is understood the due diligence process did not unearth any major negatives, the
bidders have enough concerns to warrant a renegotiation.

Goodman will have little choice but to engage, with major institutional shareholders expected to press
for the deal to proceed, and no rival bidder having emerged despite a number of investment banks
canvassing potential investors.
Wilmar and First Pacific, which had already acquired a 10 per cent stake in Goodman prior to the bid,
made a deal with Goodman’s two largest shareholders, Perpetual and Ellerston, to acquire a further
4.8 per cent of the company in May, with an additional 5 per cent stake to change hands subject to
approval from the Foreign Investment Review Board.

Page238of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Continued on Page 27 Continued from Page 19 The Asian bidders are the latest in a stream of
foreign buyers for Australian food assets, including Canadian dairy giant Saputo’s $400m-plus
takeover of Warrnambool Cheese and Butter this year and Wilmar’s own $1.75bn purchase of sugar
refiner Sucrogen (formerly known as CSR) in 2011.
China’s Bright Food Group in January signed a deal to buy privately held WA cheese and yoghurt
producer Mundella following its 2011 purchase of Manassen Foods, and has been mooted as a
potential bidder for winemaking giant Treasury Wine Estates, which in May knocked back a $3.05bn
takeover offer from US private equity giant KKR.

Wilmar and First Pacific plan to invest in plant upgrades at Goodman — which blamed reliability
issues in its baking business for its most recent downgrade — before ramping up its export
business through Wilmar’s distribution networks in China and Malaysia, and First Pacific’s
businesses in the Philippines and Indonesia.
Goodman shares are scheduled to begin trading again tomorrow morning, with the company
expected to make an announcement prior to the market opening.The stock last traded at 68c on
Friday.

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

fdgl : Goodman Fielder Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | cstdr : Stock
Trading Disruptions | cacqu : Acquisitions | c15 : Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140630ea710000u

Page239of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.