SWEETER OFFER ON GOODMAN FIELDER BID

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

SWEETER OFFER ON GOODMAN FIELDER BID

415 words
17 May 2014
Dominion Post
DOMPOS
8
English
© 2014 Fairfax New Zealand Limited. All Rights Reserved.

THE board of trans-Tasman bread and milk companyGoodman Fielder has been asked to
support a sweetened takeover offer.
Singaporean palm oil trader Wilmar International and Hong Kong-based bid partner First Pacific
yesterday revealed a boost to their offer price from A65c to A70c a share.

The offer came with strings attached. It required the Goodman board to allow due diligence and
publicly advise shareholders to vote in favour of the deal by the deadline yesterday, which was
due at 8pm Melbourne time.

Wilmar and First Pacific said they would not increase their offer, unless a competing proposal
came along.
The A70c deal values Goodman Fielder's equity at A$1.369 billion ($1.480 billion).

First Pacific also revealed that two Goodman shareholders, Perpetual and Ellerston Capital, had
agreed to sell a 9.8 per cent stake into the offer if Goodman's board approved it. Wilmar already
owns 10.1 per cent of the food company, whose brands include Edmonds and Nature's Fresh.

Goodman Fielder asked for a halt on its share trading in Australia "pending an announcement . . .
in relation to information received by the company in respect of a potential change of control
transaction which is under consideration by the company".

Last month Goodman Fielder revealed it had received a non-binding conditional takeover proposal
at A65c a share from Wilmar and First Pacific.
The board said then that the offer "materially undervalues Goodman Fielder and is opportunistic".

Since then there has been increasing speculation that Goodman Fielder would sell its New
Zealand dairy business separately.

It has appointed investment bank Credit Suisse to advise on options for the Kiwi unit.

Wilmar and First Pacific have threatened to walk away if Goodman sells any of its businesses, but
already some buyers have expressed interest.
Dairy group Parmalat has said the NZ dairy business is of strategic interest.
The business is a significant player in the New Zealand dairy market, delivering its milk and
cheese brands such as Meadow Fresh, Puhoi Valley and Tararua to about 13,000 locations
nationwide daily.

Latest results filed to the New Zealand Companies Office show it had annual revenue of $490
million and earnings before interest and tax of $43m.

Goodman Fielder shares last traded in Australia at A67.5c, or 73c on the NZX.

Page248of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The trading halt is to be in place until an announcement is made to the market, or the start of
trading on Monday.

CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

fdgl : Goodman Fielder Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods
gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax New Zealand Limited
Document DOMPOS0020140516ea5h0002l

Page249of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.