HYATT RETURNS TO GODZONE

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

HYATT RETURNS TO GODZONE

1,188 words
14 December 2014
Sunday Star-Times
SUNSTT
18
English
© 2014 Fairfax New Zealand Limited. All Rights Reserved.

Catherine Harris gets the inside track on Auckland's five-star Park Hyatt hotel, a project that promises
to set new standards in design and cost.

--------------------

HOTEL ACTION Developments on the hotel market include:
Singapore's Naumi Hospitality's purchase of the Hotel Grand Chancellor, Auckland Airport, at a price
"above domestic investor expectations".
Hilton's purchase of the Kawarau Hotel in Queenstown, with the aim of rebranding it a "Double Tree"
- one of its more affordable brands.
fubizblue Rental car company Jucy plans to build a 272-room "micro hotel" near Christchurch Airport.

Ramada is adding two new hotels in Queenstown and Christchurch to its chain, with another mooted
for Rotorua.
Sofitel So boutique hotel to open in Auckland's former Reserve Bank building.
The proposed NDG site on Auckland's Elliot St is expected to host a Ritz-Carlton.
Wellington's Kingsgate hotel under contract to a Singaporean investor.

InterContinental will manage a 200-room Crowne Plaza in Christchurch by converting the old Forsyth
Barr building.

--------------------
DESIGN PLANS for Auckland's newest luxury hotel, the Park Hyatt, are now under way.
The $200 million hotel, proposed by Chinese developer Fu Wah, will lease a prime site on the
waterfront edge of Auckland's Wynyard Quarter.
For Fu Wah, which owns the Park Hyatt building in Melbourne, the hotel is its first venture into New
Zealand but quite possibly not its last, according to its president, Chiu Yung.

For Hyatt, it's back to the future after leaving Auckland in 2011. The chain ran the Hyatt Regency until
the building's owners got caught up in the South Canterbury Finance collapse and it was sold to
Accor.

Robert Dawson, Hyatt's Pacific area vice-president, said the brand was pleased to be returning to New
Zealand and hinted more Hyatts could follow.

"Hopefully, we'll have some more coming behind it."

With well-travelled guests expecting an "experience" at their destinations, Dawson said the Auckland
hotel would be unique.

Page219of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."We don't copy, we don't have a standard format that we take from one to the other, so we try and
adapt the site and we adapt the interiors to what we think reflects not only the need in that market, but
the influences and culture of that market."

Design-wise, it would be light and airy and "there's definitely a very strong connection between the
water and the building".

Public access would be encouraged, with three cutaways through the building offering access to the
waterfront, bars, restaurants and an events area.

"It's really going to encourage people to walk around the waterfront . . . it's going to open the whole
place up.
"It's not going to be an exclusive hotel purely for the people who are staying there."

Construction is due to start in November next year with completion scheduled for August 2017.
Auckland architect Pete Bossley, whose firm is co-designing the hotel with a Singaporean firm, said
the Auckland Hyatt would reflect its surroundings. It would have flickers of its maritime environment,
"not in the sense of trying to look like a boat but in the sense of being quite gutsy and industrial in the
detailing".

Think concrete, brass and steel, with interior design by Conran & Partners in London.

"It's going to be beautifully detailed and rich in what it offers," Bossley said.

"The building has a large central space, an atrium that the public can walk through which is also used
by guests and that has a large central cylindrical form which kind of relates symbolically to a central
pou in a whare."

"And also the building is clad in a metaphorical kind of cloak, which is a sun screen as well, so it's a
double skin building.

"These days it's getting more and more common to put a skin around a building, so the exterior skin
helps protect the building from solar gain and makes the environmental control of the interior of the
building more efficient."
Bossley said the hotel would add vitality to a site which was currently a bit of a "black hole".

"It'll complete the edge of the basin, and it'll be a lively thing to look at."
With record prices being paid for top hotels in Australia, Stephen Doyle, a hotel specialist with JLL,
said it was no surprise investors were turning their gaze to New Zealand. However, historically New
Zealand room rates had been low and the $200m costs associated with the Hyatt would set a new
benchmark.

Doyle said everyone wanted the project to succeed, but "there's certainly no market precedent for a
hotel that has sold for $1m a room".

The Hyatt project showed hotels were becoming a "mainstream investment category", viewed like
commercial office space by investors, said Doyle. The $200m hotel demonstrates that investors were
prepared to place a high degree of confidence on the New Zealand market, he said.
Doyle said Hyatt's costs surpassed recent benchmarks, such as the Hilton Hotel in Auckland, which
sold in 2012 for about $50m, or $300,000 a room. The Intercontinental Wellington sold in 2011 for a
similar figure at $215,000 per room.
Even in Australia, the five-star Sheraton on the Park in Sydney had sold recently for A$463m
(NZ$500m) or more than A$800,000 per room. Sydney's Four Seasons Hotel had sold for A$340m,
or A$640,000 a room.

"The evidence in the market at the moment is that $350,000 is probably the upper limit of where a
five-star hotel sits within New Zealand unless it's been strata titled, or cut into smaller pieces or unless
there are other facilities associated with it," Doyle said.

"It shows great confidence that New Zealand is moving on from its historic past . . . But at the moment
it's really hard to see how those feasibilities stack up."

Page220of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.However, Bossley said the Hyatt's price tag was internationally not uncommon, and one the clients
were comfortable with.
The Australian hotel market had been dominated by groups from Singapore and Hong Kong and
Chinese investors had only become a major player over the past 18 months.
Dawson agreed many hotel companies were looking at New Zealand.

"It's just a question of if and when it stacks up. And so much of that is the market but also the location."
Auckland's flourishing Chinese tourism numbers were only one of many factors that hotel operators
weighed up, he said.

"We look at Auckland in the long-term because we won't be open for three years, we look at a five, 10,
15-year window.

"So if there are spikes in the market, it just encourages us . . . but in reality we're looking at a much
longer term goal than three years."
Dean Humphries of Colliers said last year most hotel investors had been local but this year the
Singaporeans had been the major players, as Australia got more expensive.

"They love New Zealand, it's a very similar market to theirs, very transparent."

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

i6651 : Hotels (except Casino)/Motels | i66 : Hotels/Restaurants | i665 : Lodgings | ilea :
Leisure/Arts/Hospitality | itourm : Tourism
gcat : Political/General News
nz : New Zealand | auckl : Auckland | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax New Zealand Limited
Document SUNSTT0020141213eace0003d

Page221of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.