Red metal down but not out

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Wealth
Red metal down but not out

Barry Fitzgerald
970 words
22 April 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
18
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

There are good times ahead if Wetar can live up to expectations
Finders Resources (FND) COPPER was off some 8 per cent last calendar year, averaging $US3.33 a
pound. And it is down another 9.6 per cent since, to $US3.01 a pound, the weakness reflecting the
growth in supply.

The electrification of China and other fast-emerging economies, and the challenge of keeping up
supply in the long term due to the lower grades of existing and future mines, mean that prices for the
red metal are pretty much tipped to have bottomed.

Prices are generally forecast to trade in the range of $US3-$US3.40 a pound for the foreseeable
future. Any lower than that and the incentive to build the next round of multi-billion-dollar mines just
won’t be there.
But there is no doubting that the weakness in copper prices has knocked the earnings of the copper
producers, including the likes of BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto. Produce more than 2.2 billion pounds of
copper like BHP does and $US3-a-pound copper gives you an annual revenue hit of $US740 million
when compared with last year’s average.
There is still value, found among the juniors looking for company-making projects. That is certainly
the case with Finders Resources, out to make a name for itself as a copper producer from its Wetar
project beneath the craggy peaks of Indonesia’s Wetar Island in the Banda Sea north of Timor Leste.

It’s across the strait and not as far-flung as it might seem. Apart from the mainstays of subsistence
sago farming and the culturally OK practice of tortoise- shell collection, the island has a goldmining
history.
Most recently, it was Billiton that produced the yellow stuff here. It stopped the goldmining operations
in 1997, four years ahead of its merger with our own BHP.
The Billiton operation left behind infrastructure, which is making Finders’ copper ambitions all that
much easier to achieve. More to the point, the shallow goldmining undertaken by Billiton was
effectively a pre-stripping operation to the underlying copper mineralisation that is the focus of
Finders’ plans.

There is interest in the plans, too. The equities desk at Commonwealth Bank this month said Finders
was its preferred small-cap copper exposure thanks to the expected project cash cost at the Wetar
project of $US1.05 a pound (life of mine).
The CBA team set a price target on Finders of 23c a share. That compares with its last sale price of
17c, which gets back to the point that there is still value in copper stocks, notwithstanding the retreat
in prices. The Wetar project is based on easily mined open-cut reserve of more than 200,000 tonnes
of copper mineralisation grading a very handy 2.4 per cent copper.

Page117of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.A heap-leach operation is to feed a solvent extraction and electrowinning (SX-EW) plant, with the
production of copper cathodes meaning Indonesia’s clampdown on the export of unprocessed metal
ores is a non-issue.
Eventual annual capacity is 28,000 tonnes of copper cathode. It is “eventual” because Finders has
gone for a staged development. Production has restarted at an upgraded 3000-tonnes-a-year
demonstration plant. It is to be followed by the refurbishment of a 25,000-tonnes-a-year SX-EW plant
brought across from Western Australia, giving total annual copper cathode capacity of 28,000 tonnes.

There is the issue of financing the $US132m push, but because of the robust economics that is not
seen as much of an issue. Finders said recently that senior debt being sought from key institutions
was in the final stages of approval, and mezzanine-equity finance for some or all of the balance was
being considered.

Underpinning that sort of confidence is the presence of three resource-focused funds on the Finders
share register — Taurus (14.2 per cent), Resources Capital Fund (12.9 per cent) and Acorn (7.5 per
cent).
The Indonesian shareholder equity is represented by Provident Capital Partners (13 per cent) and
Saratoga Capital (9.2 per cent).

Potentially, at least, that grouping could make for some interesting times ahead, particularly if Wetar
lives up to its expectations of becoming something of a cash cow in quick order.

Blackthorn Resources (BTR) THE curtain has come down on Blackthorn Resources’ (BTR) unhappy
experience with the Perkoa zinc mine in Burkina Faso, a joint venture with Glencore Xstrata. Perkoa
was once Blackthorn’s flagship asset and its residual 27.3 per cent stake in the troubled operation still
accounted for a big chunk of its market valuation.

Faced with the pressing need to contribute some $US9m in working capital to a project that might well
close, Blackthorn has decided it is best to take an offer from Glencore of $US12m. Add that $US12m
to the now absent need for a $US9m working capital contribution, and Blackthorn is some $21m
better off. Kind of interesting for a company with a $28m market cap at its last sale price of 17.5c a
share.

More than that is the situation where the project inside Blackthorn the market has long preferred —
the Kitumba copper project in Zambia — becomes the sole focus. Kitumba is the subject of an
optimisation study, due any day now. It is expected to improve on last year’s pre-feasibility study that
noted potential for a 39,000 tonne-a-year underground copper mine with cash costs of $US2.04 a
pound.

UBS for one is on board with the potential for some upside at Kitumba to swamp the impact of the
Perkoa exit on Blackthorn’s valuation.Last week, it set a 12-month target price of 34c.

CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140421ea4m000e8

Page118of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.