China Nuclear Firm in Africa Uranium Deal

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

China Nuclear Firm in Africa Uranium Deal

By Rhiannon Hoyle
789 words
20 January 2014
20:35
Dow Jones Newswires Chinese (English)
RTNW
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

SYDNEY--China National Nuclear Corp. bought a large stake in one of Africa's biggest uranium
mines in a deal that gives the state-owned generator better access to cleaner-burning energy that
Beijing is eager to promote.
A unit of China National Nuclear Corp, or CNNC, bought 25% of the Langer Heinrich operation in
Namibia from Paladin Energy Ltd., the Australian uranium producer said Monday.

CNNC is one of China's largest generators of nuclear energy, and has been rapidly expanding its fleet
of reactors at a time when the world's No. 2 economy is trying to reduce reliance on coal for its
ballooning energy needs.
The $190 million deal allows CNNC to buy a quarter of the Namibian mine's output at the prevailing
spot-market price--which can often be cheaper than negotiated long-term contracts--with the option to
buy more at normal market rates. Paladin still owns the remaining 75% of Langer Heinrich.
China's leaders have recently stepped up efforts to introduce cleaner energy, while penalizing
polluters more harshly after the worst smog in recent memory hit cities like Beijing last year threatening
a political backlash. Up to 80% of China's energy is produced by burning coal.

Beijing's strengthening rhetoric on pollution underscores top-level-leadership concerns that
environmental problems represent a growing threat to economic prosperity and social stability, and a
deviation from the growth-at-all-costs philosophy followed for years.
China now has the largest pipeline of new nuclear power plants in the world. There are 20 reactors in
operation on the mainland and another 28 under construction, according to the World Nuclear
Association, an industry body.
"China has ambitious nuclear-electrification programs extending for decades into the future," Paladin
said Monday. "Obtaining direct access to sufficient global uranium supply is an essential element for
China to be able to safeguard and grow this strategically important sector."

The agreement gives Paladin, based in Perth, Western Australia, a much-needed cash injection after a
prolonged period of losses incurred largely as a result of a sharp fall in uranium prices since an
earthquake triggered an atomic crisis in Japan in early 2011.
As far back as October, Paladin said it was looking to sell a stake in Langer Heinrich to help repay
debt, including a $300 million convertible bond due in 2015. The announcement came after Paladin
reported a $420.9 million loss for the year through June, which widened from a loss of $172.8 million
the year prior.

The world market for the radioactive fuel hasn't yet recovered from the earthquake and tsunami that
devastated Japan's Fukushima Daiichi power plant, bringing the country's massive nuclear industry to
a halt. The crisis also prompted countries elsewhere, like Germany and France, to look at reducing
their reliance on nuclear power, while in the U.S., some utilities have abandoned plans for new plants.

Page197of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The spot price is currently $35 a pound, near an eight-year low and around 50% below where it stood
before the disaster. Still, Paladin's Chief Executive John Borshoff told reporters Monday that he saw
China, as well as the Middle East, Russia and India, as the growth engine for nuclear power in coming
years.
"The big positive is that the Chinese have returned to the uranium market to complete a new deal
after a hiatus of two years," said Simon Tonkin, a Perth-based analyst at Australian stockbroker
Patersons.
The last one was when China Guangdong Nuclear Power Group Co., as it was then called, bought
Australia's Extract Resources Ltd. in 2012. "This should be positive for the uranium market sentiment
and could flow through to the uranium price in the short term," Mr. Tonkin said.

The Langer Heinrich mine, with an anticipated two-decade life span, has been expanded twice since it
began producing in 2007. It is currently capable of producing 5.2 million pounds of uranium
concentrate a year. Paladin has said productivity improvements this year may help bring the level up to
5.7 million pounds.
In Paladin's statement, CNNC's director-in-general of the department of geology and mining, Du
Yunbin, described the deal as mutually beneficial. Spokespeople for CNNC couldn't be reached for
further comment.
Paladin said the deal with the Chinese unit, China Uranium Corp. Ltd., required approval from
Chinese regulators, including the National Development and Reform Commission, the country's
economic planner. The green light was expected midyear, the company added.

Write to Rhiannon Hoyle at rhiannon.hoyle@wsj.com

Subscribe to WSJ: http://online.wsj.com?mod=djnwires

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

20-01-14 0935GMT

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

chinuc : China National Nuclear Corp. | palrs : Paladin Energy Limited
i1610109 : Electric Power Generation - Nuclear | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i211 : Metal Ore Mining |
i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | imet : Mining/Quarrying | iuran : Uranium Ore Mining | i16101 : Electric
Power Generation | i22 : Primary Metals | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | ieutil : Electric Utilities |
iutil : Utilities
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncmac : Commodities Asset
Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate
Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | africaz : Africa | namib : Namibia | beijin : Beijing | apacz : Asia Pacific
| asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | souafrz :
Southern Africa
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document RTNW000020140120ea1k0009h

Page198of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.