State must proceed with caution on sale of rail lines

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Opinion - Leaders
State must proceed with caution on sale of rail lines

756 words
30 June 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
14
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

At the March 2015 election, NSW voters will be asked, in effect, to vote for one privatisation to pay for
another. Both offer substantial opportunities for the state. And both carry risks if not implemented with
care and caution.

Premier Mike Baird's government wants to sell the state's electricity poles and wires. If it wins support
for this privatisation, the government will use part of the funds it raises to accelerate another
privatisation, that of a major part of Sydney's rail system.

The government's plan, if successful in selling the electricity assets, is that within two or three years it
will begin extending a privately operated north-west rail link over the harbour through another central
Sydney rail line. South of the harbour, that rail line would connect to the existing Bankstown line.

This plan means that, in about a decade, the private operator of the north-west rail link would also be
running trains on two lines currently run by the state-owned Sydney Trains: the Epping to Chatswood
line and the Bankstown line. The north-west rail link and its extensions would be the first privately run
commuter-heavy rail service in Sydney.

Following an announcement by Mr Baird and Transport Minister Gladys Berejiklian, we know who the
private operator will be. MTR, owned by the company that runs Hong Kong's much-envied metro
system and the majority owner in a consortium that runs Melbourne's much less vaunted rail system,
will sign a contract this year to run the north-west rail link between Rouse Hill and Chatswood.
The main benefit in allowing a company such as MTR to run trains in Sydney, as Mr Baird and Ms
Berejiklian plan to, is that it will create a yardstick for comparison with government-owned operators.
The existing Sydney existing rail operators - Sydney Trains and NSW Trains, and before them
RailCorp - have not earned the right to set their own standards.

RailCorp, split up by Ms Berejiklian last year, has been the subject of multiple corruption inquiries and
findings. And the minister has repeatedly complained that, at $10 million a day, Sydney's rail system
costs too much, particularly when set against comparable systems around the world. It would be a
great thing to be able to compare the daily performance of Sydney Trains with another organisation.
The great risk in the privatisation process, however, is that it will lead to a diminution of service in a
city that cannot afford more disillusionment with the rail network. This is not solely because private
operators are beholden to shareholders, tend to pay their executives more than government-owned
entities and have a fiercer incentive to cut costs and increase prices.

But the greater risk is that the complexity of Sydney's train system means there is no easy way to
carve it up among different operators and, in trying to do so, the government could implement
changes that go against the interests of the public.

With the exception of the eastern suburbs and Illawarra line, which mostly keeps to itself, Sydney's
rail lines tend to merge in and out of each other. This makes it difficult to separate them out for them
to be run by competitive entities.

Page290of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.To do so might require changing the way the city's trains run, making it more difficult for passengers
travelling directly from one point of greater Sydney to another. Before the last election, for instance,
Ms Berejiklian promised central coast commuters direct trains to Macquarie University. There is no
chance she will keep that promise now that she will hand over the Epping to Chatswood line to MTR.

Other cities that have sold the rights to run their trains, such as London and Melbourne, experienced
teething problems for years. And Sydney potentially has an even more complicated rail network than
either, if not as extensive as London's.

An ideological determination to privatise the trains without a similar determination to ensure that the
experience for Sydney public transport users only improves is the last thing the city needs.

The Baird government's commitment to building new rail lines is admirable. And the prospect that
MTR will provide a point of comparison for Sydney Trains is something to look forward to.

But, just as with the selling off of the poles and wires, there is a lot to be gained and a lot to be vigilant
about.

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

i5020028 : Railway Construction | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i502 : Heavy Construction | iconst :
Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction | iutil : Utilities
c183 : Privatizations/Nationalization | nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | nedi : Editorials | c18 :
Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140629ea6u0002b

Page291of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.