Wealth surges in Asia-Pacific as region closes on America

SE
HD
BY

WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business - Trading Room
Wealth surges in Asia-Pacific as region closes on America

Stewart Oldfield - Stewart Oldfield is a research analyst at Wilson HTM. Any views expressed should
not be taken as personal advice.
696 words
30 July 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
39
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

A recent survey by BCG found that, on a regional basis, the Asia-Pacific region continues to post the
strongest growth in private wealth globally (up 30.5 per cent to $37.0 trillion last year).

A key driver in the rise of private wealth in the Asia-Pacific region has been strong gross domestic
product growth over the past five years, especially in China, India, and Indonesia. Nominal GDP growth
in China (9.6 per cent) and India (14.2 per cent), as well as high savings rates in those countries - 16.8
per cent and 19.2 per cent of GDP, respectively - were the principal drivers.

The Asia-Pacific region (excluding Japan) is expected to overtake Western Europe as the
second-wealthiest region this year and North America as the wealthiest in 2018. According to BCG,
wealth managers globally had another year of excellent growth in 2013, with assets under management
rising by 11 per cent. This performance, which followed assets under management growth of 13 per
cent in 2012, was driven mainly by asset appreciation owing to rising equity markets.

In other words, wealth management in Australia should be a growth sector for decades to come. Biased
or otherwise, local asset consultants say that Australia already has some world-class investment houses
based here with compliance standards that are not always on offer in other parts of Asia.

Over the past five years, the most successful wealth manager in Australia must surely have been
Magellan Financial Group. In the mid-2000s, Chris Mackay, a former chairman of UBS in Australia, and
Hamish Douglass, who once ran the local mergers and acquisitions operation at Deutsche Bank, saw a
gap in the asset management market.

There were only five global asset managers in Australia that were catering to retail investors and the two
bankers believed they had the requisite company research and risk management skills, and an
understanding of the world economy. The company listed on December 19, 2006, through a
recapitalisation of Pengana Hedge Funds.

Five-and-a-half years ago, Magellan's global fund was getting between $5000 and $10,000 a day from
retail investors. On some days, there were no cheques at all. Three years after launch, the Magellan
Global Fund had only attracted $280 million into the vehicle.
Fast forward to this year and retail investors are pumping in $140 million a month and Magellan now
has $24.9 billion of funds under management.

These days, it is a very different business to the one that was floated. For instance, in 2007, Magellan
had a 13-strong investment team, while today Magellan has a 25-strong investment team and says it is
still hiring.

By some estimates, Australia's investment fund asset pool is now the third-biggest globally, behind
Luxembourg and the US, and is the biggest in the Asia-Pacific region ahead of Singapore. But funds
invested directly now eclipse those invested through fund managers.

Page42of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Assets in self-managed superannuation funds (SMSF) have risen more than fourfold in the past decade,
from $127 billion to $560 billion of assets. Managed funds are still getting only a fraction of SMSF
inflows, sharing in less than 14 per cent of SMSF assets while cash and term deposits sit at just under
30 per cent and overseas shares represent less than 1 per cent of total assets. Of late, there have been
a string of floats targeting the fast-growing SMSF sector.

Property play Elanor Investors Group and listed equities play Global Value Fund have already listed
while small cap investment funds Barrack Street Investments and QV Equities are not far away. The
SMSF market is surely one of the great opportunities for the local funds management industry.

But professional managers need to demonstrate sustained outperformance and navigate the
complexities involved in distributing managed funds into that sector before they get to tap that pot of
gold.

stewart.oldfield@wilsonhtm.com.au

RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | china : China | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140729ea7u00055

Page43of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.