Herbert Smith Freehills advises AGL on A$1.505b acquisition of Macquarie Generation and associated A$1.2b equity raising and A$350m debt funding 27 August 2014

HD

Herbert Smith Freehills advises AGL on A$1.505b acquisition of Macquarie Generation and
associated A$1.2b equity raising and A$350m debt funding 27 August 2014

WC 612 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

27 August 2014
News Bites - Private Companies
NBPRCO
English
Copyright 2014. News Bites Pty Ltd.

NEWS BITES - PRIVATE COMPANIES
[Company Release]

TD

Herbert Smith Freehills is advising AGL on its A$1.505 billion acquisition of the assets of Macquarie
Generation, including the 2,640MW Bayswater Power Station, the 2,000MW Liddell Power Station, the
50MW Hunter Valley Gas Turbine and the Liddell Solar Farm (MacGen Assets), and associated A$1.2
billion capital raising and A$350 million debt funding.
The MacGen Assets give AGL, one of Australia's leading integrated energy companies that operates
retail and merchant energy businesses, power generation assets and an upstream gas portfolio,
ownership of the lowest cost, large-scale baseload generators in NSW and increase AGL's registered
generation capacity in the National Electricity Market by approximately 82 percent to more than 10,400
MW.
The A$1.2 billion 1 for 5 accelerated pro-rata entitlement offer proceeds will be used to fund part of the
A$1.505 billion purchase price for the of the MacGen Assets. The balance of the consideration will be
funded by bank debt.
The Herbert Smith Freehillsacquisition team was led by partners Robert Merrick, Philippa Stone and
newly appointed partner Natalie Bryce, with support from solicitor Charlotte Cameron and a specialist
team of partners and lawyers including Gerard Pike and Ged Cochrane (electricity trading), Melissa Swain
(coal supply), Sam Brown (Property), Kirstie Richards (Environment) and Toby Anderson and Kris Percy
(operations and maintenance contracts).

The Herbert Smith Freehills capital markets team was led by partners Philippa Stone and Philip Hart,
assisted by senior associate Lucy Hall and solicitor Charlotte Cameron.

The Herbert Smith Freehills debt finance team was led by partner John Angus, assisted by senior
associate Brad Turner.

The Herbert Smith Freehills team worked closely with AGL's General Counsel John Fitzgerald and
Corporate Lawyer Natasha Vyrnwy-Jones.
"Having previously advised AGL on the acquisition of Loy Yang in Victoria, and now on the acquisition
of Macquarie Generation in New South Wales, we are delighted to have assisted AGL in becoming one of
the lowest cost baseload generators in the National Electricity Market", said Mr Merrick.

Ms Stone said "Herbert Smith Freehills is pleased to have acted for AGL on this important transaction.
This is the second time that AGL have utilised the PAITREO structure for a capital raising. We have very
much enjoyed working with the AGL team."
Herbert Smith Freehills' energy experts are internationally recognised as market leaders in the oil and
gas, power, nuclear and renewables sectors. Together they provide the broad range of legal expertise
required by clients across the globe and through every stage of the energy project life cycle.

Herbert Smith Freehills' capital markets team is one of the most active in Australia, having recently acted
for Genworth Financial on Genworth Australia's A$1.6 billion IPO, Japara Healthcare Limited on its
A$525m IPO, SG Fleet on its A$454.2 million IPO and the PACT Group on its A$1.12 billion IPO.

Click here for the full original announcement

Page181of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.COMPANY BACKGROUND

ACTIVITIES
Herbert Smith LLP provides legal advisory services. The firm focuses on areas including dispute
resolution, intellectual property, real estate, international law, trusts and charities, tax, and capital markets.
It has strategic alliance with Gleiss Lutz and Stibbe. Herbert Smith was founded in 1882 and is based in
London, United Kingdom with additional offices in Japan, Singapore, China, France, Hong Kong, and
Belgium.

TOP MANAGEMENT

The Chief Executive Officer is Sonya Leydecker

BUSINESS NEWS ROUND UP
To view Recent Company Headlines, click here

CO macgen : Macquarie Generation | freeho : Freehills
IN

i1 : Energy | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16101 : Electric Power Generation | i835 : Legal Services | ibcs
: Business/Consumer Services | ieutil : Electric Utilities | iutil : Utilities
c1521 : Analyst Comments/Recommendations | c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | c15 :
Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact
: Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | uk : United Kingdom | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | eecz : European
Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe

NS

RE

IPD ACTIVITIES; TOP MANAGEMENT; BUSINESS NEWS ROUND UP
PUB News Bites Pty Ltd (Europe)
AN

Document NBPRCO0020140827ea8r001e1

Page182of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.