Why Abbott's faith in coal could be wrong - very wrong

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

popular
Why Abbott's faith in coal could be wrong - very wrong

Tom Allard - Sydney Morning Herald
1,806 words
17 October 2014
Singleton Argus
FSINGA
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

In the baking expanses of the high desert near Reno, Nevada, a project is under way that could well
make a mockery of Tony Abbott's prediction this week that the coal industry will underpin Australia's
prosperity for decades.
The brainchild of billionaireElon Musk, the technology radical who was has built his fortune disrupting
traditional industries, the $US5 billion gigafactory will be one of the world's biggest building, producing
lithium-ion batteries on a mind-boggling scale.

The high-tech batteries have extraordinary capacity to store energy and are used in electric cars. Musk's
Tesla company already produces high-end vehicles that are growing in popularity in the US.

Musk's aim is to use the economies of scale to drive down the price of the batteries by 50 per cent by
2020,

That will make electric cars as affordable as cars fuelled by petrol, and much cheaper to run.

If the project succeeds, the changes it will bring to the automotive industry will be huge, with obvious
implications for the global demand for oil.

But rapid advances and price falls in electricity storage technologies like lithium batteries will reverberate
way beyond the automotive sector.
According to a growing band of investment bankers and energy market economists, it could
fundamentally recast the way the world produces and consumes power.

As Swiss Bank UBS told its clients in August, the world is on the cusp of a once-in-a-century shift
towards renewable energy led by "solar and batteries". Power stations fuelled by fossil fuels like coal
will be the "dinosaur of the future energy system".

"By 2025, everybody will be able to produce and store power. And it will be green and cost-competitive."
The consequences for coal producers and the fossil fuel industry that Australia relies heavily upon are
immense.

Australia left behind?

At the opening of a massive new colliery in the Bowen Basin in central Queensland on Monday, the
notion that the world could be on the cusp of an energy revolution was farthest from the mind of our
prime minister.
"Coal is good for humanity," he said in a direct rebuke to a growing anti-coal campaign.
"Energy is what sustains our prosperity, and coal is the world's principal energy source and it will be for
many decades to come."

Page230of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The comments, predictably, outraged environmentalists. The global expansion of electricity generation
dominated by coal is the biggest source of greenhouse gas emissions that scientists estimate will
increase global temperatures by a catastrophic 3 to 4 degrees by the end of the century if no action is
taken.

But the remarks also produced gasps of incredulity among financial analysts.
Markets have already let their views be known on coal's prospects - driving down prices by 60 per cent
since their highs of 2011.

While the government has been dismantling climate-change mitigation policies, acting as boosters for
the mining industry and wreaking havoc among renewable energy firms, investors worldwide have been
flocking to clean energy companies.

As one writer observed, the investment banks now "sound like green NGOs".
Citigroup believes coal demand is in structural decline. HSBC says traditional power plants will never
see profitability "anything near" that of the past decade. Deutsche Bank won't finance polluting
industries.

"Australians have been sold the myth that the world has an insatiable and everlasting desire to buy our
coal," says Kobad Bhavnagri, head of the Australian operation of Bloomberg New Energy finance.
"The reality is demand for coal in the developed world is declining, and the developing world is turning
as fast as it can to other sources of power.
"At some stage coal is destined to become a low-value commodity, probably at a faster pace than many
appreciate or are willing to admit.

"Meanwhile, Australia's policymakers are doubling down on tying the economy to a fuel source of the
past."

Betting everything on red
Not everyone is so pessimistic. Some analysts - and the industry - see continuing growth in China and
India, the two countries responsible for almost 90 per cent of the increased demand for coal in the past
decade.
The latest report from Australia's Bureau of Resource and Energy Economics notes that coal continues
to dominate China, and its coal-fired power stations have a lifespan of 50 to 60 years, meaning it will be
a "few decades" before there are any large-scale closures.
Good quality coal, such as that produced by Australia, plus carbon-capture technology, mean China can
still rely on thermal coal while improving air quality, it adds.

Moreover, India's new prime minister Narendra Modi has announced a hugely ambitious program to
electrify a nation where some 300 million live without power.
Tim Buckley, the former head of Citigroup's equity division now working for the low carbon advocating
Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis, says the assessment fails to appreciate the
determination of Chinese authorities to address the country's terrible pollution problem.

"You just have to look at their five-year plans to see how serious they are," he says.
Accelerating a trend that's been apparent for years, two-thirds of new power generation in China last
year came from renewable energy - solar, wind or hydroelectric.
According to Buckley's projections, demand for coal in China will peak in 2016. Indeed, it may already
have slumped. The figures for the nine months to September this year are down 6.7 per cent on the
same period in 2013.
As for India, Modi has also embraced solar and wind energy, although he still sees a place for coal.

In the last three months, three-quarters of new power projects announced in India have been for
renewable energy plants, including a massive solar facility in Tamil Nadu.
The "game changer" though for coal - and oil and gas - are the advances in electricity storage,
exemplified by the gigafactory being built at the foot of the Sierra Nevada mountains by Musk.

Page231of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The electricity system based on large-scale power stations was developed on the principle that power
must be immediately consumed. That means having hugely expensive back-up capacity to be turned on
for the handful of days each year when there are uncommon peaks in electricity, such as during a
heatwave.
Advanced energy storage, says UBS, the world's largest private bank , means "you don't need to
overproduce and you don't need back-up reserves."
When combined with solar panels, cheaper and more powerful batteries will enable households and
businesses to capture energy during the day and store it until peak usage times, traditionally in the early
evening.
"By 2020 investing in a home solar system with a 20-year life span, plus some small-scale home battery
technology and an electric car, will pay for itself in six to eight years," it said in a briefing note to clients in
August.
As such, households and businesses will rely less and less on the main power grids fuelled by coal, gas
and nuclear energy.

"We are at a tipping point," Bhavnagri says. "The only question is exactly when."

For consumers looking to cut their power bills and governments determined to find cheap, green
technology to combat climate change, the possibilities of the technology are hugely exciting.

On the evidence of this week, when the federal government unleashed a full court press in support of
fossil fuels, the fervour for the transformation of global energy appears to have completely passed it by.

As well as Abbott entreaties from central Queensland, he lambasted the "stupid decision" of the
Australian National University's super fund to divest from some resource companies.

On Tuesday, Treasurer Joe Hockey dismissed as "absolutely ridiculous" the notion that Australia was
one of the biggest emitters of greenhouse gases, per capita, in the industrialised world, a blatantly false
denial.

The coming shock

Meanwhile, the release of the government's new industry policy confirmed the government's faith in
extractive industries. Two of the five priority areas identified for the economy were in the resource
industry - mining equipment and oil, gas and energy resources.

And, as the government considers whether it will change the regulation mandating that Australia gets 20
per cent of its electricity from renewable sources by 2020, investment in solar, wind and hydropower
here has plummeted almost 80 per cent in the first nine months of 2014.
In contrast, global clean energy investment was $US55 billion ($62.6 billion) in the September quarter
alone, up 12 per cent, data from Bloomberg New Energy Finance shows.
The environmental impact of Australia's push to ensure coal-generated energy continues to dominate is
well known - increased greenhouse gas emissions that underpin global warming.
Perhaps less appreciated are the economic consequences if the faith in coal proves to be misplaced.

As it stands, as many as half of Australia's coalmines are unprofitable.
Most continue to pump out coal because they are tied to long-term transport contracts that would require
them to pay out rail and shipping companies whether they are loading coal or not.

They are also hoping and waiting that demand, and prices, will pick up again from their current nadir.

But, if the low prices continue and the predicted seismic shift towards renewables takes place, tens of
billions of dollars invested in the mining boom could be wasted.
Entire communities could be decimated, especially in NSW, which mostly mines thermal coal used in
power stations.

According to Erwin Jackson from the Climate Institute, the government's policies are "exposing
communities and industries to massive shocks in the future".

Page232of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."We are seeing a myopic view of the energy system which is entirely inconsistent with that of financial
markets and policy developments in our trading partners," he says.

"Where is the risk management?"

To be sure, there are uncertainties with technologies like Tesla's lithium-ion batteries. The transformative
impact many predict may fail to eventuate, or take much longer to come to pass.
At the moment though, global investors are placing their bets firmly on clean energy and the coming
"revolution" in power storage, as UBS has dubbed it.

Certainly, the mercurial Musk - who founded the online payment system PayPal - has an extraordinary
record of success.

While Tesla has come off its recent share price highs, it is - by far - the best performing major stock on
the US sharemarket over the past two years.

As of Thursday, its shares were valued at $226.35 each, up from $28 in October 2012.

Read more:
http://www.smh.com.au/federal-politics/political-opinion/why-abbotts-faith-in-coal
-could-be-wrong--very-wrong-20141017-117k1b.html#ixzz3GRiqrDIb

teslmi : Tesla Motors Inc
i351 : Motor Vehicles | i35104 : Electric/Gas/Biofuel Vehicles | iaut : Automotive
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

CO
IN
RE
PUB Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
AN

Document FSINGA0020141018eaah00001

Page233of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.