UPDATE 1-Australian competition regulator blocks AGL's $1.34 bln MacGen purchase

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

UPDATE 1-Australian competition regulator blocks AGL's $1.34 bln MacGen purchase

582 words
4 March 2014
10:35
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2014 Reuters Limited

* Ruling is a blow to New South Wales asset sale program

* NSW says power firm won't go ahead in current form
* AGL shares slip as company and NSW assess decision (Adds government and AGL reaction, share
price, deal context)

By Byron Kaye and Lincoln Feast
SYDNEY, March 4 (Reuters) - An Australian regulator blocked a A$1.5 billion ($1.34 billion) deal by
New South Wales to sell a power company on competition concerns, dealing a blow to the state's plans
for a series of asset disposals this year to fund new road and rail projects.

In a widely expected ruling, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission said on Tuesday the
state government's plan to sell Macquarie Generation to AGL Energy Ltd would have stifled competition
in the country's most populous state.
As shares in AGL fell on the news, the New South Wales government said the sale "will not proceed in
its current form". "We are not involved in a desperate fire-sale," New South Wales treasurer Mike Baird
said in a statement, sticking to the state's previous stance that the company will only be sold for more
than its book value.

The state government last month ruled out rival bids from Brisbane-based ERM Power Ltd and Japan's
Marubeni Corp , saying only AGL offered to pay more than the asset's retention value. AGL said it was
reviewing the regulator's reasoning before deciding on its response.
New South Wales has already earmarked smaller energy firmDelta Electricity, which owns two power
stations, and the Port of Newcastle for sale this year to fund its plans to improve the state's transport
infrastructure. The state government has identified a total of about A$85 billion in potential asset sales
over the next five years.

The regulator's decision on Macquarie Generation comes a year after the New South Wales
government netted A$5 billion from the sale of Port Botany in Sydney and Port Kembla in Wollongong.

In its ruling on Tuesday, the regulator said allowing AGL to buy Macquarie Generation, which supplies
27 percent of New South Wales's electricity, would mean the state's three biggest energy retailers
would own up to 80 percent of its energy generators. That would raise "barriers to entry and expansion
for other electricity retailers," the regulator said.
The decision comes as a blow to AGL. The company was counting on the acquisition to step up its
competition with Sydney-based Origin Energy Ltd and Hong Kong-based CLP Holdings Ltd's Energy
Australia on selling power to retail customers. AGL shares were down 2 percent in early trading while
the benchmark index was flat.

In a Feb. 26 interview with Reuters, AGL Chief Executive Michael Fraser said he was confident the
company cleared regulatory hurdles and it was "premature" to say if he would take the commission to
court in relation to Macquarie Generation.

Page241of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In 2003, the company successfully mounted a Federal Court challenge of the regulator's ruling against
its purchase of one-third of a Victorian power station.

"If we need to defend it in court, we will," the regulator's chairman Rod Sims told a local television
station in an interview on Tuesday morning.

($1 = 1.1194 Australian dollars) (Reporting by Byron Kaye and Lincoln Feast; Editing by G Crosse and
Kenneth Maxwell)

RF
CO
IN

NS

RE
IPD
IPC
PUB
AN

Released: 2014-3-7T00:35:32.000Z
agkega : AGL Energy Limited | macgen : Macquarie Generation
i61 : Wholesalers | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16101 : Electric Power
Generation | ieutil : Electric Utilities | iutil : Utilities
c131 : Regulatory Bodies | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c34 : Anti-Competition Issues |
ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c18 :
Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat :
Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Business
SERVICE:ABX
Thomson Reuters (Markets) LLC
Document LBA0000020140304ea34000um

Page242of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.