ONE of Victoria's largest dairy farms is on the market

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

ON THE LAND
ONE of Victoria's largest dairy farms is on the market

485 words
20 March 2014
The Warrnambool Standard
FWARST
11
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

ONE of Victoria's largest dairy farms is on the market with initial buyer interest already registered for
the Hawkesdale and Woolsthorpe district property.
The consolidated property covers nearly 1600 hectares (4000 acres) roughly twice the size of
Gibraltar and six times the size of Monaco making it the largest of its kind sold in the south-west
during the past decade.

Kauri Coast Properties was the product of a corporate farm which brought together a large
Woolsthorpe farm alongside an assortment of small Hawkesdale holdings eight years ago. Its
estimated value is more than $12 million, although may be worth more sold separately. Six houses
are located on the two properties with one large-scale rotary dairy on either site.
Charles Stewart and Co agent Nick Allen said the two dairy farms were fully converted and
developed eight years ago after serving as grazing and cropping properties.
He said the property had been offered for "subtle sale" for the past three months with some initial
interest from both within Australia as well as New Zealand and Chinese buyers. "Its main point of
difference is its sheer size it's rare a farm of several thousand acres comes onto the market," Mr
Allen said.

"Both dairies have a modern 80-bale rotary set-up and are fitted out with all the latest equipment.
"There's the capacity to manage very large herds, so there's been some corporate interest already.

"Given it hasn't been operational since October, there are certainly areas for further improvement
but given the infrastructure is relatively new, it isn't a huge problem."
The Woolsthorpe property was acquired by a New Zealand-based group nearly two decades ago
before being sold to another Kiwi company in 2007. That parcel of land covers 500 hectares (1235
acres). The Hawkesdale property is an amalgamation of several farms, one previously owned by
district farmer Paul Murnane and another by landholder Roger Learmonth.

Another portion was previously controlled by a corporate farm in the early 2000s.

All three titles form 1059 hectares (2615 acres) and became part of the NZ operation eight years
ago.
The operation went into receivership last year during the dairy industry downturn. Mr Allen said it
was hoped the property in its entirety could be sold to one buyer but could be split into its former
parcels if need be.

"There's certainly international demand for farms of this scale," he said. "Australia, particularly
southern Australia, is seen as a strong investment given its track record when it comes to dairy
production."

But there's also demand from within Australia from corporate farms.

Page34of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."So far there hasn't been a lot of interest from within the district although that may change."

alex.sinnott@fairfaxmedia.com.au

IN

RE
PUB
AN

i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 :
Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy Products | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FWARST0020140319ea3k0000s

Page35of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.