Dig this: Rinehart tightens iron grip

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Dig this: Rinehart tightens iron grip

PAUL GILDER
524 words
22 March 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
75
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE nation’s tightly held iron ore fraternity has a brash new entrant after resources heiress Gina
Rinehart yesterday announced her arrival as a legitimate stand-alone player.
In securing final funding of almost $8 billion for her Roy Hill project in Western Australia’s Pilbara
region, Mrs Rinehart has all but realised her ambition of running a mine in her own right.

Roy Hill’s future became assured after Mrs Rinehart’s Hancock Prospecting signed a $US7.2 billion
($A7.98 billion) funding package in Singapore on Thursday with an international consortium of 19
banks, including Australia’s big four.
The decade-long deal completes the debt equation for the $US10 billion project, of which almost a
third has already been built.

Roy Hill chief executive Barry Fitzgerald said the financing was the biggest amount for a land-based
mining project worldwide, solidifying the importance of iron ore, a key steelmaking ingredient, to the
global growth picture.

Mrs Rinehart, who is also Roy Hill’s chairwoman, is eyeing first export in September 2015 and
predicting annual production of 55 million tonnes. The project will be the first majority-owned by
Hancock, which holds 70 per cent of the equity alongside Japanese steelmaker Marubeni Corporation
(15 per cent), South Korean steel giant POSCO (12.5 per cent) and China Steel Corporation (2.5 per
cent). Hancock is a joint partner with Rio Tinto at nearby Hope Downs mine.
Roy Hill will also cement Mrs Rinehart as the Pilbara’s fourth power behind mining titans BHP Billiton
and Rio Tinto as well as Andrew Forrest’s Fortescue Metals, which collectively account for more than
500mtpa of iron ore production and are gunning for record outputs this financial year.

IG Markets analyst Evan Lucas said the new entrant was unlikely to pose a threat to the established trio
in the short term. He said the impact of the additional supply into China could affect pricing levels, but
that was still at least three years away.
“It’s more likely to be an issue for Atlas Iron, BC Iron, those sorts of players,” he said.

Mr Lucas said that it was difficult to get a gauge on Hancock’s financial health without knowing its
cashflow, but said it would need to “ride the iron ore price fluctuations” like any other miner.
The spot price of iron ore has stabilised about $US110 after falling heavily from its early-December
peak of $US139 on weakening demand from China.
But now China appears ready to welcome the newcomer with open arms. “China’s looking to stabilise
demand, they’re going to ramp up construction projects to try to offset the latest weak print on the
manufacturing front,” Mr Lucas said.

Page145of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mrs Rinehart said Roy Hill would significantly benefit the WA and national economies.

“Roy Hill is a crucible of opportunity during a period of global uncertainty – it has already shown it will
create new jobs and benefit the greater mining and construction-related industries,” she said. “We look
forward to becoming a major iron ore producer on an international scale.”

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

hkpros : Hancock Prospecting Pty. Ltd.
i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020140323ea3m0001s

Page146of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.