DOE extends Aussie firm 's work program for Cebu oil block

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business News
DOE extends Aussie firm's work program for Cebu oil block

363 words
11 January 2014
Manila Bulletin
MABULL
English
(c) 2014 Manila Bulletin Publishing Corp. All rights reserved.

Hopes are raised on potential commercial oil discovery at a Cebu petroleum block being operated by
Australian firmGas2Grid, and such prompted the Department of Energy (DOE) to extend its work
program by another year.

“With the extension, SC44 operator was given an additional 12 months to further develop the well,” the
energy department said.

The onshore petroleum acreage which had manifestation of recoverable oil reserves is under Service
Contract 44 that was awarded by the energy department way back in 2004.
The DOE indicated that the drilled Malolos-1 well may yield “an oil discovery with potential commercial
quantity in the Visayan basin.”
A separate report by Gas2Grid posted at its website emphasized that “Malolos-1 successfully tested oil
from two separate sandstone intervals at rate likely to be commercial … at this stage, the Malolos oilfield
warrants further appraisal by longer term oil flow testing, seismic acquisition and drilling.”
Prospective reserves had been calculated to a range of 4.0 to 42 million barrels. But the operator noted
the 'most likely' assessment is 12 million barrels.
According to Energy Secretary Carlos Jericho L. Petilla, the discovery in SC 44 “is a boost to the
country's upstream industry,” hence, the department was encouraged to “provide the necessary support
to advance its development.”
Relative to this, the energy chief announced that the DOE will be launching its Philippine Energy
Contracting Round 5 (PECR-5) within the first quarter of this year. This is an auctioning process for the
award of service contracts for the exploration and development of the country's petroleum and other
energy resources.
The upstream oil industry suffered some snags last year with the delayed awarding of service contracts
for blocks straddling the so-called 'areas of conflict.'
On per project basis, the country had also seen the pullout of multinational firmBHP Billiton from Service
Contract 55 which covered an acreage offshore Palawan.
The Philippines is considerably a laggard when it comes to developing its indigenous oil and gas
resources, and its hurdles had been worsened by the pending diplomatic protest it had lodged against
China.

CO
IN
NS

RE

gsgrdt : Gas2Grid Limited
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | iexplo : Natural Gas/Oil Exploration
gverg : Energy Department | cnatrd : Natural Reserves/Resources Discovery | c24 : Capacity/Facilities |
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations |
gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

Page87of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Business News

IPD
PUB Manila Bulletin Publishing Corp
AN

Document MABULL0020140110ea1b0000w

Page88of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.