Investors eye Aussie property safe-haven

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Investors eye Aussie property safe-haven

908 words
4 March 2014
Industry Updates
BDU
English
Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Company. All Rights Reserved.

SYDNEY -- The consistency in Australian property has begun to shore-up the relative dearth in
mining investment as foreign buyers doubled their injection of capital into residential property,
according to the latest figures from Australia's Foreign Investment Review Board (FIRB).
While the global financial crisis (GFC) curdled global property confidence, Australia's powerhouse
property market reaped the benefits with overseas investment rising more than sevenfold during the
global financial downturn.

Anxiety over Australia's need to transition from a two-speed economy driven by mining and resource
investment appeared to have been confirmed with the FIRB revealing mining investment slipped 12.6
percent between 2012 and 2013, so the latest FIRB data will go far to assuage what sectors can take
up the strain.

The FIRB data shows total foreign investment (FI) in Australia plummeted 20.5 percent to A$135.7
billion($121 billion) in 2012-2013, while property investment surged.

The FIRB says that offshore and foreign buyers, rather than withdrawing from the Australian market,
broke records in purchasing 5,091 established homes worth A$5.5 billion($4.9 billion) last financial
year, compared with just 647 properties worth A$810 million ($723 million) in 2009-10.
Off the plan new apartments and homes worth A$2.9 billion($2.58 billion) -- doubling the previous
recorded data three years earlier were sold to offshore investors last financial year, with a
Canberra-based Director of Sunrise Property Group Richard Grainger telling Xinhua that Australian
property was just about on par with gold as a global safe haven.

"The FIRB data suggests that the established home sales were in Melbourne and Sydney, where
predominately sophisticated and well- informed Chinese buyers have been targeting properties close
to major capital (Brisbane, Canberra, Melbourne and Perth CBD's) and on Sydney's inner west and
northern shores.

"It's such a solid, reliable, high-return investment that provides a tactile, joyful return, beyond dollars
that Chinese buyers invested almost A$6 billion ($5.36 billion) over the last financial year. Its hard to
argue with that level of confidence." Grainger said.

The release of the long-awaited FIRB data on foreign investment provides a revealing insight into the
diversion of foreign capital into the local property market, as well as the relative failure of local
developers to grasp the momentum.
While foreign investment turned to purchasing vacant land (doubling in 2012 - 2013 to A$1.4 billion)
barely 50 new property projects -- estimated to be valued at A$5.7 billion ($5.09 billion), were given
FIRB approval to be sold directly to foreign buyers off the plan -- half the value approved the previous
year.
In fact, overall investment in real estate dropped surprising 12 percent last year, to A$34.8 billion ($31
billion) for commercial property and A$17.2 billion ($15.3 billion) for residential.
Richard Grainger said despite limitations on foreign buyers directed investors to buy off the plan --
without regulatory hindrance -- but can only purchase established housing "if they are temporary
residents, use it to house Australian-based staff or plan to demolish a home for redevelopment."

Page207of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Speaking to News Limited, Colliers International's Asian director of investment sales, Steam Leung,
suggested China's restrictions to owning more than one investment property was drawing attention to
Australian real estate, while the lack of options in developments was highlighting including vacant land.
"Wealthy Chinese who want to buy a property for long-term investment cannot buy (more than one)
in their own country,"Mr Leung told The Australian.
"They are also very keen to buy residential sites to develop themselves, in areas that are close to
train stations, good schools and universities."

In step with the FIRB announcements, the National Australia Bank (NAB) slashed its fixed interest
rates across several terms to their lowest level in more than 20 years.

NAB on Monday lowered the new two-year rate to NAB's existing four-year rate as the lowest it has
been in more than 20 years.
Group Executive of Personal Banking Gavin Slater told Xinhua NAB was now ahead of all other major
Australian banks on one, two, three, four and five-year package fixed home loans.

"We have seen increased demand for fixed-rate home loans in the past 12 months, so we know many
home owners are looking for certainty, whether they are investors or first home buyers, and NAB is
offering that through these market-leading fixed home loan rates."
John McGrath, founder and chief executive of McGrath Estate Agents, told Xinhua that while many
purchases were associated with education and people migrating to Australia.
"Investing in Australian property is the very definition of win- win: its an intelligent investment that
secures a foothold in relative paradise, while ensuring easy passage into the Australian market and the
Australian way of life."
Richard Grainger, whose boutique property platform, Sunrise Property Group (SPG), services
exclusive Chinese buyers said the reliability, beauty and practicality of Australia was incentive enough,
regardless of regulatory changes.
"Much has been made of Chinese investors and the Significant Investor Visa, however, the fact is that
the take up rate of these visas has been very low in Australia and only a handful of visas have actually
gone through. That may change with the restrictions announced by Canada on their investor visa and
the noises being made to limit these visas in the USA."

IN

NS

RE

IPC
PUB
AN

i5010022 : Residential Building Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i501 : Building
Construction | iconst : Construction
c182 : Asset Transactions | ereal : Real Estate Markets | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate
Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic
News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
con
China Daily Information Company
Document BDU0000020140304ea340000h

Page208of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.