(AE) Ferret's MOVING FACES

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

(AE) Ferret's MOVING FACES

1,037 words
18 August 2014
Ralph Wragg Australian Business News
AAPRAW
English
Copyright 2014 RWE AUSTRALIAN BUSINESS NEWS PTY LTD. All Rights Reserved.

Sydney - Monday - August 18: (RWE Australian Business News) - A list of changes of management
within ASX-listed companies.

Moving in ...

* Coretrack Ltd today announced the appointment of Siegfried Konig as executive director and David
Henson as non-executive director, following the satisfaction of all the conditions precedent under the
deed of option to acquire Ecopropp Pty Ltd. Mr Konig is the managing director of Ecopropp and joins the
Coretrack board with 30 years of experience in business management and building companies. He will
act as the executive of both the Ecopropp and Coretrack groups.

Mr Henson is an experienced director with 15 years of experience in process engineering, project
management and business development. He currently holds the position of CEO of Siemens conceptual
engineering services. Mr Henson has nominated Sean Corbin as his alternate director who has been
appointed to that position.
The noard has elected Winton Willesee as chairman of its restructured board. To assist the merged
entity to trim the size of its board, Coretrack chairman Matt Birney volunteered to step down from the
board in order to focus on his other business interests. Further, Ecopropp will appoint Coretrack director
Bernie Kelly to its board and Erlyn Dale has been appointed as company secretary of Coretrack.

* Jeremy Bower has been appointed as acting CEO of Pluton Resources Ltd. Mr Bower has worked for
Pluton since February 2013 and has led the company's efforts in the areas of mining approvals and
government negotiations, commercial offtake negotiations, land tenure, native title and stakeholder
relations. Mr Bower's appointment follows the resignation of Brett Clark as managing director and CEO.
Sal Catalano has joined the board as a non-executive director. Mr Catalano has over 20 years'
experience in the capital markets and investment banking and is the chairman and co-founder of the
Chimaera Financial Group, a full-service custody (and responsible entity) and merchant bank and asset
manager regulated in Australia, Singapore and Hong Kong. Chimaera Capital Ltd is currently the
responsible entity for the DIGGA Australian Mining Exchange Traded Fund.
* Rhype Ltd, the parent company of NewLease Pty Ltd, announced the appointment of Ravi Samuel as
its new chief financial officer from September 25. With previous senior global and regional finance roles
at Intergraph, Citrix Systems, Haley, Geac and RAMS, Ms Samuel brings a wealth of experience in
leading and transforming global finance and administration functions, successfully integrating teams
during acquisitions and implementing numerous general ledger systems.

* Rebecca Dee-Bradbury has been appointed as an independent non-executive director of TOWER Ltd.
Ms Dee-Bradbury has a background in strategic marketing and has held senior regional executive and
CEO roles with businesses in Australia, New Zealand and Asia Pacific. She has extensive experience in
consumer and retail marketing, brand management and product innovation gained with international
companies such as Kraft/Cadbury, Maxxium and Lion Nathan/Pepsi Cola bottlers.
* Antilles Oil and Gas NL announced the appointment of Gary Grubitz as non-executive director. Mr.
Grubitz is a petroleum geophysicist with 35 years of experience in petroleum exploration, predominately
with BHP Billiton. While team leader and exploration manager for the Gulf of Mexico with BHP, he
opened up major new plays resulting in multi-hundred million-barrel deepwater discoveries. BHP Billiton

Page164of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.added the highest value per exploration dollar spent over the 10-year period from 1995 to 2005 due to
this Gulf of Mexico success.

* Gladiator Resources Ltd announced the appointment of Michael Alfred Neundlinger as a director to
repace Oscar Leon, who has resigned.
* GDI Property Group has appointed Greg Marr to its senior executive ranks. Mr Marr has joined GDI in
the newly created role of head of Unlisted Funds. Most recently, Mr Marr was Australian head of capital
markets for DTZ, a global real estate services company. He has also held senior positions with GPT
and Dexus.
* Jon Heard, longtime consultant to Alexium Inc, has joined the company full-time as head of Business
Development and Sales. He brings to Alexium 30+ years of experience in the textile and chemical
industry as well as experience in launching, growing, and ultimately selling his own business (in 2000) in
the field of flame retardancy.
* GBST Holdings Ltd has appointed Andrew Ritter as joint company secretary with Sean Norman.

Moving On ...

* Darren Olney-Fraser has resigned as chief executive officer of Mariner Corporation Ltd after five years
with the company. He completed the joint venture investment with Global Rental & Leasing, leaving
Mariner in a good position to make further "rental book" acquisitions.
* Richard Hay's tenure as CEO of Dampier Gold Ltd has ended.

* Craig Coleman, who has been a director of Lonestar Resources Ltd since July 7 2008, has resigned.
He is a director of the Wyllie Group Pty Ltd, which has sold its entire 40m-share holding in Lonestar,
representing 5.3pc of the company, primarily to Australian institutions.
* Simon Keyser has resigned his position as non-executive director of TITAN Energy Services Ltd and
will step down prior to the annual meeting later in the year. "Simon was a founding director and
shareholder of Atlas Drilling Pty Ltd that became a subsidiary of Titan upon listing in December 2011.
Over the past seven years, Simon has helped guide Atlas and then Titan to a successful listing and
through a period of significant growth since," said chairman Shaun Scott.
* Stephen Moss has resigned as a director of ILH Group Ltd after ILH agreed to sell the Eaton Capital
Partners corporate advisory business to Symon Capital Pty Ltd, a firm related to Mr Moss.

* Motopia Ltd announced the resignation of non-executive director Lindsay Brown. Mr Brown will remain
a director of CU2 Global Pty Ltd and continue to play a key role in its financial management. Motopia
holds a 44pc equity interest in CU2 Global.

* Derek Jones has resigned as a director of Soil Sub Technologies Ltd to pursue other business
opportunities.
* Frank Knight, chief financial officer and company secretary of Clean Seas Tuna Ltd, will retire on
August 22 after nine years with the company. He will be replaced by Wayne Materne, who brings to the
company a wealth of experience in previous CFO positions.

CO
IN

NS

cortck : Coretrack Limited | bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i32 : Machinery | i3251 : Mining/Oil/Gas Field Machinery | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | iindstrls : Industrial Goods | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c411 : Management Moves | c41 : Management | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types
| nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd
AN

Document AAPRAW0020140818ea8i001e1

Page165of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.