Push for $4b Geelong project

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Push for $4b Geelong project

Larry Schlesinger
705 words
16 September 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
36
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Listed agribusiness group Ridley Corporation has partnered with private developer Sanctuary Living
on a proposed $4 billion marina development in Geelong to replace the Cheetham salt flats along
Stingaree Bay.

The proposed 20-year Nelson Cove development at Moolap would cover a massive 500 hectares of
coastal land east of the Geelong central business district, south-east of Melbourne, stretching from
the CSIRO Research centre all the way to Point Henry.

It would comprise three precincts: a commercial precinct, twice the size of Geelong CBD with a
technology-focused business park, university, marina, ferry terminal and hotels; a residential
precinct with up to 5000 homes, and an entertainment precinct with another marina plus hotels,
shops and cafes, convention centre, a Guggenheim-inspired museum and a golf course.

About 700 homes will face the water and have their own private boat moorings. There is also a
proposal to develop a light rail to link up Nelson Cove with the Geelong CBD and Geelong train
station in partnership with the city and the state government.
Ridley Corporation, which makes animal nutrition products, owns half of the Moolap site under
freehold, with the remainder owned under a leasehold agreement with the Victorian government,
which has 30 years to run.

Chief financial officer Alan Boyd said Ridley was partnering with Sanctuary Living to get the "best
value" from the real estate.
Ridley retained the salt flats at Geelong after selling its Cheetham salt business to Hong Kong-based
CK Life Sciences for $150 million in February 2013.
Sanctuary Living specialises in large-scale golf course residential developments. Its projects include
the Sandhurst Club near Frankston, Sanctuary Lakes Resort near Point Cook and redevelopment of
the former Geelong Golf Club.Land swap proposed

Sanctuary Living director Steven Head said: "We've produced a master plan that we believe is
commercially feasible."

He said the developers are proposing that the Victorian government do a land swap and donate the
crown leasehold land to Nelson Cove.

"It will come back to them in a fully improved state comprising parks, beaches and wetlands," Mr
Head said.

The project requires both the approval of the Victorian government and, because it's within five
kilometres of the coastline, federal government approval as well. Mr Head said gaining the necessary
approvals would take at least two years.

Page31of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."We've held a series of private meeting with key stakeholders, including Geelong mayor Darryn
Lyons, the Geelong Chamber of Commerce and community groups, who are in favour of the project."

Mr Lyons backed the project when it was launched, saying it demonstrated "confidence in the future
of Geelong".

But, he said, the environmental effects would need to be examined.

Victorian state Labor MP for Bellarine Lisa Neville flagged "significant environmental issues".

Not in favour is the Geelong Field Naturalists Club,which has concerns that the proposed
development will damage the ecology of the Moolap wetlands.

Mr Head said the Sanctuary Living-Ridley development would have a $4 billion direct economic
benefit for Geelong.

"It will create 2500 construction jobs for every year of its development and 2500 jobs permanent jobs
when the entertainment precinct is up and running."
Funding will come from the same group of private financiers who backed Sanctuary Living's
other projects, he said.

"We have formed fairly deep relationships with our private backers so we will be tapping them again."

Ridley Corporation will be actively involved in the approval process, but will then revert to a more
passive role during the development and construction phase, receiving an income stream under a
proposed royalty arrangement.

Separately from the Geelong development, Ridley is "testing market appetite," via an expressions of
interest campaign, for a 912-hectare former salt fields site at Lara north of Geelong and a
316-hectare site near the Adelaide CBD.
The former has potential uses as industrial or airport land, the latter as a residential site. Another
asset, a tenanted feed mill at Dandenong is also up for sale. CBRE's Danny Thomas and Chris
Holgar are marketing two lots at Lara covering 655 hectares.
Key points The development will include commercial and residential development. About 700
homes will have their own boat mooring.

IN
RE
PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140915ea9g00015

Page32of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.