On The Go Bendigo - Friday, December 19

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

regional
On The Go Bendigo - Friday, December 19

1,595 words
18 December 2014
Bendigo Advertiser
FBENDG
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

Good Morning Bendigo!

We're in for another mostly sunny day today with an expected top of 24 degrees.

Here's what's been making news in your region:

Police raid Ascot house

Police have charged a 34 year-old man with drug trafficking, possession of firearms and possessing
proceeds of crime.

The charges come after yesterday's raids at a business and a home in Arrawalli Avenue in Ascot
where police found a loaded gun, drugs, ammunition and large amounts of cash.

The man is expected to face Bendigo Magistrates Court today.

Crews bring fast-moving Mia Mia fire under control

Fire investigators are looking into the cause of a 288-hectare fire near Mia Mia yesterday, believed to
have started close to the site of a smaller fire the day before.

Residents in Mia Mia, Meadow Valley and Glenhope communities were issued an emergency warning
just before noon yesterday and the fire was brought under control around 2pm.

About 10 fire crews remained overnight as part of a mop-up operation.

Reuben Beazley creditors unlikely to get one cent back
More than 50 creditors attended a meeting with liquidation firm Sellers Muldoon Benton at the National
Hotel in Bendigo on Thursday.

Creditors heard Mr Beazley must pay $887,000 to banks and other financial institutions before any
money flowed to them.

Business owners said they would still pursue Mr Beazley despite the likelihood of no return because
they wanted to hold him to account.

National news

Need a national news snapshot first thing - well, we have you covered.

" Check out the front pages from Fairfax Media publications across Australia, here.

" ALBURY-WODONGA: Victoria and NSW police will ride the XPT between Melbourne and Sydney in
a new operation to discourage illegal behaviour on the trip. The joint operation will see VIC police
board the train in Melbourne and NSW police board from Sydney. Read more.

Page189of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved." BENDIGO: Police have charged a 34-year-old Ascot man with drug trafficking, possession of
firearms and possessing proceeds of crime. The charges come after raids at a business and a home in
Arrawalli Avenue in Ascot where police found a loaded gun, drugs, ammunition and large amounts of
cash. Police are seeking to submit a remand application to keep the man in custody rather than
release him until his appearance in court. VIDEO.
" CANBERRA: It's shaping up as a winning Christmas for Hong Kong billionaire entrepreneur father
and son Tony and Justin Fung, with approval of their bid for Canberra's ailing casino expected to be
announced early next week. The ACT Gambling and Racing Commission will likely deliver the pair's
second return in as many weeks after their Aquis Resorts company was granted environmental
approval for its proposed $8.15 billion resort and casino development in far north Queensland on
Thursday. Read more.
" GLOUCESTER: Potentially contaminated wastewater used to frack AGL's Gloucester coal seam gas
project has been dumped unlawfully into the Hunter's sewer system by the private company hired to
treat it. Transpacific, one of the nation's largest wastewater management firms, has been fined
$30,000 by Hunter Water for releasing treated "flow-back" fluid from the gas project into the region's
sewer network. Read more.

" LAUNCESTON: Emergency patients at the Launceston General Hospital are waiting as long as 20
hours for a bed, but new research has found a surprising 27 per cent of patients occupying beds do
not need to be there. The research, commissioned by the University of Tasmania as part of a
Commonwealth-funded clinical redesign program, has also revealed that LGH patients are potentially
waiting hours for beds that were empty when they arrived at the hospital.

" MANDURAH: Police seized about 70 cannabis plants and hydroponics equipment during a drug
warrant search in Madora Bay on Thursday. About 7.30am officers attended the home after they
received anonymous information that cannabis was being grown on the property. Drug paraphernalia
and dried cannabis was also found.

" MORUYA: A Moruya family is reeling after two of their own were taken as hostages and
subsequently injured in Monday's Lindt Caf- siege. Robin Hope (nee Quinn), 74, and her daughter,
Louisa Hope, 52, are both former Moruya residents and now live in Sydney. It is understood Louisa,
who has MS and uses a walking stick, was used as human shield by the gunman, and was dragged
around each time he moved his position.

" WARRNAMBOOL: WHILE most two-year-olds will be enjoying the thrill of opening Christmas
presents in their family home, Remy Roberts will be in a hospital isolation ward awaiting a life-saving
operation. She has severe aplastic anaemia " a rare condition that causes bone marrow failure " and is
being kept alive by blood transfusions. Her future depends on being able to receive a compatible bone
marrow transplant.

" WHYALLA: QantasLink has officially announced it will start flying to Whyalla next year. QantasLink
will offer a double daily service on its 50-seat Q300 aircraft from April 13, 2015, providing 1300 seats
per week or more than 65,000 seats a year between Whyalla and Adelaide. QantasLink chief
executive officer John Gissing said the new route would expand business and tourism opportunities for
the Whyalla community.

" Woolworths buyers have told suppliers their products could be pulled from shelves just days before
Christmas if they refuse to fund the supermarket giant's new Cheap Cheap advertising campaign.
Read more.

" A GP of 20 years, Charlotte Hespe fears for the future of her profession. "Under these incentives,
what junior doctor would want to come and work in primary care?" she asked. "You'd be better off
going and working as a barista than as an expert GP." Read more.

" The NSW government is planning to sell the first of the state's electricity distributors as soon as it can
" if it receives electoral support at the March state election, and has already begun work to prepare for
the sale before the vote. The first asset to be sold will be the high-voltage network companyTransgrid,
which will be fully privatised.

" The bodies of the Martin Place siege victims will be laid to rest before Christmas. Cafe manager Tori
Johnson, 34, and barrister Katrina Dawson, 38, were killed at the end of a 16-hour siege staged by
gunman Man Haron Monis, who also died. The NSW Coroner announced that the victims' bodies had
undergone autopsies and would be released to their families at 7pm on Thursday. Read more.

" The ABC has lost three Canberra reporters less than a week before Christmas. 7.30 ACT presenter
Chris Kimball and long-time producer Patricia Barraclough are leaving the public broadcaster after the

Page190of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.state editions of the current affairs program were axed amid budget cuts. Parliament house reporter
Lyndal Curtis has also announced her resignation.

" It's easy to become jaded about modern-day sportspeople, especially some cricketers. Thank
heavens for Brad Haddin. Details have emerged of how Steve Smith became the 45th Test captain of
Australia, and while Haddin would be embarrassed about what's about to follow, it needs to be said.
When he learned that the selectors and Cricket Australiaboard would require a long-term solution,
because Michael Clarke's hamstring and back problems meant he would be sidelined indefinitely,
Haddin felt Smith would be a wiser choice.

" Like most Australians, former Australian Idol contestant Wes Carr found himself dealing with a
powerful mix of thoughts and feelings as a result of the Martin Place siege in Sydney. In Wes' case, he
put those thoughts and feelings into words, and uploaded the song to Youtube. Called "I Pray", here it
is.
" What is extraordinary about this brutal CIA report into assassination operations is how the spy
agency failed to anticipate the devastating cost to US prestige from extrajudicial killing. The report sets
out to judge the effectiveness of what is euphemistically called "high value targeting" - operations
radically expanded as deadly drone attacks under Barack Obama.

" As funerals began for the 148 victims of the Pakistani Taliban attack on a school in Peshawar,
Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif vowed to crush the insurgents and lifted a moratorium on the
death penalty. With Pakistan reeling from the attack that left 132 students dead, Mr Sharif said all
political parties had agreed to draft within a week a national action plan to combat the Taliban, which
would be acted on immediately.

" President Barack Obama has opened the door to restoring full diplomatic relations with Cuba after 50
years of sanctions and embargo, announcing that the US would seek to open an embassy in the
coming months and to relax economic and travel restrictions. The announcement was made after an
exchange of jailed spies was negotiated struck and, separately, an American imprisoned in Cuba
named Alan Gross, was released.

Terry Richardson from Henty has fulfilled one of his lifetime goals by having his novel, Justice for
Constable Cook, published after years of writing and years of contacting literary agents.

Mr Richardson attempted to go the traditional route to get his book onto shelves but literary agents in
Australia weren't interested.

He then sent it to America and got the offer to have his book published by "Rosedog" who print it on a
demand basis.

"I am very proud and very happy," Mr Richardson said.

"I would love to bring it to Australia (to be published) if I got the chance." Read more.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

gdrug : Drug Trafficking/Dealing | gcrim : Crime/Courts | gcat : Political/General News | gtraff :
Trafficking/Smuggling
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | tasman : Tasmania | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia
Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FBENDG0020141219eaci00005

Page191of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.