Four prominent Filipino philantropists among 48 honored by Forbes Asia

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business News
Four prominent Filipino philantropists among 48 honored by Forbes Asia

958 words
28 June 2014
Manila Bulletin
MABULL
English
(c) 2014 Manila Bulletin Publishing Corp. All rights reserved.

Four prominent Filipinos were named among the 48 notable philanthropists honored by Forbes Asia's
latest annual heroes of philantropy list.
The honorees ranged from billionaires with expansive visions of how best to help society to less
well-known business people whose generosity is also leaving a huge mark.

The list pays tribute to these leading givers, four each from 12 markets across the Asia-Pacific region.

Jose Mari Albert, chairman of Isport Life, founded Operation Compassion in 2004, which supplies
housing after natural disasters such as the recent Typhoon Haiyan.
Albert funded it with personal contributions and donations from his privately held company, which
operates stores in the Philippines for the Italian sports brand Fila.

His charity is now helping to build 400 shelters in devastated areas and developing temporary
communities by adding latrines, bathing rooms, wells and areas for planting food. It also offers trauma
counseling and feeding programs.

Angelo King, chairman emeritus, Angelo King Foundation started his foundation in 1978 and turned his
full-time attention to it after retiring from business in 1999.

He made his fortune with the Anito Hotels chain and worked with other organizations to address
educational, cultural, health care, and spiritual needs.

Last year,  the foundation's donations totaled $515,000-the interest on the amount in its capital fund.
Ricardo S. Po, Sr., founder and chairman of Century Pacific Group, remembered  experiencing hunger
during his childhood and in 2010 started his CPG-RSPo Foundation.

Aimed at improving nutrition and alleviating hunger, it works with a network of partners, serving up to 3
million meals a year to schoolchildren.
He started his canned food company in 1978 and earned the nickname “Mr. Tuna.” “God has been so
kind to me that I feel compelled to give back in my own way by helping hungry children,” he explains.

Enrique Razon, Jr., chairman and CEO, International Container Terminal Services, Inc. (ICTSI),
rehabilitated parts of the Philippines hit hardest by Typhoon Haiyan.

Charity work included rebuilding Tacloban's airport and moving relief supplies through the seaport. His
companies also put up $5.7 million for a hospital building.

Called on port operators from as far as Madagascar to help. His ICTSI Foundation is repairing five day
care centers in storm-wracked Samar Province. It normally donates to public schools and poor
neighborhoods near its seven Philippine ports.
In Australia, billionaires Andrew Forrest and James Packer are channeling their wealth into good
causes. Mining magnate Forrest donated US$62 million to Western Australia's five universities last
October to fund scholarships and a residential college.

Page17of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The 46-year-old casino operator James Packer established the $56- million Sydney Arts Fund in
November following government approval for his $2-billion casino resort at the Sydney Harbour. Half
the funding will go to arts group in Sydney's poor, western suburbs.
HNA Group's Chen Feng and Ningxi Baofeng Energy Group's Dang Yanbao of China are focused on
helping youth.
Feng donated $1.6 million last year to the UN World Food Programme to feed girls attending school in
Ghana. Yanbao pledged $186 million last year to help university-bound students in his native Ningxia
region of northwestern China.
In Hong Kong, 65-year-old Nellie Fong, the founder of Lifeline Express and former Chairman for China
at PricewaterhouseCoopers, started an eye hospital on a train in 1997.
Her project has grown beyond conducting cataract operations in rural China to doctor training and
building a network of clinics. Robert W. Miller, co-founder of Duty Free Shopping, pledged $13 million
this May to the Asia Society Hong Kong Center to promote the arts.
Rohini Nilekani from India has given roughly US$40 million over the years. She set up Arghyam, which
supports projects to protect groundwater and improve sanitation in India.
She has also donated funds raised from the sale of her Infosys shares to causes such as improving the
quality of India's laws and preserving biodiversity.

Ajay Piramal, Chairman of Piramal Enterprises, has also set up a foundation that operates water-filtration
plants and vending machines for selling clean water in bulk at a low cost.

Healthcare and education remained the focus of some other honorees. In Indonesia, 62-year-old Tahir,
Chairman of Mayapada Group, persuaded eight other local tycoons to each give $5 million to the
Indonesia Health Fund, in collaboration with the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. The aim is to raise
$100 million to fight tuberculosis and expand family-planning programs.
Triputra Group's Theodore Rachmat supports scholarship programs at 17 major colleges and
universities in Indonesia through his family's A&A Rachmat Compassionate Service Foundation.

He also funds 32 medical clinics that have provided affordable care to 698,000 patients around the
country.
Japan's Hiroshi Mikitani, Chairman and CEO of Rakuten, plans to give away much of his $7.7-billion
online retailing fortune to raise the standard of English in Japan.

Another notable giver is Tetsuro Funai, who started the Red Sox US-Japan Youth Baseball Exchange
with the Red Sox Foundation in 2008.

Each year Japanese teenagers visit Boston or Boston youths visit Japan for 12 days and learn about a
different culture via their love of baseball.
Malaysia's Syed Mokhtar Al-Bukhary has donated $500 million to help those devastated by natural
disasters in Asia and elsewhere.

Beneficiaries have included refugees in Pakistan, orphanages in Guinea and rehabilitation programs for
disaster victims in China, Indonesia and Iran.
Anthony Fernandes' AirAsia Foundation has raised more than $2 million for survivors of November's
Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines to rebuild housing and help people start convenience stores in their
homes.

NS
RE

gcha : Charities | gcat : Political/General News | gcom : Society/Community/Work
phlns : Philippines | austr : Australia | china : China | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia
| ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales |
seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Business News

IPD
PUB Manila Bulletin Publishing Corp
AN

Document MABULL0020140627ea6s00060

Page18of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.