Gasworks hot property

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Gasworks hot property

DAVID KILLICK
690 words
3 April 2014
Hobart Mercury
MRCURY
Hobart
5
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved

A KEY heritage site at the gateway to Hobart’s CBD is being sold for only the third time in 150 years
– and could fetch up to $10 million.
The Gasworks site, which houses a restaurant, a wine centre and a bottle shop, is flanked by
Macquarie, Davey and Evans streets and is expected to change hands for up to $10 million.

Knight Frank managing director Scott Newton said he expected strong local, interstate and overseas
interest in the Gasworks.
It last sold for $300,000 to developer Robert Hosken, who has owned the site for the past 21 years.

“It will be the first time it’s been offered since it was developed by Robert Hosken,” Mr Newton said.
“It is a strata title property, comprising multiple titles.
“The major part of the site is leased to two separate tenants being the 9-11 and the Hog’s Breath
Cafe.

“It’s a gateway to the city and has a massive exposure and traffic volume past it daily.

“We expect it will be pretty keenly sought after given its location.” As themercury.com revealed online
yesterday, the site will go on sale by expression of interest next week.
Mr Hosken thought the property would fetch between $9 million and $10 million. He said he was
liquidating his assets after a long and demanding career. “I’m 70 this year and I’ve decided there
must be more to life than working 24 hours a day and I’m going to retire,” he said.
“It’s time for me to take life easy. I’m selling everything. “I normally get up at half past five and I’m
normally in the office by seven and I’m in there until seven at night. I just can’t do it any more.
“If I don’t put my things in order, I’d leave a mess for everyone, and I don’t do things like that, I’m a
tidy person.

“I love working and always have, it’s my only hobby. I don’t have any other hobbies.” He expected the
site would attract keen interest.

“It’s the key to Sullivan’s Cove and the Macquarie Point development,’’ he said. “There’s some
Singaporean people interested in it, there’s some Chinese people interested in it.’’ Mr Hosken said
the land was originally granted to a ticket of leave convict who built boats at the site.
The Hobart Gas Company was established by an act of State Parliament in 1854 and started
pumping gas from the site in 1857.

Page120of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The premises were first extended in 1894 and again 30 years later. The town gas supply ended in
1978 and many of the original buildings were removed in 1987 to allow the extension of Davey St,
leaving the original engine house, a stables and office buildings.

DRONE'S-EYE VIEW FUELS MARKETING CAMPAIGN Stunning aerial footage of Hobart’s
Gasworks will form a part of the six-week marketing campaign for the historic site.

The footage, which can be seen on the Mercury’s website, is becoming a common tool in the real
estate agent’s sales arsenal, says Aerial Vision Australia owner Kyle Gardner.
Mr Gardner – the state’s first commercial drone operator – has three aircraft worth up to $20,000
each equipped with high-definition film and video cameras.
After starting the business six months ago, he says he’s working hard to keep up with demand.
“I’ve been doing mainly real estate photography and video work and also been doing documentary
filming up in our forests for a Sydney-based film crew for a documentary that’s coming out in
November.” He said he was working on a drone that could stay aloft for an hour and examining ways
of providing services such as infrared filming for the agricultural sector.
TIMELINE 1854 Hobart Gas Company formed 1857 Gas supply commenced 1978 Hobart town gas
supply ends 1987 Several original buildings lost as Davey Street extended. 1993 Site sold to
developer Robert Hosken, right, and revamped.2014 Offered for sale.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gdef : Armed Forces | gcat : Political/General News | gcns : National Security
tasman : Tasmania | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
News Ltd.
Document MRCURY0020140402ea430000s

Page121of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.