Retail hotspot frees up

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Retail hotspot frees up

Mercedes Ruehl
342 words
5 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
40
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

A boutique retail and commercial office building adjoining Westfield Sydney in the CBD has hit the
market for the first time in 20 years, with price expectations for around $50 million.

No. 75 Castlereagh Street is home to Montblanc's flagship retail store, with 10 upper levels of office
space occupied by a diverse tenancy mix, ground-floor retail and a car park.

It has been held by a Singaporean bank for the last two decades.
The property is being offered for sale by public tender, closing December 11, by James Aroney and
Ben Hunter of JLL. Mr Aroney said Castlereagh Street is regarded as the city's premium destination
for international luxury retail. "75 Castlereagh Street is situated on a generous 1062-square-metre site
and features longer-term development opportunities, including potential redevelopment into a
substantial hotel or serviced apartment tower with a large retail podium," he said.

"A number of significant upgrades have been completed or are currently nearing completion, including
the building's entry foyer, lift lobby, air conditioning chillers and lift carts. In addition, a medium-term
repositioning option is to reconfigure the retail component, extending over a larger section of the
ground floor with the potential to incorporate Levels 1 and 2."
Architectural schemes have been prepared by Sydney firm Daryl Jackson Robin Dyke Architects.

In addition to development upside, a new owner has room to grow rents at the building.

The passing average rental is $475 a square metre gross at 75 Castlereagh Street. But the
surrounding buildings are currently leased at levels much higher than this Mr Aroney said.

"No. 77 Castlereagh Street, part of the premium Westfield complex, has rents that are above $700 per
square metre gross," he said.
The site is close to Westfield, Pitt Street Mall, David Jones. Hyde Park and the Queen Victoria
building.

Sites with development potential in the Sydney CBD have been the sweet spot for investors. A
Chinese group snapped up 75 Elizabeth Street for $67 million in October.

IN
RE
PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | iretail : Retail | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | icre : Real Estate/Construction
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141104eab500006

Page166of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.