Fiji back on real estate map; Election ending military rule in island nation revives investors' interest, writes Peta Tomlinson

SE
HD

BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Fiji back on real estate map; Election ending military rule in island nation revives investors'
interest, writes Peta Tomlinson
Peta Tomlinson
786 words
5 November 2014
South China Morning Post
SCMP
1
08
English
(c) 2014 South China Morning Post Publishers Limited, Hong Kong. All rights reserved.

Property cycles don't switch into overdrive overnight. But, according to reports, Fiji's smooth return to
a democratic government has slipped an idling market into forward gear.
Much hope was pinned on a real estate revival following the Pacific nation's September general
election, the first in almost a decade due to a military coup. In the event, incoming Prime Minister
Frank Bainimarama won by a comfortable majority and, as noted by Australia's Peter Reith, a former
government senior minister who was in Fiji to monitor the election, the transition from military rule to
democracy could not have been much smoother.

It was news many in the industry had been waiting for. One Australian agent selling property in Fiji
reported that "the mood is very positive there. We've got stability back; people are smiling".

Prices had been down for several years following what realtor Philip Toogood calls "a global financial
crisis-related correction", but the wheels of investor interest had already begun turning, he believes.

Toogood, managing director and partner at Bayleys Fiji and South Pacific, has a sense of "pent-up
buyer energy" evident in an uptick in sales activity by local buyers, and a stirring of interest from
overseas.

He has "no doubt" that the political situation since the 2006 coup put potential offshore investors off
the Fiji market, but says the improving global economy put "nice-to-have" real estate assets back on
their agenda. "With the newly elected government now in place and the formal opening of parliament
in October, old friendships are re-engaging and new friendships are strengthening," he says.

The internal and external factors affecting the country in recent years also put the brakes on
development. So, while Fiji remains an idyllic tropical destination where properties are competitively
priced, a lack of supply means it hasn't been marketed as actively overseas as other resort locations.
That, too, is about to change, according to Toogood, who will bring a range of real estate
opportunities to Hong Kong in early December. While there hasn't been any substantial new
development since 2006, he says, proposed projects, amounting to about FJ$300 million (HK$1.2
billion), will reposition Fiji in international markets.
"We'll be bringing to Hong Kong development opportunities, resorts for sale, condominiums - we
really want to see if there is an opportunity there for us moving into the next three to five years,"
Toogood says. "The local market has been very confident about Fiji for the last 12 months, and the
international market has been looking at us, thinking, 'Yes, it's heading in the right direction - let's see
what happens at the election'. That [result] certainly has sparked more serious interest."

It's not just down to election day - though that certainly helps, he adds. "Tourism numbers have been
increasing gradually; it's a safe, beautiful part of the world, and a top leisure destination."

Page139of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The tide of construction set to flow once off-the-plan sales warrant it includes Nanuku, a prime
beachfront freehold subdivision in Pacific Harbour; the Moorings, a hotel, apartment and
commercial development just outside Denarau Island; a 176-unit managed apartment hotel on
Nadi's Wailoaloa Beach, to be managed by a major international brand; and the Ramada Suites on
the Wailoaloa beachfront. Most will be built by New Zealand construction companies, Toogood says.

"Further significant projects are also proposed, including the revitalisation of Momi, a spectacular
resort, residential and golf course development 30 minutes from Nadi International Airport; the Grand
Fijian downtown Suva residential, hotel and commercial tower; the Pearl Apartment Resort in
Pacific Harbour; Fantasy Island apartments on Fantasy Island, Nadi; the Sovi Beach residential
subdivision on the Coral Coast; and Yaroyaro Resort Villas in the Yasawa Islands group, to name but
a few."
There are also private islands for sale, but if you have to ask the price, you probably can't afford it.
"For example, Nukudrau Island is not priced, as it is an expression-of-interest campaign," Toogood
says.

Buying guide
What you can buy for US$80,000

Coral Coast home sites with water access and stunning views at Dravula Heights.
What you can buy for US$15 million
Navodo, a magnificent 61-hectare private estate fringing a bay at Vanua Levu. The property
incorporates a colonial homestead, five quintessentially Fijian beachfront bures and a chapel,
architect-designed under the guidance of traditional artisans to ensure the execution of the owners'
dream was authentic.

ART
NS

RE

PUB
AN

Wailoaloa Beach is a popular tourist destination in Fiji that's slated for development projects.
gcoup : Coup d'Etat | gpol : Domestic Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gcns : National Security
| gpir : Politics/International Relations | grisk : Risk News | gvio : Military Action
fiji : Fiji | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | pacisz : Pacific Islands
South China Morning Post Publishers Limited
Document SCMP000020141106eab500005

Page140of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.