MARKET CLAWS ITS WAY INTO THE POSITIVE AT THE CLOSE

Jenny Prabhu

HD MARKET CLAWS ITS WAY INTO THE POSITIVE AT THE CLOSE
BY
WC 6,097 words
PD 21 May 2014
SN OzEquities News Bites
SC NBOZEN
LA
CY Copyright 2014 News Bites Pty Ltd. All rights reserved.
LP

English

AUSTRALIAN COMPANY NEWS BITES

OZEQUITIES NEWS BITES

TD

The S&P/ASX200 closed up 4.2 points to 5424.6 after trading lower most of the day on good volume worth
$4.3 billion. There were 396 issues higher and 559 down. The SPI Futures rose 6 points to 5436 on good
volume of 22,083 contracts. Aussie 10 year bond yields rose 3 points to 3.71%. The $A is at 92.37US c,
down about 50 points from last evening.

The banks led the way higher, contributing 5.3 points positive points to the index (after contributing 4.7
negative points this morning) , insurers contributed 0.3 positive points, resources contributed 6.5 negative
points, property trusts contributed 0.1 positive points, retailers contributed 0.8 positive points and Telstra
contributed 2.8 positive points.

*At 4pm AEST the Nikkei Dow futures was down 20 points to 14,040 points, Shanghai CSI physical was
up 5.88 points to 2014, Hang Seng futures was up 70 points to 22,793 points, S&P futures was up 1.2
points to 1869.30, Nasdaq futures was up 3.5 points to 3600, Dow futures was up 14 points to 16,351
points.
Spot gold was up $1 5o $1295. Crude was up 59c to $102.92.

*The Bank of Japan left rates unchanged, as expected. While there are several eco reports due out in the
US tonight and a few in Europe, including rate announcements, perhaps the market is punting on China's
flash PMI due out tomorrow as being much better than expected.

Market will fall 36 points today on a slowing domestic economic outlook"

"Maree" said, "I expect our market will fall 36 points today on a slowing domestic economic outlook and
lower commodity prices.

"Despite the RBA keeping rates low for an extended period, the budget's impact on the economy will add
to below trend growth".

The S&P/ASX200 closed up 11.4 points to 5420.4 last evening.

ECO NEWS

Wages rise 0.7% in March quarter

The ABS reported the trend index for wages in Australia rose 0.7% in the March quarter 2014, and 0.7%
seasonally adjusted.

The Public sector rose 0.8%, seasonally adjusted, and the Private sector rose 0.7%.

The rises in indexes at the industry level (in original terms) ranged from 0.2% for Information media and
telecommunications to 1.5% for Education and training.

Page59of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.For the year to end March vs the pcp, the trend index and the seasonally adjusted index for Australia rose
2.6% through the year to the March quarter 2014.

Rises in the original indexes through the year to the March quarter 2014 at the industry level ranged from
1.9% for Professional, scientific and technical services to 3.3% for both Electricity, gas, water and waste
services and Arts and recreation services.

Consumer sentiment takes a dive - but par for the course after Budgets

The Westpac Melbourne Institute Index of Consumer Sentiment fell by 6.8 per cent this month to 99.7,
which is its lowest point since August 2011. A reading below 100 points indicates there are more
pessimists than optimists on the state of the economy. The survey was conducted between May 12 and
17 in the days following the budget.

‘‘The sharp fall in the index is clearly indicating an unfavourable response to the recent federal budget,’’
Westpac chief economist Bill Evans said.

The Westpac survey’s result reflects that of the ANZ-Roy Morgan index, which showed consumer
confidence had dropped 14 per cent since April when leaks about government spending cuts and the debt
levy started to appear.

The ANZ survey, released on Tuesday, was conducted on the weekend after the May 13 budget.

One of the questions in the Westpac survey asked about the impact the budget on people’s finances.

Just over 59 per cent of respondents said the budget would make it tougher on family finances in the next
12 months, while just 3.1 per cent said it would improve.

Consumer sentiment traditionally takes a tumble after federal government’s hand down their budgets.

After the 2013 budget, the Westpac survey showed 45.6 per cent of respondents said the budget would
worsen family finances.‘‘The initial response to a budget can sometimes be an overreaction. For example,
in 2013 the index bounced back by 4.7 per cent in June,’’ Mr Evans said.

However, the latest survey’s reading on people’s confidence about the economic outlook for the coming
year dropped by 14.2 per cent to its lowest level since August 2011. It also showed people were feeling
less confident about buying a home.

On the positive side, there was a slight rise in the number of respondents who believed now was a good
time to buy a household item.

Most of those surveyed also did not expect their jobs prospects to deteriorate.

TOP STOCKS

*Telstra has led the way up, gaining another 6c to $5.36 on 24.3m shares.

*James Hardie, reporting tomorrow is up 30c to $13.69 on 2m shares.
*Treausry Wine rose 27c to $5.07 on 24.4m shares as investors punt on a higher price.

*TEN is down a half cent to 27.5c - also slashing news services with 150 jobs to go on low ratings, fall in
revenue.
*LNG fell 8c to 89.5c on 57m shares after China Huanqiu Contracting sold most of its shares and one
director plus the joint CEO resigned.

Among the financials, AMP is down 3c to $5.17 on 9.18m shares, ANZ is up 28c to $33.03 on 5m shares,
CBA is up 36c to $80.19 on 1.9m shares, NAB is down 5c to $33.05 on 4m shares, Westpac is down 1c to
$33.67 on 4.6m shares.

Among the TMT's Telecom NZ is down 4c to $2.47 on 1m shares, SingTel is up 1c to $3.32 on 658,965
shares, APN is up 1.5c to 70c on 13.59m shares.

Among the resources BHP is down 28c to $37.17 on 5.6m shares, RIO is down 65c to $59.40 on 3.2m
shares. Fortescue is down 11c to $4.43 on 29.4m shares, Atlas is down 2c to 72.5c on 13.5m shares, BCI
fell 7c to $3.53 on 751,120 shares. AWC is down 2.5c to $1.33 on 3.29m shares, Western Areas fell 8c to
$4.33 on 1.4m shares.

Page60of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Among the oils, Woodside is up 31c to $41.23 on 2.7m shares. Santos rose 8c to $14.03 on 2.8m shares,
Oil Search gained 13c to $9.14 on 3.8m shares.

Among the golds, Newcrest is up 17c to $10.12 on 3.5m shares, Oceana is up 6c to $2.679 on 454,846
shares, Kingsgate rose .5c to 80c on 1.17m shares.

AT THE SMALLER END

*Elders rose 3c to 15.5c on 12.4m shares on its improved result.

*Phosphagenics rose .6c to 8.1c on 1.79m shares on its report below.

*Austin Engineering fell 27c to $1.25 on 1.6m shares after lowering guidance, but also announcing a
synergistic South African engineering purchase.

*Prime Minerals rose 1.3c to 2.2c on 53.8m shares on the report below.

*Structural Monitoring rose another 5c to 37c on 402,321 shares (was trading at 21c on May 9, the date of
our Week's Special).

NEW LISTING

Fifth Element Resources Ltd (FTH) closed at 22c on 630,000 shares, listed following an issue of 20.9
million shares at 20c each.
The company has assembled a diversified portfolio of projects located in the mid west of NSW
prospective for gold and copper. Exploration has been in progress since early 2012 and has resulted in
the acquisition of four exploration licences including Fairholme WEL 8026 located 20 km South east of
Candobolin, Trangie EL 8140, 40 km north west of Narramine, Pine HilL EL 8027, 40 km south east of
Condobolin and Mendooran EL 8141, 15 km east of Gilgandra..

Fifth Element is based in the offices of its technical managers, SRK Consulting in Beresfield, NSW which
has substantial expertise and global experience in mining, exploration, engineering and compliance.

Directors:

Chi Ho William LO, Executive Chairman

Bachelor of Chemical Process Engineering and Fuel Technology (Sheffield – UK).
Fellow Member of the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants.

Mr. Chi Ho William LO qualified as a Chartered Accountant in the United Kingdom in 1994 and is now a
Fellow Member of the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants. William also holds an honours
Bachelor’s degree in Chemical Process Engineering and Fuel Technology from Sheffield University (UK).

William has extensive experience in the resources industry and financial markets. He has been on the
board of a number of listed companies in both Hong Kong and China. William started investing in the
resources industry in 2006.
William is currently a non-shareholding director of a coal resources company named Ridgelands Coal
Resources Pty Limited, a company incorporated in New South Wales. William is also a director and
indirectly the largest shareholder of EJ Resources Pty Ltd, a company incorporated in New South Wales,
which focuses on minerals exploration in other areas of New South Wales.

He is the founding member and has been the largest shareholder of Fifth Element Resources Limited
since inception.

Siu-Wing Selwyn CHAN, Director

Bachelor of Civil Engineering (UNSW)

Master of Science (Geotechnical Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA)

Bachelor of Laws Hons (Wolverhampton, UK)

Fellow, Chartered Institute of Arbitrators, UK

Fellow, Institution of Structural Engineers, UK

Page61of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Member, Institution of Engineers Australia
Solicitor, Hong Kong

Mr. Siu-Wing Selwyn CHAN is a chartered professional engineer in both Australia and the United-Kingdom
specialising in civil, structural and soils engineering. He has extensive engineering experience and worked
in various international consulting engineering firms as well as real estate developers before founding his
own multi-disciplined construction project management consultancy in 1988 in Hong Kong.

To extend his consulting scope, Selwyn completed his law degree and qualified as a solicitor in 2008 in
Hong Kong where he practices law in the areas of corporate finance, mergers and acquisitions,
commercial and construction law and litigation. He also advises numerous private and corporate clients in
Australia and spends a considerable amount of time in Australia.

Selwyn has been involved with Fifth Element from the outset and has been advising the initial
shareholders and senior management of the Company.
Selwyn is also a visiting lecturer with the Polytechnic University of Hong Kong covering subjects such as
criminal law, public order and civil liberties.
He is free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the independent
exercise of his judgment.

Andrew SKINNER, Director

Master of Economics (Macquarie University)
Member, Australian Institute of Company Directors

Member, CPA Australia

Mr. Andrew SKINNER qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1986 with Price Waterhouse Coopers and
commenced a specialisation in superannuation governance and taxation. He has been a specialist in
superannuation taxation and small business structuring and advice, including working with many in the
minerals industry. This work has resulted in Andrew being involved in the initial commencement stage of
many businesses and the provision of seed capital. In 2004, Andrew was the founding director of Augur
Resources Ltd which went on to list on the ASX under the code AUK.

Andrew’s extensive experience with mineral exploration companies resulted in his appointment as a
director of Zamia Metals Ltd (code ZGM), which listed on the ASX in January 2007, and he remains on
that Board. He is on the Board of the ASX listed Fiji focused gold and copper explorer Dome Gold
Mines Ltd (code DME). He is also on the Board of Magma Mines Ltd which is currently preparing for a
listing on the ASX.

Involved with Fifth Element since inception, Mr SKINNER has been working with management and
shareholders to bring the Company to its current state.

Andrew lectures in the School of Accounting and Corporate Governance at Macquarie University in
Business Ethics and is currently completing a Master of Corporate Governance. He has also recently
completed a Diploma of Property Development.
He is free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the independent
exercise of his judgment.

Noriman Sai Chi MA K, Executive Director

BSc, Master of Science (soil mechanics and engineering seismology)

DIC, MBA, MIEAust, CPEng, NPER, RPEQ
Mr. Noriman Sai Chi MAK is experienced in engineering, innovation, property investments, general
management and business development. As an advisor, he has prepared business proposals,
investment and risk appraisals, strategic management directives, budget reports, project management
reviews and technical audits for many large projects. He has issued numerous technical publications and
has pioneered new innovative technologies for the engineering industry.
He is free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the independent
exercise of his judgment.

Page62of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NEWS OF THE DAY
Russia and China have not agreed on price for gas sales/talks continue
Bloomberg reports Russia and China have not agreed on talks for a price for gas sales into China -
negotiations have been ongoing for ten years.
Russia wanted the same price as contracts in the EU to be used as a benchmark price while China
proposed a lower price based on its imports from Asia. Blooberg quoted China Energy director at IHS Inc,
a consultant who said LNG projects in Australia will begin operations next year, making global gas supply
much more abundant.
Singapore Central Bank warns investors on dangers of property buying abroad
Singapore's central bank has issued a warning to investors about the risks posed by buying property
overseas, as high house prices at home prompt a growing number of its residents to invest in real estate
abroad.

A strong Singapore dollar and curbs on mortgage lending at home have encouraged more Singaporeans
to buy property in the likes of Britain and Australia, with the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS)
reporting a 43 percent rise in the value of overseas property transactions handled by local real estate
agencies in 2013 compared with 2012.

MAS said in a statement that it is monitoring developments closely to ensure financial stability and that
investors do not over-extend themselves.

"Risks are more difficult to assess or manage when investors are unfamiliar with conditions in overseas
markets, such as the prospects for oversupply of properties, or of a deterioration in economic conditions,"
MAS said.

It also flagged the foreign exchange risk of borrowing in one currency but collecting rent in another.
MAS said the value of overseas properties dealt with by Singapore real estate agencies was S$2 billion
($1.6 billion) in 2013, up from S$1.4 billion in 2012.
A recent research report by estate agent Knight Frank found that buyers from Singapore accounted for 23
percent of all purchases of newly built central London property in 2013, second only to British buyers
who accounted for 27 percent.

France orders 2000 trains too wide for most platforms
Reuters reports France's national rail company SNCF said on Tuesday it had ordered 2,000 trains for an
expanded regional network that are too wide for many station platforms, entailing costly repairs.

A spokesman for the RFF national rail operator confirmed the error, first reported by satirical weekly
Canard Enchaine in its Wednesday edition.

"We discovered the problem a bit late, we recognise that and we accept responsibility on that score,"
Christophe Piednoel told France Info radio.

Construction work has already begun to reconfigure station platforms to give the new trains room to pass
through, but hundreds more remain to be fixed, he added.

The mix-up arose when the RFF transmitted faulty dimensions for its train platforms to the SNCF, which
was in charge of ordering trains as part of a broad modernisation effort, the Canard Enchaine reported.

The RFF only gave the dimensions of platforms built less than 30 years ago, but most of France's 1,200
platforms were built more than 50 years ago. Repair work has already cost 80 million euros ($110 million)

"Government going to be surprised by global response to its climate policies'

"The Age" reports Australia's reversal on climate change action will ultimately not stick because the rest of
the world will make clear that it is unacceptable, globally renowned economist Professor Jeffrey Sachs
says.

Speaking to Fairfax Media, Professor Sachs said the extreme shocks and pain of climate change were
now being felt across the planet and governments acting in an ''anti-scientific perspective or an
extraordinarily short-term perspective'' will be surprised by the response from other countries.

Page63of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.''This government was surprised this week with the reception to the budget,'' Professor Sachs said. ''And I
think it is going to be surprised by the global reception of its climate policies as well unless it begins to
understand the real situation in the world and what's really expected of a country like Australia.''

Professor Sachs is perhaps best known for his work on poverty eradication, including his bestselling book
The End of Poverty. He is the director of the Earth Institute at Columbia University and a special adviser to
UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.

He is in the country to launch work on the Australian section of a global project for the UN to map paths for
13 countries to make deep cuts to greenhouse gas emissions that are consistent with keeping global
warming at relatively safe levels of below 2 degrees.

Changes in substantials reported May 19 and 20 inc posted separately.

Ex div: ZMZ ex div

LARGE CAP INDUSTRIALS

*ABC: Expects 2014 int, final to be similar to the pcp excluding one offs

Adelaide Brighton Ltd chairman Les Hosking, retiring MD Mark Chellew and Dy CEO Martin Brydon
addressed the AGM.

The chairman paid tribute to the retiring CEO under whose stewardship total shareholder return growth
has been around 1200%, one of the highest returns in the ASX200. He welcomed incoming CEO Martin
Brydon, for the past nine years the GM of Cement and Lime within Adelaide Brighton and with 30 years
experience in the industry.

Incoming CEO in first half guidance said net profit after tax is expected to be similar to the previous year,
with full year 2014 net profit after tax also expected to be similar to 2013, excluding the impact of the
Birkenhead production issues and a net restructuring charge for the year of $4 million (from the closure of
the Munster clinker production site in Western Australia, with resultant redundancies with a decision to
import all 400,000 tonnes of clinker previously produced at Munster).
The restructuring initiatives of the first half will provide a strong platform fort he business and deliver
benefits in the 2nd half of 2014 and further significant savings in 2015.

Market Cap $2.26b.

ABC down 22 cents to $3.53

*AIA: Passengers up 6% in April, higher from UK, Aus, HK for Easter holidays

Auckland Airport Ltd announced international passenger volumes excluding transit passengers was up 6%
in April on the previous year, positively impacted by a late Easter. The majority of international passenger
growth was from Australians and New Zealanders traveling at Easter and during school holidays.
Monthly visitor arrivals from Australia were up 17.5% in april while monthly visitors rose 23.1% and Hong
Kong visitors rose 89% in April vs the previous April

International passenger volumes excluding transit passengers at Cairns Airport were 29.2% lower in April
vs the previous year, in part due to reductions in traffic to PNG due to the removal of Australian visa
processing on April, the change of a Jetstar connection service to Darwin that previously had an onward
connection to Singapore and the cancellation of flights due to Cyclone Ita.

Market Cap $4.3b.

AIA down 8 cents to $3.63
*AOG: Completes sale of MFKP j/v share for $56 mln, acquires property
Aveo Group Ltd announced it has completed the disposal of its 50/% interest in the MFKP j/v to Mulpha
group for $56 million as announced on February 12.
Following the sale, in line with Aveo's strategic focus to transform to a pure retirement group, it has now
exchanged contracts for approximately 14.4 hectares at both Norwest Business Park and Sanctuary
Cove for a total of $53.6 million.

Page64of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The land is proposed to be developed into approximately 740 high quality retirement units/aged care beds
to be delivered from full year 2017 with an end value of $380 million, expected to accommodate around
1,000 residents.

Market Cap $1b.

AOG down 1 cent to $2.00

*DXS: Moody's upgrades DEXUS credit rating following S&P's upgrade
DEXUS Property Group announced Moody's Investors Service has upgraded DEXUS's credit rating from
Baa1 to A3. This follows S&P's upgrade from BBB+ to A- on March 31.

Market Cap $6.06b.

DXS up 0.5 to $1.115

*MQG: Refers to Fairfax publication reports on its tax matters
Macquarie Group Ltd announced it notes articles published in Fairfax Media publications today including
The Sydney Morning Herald headlined "Macquarie Group tax issues may be market sensitive" and the
Australian Financial Review headlined "Macquarie tax rats probed" and notes thee articles concern
documents filed over 12 months ago relating to litigation with the Australian Tax Office. The matter has
been substantially resolved and is reflected within Note 4 Income Tax Expense of MQG's 2014 Annual
Financial Report released on May 2.

The note includes the statement "Macquarie has considered its position with respect to the unresolved
matters and other tax claims including seeking advice and considers that it holds appropriate provisions'.

Market Cap $18.76b.

MQG down 28 cents to $58.42

*QAN: April passengers fall 1.5% vs prev April, year to date yields lower

Qantas Airways Ltd announced passenger numbers for April decreased by 1.5% from the previous year.
Group capacity (Available Seat Kilometres) increased by 2% and demand (Revenue Passenger
Kilometres) increased by 0.4%, resulting in a revenue seat factor of 76.4% which was 1.2% lower than the
previous year.

Year to date yields were lower than the prior corresponding period. Total domestic (comprising Qantas
Domestic, QantasLink and Jetstar domestic) yields were lower than the prior corresponding period as a
result of continued market capacity growth and weak demand. Total international yields were lower than
the prior corresponding period due to persistently high levels of competitor capacity growth.

Market Cap $2.69b.

QAN down 1.5 cents to $1.225

*TEN: To cut news services, 150 jobs to go - ABC News

ABC News reports TEN has cut around 150 jobs, axing some news shows including Wake Up and the
early, morning and late news. The network will reduce its staffing levels in Sydney with the number of
reporters cut from 17 to 7 and the number of camera operators going down from 12 to 5. The job losses
will also impact the other cities newsrooms as well as regional offices and will also close its Los Angeles
and London Bureaux.

Mr McLennan said the decision was forced by the network's poor ratings, revenue and earnings
performance as well as a soft advertising market.

Market Cap $724m.

TEN down 0.5 to 27.5 cents

*WOR: FEED contract for proposed LNG export project in Canada

WorleyParsons Ltd announced that WorleyParsons Canada Services Ltd in j/v with affiliates of Chiyoa
Corporation, Foster Wheeler AG and Saipem SpA has been awarded a contract by LNG Canada
Development Inc for the provision of front end engineering design and project execution services for a

Page65of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.proposed liquefied natural gas export project, known as the LNG Canada Project, in Kitimat, British
Columbia.

The LNG Canada Project is planned as a phased development initially comprising two processing trains,
each with a production capacity of approximately 6 million tpa of LNG with an opportunity for an additional
two trains. The release to proceed with the project execution phase is subject to regulatory approvals and
a financial investment decision by LNG Canada, still a couple of years away.
LNG Canada includes Shell CanadaEnergy (50%) an affiliate of Royal Dutch Shell Plc and affiliates of
PetroChina (20%), Korea Gas Corporation (15%) and Mitsubishi Corporation (15%), incorporated and
registered under the federal laws of Canada.

Market Cap $3.75b.

WOR down 15 cents to $15.40

LARGE CAP RESOURCES
*NCM: Official opening forCadia East, 37 M ozs of gold, 7.5M t of Cu
Newcrest Mining Lt announced the Premier of NSW the Hon Mike Bair MP today officially opened the
Cadia East Gold Mine located at Newcrest's Cadia Valley Operations, 25 km from Orange in central
western NSW. Cadia East has been developed as a large underground panel cave gold mine, the first of
its tyupe in Australia and when it reaches full capacity will be the largest metalliferous underground mine in
Australia and one of the largest in the world.
NCM has invested approximately $2 billion to develop the first Cadia East panel cave, associated
infrastructure and complete a major expansion of Cadia's processing polant capacyt from 24 Mtpa to
26Mtpa. Commercial production from Panel Cave 1 commenced in January 2013.

Managing director and CEO Greg Robinson said in the report "Cadia East is a large, long life asset and a
cornerstone of the company's strategy. It is one oft he largest gold and copper deposits in the world, with
2.8 billion tonnes of ore estiamted to contain 37 million ozs of gold and 7.5 million tonnes of copper.
With an approved mine life of 21 years, Cadia East will deliver significant economic benefits to the local
community, the workforce and suppliers, local, State and Federral governments and of course Newcrest's
shareholders for the long term.

Market Cap $7.76b.

NCM up 17 cents to $10.12

*WPL: Terminates MOU for participation in Leviathan j/v

Woodside Petroleum Ltd announced it has advised the participants in the Leviathan j/v that it has elected
to terminate the MOU agreed by the parties in February 2014. Woodside said negotiations between the
parties has failed to reach a commercially acceptable outcome. Woodside has been in discussions with
Noble Energy Mediterranean Ltd, Delek Drilling LP, Avner Oil Exploration LP and Ratio Oil Exploration
(1992) LP to acquire a 25% participating interest in each of the 349/$achel and 350/Amit petroleum
licences located offshore in Israeli waters, with all parties working very hard to secure an outcome that
would have been commercially acceptable without success. He thanked the Leviathan j/v participants and
the Israeli Government for working with the company.

Market Cap $34b.

WPL up 31 cents to $41.23

MID TO SMALL INDUSTRIALS

*ANG: EBITDA to be down sharply/buys profitable South African biz
Austin Engineering Ltd announced in a trading update and acquisition report:

Outlook

Orders expected in the second half were not realised due to continued deferred procurement by major
miners and longer than expected contract administration lead times.
The current full year EBITDA is now expected to be in the range of $15/18 million (vs EBITDA of $51.1
mln last year).

Page66of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The board believes the company's business model and strategy remain robust and that the
disappointing current year earnings reflect cyclical factors. A significant improvement is expected in 2015
EBITDA due to contribution from recently announced crane contracts, repair and maintenance contracts
and receipt of major orders originally expected in full year 2014.
The company said its strategy to acquire synergistic businesses in major mining provinces is
unchanged, and the current market conditions are presenting opportunities.
Proposed acquisition of VR Steel South Africa
Austin Engineering announced a MOU to acquire 74.9% of the shares in South African mining
attachment business Van Reenen Steel Pty Ltd, with the balance held by a South African Black
Economic Empowerment partner, for 12.663 million shares at $1.70 per share, subject to shareholder
approval and $300,000 cash from existing cash resources.
The forecast 2015 EBITA for VR Steel is $5.8 million. The acquisition will be immediately EPS accretive,
not including synergistic benefits.

Market Cap $105m

ANG down 27 cents to $1.25

*CHR: Buys $2.1m of plant and machinery at 31 Whimbrel St, Port of Brisbane
Chalmers Ltd announced the purchase of $2.1 million excluding GST leasehold improvements and plant
and machinery located at 31 Whimbrel Street, Port of Brisbane. The sellers are Australian Terminal
Services Pty Ltd, ATS Developments Pty Ltd and Associated Oils Pty Ltd - all subsidiary companies of the
Transpacific Industries Group.

Market Cap $22m.

CHR untraded last at $2.90

*EAX: New appointees to sales team/upbeat guidance
Energy Action announced the addition of three senior executives to its sales team - Paul Cooper joins
EAX from Schneider Electric where he was most recently Sales Director. Barry Denton , the current Sales
Director will take the position of Corporate Business Development Director. Bob Stammers recently
joined EAX from Essential Energy where he was GM Retail sales and marketing. He will be responsible
for EAX's key Commercial Building Portfolio clients.

Phillip Ridler will be joining EAX on July 1 to manage EAL's key industry portfolio customers. Phillip was
most recently with Schneider Electric.

Guidance
Energy Action reaffirmed its full year 2014 guidance of an Operating NPAT result being approximately in
line with full year 2013 operating NPAT.

In April EAX conducted a reverse super auction to procure electricity for 11 large businesses, one of the
largest undertaken by EX. The auction achieved excellent results for participating clients, with the retail
energy component price down 21% on average from existing contract prices and some rates falling to 7
year lows in NSW and Victoria.

Based on the success of the April super auction event an additional super auction is now planned for the
3rd week in June.

Market Cap $86m.

EAX up 4 cents to $3.33

*IMC: Agreement to sell Travelan in South Korea via marketing agreement

Immuron Ltd the manufacturer of Travelan has entered into an agreement with DB Pharm Korea Co Ltd
for the sale of Travelan in South Korea. Under the agreement DB Pharm Korea is granted exclusive rights
to market, distribute and sell Travelan in South Korea. The agreement requires DB Pharm Korea to
comply with specified annual minimum order obligations.

Market Cap $15m

Page67of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IMC steady at 0.5 cents

*POH: Racehorse shin soreness gone in 1-2 days with TPM/Oxycodone patch

Phosphagenics Ltd announced a study using its TPM/Oxycodone topical patch to manage shin soreness
pain for thoroughbred racehorses found recovery from pain in all horses within 1-2 days.

The study was conducted on six thoroughbreds between 2/3 years of age, exhibiting cannon (shin) bone
soreness arising from injuries in either one or two limbs, with a patch applied daily for each injured limb for
ten days.

The study results found there were no signs of lameness following treatment. Five horses were pain free
within 24 hours following the first patch application with th sixth horse painfree by the second patch
application within 48 hours. Pain relief with the patch allowed the animals to recover without the enduring
stress normally associated with such injuries. The proof of concept study was conducted in collaboration
with Phosphagenics' animal health partner, Integrated Animal Health through its R&D Division, Veterinary
Research Australia.

Principal veterinarian involved in the study Dr John Walker said , "I have seen hundreds of cases of shin
soreness in my 20 years as an equine veterinarian and the oxycodone patch is far and away the best form
of pain relief I have seen. .. the topical nature of this patch's delivery system means gastric ulceration
associated with some systemic drug treatments such as the NSAID Phenylbutazone, will be eliminated".

Market Cap $83m.

POH up 0.6 to 8.1 cents

MID TO SMALL RESOURCES

*ADX: Italian Ministry awards 2nd permit offshore Italy
Audax Energy Ltd announced the Italian Ministry Industry has awarded the offshore Italy exploration
permit d363 C.R-.AX to Audax, on trend with ADX's offshore Tunisian Kerkouane Permit and adjacent to
its previously awarded d34 C.R.-AX licence.

Market Cap $7.1m. ADX up 0.1 to 1.3 cents
*AIV/NCM: Govt approval rec'd for acquisition of EPM14079 from Newcrest

The Department of Natural Resources and Mines has given Indicative Approval for the transfer of
EPM14079 from Newcrest Operations Ltd to ActivEX Ltd, which now satisfies the conditions precedent to
acquire Coalstoun Cu/Au project (EPM 14079) from Newcrest for $200,000 in cash.

Market Cap $10m. AIV untraded last at 2 cents
*AXE/MOX: To buy Monax's adjacent graphite exploration licence, Eyre Pen
Archer Exploration Ltd announced a conditional sale and purchase agreement to acquire Monax's
primarily graphite focused Waddikee Exploration Licence EL4662 on South Australia's Eyre Peninsula.
The tenement abuts the northern boundary of Archer's Sugarloaf graphite project on EL4861. Conditional
on due diligence, Ministerial consent.

Market Cap $13.4m. / $3.2m.

AXE steady at 16 cents / MOX down 0.3 to 2.1 cents
*GXY: Receives $US12.2 mln 10% deposit against Jiangsu Plant sale
Galaxy Resources Ltd confirmed it has received $US12.2 million from Sichuan Tianqi Lithium Industries
Inc in deposit funds, 10% of the $US122 million cash consideration component of the Share Purchase
Agreement. The sale of the Jiangsu Plant is based on an enterprise value of $US230 million with Tianqi
assuming $US108 million of Chinese bank debt at Galaxy Jiangsu in addition to the cash component.

Market Cap $69m.

GXY down 0.1 to 6.7 cents
*LNG: China Huanqui cease to be substantial, director, joint CEO resign

Page68of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Liquefied Natural Gas Ltd advised that China Huanqiu Contracting and Engineering Corporation (HQC)
has sold 43.25 million of its shares in the company. Following the sale HQC will continue to hold 10
million shares and will no longer be a substantial shareholders. Mr Zhang Gaowu (Gavin) has resigned as
non exec director and Madam Yao Guihua (Grace) has resigned as an executive and joint CEO.

Market Cap $347m.

LNG down 8 cents to 89.5 cents
*PIM: To merge with Cocoon Data Holdings Ltd, offers internet security
Prime Minerals Ltd announced it has entered into a binding HOA to merge with unlisted Australian public
company Cocoon Data Holdings Ltd which holds various intellectual property interests pertaining to data
security software known as Covata.

Prime said Covata's disruptive technology offers a game changing approach to internet and data security.
Cocoon has offices in Sydney and Washington DC.

Prime also announced terms of the merger, capital raising and consolidation. (May 20)

Market Cap $7.4m.

PIM up 1.3 to 2.2 cents

*TLU/SXY: Senex assumes operatorship at PEL 105, plans advanced

Tellus Resources Ltd managing director Carl Dorsch announced with regard to PEL 105 located in the
hear t of the Cooper Basin where TLU currently has a 50/50 j/v with Senex Energy Ltd, the South
Australian regulator has converted the licence into three PRL,s PRL 108, 109 and 110, giving the j/v
security of tenure for up to 15 years.
Senex has now assumed operatorship and is earning an additional 20% to take its stake to 70% by free
carrying the first well, initially planned to be Cassam 1, but with the j/v now agreeing to Senex completing
further work on a conventional Toolachee play, considered to be higher impact than Cassam.

Market Cap $8.6m. / $773m.

TLU down 0.3 to 5.9 cents / SXY down 1 to 67.5 cents
*TYK: Raising funds to advance Spargoville, Valley Floor gold projects
Tychean Resources Ltd announced a capital raising of up to $1.9 million including a placement of
approximately 136.5 million shares at .3c per share with free attaching options on a 1 for 2 basis and a
non renounceable 1 for 3 entitlement at the same price with options attaching on a 1 for 3 basis to raise up
to $1.5 million to advance exploration at the Spargoville and Valley Floor Gold Projects.

Market Cap $4.1m.

TYK down 0.1 to 0.3 cents

NS

RE

e1105 : Consumer Sentiment | m11 : Equity Markets | nanl : Analyses | e11 : Economic
Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | saustr : South Australia | sydney : Sydney | uk : United Kingdom |
apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | nswals
: New South Wales | queensl : Queensland | weurz : Western Europe

PUB News Bites Pty Ltd
AN Document NBOZEN0020140521ea5l0008d

Page69of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.