Banyan jumps at Kangaroo Point

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Banyan jumps at Kangaroo Point

Exclusive
302 words
24 July 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
39
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Singapore-based hotel and resorts operator Banyan Tree has snapped up the Newman
government's prime residential property site atop the Kangaroo Point cliffs facing Brisbane city for
about $15 million.
The purchase heralds a new phase for Brisbane's residential development market characterised by
a rising level of overseas and interstate investment.

The deal for the 2219 square-metre triangular-shaped site overlooking the Brisbane River sets a
price equivalent to as much as $100,000 per unit.
Banyan Tree has scoured Australia for hotels and serviced apartment development sites for over a
year and has come up with plans for a five-star luxury hotel on the Esplanade at Surfers Paradise.
Banyan Tree declined to comment on the new sensitive government sale but it is expected to turn
the site into a premium hotel offering taking advantage of the spectacular panoramic views
overlooking the river, Botanic Gardens, South Bank Parklands and the Brisbane CBD.
The site, which had strict development parameters allows for up 10 storeys or about 35 metres.
Savills divisional director for commercial sales Robert Dunne and Gregory Woods were dealing on
the property but were unavailable for comment. Savills's marketing material noted that a potential
11,500 square-metre building project could be accommodated on the site, subject to council
approval.

The Kangaroo Point deal follows on from another cashed-up Asian buyer looking to gain an exposure
to Brisbane real estate. The Australian Financial Review revealed last week that Toga Far East
Hotels backed by Singapore's Far East Hospitality Group had contracted to buy a grand,
heritage-listed building opposite Brisbane's Treasury Casino.
Chinese giant Greenland, also entered into a joint bid with Crown Resorts last week to develop the
Queen's Wharf, also in Brisbane.

IN

RE

PUB
AN

ihotel : Hotel Construction | ireest : Real Estate | i501 : Building Construction | iconst : Construction |
icre : Real Estate/Construction
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140723ea7o00003

Page69of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.