Coles reveals sharing of customers’ data

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Coles reveals sharing of customers’ data

»PHILLIP THOMSON
599 words
9 March 2014
Sun Herald
SHD
Second
13
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Customers using the Coles Flybuys card or online shopping service are having their personal details
sent to up to 30 other companies owned by the same corporation and to third parties in at least 23
other countries.
Last week, Coles unveiled plans to invest $1.1 billion over the next three years building 70 new
supermarkets and creating more than 16,000 jobs as well as releasing a more detailed description of
its privacy policy.

Customers were told that by using Flybuys or online shopping they consented to the privacy policy,
meaning data collected was shared with other companies in the Wesfarmersgroup, including K-Mart,
Bunnings, Officeworks and Bi-Lo.

But the retail giant also revealed that the personal information it collects on its customers may be sent
to nations such as China, Pakistan, the Philippines, Mexico, the United Arab Emirates, the US and
Britain.

Under the Coles policy, personal information – defined as data which identifies someone or which
allows a person’s identity to be ascertained – can be used in conducting risk assessments for credit
and insurance, products that are also sold by the supermarket giant.

Personal information can include name, contact and household details, transaction history and buying
habits.

Coles’ more detailed policy description was released just before the new Australian Privacy Principles
come into force this week, which make businesses list likely overseas recipients of personal data and
conform with stricter rules.

Businesses must also take reasonable steps to ensure foreign recipients do not breach the Australian
principles or are operating under similar privacy laws in those countries.

A spokeswoman said Coles’ global commercial partners had the highest standards of data security
and that Coles followed all regulatory requirements and best practice disclosure.

In line with the new legislation, Coles’ policy enables customers to access or correct personal
information the retailer has collected about them. It does state requests may be rejected, although
reasons must be provided if this happens.

Coles said it takes steps to ensure third parties protect the privacy and security of personal
information and use the information only for agreed purposes, and it destroys or de-identifies personal
information no longer needed. Whenever Coles’ online services are used, the company logs the
location at which it was used – in cases where this function has not been disabled by the user – as
well as dates, times, file metadata and the links customers click on.

Page176of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Australian Privacy Foundation vice-chair David Vaile said companies such as Coles should have
been revealing where the data was being sent for years and it was unlikely Australian customers
would have any comeback if their data was misused overseas.

‘‘You’re suddenly at the mercy of someone who’s done something wrong who doesn’t have to answer
to you or your country,’’ Mr Vaile said.

‘‘No one running data storage can say, ‘your data is safe with us’.’’

‘‘At long last we have this new legislation and now we encourage companies to bite the bullet and not
just reveal countries they give the data to but companies.’’

University of Technology Sydney marketing lecturer Ingo Bentrott said data mining ‘‘sounds very Big
Brother but if it’s done ethically and you’re giving the customer what they want then I think it’s OK”.
‘‘We already know sales of milk generally go up when customers buy more Milo but data mining is
about finding unknown patterns in purchase behaviour. And any information a competitor doesn’t have
is an advantage,’’ Dr Bentrott said.

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

wsfrm : Wesfarmers Ltd | colsgj : Coles Group Ltd
i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i656 : Mixed Retailing | i6560002 : Department Stores | i8396 : Diversified
Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | iretail : Retail
gdatap : Privacy Issues | gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SHD0000020140309ea390000w

Page177of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.