UPDATE 2-Kingmaker Bega claims spoils in Australia ' dairy wars'

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

UPDATE 2-Kingmaker Bega claims spoils in Australia 'dairy wars'

965 words
16 January 2014
14:09
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2014 Reuters Limited

* Bega books cash windfall on sale of Warrnambool stake

* Canada's Saputo primed to take control of Warrnambool

* Bega considering product development, acquisitions

By Jane Wardell
SYDNEY, Jan 16 (Reuters) - Bega Cheese Ltd will walk off with a pile of cash and a kingmaker role in
Australia's "dairy wars" after virtually handing control of the country's oldest milk and cheese producer
to a Canadian suitor.
Bega agreed on Thursday to sell its 18.8 percent stake in takeover target Warrnambool Cheese and
Butter Factory Holdings Co to Saputo Inc. That effectively ends a takeover battle Bega itself started
last year but abandoned as bids spiralled.

With the dust about to settle on one Australia's most intense bidding wars in years, Bega now has a
A$70 million ($62.5 million) windfall, wiping out debt and freeing up funds for new products or
acquisitions.
Its position of strength, along with company statutes that would deter bidders, also means it hopes to
stay independent even if international suitors call in what has become one of Asia's hottest food and
drink sectors.

The intensity of the struggle for Warrnambool - nine bids or counter-bids since last September - reflects
huge interest in Australia's agriculture assets amid surging demand from increasingly affluent southeast
Asia for both high-tech milk extracts and traditional dairy products.

"Some might debate who actually got first prize," Bega Chairman Barry Irvin told Reuters in a telephone
interview. Irvin was speaking after Bega said it would sell its shares in what has become the world's
most expensive dairy company on a price-to-earnings basis, according to Thomson Reuters data.
"Turning a A$30 million investment into A$100 million of value is obviously not without its comforts,"
Irvin said, referring to the surge in Warrnambool's shares since Bega's first offer. With sales exceeding
A$1 billion last year, Bega is the largest cheese-cutting and packaging company in Australasia.
Warrnambool stock rose amid counterbids from both Saputo and fellow Australian dairy producer
Murray Goulburn Co-operative Co Ltd. With 45.2 percent of Warrnambool already in its hands,
Saputo's anticipated winning offer is likely to eventually value Warrnambool at a sizeable A$549
million.

Irvin said Bega's decision to pull out of the race in late December as bid prices spiked was taken with a
cool head - as was the decision to hold its stake until Saputo sweetened its offer.

"We remained disciplined and didn't allow ourselves to be distracted by the potential value that was
being created by the bidding process," he said. The bidding has hoisted Warrnambool's stock to the

Page182of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.point where it now trades at 38.2 times its 12 months trailing earnings, according to Thomson Reuters
data.

'RIDICULOUS PRICE'

The shares closed at A$9.40 on Thursday, up 1.3 percent and close to the maximum Saputo has said it
will pay if it receives at least 90 percent acceptance rate for its offer.

"The price that was paid, on an earnings basis, looks ridiculous," said Chris Kimber, managing director
at Kimber Capital.

Mark Topy, a senior industrial analyst at Canaccord Genuity Wealth Management, said Bega had
played the battle well. "The price Saputo paid for Warrnambool is very high and we wait to see how
they are going to justify that price," Topy said.
With plentiful milk resources and the technology to make advanced health-promoting products from
them, Australia's dairy businesses remain in demand for companies keen to serve Asia's growing
appetite.
Earlier this week, China's Bright Food (Group) Co Ltd said it had agreed to buy Australian cheese and
yoghurt producer Mundella Foods. The small, privately-held company specialises in probiotic yoghurt
drinks and began exporting to Asia in 2010.
Bega is also branching out into high-tech areas. Along with cheddar and mozzarella cheese, Bega
makes whey protein concentrate - and the same milk extracts called neutraceuticals that made
Warrnambool a hot target. It exports to 40 countries.

"It's in that high-value area where we are seeing demand and where we are seeing opportunities," Irvin
said, adding that business development and infrastructure rationalisation were also potential areas of
investment focus.

TAKEOVER TARGET?
Named for the small rural town in which it is based in Victoria state - its company slogan is "Real
Town. Real Cheese." - Bega itself could be viewed as a takeover target, Irvin acknowledged. Its stock
has surged 47 percent since mid-September, closing on Thursday at A$4.62.

Some analysts have suggested that Saputo could move to consolidate its position in Australia, or that
New Zealand giant Fonterra may step in. But Bega is dealing from a position of strength: Irvin said the
company is not for sale, stressing its corporate statutes contain hurdles to a hostile takeover.
Bega statutes currently limit any single shareholder to a maximum 10 percent stake. If a takeover is
offered at a premium to Bega's share price, shareholders can vote to change the statutes - but the vote
needs 75 percent approval to pass.
Saputo declined to comment on Bega's share sale. Murray Goulburn, which with a 17.7 percent stake
has little hope of reaching the 50.1 percent needed to make its offer unconditional, said it would
"assess the ramifications" on both its bid and its shareholding.
Japanese beverage giant Kirin Holdings Co Ltd is expected to retain its 10 percent stake to protect its
distribution agreement with Warrnambool - particularly as Australia's "dairy wars" may not be over.

AUSTRALIA-BEGA/WARRNAMBOOL (UPDATE 2) | ABX | AUF | CANT | ABN | E | RBN | AFA | CSA |
LBY | RWSA | RWS | REULB | GNS | FCA | U | J | ND | RNP | DNP | PCO | SXNA
becoop : Bega Cheese Ltd | sapgrp : Saputo Inc | wcbfch : Warrnambool Cheese and Butter Factory
Company Holdings Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy Products | i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
eppin : Producer Price Index | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c18 : Ownership Changes |
cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators |
e1103 : Inflation/Prices | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin :
FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | cana : Canada | nz : New Zealand | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North America
NEWS1

RF

CO

IN

NS

RE

IPC

Page183of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

Thomson Reuters (Markets) LLC
Document LBA0000020140116ea1g0003y

Page184of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.