Wesfarmers' cash dilemma gets bigger

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Wesfarmers' cash dilemma gets bigger

Comment Michael Smith
427 words
8 April 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
20
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Michael Smith
It is not the worst problem a company can face – Wesfarmers has more money than it knows what to
do with.

The sale of the conglomerate's insurance broking business adds another $1 billion to the
company's swelling coffers which increases pressure on chief executive Richard Goyder to invest in
growth or return more excess capital to shareholders.

While many chief executives would envy Goyder's position it is a dilemma nonetheless.
The latest deal follows the $1.84 billion sale of its underwriting division to Insurance Australia Group
(IAG), completing the company's exit from insurance altogether. This leaves a significant gap in the
company's earnings profile which could be filled through acquisitions.

The problem is finding something to buy. Valuations remain high and expanding offshore has
traditionally been fraught with risk for Australian companies. Analysts say Wesfarmers has the ability
to fund a deal worth $5 billion or more.

Goyder does not want to sit on a pile of cash either and says he could use the proceeds to pay down
debt. But Wesfarmers is already undergeared with net debt of $2 billion for a company with a
market capitalisation of about $48 billion.

Increasing shareholder returns through a special dividend or on-market buyback is an option.
Investors' obsession with yield has contributed to a more conservative approach to growth since the
global financial crisis. Goyder oversaw Wesfarmer's $19 billion acquisition of Coles in 2008, proving
he is not afraid of doing a big deal. However, the world has changed significantly since then.

Still, Wesfarmers risks stagnation if it cannot drive earnings growth. Coles's turnaround under Ian
McLeod, who has now been moved into a senior strategic role, has been impressive but growth is
slowing and the company is still working to turn around Target and is betting on a turnaround in coal.

Goyder never gives much away when it comes to deal making. A lot of options are on the table.
Wesfarmers is looking at opportunities offshore and has a business development office in Hong
Kong. But Australian companies have a poor track record expanding offshore and Goyder is wary
that any push into retail overseas means competing with the world's best operators.

One potential deal is doing something with explosives maker Orica, which is looking to sell its
chemicals business.

michael.smith@afr.com.au READ NEXT: Wesfarmers sells insurance arm for $1bn IAG poised to
ensure leviathan status Chanticleer | Business confronts the urge to demerge

CO

nigltd : Insurance Australia Group Ltd | wsfrm : Wesfarmers Ltd

Page151of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

i82 : Insurance | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ifinal :
Financial Services
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140407ea480006b

Page152of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.