Asian Shares Slump After Fed Action

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
ED
LA
CY
LP

TD

Markets
Asian Shares Slump After Fed Action

Brad Frischkorn
582 words
30 January 2014
09:17
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Market turmoil returned to Asia Thursday, with Japanese stocks at one point slumping more than 3%,
after the U.S. Federal Reserve said it would scale back further on its stimulus measures.

Although the move to scale back on its monthly buying program was widely expected, it is the latest
blow for investors already dealing with a global selloff. Recent attempts by central banks in Turkey and
South Africa to stop the slides in their currencies have failed to have a significant impact, heightening
jitters for money managers.

The Nikkei ended the day 2.5% lower at 15007.06, spurred by a stronger yen as investors flocked to
the safe haven currency. In other markets, Australia's S&P/ASX 200 fell 0.8% to 5188.10 and
Singapore's Straits Times Index was 0.7% lower late in Asia.
A further knock to global confidence came too with more evidence that manufacturing in China is
slowing, pushing Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index down 0.5% to 22035.42 while the Shanghai
Composite lost 0.8% to 2033.08.
HSBC's final China purchasing managers index for January came out at 49.5, compared with 50.5 in
December, and a touch lower than a preliminary reading of 49.6 from earlier in the month. A score
above the 50 mark indicates an expansion in manufacturing activity, while a reading below 50 points
toward a contraction. The preliminary reading last week showed a move from expansionary territory to
contraction and was the spark that set off the emerging market rout, which started in developing
economies and soon spread to their developed peers.

Emerging market "concerns have not left us," said Sean Callow, senior currency strategist at Westpac
Institutional Bank in Sydney, adding that sharp moves in emerging economies can lead to "unexpected
collateral damage in the rest of the world."

The declines on Thursday mark a turnaround from the gains that Asia saw in the previous session—the
Nikkei jumped 2.7%, its biggest daily move since early September. On Wednesday, the region moved
higher on initial optimism after a move by the Turkish central bank to restore confidence the local
currency by yanking interest rates much higher.

"The Wednesday market rise was overdone given prevailing global market conditions," said Yoshihiro
Okumura, general manager at Chibagin Asset Management. "The turmoil in emerging markets does
not look like it is close to dying down."

The positive impact of the central bank's action was short-lived however, with the effects diminishing as
the global day progressed. By the time the U.S. market had closed on Wednesday, sentiment had
soured again and the Dow Jones Industrial Average ended the day 1.2% lower.

The market turmoil resulted in a stronger yen overnight. The dollar lost 0.7% against the Japanese
currency on Wednesday and weakened on Thursday. It was last at ¥102.13, compared with ¥102.26
late Wednesday in New York.

Page89of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In corporate news, shares in Lenovo Group sank 8.2% after the Chinese electronics firm said on
Thursday that it agreed to buy Motorola's handset business from Google for $2.9 billion. The
acquisition came just one week after Lenovo bought International Business Machine Corp.'s low-end
server business for $2.3 billion. While the first deal gave Lenovo's stock a boost, the latest acquisition
weighed on the company as analysts questioned the profitability of the target.

NS

RE

IPD
PUB
AN

mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E
Exclusion Filter
singp : Singapore | hkong : Hong Kong | austr : Australia | china : China | usa : United States | asiaz :
Asia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz :
North America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Asia Markets
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document WSJO000020140130ea1t000e0

Page90of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.