China 's April Manufacturing, Property Data Show Signs of Weakness--Update-3-

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

China's April Manufacturing, Property Data Show Signs of Weakness--Update-3-

By Mark Maginer
707 words
13 May 2014
23:38
Dow Jones Newswires Chinese (English)
RTNW
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

BEIJING--China's disappointing manufacturing and property data reveal fresh signs of weakness that
could pressure Beijing to prop up the economy.
Economists have been looking for some indication that China's first-quarter slump is reversing, which
could help the government reach its official 7.5% growth rate for this year.

But April data released on Tuesday suggest the slowdown in the property market is having a knock-on
effect on factory output, retail sales, and investment in machinery, land and other physical assets, all of
which posted slower growth rates compared with a year ago.

"The figures are rather serious, a signal that perhaps economic activity hasn't moved up but is still at
the bottom," said Li-Gang Liu, an economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. "It's a
wake-up call for policy makers for more decisive action if they're serious about their 7.5% growth
target."

At least two local governments in recent weeks have rolled back housing restrictions set amid a frothy
property market. Eased policies include extending preferential purchase rights to residents of
neighboring communities and relaxing residency requirements for outsiders buying property.
Spending on real estate, including indirect purchases such as furniture and management fees,
accounts for about a quarter of China's economy, a proportion large enough to cause a domino effect if
the sector hits a wall.
"The risk to the property sector is my most worrisome concern for the Chinese economy this year,"
said UBS AG economist Wang Tao.

Home sales in the first four months of the year fell 9.9% to 1.53 trillion yuan ($245.6 billion), according
to China's National Bureau of Statistics, compared with a 7.7% decline for the three months ended
March. The statistics agency relies on year-to-date figures and doesn't break out individual months.
Demand weakened in more Chinese cities as banks continued to tighten mortgage lending and buyers
stood on the sidelines, expecting developers to cut prices further.
Property investment in the first four months of 2014 rose 16.4% year-over-year to 2.23 trillion yuan, but
that was down from the 16.8% growth seen in the first quarter.
Despite concerns of mounting debt, the central bank needs to relax its lending policies to property
developers and households to invigorate the sluggish real-estate market, said Société Générale
economist Yao Wei. If current tight credit policies remain much longer, she said, Beijing won't be able
to turn around the real-estate market in the near term.
Tepid production, investment and real-estate data leading into the second quarter--traditionally a
stronger period as investment growth kicks in after the winter--could pressure China's central bank to
cut the reserve-ratio requirement, the amount of deposits and notes commercial banks must hold in
reserve, analysts said.

Page8of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Industrial production by the nation's factories and mines rose 8.7% year-over-year in April, the statistics
agency said, a slight decline from 8.8% in March.

Fixed-asset investment in machinery, land and buildings, excluding rural areas, meanwhile rose 17.3%
in the January to April period, compared with the same period a year earlier, a decline from the 17.6%
increase in the January to March period.

Retail sales for the month rose by 11.9%, a decline from the 12.2% year-over-year increase in March.
In a bid to prop up faltering demand, Chinese leaders in February announced a set of mini-stimulus
measures, including tax cuts for smaller companies and increased transportation spending. Such
measures are seen as a more targeted approach than a major stimulus program that ultimately could
fuel more bad debt. Still, the latest figures suggest this wasn't enough to counteract weaker
fundamentals, some analysts said.

"Today's data made clear that the government's mini-stimulus measures haven't fully shown effects,"
said USB's Ms. Wang.

Liyan Qi, Grace Zhu and Richard Silk

Write to Mark Magnier at mark.magnier@wsj.com

Subscribe to WSJ: http://online.wsj.com?mod=djnwires

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

13-05-14 1338GMT

CO
IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

aanzb : Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
ereal : Real Estate Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News |
nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic
News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document RTNW000020140513ea5d000an

Page9of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.