Grinding media has potential: Arrium

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Grinding media has potential: Arrium

Tim Binsted
599 words
25 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
16
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Arrium chief executive Andrew Roberts said a partial mothballing of his iron ore operations
remains a real possibility, as he urged investors to look past Arrium's struggling mining business to
the growth potential in its grinding media division, which supplies miners with grinding balls and
rods.
Amid concerns about its debt levels, the steel, iron ore, and mining consumables group hosted an
investor day on Monday to talk up the quality and stability of its consumables division.

Despite a $754 million equity raising, Arrium's balance sheet remains stretched, and its steel and
mining earnings are under pressure due to the collapse in iron ore prices and depressed steel
margins.

"We have to look to continue to pay down debt," Mr Roberts said.

"[But] this business [grinding media] is a very good business. We have strong market positions with
very good customer relationships. Investors need to look at the value of the three different
[business] segments."
Arrium's mining consumables business also supplies rail wheels and mining ropes, but the core of
its earnings come from grinding media. Mining companies use grinding media to crush ore and
extract minerals. When grinding balls wear out, they are replaced.

In the wake of the capital raising, Arrium shares crashed to record lows. The stock rebounded
10 per cent on Monday to 26.5¢ amid a market-wide recovery in iron ore stocks, possibly linked to
Chinese stimulus measures.
But based on Monday's close price, Arrium has a market value of $778 million, compared with the
near $1 billion paid for the Moly-Cop grinding media business alone in 2010.
"The valuation of the company reflects the challenges in mining and steel," Mr Roberts said.
"We need mining consumables to continue to improve its earnings and cash, and we need steel to
improve its earnings and cash."
Arrium expects that the volume of copper and gold ore milled in the grinding business's core North
and South American markets to grow at 9 per cent a year to 2018-19.
The company also points to declining head grades in gold and copper as indicators of strong
demand for grinding media. Lower grade ores have less minerals and more unwanted rock and thus
require more grinding.

Arrium said it has scale and customer advantages because Moly-Cop is four-times larger than its
next biggest competitor and has strategic locations in key mining regions.

Page76of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Critically, Arrium points to its stable margins as a sign of earnings reliability.

Contrarian fund manager Allan Gray has stepped into the recent Arrium sell-off to build an 8.3 per
cent stake. But Allan Gray portfolio manager Simon Mawhinney said one big risk to his investment
case is if the grinding media business is not as "bullet-proof" as Arrium claims it is.
"They've gone to great lengths to make sure this business is appreciated," he said. "The company
still has a lot of debt, considering where it is in the cycle. We think it offers long-term value [but] the
concerns about debt are well founded."
Iron prices remain near five-year lows at around $US70 a tonne.
Mr Roberts said the sustained weakness in iron ore proves the timing of the capital raising was
"prudent".
He also said the option to wind back or mothball Arrium's higher cost Southern Iron mining
operation remains on the table.

He refused to comment on Credit Suisse analyst Michael Slifirski's belief that Arrium may need to
sell a stake in the grinding media business.

IN

RE
PUB
AN

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys
| ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141124eabp0000o

Page77of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.