No Shale-Gas Revolution Yet for Australia

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

No Shale-Gas Revolution Yet for Australia

By Ross Kelly
666 words
26 September 2014
07:30
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

Don't expect Australia to join the ranks of shale-gas producers world-wide anytime soon.
According to the country's third-biggest oil-and-gas company, Santos Ltd ., it could take up to a
decade for reserves of the fuel locked up in the Australian Outback to be pumped out in viable
quantities.

Shale gas has become a booming business in the U.S., thanks to new technology enabling the
commodity to be economically extracted from dense underground rock formations. An abundance of
the fuel has led to its selling more cheaply than imports of more traditional types of energy.

Shale gas now accounts for more than a third of the natural gas used in the U.S., and has given the
economy a boost by enabling households and industrial users to cut their fuel bills.

The success of the U.S. producers has inspired companies elsewhere to look at extracting the fuel.
But replicating the boom in other countries such as Australia will take time because of the need to
procure expensive equipment for drilling and extraction, and due to varying geological conditions.

Australia has large shale-gas formations similar in size to the Marcellus and Bakken formations in the
U.S., but producers are still in the early stages of testing if their geological properties are similar
enough to support commercial production.

"It all seemed to happen very quickly in the U.S., but the science behind it wasn't developed
overnight," said James Baulderstone , head of unconventional gas at Santos, in an interview. China,
too, has struggled to develop its own vast shale-gas reserves, as producers confront rough terrain and
poor infrastructure.

Australia has been experiencing a gas boom, but one underpinned by the discovery of conventional
resources in deep waters off its northwestern coastline. Another new source is gas trapped onshore in
coal seams on the country's eastern coast.

Shale gas is a different variety of unconventional fuel trapped in rock formations typically found
thousands of meters underground.

The cost of producing shale gas in Australia is likely to be higher than for other resources, because of
the need to acquire technology to undertake the complicated process of smashing the rocks open with
sand, chemicals and water in a process known as hydraulic fracturing, or fracking.

"We need to make sure we have the right technology, and understand the nature of the shale-gas
resource," Mr. Baulderstone said. "We're in the learning phase now for the next 5-10 years."
He said demand for new sources of domestic energy supply would intensify as conventional supplies
run dry. The Cooper Basin in central Australia, which supplies much of the eastern and southern parts
of the country, may run out of conventional resources as soon as 2020, Mr. Baulderstone said.

Page43of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The country still has untapped conventional natural-gas resources, like the Browse basin offshore
northwestern Australia, but much of the recently discovered fields have been earmarked for exports to
Asia if and when they are developed.
Mr. Baulderstone said coal-seam-gas production, particularly in New South Wales state, may take up
the slack from about 2018 for the following five or six years, after which shale gas may be produced in
the Cooper Basin itself, where Santos already has several assets.

The pace of that evolution may be influenced by factors such as fluctuating demand for natural-gas
exports from producers of liquefied natural gas, or LNG, and environmental regulations governing
coal-seam gas extraction in New South Wales.

Two years ago, Santos said it had sold a small quantity of shale gas from its Moomba-191 well,
without disclosing the cost of producing it. Chevron Corp . is also active in the sector, last year
agreeing to pay up to US$349 million for a stake in Beach Energy Ltd .'s central-Australian
shale-gas prospects.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

September 25, 2014 17:30 ET (21:30 GMT)

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

sants : Santos Ltd
ifrack : Fracking | i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300002 : Oil Exploration | i1300005 :
Support Activities for Oil/Gas | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | iexplo : Natural Gas/Oil
Exploration | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum
Extraction
cnatrd : Natural Reserves/Resources Discovery | ncmac : Commodities Asset Class News | nenac :
Energy Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class
News | c24 : Capacity/Facilities | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document DJDN000020140925ea9p003sk

Page44of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.