Attila to start bulk sampling at US coking coal mine

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
VOL
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Attila to start bulk sampling at US coking coal mine

Marnie Hobson
347 words
23 June 2014
Platts Coal Trader
CLTRDR
2
ISSN: 1555-3485
English
© 2014 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

Australia's Attila Resources said Monday it will start a bulk sampling program at its Kodiak coking coal
mine in Alabama, after receiving approval to do so from the US Mining Safety and Health
Administration, as part of plans to restart the mine.
The bulk sampling program will involve Attila testing the quality of the coking coal at the mine, and
sending samples to potential customers in Europe, Brazil, China, Japan and South Korea, the
company's executive director, Evan Cranston, said Monday.

In May 2012 Attila acquired a 70% stake in Kodiak Mining, which operated the mine until it was placed
on care and maintenance in 2008 due to the financial crisis. The remaining 30% of the Kodiak mine is
now held by a private US company, but Attila has the right to acquire the 30% stake after completing a
feasibility study at the project.

Attila is aiming to complete the feasibility study by the end of this year, and expects to begin production
in 2016 at a rate of 2 million mt/year, Cranston said.
Attila has said previously its cash costs to produce high quality hard coking coal — with ultra-low ash,
low sulfur, high free swelling index and superior fluidity values — would be $90/mt FOB for Kodiak's
mine life, including rail and port costs, taxes and royalties. This would place Attila in the lowest 10% of
all global metallurgical coal producers, in terms of costs.

The Kodiak mine is located in Birmingham, Alabama, close to existing infrastructure that can cater to
both the domestic and export markets.

A heavy gauge rail line runs through Kodiak and there is also a loadout facility on site and immediate
access to an extensive rail network traversing the US and linking up to three major coal handling ports.
There is also the possibility of barging coal along the Black Warrior and Tombigbee rivers, which will be
investigated as part a study on the export market potential, Attila has said previously.

Marnie Hobson

CO
IN

NS

RE

IPD

attlrz : Attila Resources Limited
imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | igoldm : Gold
Ore Mining
mcoal : Coal Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | mcat :
Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E
Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | usa : United States | usal : Alabama | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
namz : North America | uss : Southern U.S.
Mining

Page72of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Document CLTRDR0020140721ea6n0000c

Page73of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.