INSIDE STORY visits DOUBLE BAY | TITLE DEEDS Grocer's grand home has $20m price hopes

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Domain
INSIDE STORY visits DOUBLE BAY | TITLE DEEDS Grocer's grand home has $20m price hopes

LUCY MACKEN
1,333 words
25 January 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
5
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

TITLE DEEDS

INSIDE STORY visits DOUBLE BAY

SOLD: $10.5 MILLION
Providing business with a better eftpos system is obviously working for this former German politician.

Double Bay's most recent buyer is the German-born entrepreneur Jost Stollmann, who is giving the
Big Four banks a run for their money in the eftpos payment system business.

The chief executive of Tyro Payments was once better known as Germany's shadow minister for
economy and technology but quit politics to instead spend two years circumnavigating the world with
his wife Fiona and their five kids, eventually pulling up to settle in Australia in 2004.
More recently, Stollmann has paid $10.5 million for the waterfront home of Scott Shearman, from the
family of the Dr LeWinn's Private Formula skincare range.
Shearman bought the Stafford Street property in 2007 having paid $7 million to the Loblay family.

Designed by architect Gerry Rihs on a double-length block behind a self-contained studio off the
street, the four-bedder was listed last April with hopes of $10 million through Jaime Upton, who has
recently joined Alison Coopes' successful boutique agency.

It was Shearman's sale and subsequent move back to Melbourne that no doubt prompted the car
racing enthusiast to sell his prized Zaha Hadid-designed "Moriane" sofa, which went under the
hammer through Shapiro Auctioneers just before Christmas for $50,000.

TITLE DEEDS

Grocer's grand home has $20m price hopes

If you're shopping for a mansion with harbour views, put this eight-bedder in the trolley.

The Bellevue Hill home of Angela Fleming, widow of grocery tycoon Jim Fleming, has hit the market
with hopes of about $20 million.

The sale of Fleming's neo-Georgian mansion Donnington Grange follows her decision to downsize to
a more manageable whole-floor spread in a waterfront block in Point Piper, which sold
mortgagee-in-possession on behalf of mining executive Ian Stolyar last October for $12.3 million,
through LJ Hooker Double Bay's Bill Malouf.

Page202of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Even with the spacious 495-square-metre new digs to move into, Fleming will no doubt need to cull a
few non-essentials, given she will be packing up an eight-bedroom, 10-bathroom residence, with both
a self-contained studio and a two-bedroom cottage.
The late Jim Fleming (who died in 2007) bought the estate in 2005 for $16.5 million from the
Rubenstein family.

The 1846-square-metre property with a pool and 12-car garaging is listed with Malouf and Sotheby's
International's Michael Pallier.

Penthouse fetches $6M

Bondi Beach usually looks its best at this time of year, so it was a well-timed sale of the penthouse in
the Boheme development for about $6 million last week to South Africa-based retired banker Larry
Levine.
The penthouse is the last offering to sell in the Toga Group's re-development of the old Hakoah Club.
Details were not forthcoming from CBRE's Caroline Fagerlund and Ben Stewart, but it follows the
agent's success late last year when they also sold the sub-penthouse opposite Hyde Park in The
Residences for $7.2 million to merchant banker Alwyn Heong, who is best known for his $18.25
million purchase in 2007 in Rose Bay.

Best in the inner-west
Ramy Arnaout, co-founder of development and hospitality companyIris Capital, and his wife Nadia
are selling their palatial Strathfield home.
The Llandilo Avenue property set a suburb record when it last sold in 2007 for $5.75 million and
Joseph Georges, of George Ellis & Co, is expected to set a new record when it goes under the
hammer

on March 29.

Set over two titles, the three-storey mansion is a mix of Palm Springs-meets-Tuscany and is large,
even by generous Strathfield standards. Spread over 1000 square metres internally, the six-bedder
includes garaging for seven cars, a pool and tennis court.

Big $8M finish to 2013

Sydney FC chairman Scott Barlow and his wife Alina finished off 2013 selling their Darling Point
penthouse in The Bower for bang on $8 million.
The two-storey spread, in Barlow's Strada waterfront development, was listed for $8 million last May
with LJ Hooker's Bill Malouf, and Julian Hasemer of 1st City Hasemer+Caldwell.Eyles.
It follows the $14.35 million sale last September of Barlow's Point Piper waterfront house on
Wolseley Road to businessman Yunji Huang.
Big bucks for dairy house
In Woollahra, earlier this week, the former dairy keeper's house, Linden House, sold for more than
$5.6 million.

Mimi and Toby Forwood, the latter of whom is owner and managing director of ISS International, listed
the four-bedder for $6 million in November.

Peter Blacket, of Blacket & Glasgow, declined to comment on the sale.

From town to country

Car dealer Simon McCarroll and his wife Nicole have swapped their inner-city life for acreage
following their $4.7 million purchase in Duffys Forest.
The Kinka Road property was sold by PricewaterhouseCoopers partner Patrick McKeon and HR
consultant Cindy Reid, after it was listed by Ray White Terrey Hills' Shane Hutton with hopes of $5
million.
McCarroll, who is the son of McCarrolls Auto Group founder Phil McCarroll, AM, pocketed $3.17
million last September when he sold his Walsh Bay residence.

Page203of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.ON THE WATERFRONT

FOR SALE: $2.9M+

Corporate leadership consultant Quentin Jones and Margherita Larne-Jones, who head up CLS360,
have kicked off this year's Hunters Hill property market by listing their waterfront home for more than
$2.9 million.

The 1199-square-metre property makes the most of the north-east aspect and leafy outlook with an
architect design that features a wide open-plan living and dining area and a deep deck overlooking
the Lane Cove River.
Having paid a handsome $3.05 million back in 2007 for the contemporary four-bedder, the now
Melbourne-based couple have listed the Bonnefin Road property with BresicWhitney's Nicholas
McEvoy with a February 22 auction.

GATSBY'S OLD PAD

FOR SALE: $1.2M+

Longtime Baz Luhrmann music collaborator and The Great Gatsby co-producer Anton Monsted and
his wife, illustrator Nikki DiFalco, are selling their Bondi Junction home following their recent move to
Los Angeles.

Monsted, who was nominated for a Grammy for his work on The Great Gatsby soundtrack, is moving
to LA to become senior vice-president of music at Twentieth Century Fox.

The couple bought the three-bedroom property in 2003 for $775,000 just before their first child was
born, and have given the classic Victorian terrace a contemporary, open-plan extension at the rear.
Jason Pantzer, of the newly minted Phillips Pantzer Donnelley, is asking more than $1.2 million.
CHINESE WHISPERS
SOLD: $7.5M+
Wahroonga has a new house record of just more than $7.5 million now that Michael and Elizabeth
McCarthy have sold their French provincial-style mansion on Burns Road.

The 2896-square-metre property with a pool, tennis court and beautifully landscaped garden was
listed last year with a guide of more than $7.5 million with Darren Curtis, of Ken Jacobs. Curtis is
remaining schtum on details, but another source says the buyer is from mainland China.
The sale eclipses the previous high of $7.26 million set when Tom Pragastis, former banker and now
head of start-up Australian Diversified Small Property Income Fund, sold his Billyard Avenue home
just before Christmas in 2009.

Shh!

Who is the latest Bellevue Hill local to sell their Drumalbyn Road mansion in an off-market deal for
more than $11 million? With a real estate agent in the family, there’s no surprises who might be
doing the negotiations.
The head of which investment management firm has bought one of Mosman’s very slow movers?

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

irreal : Residential Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction |
ireest : Real Estate
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140124ea1p0008g

Page204of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.