Funtastic Stabilizing But Sustained Improvement Needed: Bell Potter -- Market Talk

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Funtastic Stabilizing But Sustained Improvement Needed: Bell Potter -- Market Talk

1,457 words
2 October 2014
10:00
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

0000 GMT [Market Talk]--The new management team at toy and sporting good distributor Funtastic
(FUN.AU) appears to have moved quickly to stabilize the business but Bell Potter says it's waiting for
evidence of a sustained improvement. It retains a hold recommendation and trims its target to A$0.071
from A$0.077. FUN last traded at A$0.065. Despite a weak result in fiscal 2014, Bell Potter says its EPS
estimates remain largely unchanged. (robb.stewart@wsj.com; Twitter: @RobbMStewart)

2356 GMT [Dow Jones] Following a further fall in prices at the overnight GlobalDairyTrade auction, ANZ
has reduced its forecast milk payout to farmers for the 2014-15 season to NZ$4.85 kg of milk solid from
NZ$5.25 kilo of milk solid, says ANZ in its note. It adds the new forecast still assumes "a modest bounce
back in global prices." ANZ says that a "lower dairy price has significant implications for the wider
economy and monetary policy. Moves in the OCR look a long way off, with our call for the next move to
arrive in March now under review." (lucy.craymer@wsj.com;Twitter: @lucy_craymer)

19:52 EDT - A continuing legal wrangle threatens to delay or even stop important work under NASA's
recent multibillion-dollar awards for commercial spacecraft intended to ferry U.S. astronauts into orbit.
Boeing and Space Exploration Technologies emerged as winners, but Sierra Nevada filed a protest that
could drag on for months. In the interim, NASA has issued a stop-work order to Boeing, which has
completed all the milestones required by its earlier preliminary pact and is mulling whether to proceed
without a new signed agreement. SpaceX, meanwhile, received the same order. But it still has some
milestones to meet under a previous NASA contract and presumably will continue receiving some federal
funding while the protest is pending. The irony is that NASA's goal has been to jump-start development
of manned spacecraft with the latest awards. (andy.pasztor@wsj.com)

2327 GMT - Australian shares are set to fall when the market opens after U.S. stocks tumbled to their
lowest levels since mid-August. China, Australia's biggest trading partner, is still on a national holiday. IG
forecasts an early fall of 42 points to about 5292 for the ASX 200, handing back the previous day's gains.
Australian trade balance numbers are due before midday, and the market will be looking at exports to
see if the slide in commodities prices can be offset by supply volumes, market strategist Evan Lucas
says. "Strength here may add upset to materials and energy plays." The ASX 200 rose 0.8% to 5334.1
on Wednesday. (robb.stewart@wsj.com; Twitter: @RobbMStewart)

2324 GMT (Dow Jones) -- Billabong (BBG.AU) is making progress on its turnaround plans and is on the
path to revenue growth and Ebitda margin expansion, J.P. Morgan says. It resumes coverage of BBG
with an overweight stance and A$0.87/share target, having previously had the stock at underweight and
A$0.52. Despite its recent strong share price performance and the risk of an only modest pace of Ebitda
recovery in fiscal 2015, the brokerage suggests the risk reward for investors is attractive. BBG last traded
at A$0.695. (robb.stewart@wsj.com; Twitter: @RobbMStewart)
23:24 GMT [Dow Jones] Business consultancy UXC's (UXC.AU) acquisition of information and cyber
security firm Saltbush Group should put UXC in a good position with the government market, says J.P.
Morgan. Cyber security has been identified by the government as a high priority national security issue,
the broker notes. "Though fairly small, this acquisition adds to UXC's broad capabilities," the broker
says. Retains Overweight rating. (rebecca.thurlow@wsj.com; @beckthurlow)
Morningstar slashes its fair-value estimate for Atlas Iron (AGO.AU) to A$0.30/share from A$1.10 to
reflect a cut in its longterm iron-ore price forecast to US$75/ton from US$90. The lower price

Page314of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.assumption has a material impact on earnings and value estimates for all iron-ore producers but
particularly those with higher costs, analyst Mathew Hodge says. He notes AGO is capital contrained
and is increasingly unlikely to be able to fund efforts to become an integrated mine, rail and port
operator. Still, AGO's large resource base and port allocation could make it a takeover target, he says.
Morningstar has a reduce recommendation. AGO last traded at A$0.405. (robb.stewart@wsj.com;
Twitter: @RobbMStewart)

19:24 EDT - Following a Tuesday federal-court decision that dealt a blow to big investors in Fannie Mae
(FNMA) and Freddie Mac (FMCC), some hedge funds have been reaching out to their investors. Claren
Road Asset Management, a New York hedge-fund firm with a big investment in preferred shares, sent a
message to investors saying, "While it's a setback, there are still many avenues we are pursuing. In the
next few days, our investment team will be evaluating more information." Because of its FNMA and
FMCC trade, Claren Road is starting October down several percentage points, according to an investor.
A spokesman declined to comment. (juliet.chung@wsj.com)

19:23 ET [Dow Jones] Wednesday marked notable firsts at two well-known law firms, as women took the
reins for the first time in each firm's history. Litigator Jami Wintz McKeon assumed the chair role at
Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP, which has grown from its Philadelphia roots to about 1,350 lawyers in 25
offices worldwide. It could expand further on her watch, if merger talks with Boston's Bingham
McCutchen LLP result in a combination. White-collar litigator Therese Pritchard is taking over at Bryan
Cave LLP, where she is also the first chair to be based outside the firm's historic home turn of St. Louis.
While women are still underrepresented in law firm management, both join a small but growing club of
female leaders. (Jennifer.smith@wsj.com)
6:48 p.m. ET -- Pershing Square Capital Management LP, which bought nearly 10% stakes in the
common shares of Fannie Mae (FNMA) and Freddie Mac (FMCC) last November, was under water on its
investment after the sharp drops in FNMA and FMCC Wednesday. William Ackman's hedge-fund firm
lost more than $175 million on paper from a day earlier, when the shares closed above the firm's
average buying cost. The loss is rare for Pershing Square this year, whose strong performance--through
June it was up 25% after fees--has made it one of the most profitable hedge-funds of 2014. Pershing
Square filed lawsuits against the federal government on behalf of common shareholders in FNMA and
FMCC; those lawsuits are ongoing. (Juliet.chung@wsj.com)

Buying up shares of Fannie Mae (FNMA) and Freddie Mac (FMCC) has been a popular hedge-fund
trade, with the funds essentially betting courts would strike down the government's decision to send
nearly all profits generated by the mortgage-finance giants to the U.S. Treasury. That turned back to bite
those firms Wednesday, when the price of both common and preferred shares plunged following a
federal-court decision. Hedge-fund investors say they expect October returns from some hedge funds
that have made that bet to be weighed down by losses. (Juliet.chung@wsj.com)

18:28 EDT - Royal Bank of Canada (RY.T) drops a plan to spin off a lucrative proprietary-trading
business into a hedge fund after regulators rejected the move, people familiar with the matter say. RBC
executives had approved an unusual plan to invest about $1B into a hedge fund managed by some of
the bank's top New York proprietary traders, one of the people says. The SEC and the Fed objected to
the plan "late in the game," citing the Volcker Rule, according to a person familiar with the negotiations.
The bank abandoned plans for the spinout, a spokesman confirms. The scuttled plan is the latest
reminder of the changes regulators have forced onto the financial sector, and banks in particular, since
the global markets meltdown. (rob.copeland@wsj.com; bradley.hope@wsj.com)

To contact the Market Talk Editors,
Kevin Kingsbury, 212 416-2354, kevin.kingsbury@wsj.com
Cynthia Lin, 212 416-4403, Cynthia.lin@wsj.com
John Shipman, 212 416-2181, john.shipman@wsj.com
Patrick Sullivan, 212 416-2326, Patrick.sullivan@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

October 01, 2014 20:00 ET (00:00 GMT)

CO
IN

funtoy : Funtastic Ltd
i4941 : Dolls/Toys/Games | icnp : Consumer Goods | ilgood : Leisure/Travel Goods | i64 :
Retail/Wholesale | i654 : Specialty Stores | i6540030 : Hobby/Toy/Game Stores | iretail : Retail

Page315of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk |
neqac : Equities Asset Class News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion
Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020141002eaa20005l

Page316of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.