Lower exchange rate drives M &A activity

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Lower exchange rate drives M&A activity

PRASHANT MEHRA
623 words
4 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
35
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

markets: The mergers and acquisitions space could see more activity in coming months if the
Australian dollar slips further, bankers and officials involved in deals say.

The dollar fell 6.2 per cent against the US dollar in September, and is down 8 per cent since July. It is
currently trading at about US87.9c, after hitting US86.68c on Wednesday, close to its lowest level for
the year. Analysts believe it is still overvalued against the US greenback, given weak commodity
prices and slowing economic growth for major trading partner China.

A lower exchange rate could make Australian assets more attractive, especially for foreign bidders in
the commodities and energy sectors, and could help in sealing negotiations for many in a robust
pipeline of deals.

“In terms of value discussion, the bridge between the buyer and seller is often in the 5-10 per cent
range,” said Simon Reed, a partner at legal firm Herbert Smith Freehills, which specialises in M&A.

“This level of currency movement means it’s easier for both parties to negotiate the deal.” Australia’s
M&A market has had a resurgence over the past year, with 77 deals announced in the 2014 financial
year worth a total value of $44 billion, compared with a total deal value of $11.6bn in the previous
year, according to a recent report on M&A activity by Herbert Smith Freehills.
Foreign bidders play a large role in the local M&A landscape, being involved in almost 80 per cent of
deals of more than $1bn, and 25 per cent of deals of less than $100m. Most foreign bidders offer cash
consideration, the report found, which brings into play the sharp fall in the Australian dollar.
The expectation is that inbound M&A for Australian-listed targets may benefit by the fall in the dollar,
Mr Reed said.
It will have a particular impact on deals involving the sale of commodities or products traded in other
currencies (commodities are globally sold in US dollars), or targets exposed to locations where
payments are received in other currencies, such as in construction or infrastructure companies. In
both cases, the revenue stream of the target company is not contingent on the Australian dollar, M&A
bankers say.

But not all believe that currency fluctuation is a significant issue in dealmaking, given the current
economic environment, which has seen sharp falls in prices of coal and iron ore, as well as a slide in
global crude oil prices.
“The No 1 consideration in M&A is boardroom management confidence,” said Tim Woodall, managing
director at boutique corporate advisory Miro Advisors, which focuses on deals in the energy and
resources sectors.
“In an environment where oil prices and commodity prices are falling, it is difficult for boards to have
that confidence even if the exchange rate turns favourable.” Mr Woodall, whose firm is advising Nido

Page132of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Petroleum on its takeover by Thailand’s BCP Energy International, said while the present level of fall
in the currency rate was an important consideration, it would not be a driver by itself.

While the drivers for a deal are almost always strategic, bankers say valuations, which include the
impact of currency fluctuations, are an important consideration.

“We would expect an impact on deal flow if the fall (in the local currency) is sustainable and bigger,”
said the M&A head at a large investment bank.The inbound M&A pipeline in Australia appears quite
strong, dealmakers say, with numerous deals under discussion in the energy and resources space
and cheaper valuations also attracting interest from global private equity players.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141003eaa40003h

Page133of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.