Chinese property agents up fivefold

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

TheNation
Chinese property agents up fivefold

SCOTT MURDOCH, RICK WALLACE, Additional reporting: Wang Yuanyuan
502 words
13 June 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
3
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE number of Chinese property agents marketing and selling Australian homes to wealthy
mainland buyers has increased at least fivefold over the past five years, as investors take advantage
of Australia’s tax regime, banking laws and future economic prospects.
Chinese investors spent $5.9 billion last year buying residential property in Australia, in a market
worth almost $270bn.

The Australian revealed this week that many overseas investors, including Chinese buyers, were
skirting Foreign Investment Review Board guidelines that were designed to ensure local buyers were
not locked out of the Australian market.
Under the current regulations, foreign investors are not allowed to buy existing houses and
purchases should be contained to off-the-plan developments, in an attempt to add to the nation’s total
housing stock.

The FIRB has failed to prosecute any buyer for breaching those rules, as both local and international
agents reported unprecedented demand for existing properties from foreign investors.
A federal parliamentary committee established to examine the property purchase loopholes has
heard that buyers are using law firms or children studying in Australia to buy luxury properties.
In Shanghai, ausproperty.cn founder Frank Hu said Chinese buyers were becomingly increasingly
interested in Australia because of the current tax laws and the fact that banks required just a 10 per
cent deposit.
Most commercial Chinese banks demand deposit payments worth at least 30 per cent of the
property’s value.

Mr Hu’s website advertises and sells only Australian-based high-end properties. “In 2009, there were
only around 20 property agents for Australian properties based in China, but now there are already
over 100 agents,” he said.
Mr Hu said Chinese property developers also looked to Australia because of the availability of land
and high rates of return, compared with building in China.
“Some Chinese real estate companies are going to Australia to develop projects because it is
comparatively easier to get land — the investment is not as big as it would have to be in China,” he
said. “In Australia, you get the land, build a simple house and you can make a fortune.” Apex
Investment Alliance Shanghai branch manager Kevin Chen said Chinese investors were keen to
capitalise on Australia’s economic growth prospects.
It was revealed this week that a growing number of high-end property vendors were not placing their
properties for sale in Australia and were directly marketing them to wealthy overseas, primarily Asian,
buyers.

Page74of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.A property expo, Sydney Harbour Luxury Property Exhibition, is due to be held in Shanghai next
weekend.

The Australian asked the FIRB a series of questions about the failure of regulations.

In a statement, it said “concerns are raised periodically in relation to the possible impact of foreign
investment on the Australian housing market”.

As the issue was being reviewed by a parliamentary committee, it would be premature to comment, it
added.The committee is due to report in October.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140612ea6d00058

Page75of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.