Ghosts from Foster's past

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Ghosts from Foster's past

Simon Evans and Sarah Thompson
1,370 words
4 October 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
38
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Inside the deal TPG's Project Fitzpatrick had some expert advice from ex-Foster's wine men, but KKR's
Project Southern Cross offered higher value.
A towering figure loped into the United States head office of Treasury Wine Estates in the picturesque
Napa Valley wine region in California in mid-August. As a potential $3.4 billion takeover loomed, the
presence of Pete Scott, a former chief financial officer of Foster's Group, was an intriguing twist to an
already complicated private equity play for the locally listed wine producer.

Scott had been the chief number-cruncher for the Australian beer and wine giant from 2002 until early
2008 when he was based in Melbourne.

Strolling into the Napa Valley office with Scott was Walt Klenz. Klenz is also a person very familiar with
the inner workings of Foster's and the Beringer wine business in the US. The US is at the centre of
Treasury's troubled times over the past 18 months and its poor performance in that region is part of the
reason why Treasury found itself fending off takeover bids. Klenz had in the 1990s been the chief
executive of the same Beringer business in California which Foster's paid an eye-popping $2.9 billion
for in 2000 to dramatically expand its global wine operations.
Scott and Klenz both live in California and run the Vincraft Group. They were two secret weapons
enlisted by private equity firm TPG as part of its "Project Fitzpatrick'' tilt to try and over-take rival
firmKohlberg Kravis Roberts in a battle to produce a winning bid of up to $3.4 billion for Treasury.
Treasury split off from Foster's in mid-2011 to become a separate entity, with wine brands including
Penfolds, Wolf Blass, Rosemount and Lindemans, plus the large US wine business led by the
Beringer brand.

Ultimately both KKR and TPG have come up empty-handed for now after an exhaustive due diligence
process, Treasury will continue on as an ASX-listed company. But it has a much deflated share price.
More than $460 million has been wiped from the Treasury market capitalisation since the board led by
chairman Paul Rayner officially announced on September 29 it had ended talks with both suitors
because they wouldn't pay the price tag the board wants.
Treasury's board and advisers from Goldman Sachs led by investment bankers Christian Johnston and
Zac Fletcher, who code-named their defence Project Kingdom, had a large amount of input from
offshore fund managers who own stakes in Treasury.
They included Wellington Management, Capital Group and Harris Associates. Those fund managers
were convinced that even at the indicative price outlined in early August of $5.20 per share the private
equity firms would be racing off with Treasury at the bottom of the cycle.

Treasury chief executive Mike Clarke spoke to many of them on post-results investor roadshows
overseas after the company's unconvincing full-year results on August 21.

Page145of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.They were buoyed by the latent value of large amounts of Penfolds wines in storage due to come out
onto the market over the next two years, plus a weakening Australian dollar which lifts the bottom line
by $2.3 million for every one cent drop against the US dollar.

A series of phone hook-ups were then held with fund managers in the days leading up to Friday,
September 26, most of whom thought $5.20 per share undervalued the company. Treasury set a 5pm
deadline on September 26 for the suitors to show their final wares, to try and bring matters to a head.
KKR was closest to the $5.20 mark with its indications of value, and had its financing completely locked
in under the deal, code-named Project Southern Cross. It was well ahead of TPG. TPG wanted an
extra week to see if it could get to the upper end of a range it had been working in of $4.50 to $4.70 per
share. It was refused.
A pre-arranged Saturday morning Treasury board phone hook-up was reminded of the resolute view of
big shareholders that $5.20 wasn't enough. But had KKR really played its last hand? Was this part of a
broader tactical game? There were further phone calls between advisers over the weekend seeking
absolute finality.
After one last re-read and check by company boffins early on Monday September 29, Treasury fired off
an announcement to the ASX, revealing the plug had been pulled. It had been an exhausting and
distracting six months since KKR first approached Treasury.

Nomura's joint head of investment banking John Hanson, and its executive chairman Peter Meurer
worked closely with KKR and its junior partner Rhone Capital. KKR's Hong Kong-based consumer
expert Steve Ko, and KKR's Australian boss Justin Reizes were closely involved.

A profit downgrade by Treasury on January 30 originally sparked KKR into action. It made an initial
approach in mid-April, which wasn't publicly disclosed until a few weeks later by Treasury. The prize, if
secured, would sit in KKR's Pan Asian Fund II, a monster $6 billion fund hunting across Asia for good
deals.

There was extraordinary cross-over in specialist advisers used by both firms. KKR enlisted the help of
former Coca-Cola Amatil managing director Terry Davis early in the process. Davis was running
Foster's wine business in 2000 when it bought Beringer for $2.9 billion. Scott, an American who was
finance director for Beringer at the time of that acquisition, then shifted to Australia to work for Foster's
in 2002, while Klenz in late 2001 took over running Foster's entire global wine operations while still
based in California. Klenz was abruptly put into that role when Davis left Foster's to begin his 13-year
stint running the CCA soft drinks business.
TPG had been eyeing the Treasurybusiness for more than three years. Project Fitzpatrick, named
after former Carlton premiership captain Mike Fitzpatrick in the AFL, who is now a Rio Tinto director,
has been alive since 2011. TPG is understood to have made an approach to Foster's about buying a
stake in the Treasurywine business just before the de-merger of Foster's in May, 2011, but was
spurned.

The glitz of showbiz also cast its shadow in the sales process.

Treasury's chief executive Clarke walked into Goldman Sach's Los Angeles headquarters at Fox Plaza
on the Avenue of the Stars in LA in early September for a lengthy five-hour meeting with up to 60
bankers and financiers from TPG's bid team. At that point things were getting very serious. Treasury
itself on August 29 announced it was delaying its annual meeting for shareholders because it may need
to coincide it with a scheme of arrangement meeting where shareholders would vote on a buyout deal.

High-flying Los Angeles is in stark contrast to the Builders Arms Hotel in the trendy inner Melbourne
suburb of Fitzroy. In all of the high-stakes negotiations, there was room for a laugh. Soon after TPG
came roaring into the bidding process with a $5.20 indicative offer on August 11, Clarke, his chief
financial officer Tony Reeves and TPG's key Australia executives Ben Gray and Simon Harle were
invited to a dinner by Goldman Sachs bankers to foster good relations. The location was locked in at
the Builders Arms. It was discovered only at a late hour they didn't have Treasury wines on the wine
list. Some hasty BYO of Treasury's finest was organised.

Treasury shareholders though won't be laughing much now. The shares are wallowing around the low
$4.20 mark. That is despite the company revealing on September 29 that trading was ahead of
budgets on revenues and gross profit after the first three months of 2014-15. A week ago the shares
were $4.92. The private equity suitors have vanished for now, but there is a strong sense among many
in the market they could make a return.

CO

trzwn : Treasury Wine Estates Ltd | eldixl : Foster's Group Ltd | tpgpar : TPG, Inc. | sabrew : SABMiller
PLC

Page146of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i426 : Wine | i427 : Brewing | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks |
ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv :
Investing/Securities
gwine : Wine | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gfod : Food/Drink | glife
: Living/Lifestyle | gwbs : Wine/Beer/Spirits
austr : Australia | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North
America
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141003eaa40000o

Page147of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.