A detour from the everyday

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Arts
A detour from the everyday

MATTHEW WESTWOOD
1,061 words
28 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
15
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Temporary venues are popping up at all our performing arts festivals

OF all the generic names for buildings — from tent to terrace house to office tower — pavilion is the
word that puts a smile on your face. Pavilions are places of pleasure: you possibly have been to a party
in one, or an agricultural show, or a cool contemporary art installation. One of the most famous
pavilions is the orientalist fantasy built in Brighton, England, for the future George IV: a “stately
pleasure-dome” like something conjured from Kubla Khan.

Pavilions and the like have made a comeback in the arena of performing arts festivals. Spiegeltents
have been doing the rounds for at least a decade, and audiences do not seem to tire of these Belgian
mirrored dance halls, reinvented as cabaret-vaudeville-concert venues. They have history, charm and
sexy intimacy with the stage and with one’s neighbour. Sometimes the most fun to be had at a festival
is at one of those late-night shows, the audience boozy with beer and wine, and ogling the buff gymnast
in the bath or the tattooed lady sword-swallower.

The injection of novelty is important. Festivals have a hard time breaking through the clamour of
capital-city entertainments: temporary venues such as pavilions, pergolas and pleasure gardens are a
welcome disruption in the landscape, a detour from the everyday.

Adelaide, still the best festival city, makes a virtue of William Light’s urban plan by using available
spaces within the city blocks and the parklands that surround it, from the Garden of Unearthly Delights
at Rundle Park to Lola’s Pergola erected last year at Elder Park.
Next year’s event in March will turn part of Elder Park into the Blinc Bar, an enclosure set among an
outdoor exhibition of projections and laser illuminations.

The nation’s other summer arts festivals in Sydney and Perth also rope off festival gardens with food,
drink and entertainment: Sydney’s next year will have not one but two spiegeltents.
In Melbourne, the former YMCAsite behind the arts centre has been turned into a temporary outdoors
venue, a sometimes lively, sometimes desolate block called Testing Grounds.

The Melbourne Festival, which concluded at the weekend, had three pop-up venues, from the
plywood-clad Quartetthaus and Foxtel Festival Hub designed by festival regulars Bluebottle, to the
austere elegance of the MPavilion designed by Sean Godsell.

The MPavilion, which has landed like an exotic winged insect in Queen Victoria Gardens, was
commissioned by Sussan Group’s Naomi Milgrom and will remain through the summer. It is clad in
perforated aluminium panels that close down at night-time, and open upwards and outwards in the day,
forming a shelter for talks, performances and coffee-drinking.
The project was inspired by the Serpentine Pavilions at Hyde Park in London, an annual architecture
commission that since the first in 2000 has featured work by figures such as Zaha Hadid, Frank Gehry
and Rem Koolhaas.

Page151of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Julia Peyton-Jones, director of the Serpentine Galleries who visited Melbourne for the opening of the
MPavilion, describes the London series as an exhibition of architecture, more concerned with formal
invention than function. Some of these exotic structures are like modern variants of the follies built on
the grounds of aristocratic estates: classical temples and Bedouin tents sprouting like mushrooms on
the lawn. The folly best known to architecture students is William Chambers’s 1762 Chinese pagoda, a
50m tower at Kew Gardens in London. Pretty as a postcard, and quite useless.

Godsell originally had considered an ornamental design for the MPavilion. Taking a cue from
Chambers’s pagoda, Godsell designed a 60m tower in the form of a truncated cone with an open
oculus at the top.

“The idea was that it was a place to go and sit, and the oculus would track the sun during the course of
the day,” Godsell says.

A second idea was a doughnut-shaped structure with an inner courtyard. Pragmatism won out. The
MPavilion needed to be a working venue for talks and events, and be operational independently of any
neighbouring building. Godsell’s design is based on the simple structures that can be found throughout
rural Australia: sheds, shelters and lean-tos.

The architect evokes Patrick White and The Tree of Man, describing shelter in almost metaphysical
terms, as if a salvation.

Bluebottle’s boxy structures for the Melbourne Festival have pragmatism stamped all over them but
reveal their magic inside.

The Quartetthaus is a 55-seat purpose-built venue for chamber music, in which listeners sit around a
circular stage with a string quartet in the middle. This year it popped up outside the South Melbourne
Town Hall, home of the Australian National Academy of Music, and ANAM students played inside. I
went to a lunchtime concert of Haydn and Beethoven, and the little plywood and hessian auditorium
was a revelatory concertgoing experience, not least because the stage slowly revolves while the
players are on it. The Quartetthaus will next be used by the Australian Art Orchestra for a series of solo
performances on November 5 and 6.

Bluebottle also designed the Foxtel Festival Hub, a more conventional structure but one made for
foot-stomping fun. The design firm’s co-director, Ben Cobham, says he likes his structures to have a
handmade or portable quality: put them up and pull them down. They should be interruptions in the
everyday landscape and appear in surprising locations.

Next year he would like to have the Quartetthaus floating on the moat outside the National Gallery of
Victoria.

Pavilions and other temporary structures may be ephemeral experiences that last for a summer or a
festival, but many find a permanent home. The Serpentine Pavilions — each one planned and built
within about six months — are sold after the event and have popped up in the south of France and
Ireland, among other places.Milgrom has committed to four MPavilions and each one will find a home
after its four-month stay at the Queen Victoria Gardens. The temporary-permanent nature of the
commission made it one of the more difficult that Godsell, an award-winning architect, has worked on.
“It’s often the way that the small, apparently simple projects are the most difficult to achieve,” he says.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gfesti : Festivals | gcat : Political/General News | gent : Arts/Entertainment
austr : Australia | eland : England | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | uk : United Kingdom |
weurz : Western Europe
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141027eaas0005v

Page152of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.