Miner weathers slow start

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Miner weathers slow start

JENNY ROGERS
422 words
1 February 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
75
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

EXTREME weather and a below-par operational performance by its barging contractor hindered
Western Desert Resources as it began shipping iron ore to China.
But the company said it was confident it would hit annual export targets this year at its Roper Bar
mine, transforming from a fledging Northern Territory resources industry player to full-fledged miner.

WDR, whose board and investors include Gold Coast lawyer and former Billabong director Scott Perrin,
pubs billionaireBruce Mathieson, former Coles Myer chairman Rick Allert, and present Fairfax
chairman and former Woolworths chief executive Roger Corbett, said it had loaded its first barge with
Roper Red ore for export to China in the December quarter.
It said operations would ramp up with Thiess appointed mining services contractor.

However, managing director Norm Gardner said extreme wet weather during the quarter had slowed
production.
He said sections of the company’s private haul road had received more than 600mm of rain in just
nine days earlier this month.

“This was a significant weather event, given that the region receives an average of 850mm of rain a
year,” Mr Gardner said.

“WDR has allowed for such events in its annual production plans but, nonetheless, this extreme
weather event hindered operations.” He said the company had also been disappointed with initial
tonnages barged by its contractor PB Sea-Tow which had since delivered extra equipment and
personnel to the site to enable it to deliver contracted daily tonnages and make up the shortfall.

“This will enable WDR to achieve its annual export volume targets,” Mr Gardner said.
WDR said further drilling had revealed higher grade iron ore at Roper Bar than predicted.

WDR has hedged about two-thirds of its expected first-year production at an average price of $120 a
tonne for 62 per cent iron and said it expected strong demand for its Roper Red ore.
After completing a $30 million capital-raising and a $19.43 million share placement, WDR said its
directors were confident no further equity funding was required.
The company ended the quarter with $20.2 million cash reserves and debt of $80.7 million from its
deal with Macquarie Bank to bring facilities on stream at the mine.
Ord Minnett Gold Coast has set a price target of 90¢ for WDR shares, 15¢ less than share broker
Macquarie.“Clearly, the start-up has not gone as smoothly as we expected but we note that
management has been proactive in improving operational performance,” Ord Minnett said.

Page79of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

wesde : Western Desert Resources Limited
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining
gcat : Political/General News
nterry : Northern Territory | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020140202ea2100041

Page80of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.