APR Energy ; APR Energy signs contract for peaking power plant in Australia

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

APR Energy; APR Energy signs contract for peaking power plant in Australia

606 words
12 September 2014
Energy Weekly News
ENRGWK
70
English
© Copyright 2014 Energy Weekly News via VerticalNews.com

2014 SEP 12 (VerticalNews) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at Energy Weekly News -- APR
Energy, a global leader in fast-track power solutions, announces contract signature for a peaking power
plant in Port Hedland, Pilbara, Western Australia. The power plant features four state-of-the-art GE
TM2500+ dual-fuel turbines running on clean-burning natural gas.

http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnvar/20120207/FL48583LOGO

Contracted with the end-user customer, Horizon Power, the plant will run for a term of at least 30 months
and will serve as a bridging solution until TransAlta Energy (Australia) develops a permanent power
plant, due for completion in early 2017. The plant has been designed for extreme conditions in Western
Australia, where temperatures can reach 48 degrees Celsius (118 degrees Fahrenheit) in the summer,
and can be rapidly expanded by an additional two aero-derivative turbines as capacity requirements
grow.
The contract replaces APR Energy's earlier agreement with Forge Group Power Party Limited ("Forge"),
which was assumed as part of APR's acquisition of GE's power rental business. Following declaration of
bankruptcy by Forge, Forge Group Limited, and a number of its other affiliated companies, its contract
with APR Energy and its rental contract with Horizon were terminated. APR's new contract, signed
directly with the end-use customer Horizon Power, leverages the plant infrastructure already in place in
Port Hedland.

Horizon Power, a large state-owned utility, serves regional Western Australia, a region with growing
power demand and the hub of Australia's extractive industry. Horizon serves more than 10,000
businesses and large industrial customers and more than 100,000 residents, across a range of 2.3
million square kilometres (888,000 square miles) - an area nearly 10 times the size of the United
Kingdom.
The project further expands APR Energy's track record in developed markets, following successful
projects in Japan, Cyprus, the U.S. Virgin Islands and Uruguay. Also, it reflects the company's growing
presence in Asia Pacific, bringing its generation capacity in the region to 410 megawatts.
Horizon Power's Managing Director, Frank Tudor said: "APR Energy's turbine solutions are ideally suited
for our needs as a utility, offering a combination of reliability and low emissions in a dense power
package. We sincerely appreciate APR's support and responsiveness in the wake of Forge's
administration, helping us to be ready for the peak summer season."
Laurence Anderson, APR Energy's Chief Executive Officer, said: "We are very pleased to have signed
this contract and appreciate the great collaboration we have had with Horizon Power to work out a
mutually beneficial solution following the Forge bankruptcy. This project aligns with our goal to diversify
our operational footprint with projects in developed markets and exemplifies the strong solution turbine
technology provides for these customers."
Clive Turton, APR Energy's Managing Director of Asia Pacific commented: "With this contract, we once
again see turbines as the most, if not only, viable technology for utility customers needing large-scale,
rapidly-deployed solutions that provide greater grid stability, low capital costs and low emissions. We
continue to see great opportunities to serve utilities looking for bridging solutions while permanent plants

Page189of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.are being built. This application is ideal for any new power projects in developed and developing markets
and we expect to see more bridging solutions in the future."
Keywords for this news article include: APR Energy, Asia, China, Energy, Power Plant, Technology.

Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world. Copyright 2014,
NewsRx LLC

CO
IN

hzacqi : APR Energy PLC | trnsan : TransAlta Corp | gnelc : General Electric Company
i1 : Energy | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i32 : Machinery | i326 : Engines/Turbines | i8396 : Diversified
Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | iindstrls : Industrial Goods | iutil : Utilities
NS
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
RE
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
IPD
Editor's Choice
PUB NewsRX, LLC
AN

Document ENRGWK0020140905ea9c00004

Page190of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.