Australia's academia cashes in on business ties By Christian Edwards

Australia's academia cashes in on business ties By Christian Edwards

HD
WC 570 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

17 February 2014
PNA (Philippines News Agency)
PHILNA
English
(c) 2014 Philippines News Agency

TD

SYDNEY, Feb. 17 -- Expected to pave the way towards Australian universities' march into global business
is last week's historic sale of a groundbreaking high-tech start inspired by collaboration between business
and academia.

A collaboration between Australian National University (ANU) and University of New South Wales
(UNSW) special division NewSouth Innovations (NSi), Lithicon AS was snapped up for 76 million
Australian dollars (about 68 million U.S. dollars) to US-based FEI Company specializing in imaging
technology for oil and gas exploration.

Little known NSi operates on the cutting edge of innovative and commercial science, its brief to operate as
a gateway to research discoveries and inventions within UNSW.

NSi focuses on transforming research discoveries into successful innovations and products to benefit
society, the economy and future generations.
The sale of Lithicon, previously known as Digitalcore, follows another NSi breakthrough last month when
China Sunergy Co., a specialized solar cell and module manufacturer, announced a five-year
collaborative research agreement with NSi to substantially improve solar cell efficiency by improving
wafer material quality.

"This is an outstanding example of co-operation between two of Australia's leading research universities
moving great research into use in our society and enabling new industries to evolve," said Graham
Morton, general manager of UNSW's NSi.

NSi is taking to market more than 200 inventions in areas such as diagnostic and therapeutic drugs,
biomedical devices, solar cell technology, waste recycling and nanotechnology.
The Sunergy deal will combine UNSW's advanced hydrogenation technology with China Sunergy's
experience in cell process to enhance electrical properties of silicon wafers to gain significantly higher cell
efficiencies.

UNSW will provide updates on its latest research advancements and, when necessary, provide training
and education at UNSW.

"We are very delighted to collaborate with UNSW and NSi," said Dr. Jianhua Zhao, chief technology
officer of China Sunergy.
"If this research proves successful, China Sunergy would gain significant competitive advantages and
cost savings as we will be entitled to deploy the resulting technologies throughout our product portfolio."

Lithicon was originally set up in 2009 by ANU scientists in collaboration with colleagues at UNSW to
develop an advanced computational approach to rapidly solving fluid behavior in oil reservoirs.

They came up with a revolutionary high-resolution 3D imaging technique with FEI planning to develop new
markets outside oil and gas using the imaging technology.
ANU is garnering 11 million Australian dollars from the sale proceeds, representing a five-fold increase in
its original investment.

Page112of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.UNSW will receive four million Australian dollars.

Prior to the start-up, researchers at ANU and UNSW created a research consortium with 14 multinational
oil and gas companies to prove and develop the emerging technology and allow the concept to be market
tested.

Lithicon general manager Dr. Victor Pantano said the Lithicon story is one of taking world-class research
from two of Australia's best universities and turning it into a growing business.

"In the process we created a whole new industry segment based on high-value, intensive,
knowledge-based services. It's exactly the sort of thing we should be doing in Australia and we need more
of it," he said. (PNA/Xinhua)

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Philippines News Agency.

CT

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

CO chsun : China Sunergy Co Ltd | feicom : FEI Company | unswau : The University of New South Wales
IN
itheradv : Therapeutic Devices/Equipment | i372 : Medical Equipment/Supplies | i951 : Health Care/Life
Sciences | iphmed : Medical/Surgical Instruments/Apparatus/Devices | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities |
i16101 : Electric Power Generation | i163 : Electric Power Generation - Alternative Energy | i3442 :
Environmental Control Systems | ieutil : Electric Utilities | iindele : Industrial Electronics | iindstrls :
Industrial Goods | isolar : Solar Energy | iutil : Utilities
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania

RE

PUB Philippines News Agency
AN

Document PHILNA0020140217ea2h000xa

Page113of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.