Delays, but Aquis still best option for Cairns

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Delays, but Aquis still best option for Cairns

Nick Dalton
487 words
5 December 2014
Cairns Post
CAIRPO
Cairns
5
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Take a look inside Aquis see the full video at cairnspost.com.au

QUEENSLAND Deputy Premier Jeff Seeney is determined that the proposed $8.15 billion Aquis
integrated resort will succeed.

He told The Cairns Post that, while he was considering a request to quarantine the Integrated Resort
Development (IRD) licence for Cairns if Aquis does not proceed, he still wanted the venture to go
ahead.
In other developments: ■ Aquis, the brainchild of Hong Kong billionaire Tony Fung and his son Justin,
admits missing a government deadline to submit its IRD application on October 31.

■ The developer releases a stunning three-minute animated video of the proposed resort at Yorkeys
Knob. Go to www.cairnspost.com.au to see it.

Mr Seeney said he met Member for Cairns Gavin King and Member for Barron River Michael Trout to
discuss a call to ensure the IRD licence remained tied to Cairns.

“They made a compelling case on behalf of their community for an Integrated Resort Licence to be
retained in Cairns,’’ he said.

“I am considering their request, but it’s important to understand that our government is continuing to
work with Aquis to make their proposal a reality.” Aquis will not comment on the call to quarantine the
IRD licence for the Cairns region.
But a company briefing notes that Aquis “controls the only commercially viable site for a large scale
integrated resort in Cairns and remains the most advanced of any integrated resort proposal in
Queensland”.
“Any other proposal would need to find a site, acquire it, design a project and go through an exhaustive
Environmental Impact Statement process as well as a myriad of other complex local, state and federal
red tape. Any other proposal would be at least three to four years behind where Aquis is.” Mr Seeney
confirmed that Aquis had missed the October 31 deadline but reiterated that the government would
continue to work with the Fungs to make the project work.
An Aquis spokesman said the company had requested an extension to the IRD deadline due to the
timing and importance of the failed Reef Hotel Casino transaction and completion of the
Environmental Impact Statement.

He said the extension requested before the deadline was necessary to provide the government with a
complete proposal.

Page130of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“Now that we have overcome the Reef issue by shifting our focus to Canberra and with the EIS
approval imminent we hope to lodge the detailed proposal as soon as possible,’’ the spokesman said.

“In the context that the IRD process is scheduled to take up to two years and may not be finalised for
another 12 months we do not anticipate this short delay will impact on the timing of the project.“With
the EIS approval in place the Aquis proposal remains years ahead of any other IRD proposal so any
short-term delays are immaterial.”

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document CAIRPO0020141204eac50000f

Page131of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.