A-Mark Precious Metals, Inc. A-Mark Precious Metals to Present at LD MICRO Invitational on June 4

HD

WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

A-Mark Precious Metals, Inc. A-Mark Precious Metals to Present at LD MICRO Invitational on June
4
450 words
7 June 2014
Investment Weekly News
INVWK
243
English
© Copyright 2014 Investment Weekly News via VerticalNews.com

2014 JUN 7 (VerticalNews) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at Investment Weekly News --
A-Mark Precious Metals, Inc. (NASDAQ: AMRK), a full-service precious metals trading company, has
been invited to present at the LD MICRO Invitational on Wednesday, June 4 in Los Angeles.
A-Mark management is scheduled to present at 10 a.m. Pacific time, with one-on-one meetings held
throughout the day. They will discuss the company's recent operational and financial performance,
including its value-added precious metal products that have driven two sequential quarters of gross
margin improvement.

For more information about the conference or to schedule a one-on-one meeting with A-Mark
management, please visit the conference website at www.ldmicro.com. About A-Mark Precious Metals
A-Mark Precious Metals, Inc. is a full-service precious metals trading company and an official distributor
for many government mints throughout the world. The company offers gold, silver, platinum and
palladium in the form of bars, plates, powder, wafers, grain, ingots and coins. Its Industrial unit services
manufacturers and fabricators of products utilizing or incorporating precious metals, while its Coin & Bar
unit deals in more than 200 coin and bar products in a variety of weights, shapes and sizes for
distribution to dealers and other qualified purchasers. The company operates trading centers in Santa
Monica, California, and Vienna, Austria, for buying and selling precious metals.

In addition to wholesale and trading activity, A-Mark offers customers a variety of services, including
financing, consignment and various customized financial programs. As a U.S. Mint-authorized purchaser
of gold, silver and platinum coins, A-Mark purchases bullion products directly from the U.S. Mint for sale
to customers. A-Mark also has distributorships with other sovereign mints, including in Australia, Austria,
Canada, China, Mexico and South Africa. Customers of A-Mark include mints, manufacturers and
fabricators, refiners, coin and metal dealers, banks and other financial institutions, jewelers, investors
and collectors. For more information about A-Mark Precious Metals, visit www.amark.com.

Through its subsidiary Collateral Finance Corporation, a licensed California Finance Lender, the
company offers loans collateralized by numismatic and semi-numismatic coins and bullion to coin and
metal dealers, investors and collectors. Through its Transcontinental Depository Services subsidiary, it
offers a variety of managed storage options for precious metals products to financial institutions, dealers,
investors and collectors around the world.

Keywords for this news article include: Investment and Finance, A-Mark Precious Metals Inc..

Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world. Copyright 2014,
NewsRx LLC

CO
IN
NS
RE

amkpm : A-Mark Precious Metals Inc
i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i654 : Specialty Stores | iretail : Retail
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
usa : United States | aust : Austria | austr : Australia | lax : Los Angeles | safr : South Africa | usca :
California | africaz : Africa | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | dach : DACH Countries |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | eecz : European Union

Page95of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | souafrz : Southern Africa | usw : Western U.S. | weurz
: Western Europe
Expanded Reporting

IPD
PUB NewsRx.com
AN

Document INVWK00020140530ea670003f

Page96of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.