Webjet sees hotels as its future flight path

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Webjet sees hotels as its future flight path

358 words
7 June 2014
The Cairns Post
CAIRPO
Cairns
56
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE overseas travel market may be a little tighter than usual, but that doesn’t mean Aussies have
stopped taking holidays, according to Webjet boss John Guscic.
The managing director of the online travel booking site says that despite all the economic doom and
gloom we’re actually taking more frequent — if shorter — holidays.

“If you were counter-intuitive you’d suggest maybe the bad news is the stimulus Australians need to
have for a holiday,” the online travel booking company’s managing director said.

But Mr Guscic can’t deny a more frugal consumer needs a bit of prodding to fork out for a discretionary
spend such as a holiday.

Mr Guscic said Australians are taking shorter, more frequent holidays and, while the growth in
overseas trips had tapered off, this sector was still growing.

He said the ASX-listed Webjet was making headway in its efforts to derive more revenue from
accommodation sales rather than the pure flight bookings model.
To tick that box Webjet looked overseas, forking out $23 million for Singapore and Hong
Kong-focused hotel booking firm Zuji in March last year, then a $1.5 million initial investment in Lots
of Hotels, a start-up venture in the Middle East.

When Australians do pack their bags, it’s invariably for shorter trips, Mr Guscic says.

“We’re seeing more people take shorter breaks but more frequently.” Figures released this week from
the Australian Bureau of Statistics backed up the trend. April’s short-term resident departures, defined
as trips of less than a year, were up 10 per cent seasonally adjusted on a month earlier to 789,000.
Getting those travellers to upsize their transaction with Webjet is Mr Guscic’s end game.

“We want to improve the level of conversion of our existing visitation to bookings — we want to make
that an easier process for consumers to go down,” he said. The group has launched Webjet
Exclusives, discounted inventory available only to its customers, while it also sells packaged
accommodation and flight deals into Virgin Australia Holidays, the airline’s holiday partner.

NS

RE
PUB
AN

gtdeal : Travel Deals/Packages | gtour : Travel | gcat : Political/General News | gdeals : Consumer
Deals | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gpersf : Personal Finance | gspend : Spending/Shopping
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document CAIRPO0020140608ea670006q

Page82of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.