World News: Asia: Western Australia Plans Asset Sales

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

World News: Asia: Western Australia Plans Asset Sales

By Stephen Bell
473 words
29 August 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
5
English
Copyright © 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

PERTH -- Debt-laden Australian states are continuing efforts to tempt yield-hungry investors with the
prospect of owning prized infrastructure assets such as ports, as they struggle to fund public
programs and boost their creditworthiness.

Western Australia became the latest to announce a selloff of state-owned infrastructure. In a
statement Thursday, the government there said it was putting two ports, as well as a large
fruit-and-vegetable distributor, up for sale in the hope of raising up to 2 billion Australian dollar
(US$1.87 billion).

The resource-rich state, where most of Australia's iron-ore is mined, is eager to shrink its debt and
recover its triple-A credit rating, which it lost partly because of a sharp slowdown in mining
investment.

This year, New South Wales sold a 99-year lease on Newcastle Port -- the world's biggest -- to a
clutch of Chinese and local buyers for A$1.75 billion. That followed the sale last year of the state's
Port Botany shipping-container facility.
In November, Queensland state sold the Port of Brisbane for A$2.3 billion to a consortium of
pension and sovereign-wealth funds, followed this year by the sale of toll-road operator Queensland
Motorways for A$7.06 billion. Victoria state is planning to sell the Port of Melbourne.

Premier Colin Barnett said Western Australia would invite expressions of interest for the Utah Point
bulk-handling facility at Port Hedland and the Kwinana terminal a little south of the state capital,
Perth.

Both port assets are likely to be sold as a long-term lease, Mr. Barnett said. Food distributor Perth
Market Authority will also go on the block.

The states are seeking to exploit current investor enthusiasm for infrastructure assets, which during
periods of low interest rates can generate higher returns than other conservative asset classes such
as bonds. The recent selloffs have typically attracted bids of well over 20 times the assets' annual
operating earnings.

Mr. Barnett said the three assets in Western Australia were expected to generate between A$1
billion and A$2 billion for the government.

"These are the first assets we will open up to the market," he said. "They have been identified as
priority assets for sale."

Western Australia is seeking to reduce debt after Moody's this week downgraded the state's credit
rating from Aaa (negative outlook) to Aa1 (stable outlook). Standard & Poor's made a similar
downgrade in September 2013.

The government acquired a lot of its debt over many years by boosting infrastructure spending to
exploit a decadelong mining boom driven by China's rapid urbanization. As at June 30, Western
Australia had estimated net debt of A$22 billion.

Page209of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

IN

NS

RE

IPC
PUB
AN

i74 : Marine Transport | iindstrls : Industrial Goods | iship : Water Transport/Shipping | itsp :
Transportation/Shipping
c182 : Asset Transactions | c183 : Privatizations/Nationalization | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
ciprof : Industry Profile | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | perth : Perth | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
AFXI
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document AWSJ000020140828ea8t0000u

Page210of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.