REALITY TIME

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
REALITY TIME

Terry McCrann
893 words
2 December 2014
Herald-Sun
HERSUN
HeraldSun
25
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

REALITY has arrived down under with a $50 billion thud.
Investors have been given a rude lesson that it’s “not just about iron ore”. It’s also about oil — and,
ominously, gas. Arguably, it’s also about commodities more generally and comprehensively.

This is not a great time to be a company that, having made a huge multi-billion dollar investment in a
new gas export project, finally, belatedly, gets it into production. Only to be getting the gas equivalent
price of $US70 oil. Or $US60. Or even $US40, as some are now forecasting.

Now which companies could they possibly be? Why, perhaps companies like Origin and Woodside,
both down more than 10 per cent over these two trading days wrapped around a weekend. Just
maybe Woodside shareholders outguessed their directors in knocking back the buyback of the Shell
stake. Those shares are now looking mighty pricey.

Then there’s the daddy of them all, up to its gills in expensive — increasingly, marginal — gas:
Santos, which got whacked more than 20 per cent over the two days.

The Reserve Bank with its customary sense of timing dropped its monthly index of commodity prices
into the market ferment. It was both slightly reassuring and potentially ominous.

Commodity prices have been on a long slide since their peak in 2010. They have now dropped by
more than a third from that peak.

That’s the bad news; the — slightly — reassuring news is that they are still more than double the
prices which prevailed through the 1990s and into the 2000s; the years before China really got going,
but which were still pretty good years for the companies and for Australia.

This points to the absolutely fundamental question — again, for the future both of our resources
companies from BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto down, and for Australia.
Was the “China period” that sent prices doubling and then tripling just a temporary deviation from
commodity normality? Will we go back now to prices somewhere between where they are now and
were through those years?
Or has China made such a fundamental and permanent shift in the global demand-supply
relationship, so that what we were seeing over the last couple of years is more cyclical? And so once
China steadied, we would then go back to prices somewhere between where they are now and that
2010 peak?
Then you have to account the other seismic shift from left field — the explosion in US oil (and gas)
production from shale, just when the world was supposed to hit “peak oil”.

Page97of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.There’s a significant difference between the two. The increased US domestic gas production is likely
to be sustained, even with low prices. It’s just too easy to feed the gas into the pervasive US
reticulation system.
So, with the US not only shifting from coal to gas use but also aiming to sell gas into the global
market, we are likely to see a sustained — negative for us — shift in the global energy coal
demand-supply equation.
But it’s different for oil. Because oil-from-shale is very capital intensive — and its marginal cost is not
far below $US70 — any further fall in the oil price could see US production fall suddenly and sharply.
It would equally spring back just as quickly if the oil price rose sharply.

With the US as now the global swing producer — based on output very responsive to price — that
suggests a relatively stable oil price, but at a level that would hurt our gas exporters.
And a sustained low energy coal price that would force most of them out of business or to operate at
a loss.
With met coal and iron ore hostage to the riddle wrapped in a mystery inside an enigma, as Winston
Churchill described Russia, but is now the total uncertainty of the Chinese economy.

Then there’s David Murray and Wayne Byers. Next week we are going to find out just exactly what
Murray advises for increased bank capital; and what the Government and APRA chief Byers consent
to.

The four big banks are the absolute core of the eight stocks that comprise more than 60 per cent of
the Aussie market.

More capital requirements must impact their future returns and so their current share prices. This is
not a great time, following a commodity rout, to go there. Although there will be an upside of sorts.

As investors flee commodity stocks, more bank paper will provide a useful bolt hole. While the very
process of having more bank paper in the market will underwrite the security and dividend stability, if
not the performance of their existing bank holdings.

The other big factor in our investment and economic future is the Aussie dollar. We are getting what
“we wished for”. It is now clearly headed below US80c, on the way to who knows where.

This is initially further bad news for the market. It means offshore investors lose twice — on the fall in
the Aussie share price and then the fall in the Aussie dollar value of the share; likely leading to
offshore selling. But into the future it will make Aussie shares — indeed all Aussie assets — cheaper
to offshore investors.For the economy a lower Aussie will provide some relief. But it will also push up
prices.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

c21 : Output/Production | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document HERSUN0020141201eac20002d

Page98of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.