Greenland to rejig plans

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PrimeSpace
Greenland to rejig plans

GREG BROWN DEVELOPMENT
426 words
30 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
28
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

CHINESE development giant Greenland is preparing new plans for its site in Sydney’s inner western
suburb of Leichhardt after the planning authorities rejected its initial proposal.
Greenland Australia managing director Sherwood Luo said the group would aim to lodge a new
development application by Christmas.

“We are looking forward to working with the council to submit a fully compliant DA,” Mr Luo said.
The state-owned group bought the former Kolotex site, at 22 George Street, last year for about $47
million and planned to begin apartment sales at the $200m project this month.

Its first development application submitted in June showed plans to build 288 apartments over five
buildings of four to nine storeys. It also planned two commercial buildings, an underground car park
and garden areas.

But while the NSW government supported Greenland’s project, Leichhardt Council opposed it on the
back of community concerns about development in the area. The planning authority, the Joint
Regional Planning Panel, sided with the council on Friday. Among its concerns, the panel cited that
the apartments may not receive adequate sunshine in midwinter and that the buildings did not fit in
with the surrounding area.
It was also concerned about contamination on the site.
Mr Luo told The Australian yesterday that the group had been in talks with Leichhardt Council about
its amended plans and that the council had indicated it supported them.

“We expect a positive outcome,” he said.

Earlier this week Greenland submitted its bid for the multi-billion-dollar mixed-use project at
Brisbane’s Queens Wharf, with its joint venture partner James Packer’s Crown Resorts.
As part of the bid, Greenland is pitching to build the hotel, apartment and commercial component,
while Crown will manage the casino.
Mr Luo said the group was scouring for more development sites in Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane.
“Greenland is always in hunting mode. Whenever a site passes our feasibility test then we will buy it,”
he said.

He rejected claims made to The Australian last week by prominent Brisbane developer Kevin Miller,
who said there were too many apartments planned in the city.

“There is a strong growth in demand for apartments in Brisbane, which is why we are confident about
it,” Mr Luo said.

“It is currently undervalued in terms of median house price and there is room for it to catch up.

Page29of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“We believe this market is trending up.”He added that the group expected more interstate migration
to the city as its economy improved.

i5010022 : Residential Building Construction | i501 : Building Construction | iconst : Construction | icre
: Real Estate/Construction
greg : Regional Politics | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | gplan : Urban Planning/Development |
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations |
gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | greenl : Greenland | brisbn : Brisbane | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North America | nswals : New South Wales | queensl : Queensland
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141029eaau0005j

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page30of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.