Preliminary 2014 Toll Holdings Ltd Earnings Presentation (Morning Session) - Final

HD Preliminary 2014 Toll Holdings Ltd Earnings Presentation (Morning Session) - Final
WC 10,898 words
PD 18 August 2014
SN CQ FD Disclosure
SC FNDW
LA English
CY © 2014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.
LP

Presentation

TD

DAVID SHIRER, IR MANAGER, TOLL HOLDINGS LIMITED: Good morning and welcome to the 2014 Full
Year Results Presentation for Toll Holdings. Before we start, I'd like to draw your attention to the slide on
forward looking statements at the back of today's presentation pack. You should keep this in mind when
considering any forward looking statements made in this presentation. (Conference Instructions). I would
now like to turn over to our Managing Director, Brian Kruger.

BRIAN KRUGER, MD, TOLL HOLDINGS LIMITED: Thanks David and good morning everyone. Joining me
today is Grant Devonport, our Chief Financial Officer. The agenda for the morning is that I'll firstly give you
an overview of the Group's financial and safety performance and then a summary of some of the key
drivers of each division's results. Grant will then cover the Group financials in a bit more detail and I'll
provide a quick wrap up and cover some of the issues that will drive our performance in fiscal 2015.
Following our presentation, we'll be happy to take any questions.
So I'll talk about the Group's financial outcomes in a minute, but I wanted to start by highlighting some of
the actions we've taken to deal with a continuation of fairly challenging economic conditions, both
domestically in Australia as well as in a number of our offshore markets.

Firstly, the major project aimed at improving the performance of Toll Global Forwarding, which we call
Project Forward, remained on track with over AUD20 million of benefits delivered during the year. On top
of that, through a combination of restructuring and productivity programs, benefits from capital expenditure
and improvements in purchasing, we delivered another AUD80 million in cost savings across the Group.

For those of you that have had a chance already to see our release this morning, you'll see that we took
some major restructuring costs towards the end of the year, which we expect to deliver a further AUD40
million to AUD50 million of benefits in fiscal 2015. Of course we also continued to invest in upgrading the
capability of our market-leading network businesses to improve productivity as well as ensuring they are
well positioned to capitalise on any improvement in trading conditions.

From a cash and capital management perspective, we also continued our non-core asset divestment
program with a range of properties, vessels and other equipment being sold through the year. Those sales
assisted with a much improved free cash flow result and that has again enabled us to increase our
dividends to shareholders. So they're some of the things we've been working on during the year.

Of course we also continued our work on safety. Whilst most of our safety indicators continued to improve,
this year, for the first time in many years, our lost time injury frequency rate increased from 1.65 to 1.81.
However the other key lag indicator that we look at, our total recordable injury frequency rate, did continue
to improve with a 15% reduction to 14.3.

During the year we continued with the actions supporting our Think safe. Act safe. Be safe strategy. We
trained 1300 of our people in how to lead their teams more safely. We rolled out a consistent set of health
and safety management standards across the Group. We recognised some of the amazing safety
leadership and innovations across our Group at our inaugural Group safety awards, and we set up
Group-wide fleet safety networks to improve our on road safety performance and compliance.
However, we recognise we need to do more. We'll be lifting the focus on lead indicators like safety
observations and incident reporting and we'll be working very hard on reducing manual handling injuries
and injuries that occur during our peak times leading into Christmas. The need to never stop our focus on
improving safety was reinforced for all of us as a result of the tragic fatality that occurred in Toll Shipping in

Page87of170©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.May of this year. That incident will continue to be a reminder for all of us that nothing is more important
than safety.

So now onto the financials. As you can see, our revenue and EBITDA were up on last year. I'll take you
through some detail on the revenue on the next slide, but in summary, the movement reflects the benefits
of new contract wins, offset by the impact of the end of a couple of major contracts as well as lower
volumes from the mining sector. The improvements in EBIT and operating net profit after tax reflect the
benefit of new contracts during the period, the cost reductions I spoke about earlier and a lower
amortisation expense. Grant will give you some details on the individually significant items later in the
presentation, but you can see they largely offset in 2014.
The free cash flow improvement of AUD126 million is due to an improved working capital performance and
lower net capital expenditure. Finally, on this slide, you can see that despite the investments we've been
making to drive long term benefits in our Australian network businesses, our after tax return on invested
capital improved to 8.1%.

We thought we'd provide a bit more detail on the movement in sales revenue between periods, as there are
a few big swings in both directions. You can see with the first two items we weren't quite able to offset the
impact of the end of a few large contracts with new contract wins. However we do believe with the number
of large contract wins occurring late in fiscal 2014 and early in fiscal 2015, we will see that outcome
reversed in fiscal 2015. Also, outside higher ocean freight volumes in Toll global forwarding, the net
up-trading from existing customers was much lower than usual, reflecting the tough economic conditions.
Now obviously improvements in those volumes will be driven by the timing and extent of any recovery in
our customers and markets.

Finally, as you can see towards the bottom of the slide, the impact of lower freight rates in Toll global
forwarding, where movements in rates are largely passed through to our customers, was offset by the
impact of the weaker Australian dollar.

So I'll now move on to each division's results in a bit more detail. Firstly, to Toll global resources where
revenue and earnings were lower, due mostly to the impact of the completion of work for the Australian
Defence Force in East Timor and lower earnings from our Australian and Asian marine businesses, being
only partly offset by new contract wins.
Toll energy also saw the start of the wind-down of construction related work on Barrow Island, but has
done a great job winning new production related work with the likes of Chevron, Santos and ConocoPhillips.
As expected, Toll mining services produced a better result, with the improvements coming from new fleet
investment and improved operating cost performance. Also, as expected, we saw sharply improved result
from the top supply base in Singapore following completion of the redevelopment of the base last year.

Toll remote logistics wasn't able to completely offset the end of the East Timor contract, but continues to
win new contracts, particularly with both the Australian and US Defence Forces. Finally, our two marine
businesses in Australia and Asia both saw the continuation of challenging market conditions. While we
made good progress with asset sales and cost reductions in those businesses, both businesses have clear
plans to continue the turnaround in their performance.

Moving on to Toll global logistics, the overall result for Toll global logistics was a very good outcome given
the difficult market environments for a number of their businesses. The two Australian businesses, Contract
Logistics and Customised Solutions, both won a sufficient number of new customers to offset some
contract losses as well as customer down trading. The Singapore Government Business Group also
delivered high revenue and earnings, primarily as a result of new contracts in their healthcare sector in
Singapore. We know there's a lot of interest in the contracts that we're currently tendering for in Singapore,
but all we're able to advise at this stage is that we still expect to know an outcome from that tender process
later this calendar year.

Our Contract Logistics businesses in other parts of Asia delivered an improved result, primarily driven by
better performances in India and China, but partly offset by a lower result in Thailand with our major
customers' volumes there being adversely affected by the current political situation in that country.

Before moving onto the next division, we do talk a lot about contract wins in this part of our business, so I
thought I'd give you an example of the sort of innovative solutions that our people are delivering to allow us
to keep winning new business. On screen at the moment is a picture of the Adidas facility at Truganina,
here in Melbourne. The purpose-built facility has been designed to incorporate a fully automated logistics
solution for Adidas, the most advanced warehouse of its kind in the southern hemisphere. The level of
automation that we've delivered provides significant property and labour productivity advantages, as well
as service and inventory benefits.

Page88of170©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.We've been operating this facility since 2012 and now that it's been commissioned, it's been a great
success for us and more importantly, for Adidas. So our warehousing is obviously a very competitive
sector. We're confident that our ability to innovate and then continuously improve our operations will allow
us to keep winning new business.

Toll global forwarding, most of you would be aware the conditions for global forwarders remains pretty
challenging, so it made it even more critical that we delivered on the project forward cost savings initiatives.
Our gross profit from ocean freight was flat, while air freight was down quite significantly. It reflects the
trend of more customers using ocean freight in preference to the more expensive air freight. However
overcapacity in the ocean freight sector saw both freight rates and our gross profit dollars per TEU fall quite
significantly, meaning despite the volume increase, our overall ocean gross profit was essentially flat.

In addition, our US supply chain business saw lower volumes from a number of their major customers, but
we do expect that to turn around in fiscal 2015 following a couple of major recent contract wins. However,
while gross profit was down, the significant cost reductions achieved through project forward meant that we
were still able to deliver an improved result. While there are more costs to take out, in 2015 it will be critical
for us to deliver gross profit growth to continue the recovery in earnings and return on capital employed in
this division.

In the domestic operation of Toll global express, it really was a continuation of flat volumes and the trend to
lower average consignment weights, particularly in Toll IPEC and Toll fast. Those lower consignment
weights affect our productivity levels and therefore our margins. I'll talk a bit more about that on the next
slide, as well as what we're doing to address it.

Toll priority, our air based express business, delivered an improved result as they saw higher volumes from
existing bank customers, as well as the benefit of some significant cost and productivity programs.

Our B2C business is still growing and we're very focused on further developing our online tools so that we
can continue to increase our share in that market. Overall, while we'd like to be moving faster to grow our
share of this rapidly growing market, we're very focused on making sure we get our operational and
technical capabilities right, rather than trying to get too big too quickly.

Finally, in Japan, while it was good to see a positive result, driven mainly by productivity improvements, we
also continued our efforts in restructuring that business with the sale of part of the business called KSU
Logistics for AUD20 million.

So this slide talks to the lower average consignment weight and you can see between 2013 and 2014 that
measure was down 6.8%. The key drivers of the decrease have been the increase in our B2C business, as
well as the impact of general customer down trading. So as you can imagine, moving a larger number of
consignments for no more overall weight has an impact on both productivity and margins. We estimate that
the change in average consignment in 2014 reduced margins in the Toll global express domestic business
by about 0.5%. So it was a material driver of the overall lower margins in this division.

So what are we doing about it? We've really got a three-pronged response. We've recently introduced a
new pricing structure with a higher minimum charge per consignment. We've restructured the IPEC
business to remove state-based functions, which has reduced overheads, but will also help drive
operational improvements and we're building major new facilities that will assist with handling higher
consignment numbers much more efficiently.

So this is the new Toll IPEC Sydney depot that we talked about as being under construction back in
February. As a reminder, the total site covers 18 hectares of land with 55,000 square metres under roof.
It's really quite an amazing facility. The two new cross belt sorters that we've installed have the capability to
handle 35,000 parcels per hour, compared with our current facility at 12,000 parcels per hour. The facility's
actually now complete and it's in its ramp up period. We expect it to be fully operational in October and to
see significant benefits in the lead in to Christmas and in the second half of the 2015 fiscal year.

This is an artist's impression, I should point out, it's not the actual building yet, but we've also commenced
construction of our new Melbourne Toll IPEC depot at Tullamarine. Total site is actually slightly larger than
the Sydney site at 20 hectares and we'll actually have 71,000 square metres under roof. Operationally, it
will deliver very similar improvements to the Sydney depot. Our total investment in this facility will be about
AUD50 million and the owner of the property, the Melbourne Airport Corporation, is investing a further
AUD100 million. This facility is expected to be complete and operational by the end of calendar 2015.

So as you can see, we're taking action to address the cost challenges being driven by changes in the
market and both of these facilities will also provide us capacity to efficiently grow the business, particularly
the B2C market.

Page89of170©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.So Toll domestic forwarding, I think as you're aware, the division lost a major contract with Coles early in
the year. But they were able to more than offset that with good performances from Toll Tasmania and our
New Zealand business. The loss of the Coles contract drove some major changes in our rail supply
arrangements with Asciano to deliver improved flexibility for our Queensland business. We also sold some
of our properties in Queensland which significantly reduced the capital intensity in our intermodal business.
You can see the improvement in return on capital in the division there.
The Toll Tasmania business delivered an improved result, partly driven by the benefit of the acquisition of
Linfox's Tasmania business. Those Linfox volumes also benefited our Bass Strait shipping business,
although that was partly offset by costs associated with the dry-docking of our vessels. The dry-docking
work is currently underway at the moment, is going well and the replacement vessel that we've chartered is
ensuring our service levels are maintained. But we will see some increased costs also affect us in 2015
from the dry-docking work.

Toll New Zealand delivered a great result due to the combination of market share gains, particularly in the
parcel business, as well as some significant property cost savings and linehaul efficiency improvements.

I've shown a few photos of what we're doing in the Toll global express business for new depots, but our
new property developments have been taking place across all of our network businesses. So this is an
example with our new facility at Brighton just north of Hobart. This is a 17,000 square metre facility on 6.8
hectares in the Brighton transport hub, and it's the most modern and efficient transport terminal in the state.

Importantly it allows us to move more freight more safely and more efficiently. Again, we've literally started
operating out of this facility in the last four weeks and we expect it to contribute to improved performance
from our Tassie business in 2015.

Our Toll specialised and domestic freight division has been the star for the last few years, but it did have a
difficult year due to lower volumes from customers whose volumes rely on mining sector activity. We did
see some benefits from investments in fleet and equipment in both Toll express and Toll NQX, and we're
expecting benefits from recent investments in depot upgrades and IT investments to flow in 2015. Both
businesses are also successful in extending a number of large contracts with key customers that will
support earnings going forward.

Toll liquids delivered improved earnings again as a result of new contract wins and the business is well
progressed in implementing the major new contract with Shell that was won during the year. With that
contract and other opportunities in the liquid distribution market, we're expecting good growth from this
business over coming years.

Toll transitions' EBIT was down slightly due to a lower number of defence force relocations, but that
business was still a very strong contributor to the division's earnings.
So that's a quick run through of the division's results. I'll now hand over to Grant to run through the Group's
financials in a bit more detail.

GRANT DEVONPORT, CFO, TOLL HOLDINGS LIMITED: Thanks Brian. Good morning everyone.

Firstly to our earnings for the full year, EBITDA was up 1% with EBITDA margin steady at a touch over 8%.
Depreciation and PPA were down AUD4 million, with depreciation up AUD14 million and amortisation of
customer intangibles down by AUD18 million. Most of our associated businesses improved during the
year, with strong contributions from Cargo Services and Prixcar respectively.

EBIT before individually significant items was up 4.3% with EBIT margins up 15 basis points. Net financing
costs were up AUD5 million with AUD3.2 million of this increase due to the weaker Australian dollar.

The effective tax rate was lower at 26% primarily due to the tax concession on coastal shipping income.
Overall our net profit after tax and before individually significant items was up AUD16 million or 5.7%.

This year we have called out restructuring costs and two business sales as individually significant items
due to both their nature and materiality. Although we have incurred restructuring costs before with recently
Toll global forwarding last year, the large scale of the restructuring programs being undertaken right across
the group are more significant than ever before. The two business sales relate to KSU Japan and a Hong
Kong property company. Again, due to the materiality of the profits on sale we have treated these sales
as significant items also.
Overall the impact of these transactions was a AUD5 million after tax charge to earnings. As Brian has
mentioned we will generate between AUD40 million to AUD50 million of cost savings in the 2015 fiscal
year from the restructuring costs booked in the 2014 fiscal year.

Page90of170©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Cash flows were very strong, with net operating cash flows up AUD88 million or 16.4%, and free cash
flows up AUD126 million or 55%. These outcomes were achieved by significant improvement in our
collections during and net capital expenditure reducing from AUD308 million to AUD270 million.

We have continued to invest in our sustaining CapEx programs, and I'll talk about this in the next slide.
Sales of property, plant, and equipment included the sale of our far north Queensland rail terminals, other
non-core properties, and further sales of marine vessels in Indonesia. Tax payments reduced to a lower
instalment rate in Australia.
Our continued strength in cash flows has enabled the board to approve a further increase in the final
dividend by AUD0.005 per share fully franked, with total dividends for the full year at AUD0.28 per share,
up AUD0.01 per share on last year.
Our sustaining capital expenditure programs spend slowed in the second half with AUD123 million spent
as against AUD205 million spent in the first half of the year. The significant property investments at
Bungarribee AUD37 million, Brighton AUD20 million, Karawatha AUD16 million, and Gap Ridge AUD8
million have been classified as sustaining spend but will all contribute to provide increasing capacity for
volume growth in the future.

Our sustaining fleet spend has also provided both cost savings through lower rental and repairs and
maintenance costs, and we expect the spend in fleet, certainly in the specialised and domestic freight
division, will have peaked this year. Moving forward we expect sustaining CapEx spend overall to reduce to
around the level of depreciation.

Return on capital improvements were delivered by Global logistics, Global forwarding, express Japan and
domestic forwarding, assisting an overall lift in the Group's pre and post-tax return on invested capital by
0.5%. The domestic businesses of Global express have been impacted by the further margin deterioration
and specialised and domestic freights returns have reduced to the lower earnings and a significant
increase in average capital employed from fleet and property investments. Global resources has been
significantly impacted by the significant downturn in earnings from marine businesses which more than
offset the improvement in both mining and TOPS returns.

As Brian said we are very pleased to report that we have delivered on the first year's cost savings from
program forward. We guided the market that under the first phase of project forward we would deliver real
cost savings of between AUD15 million to AUD20 million. This has been achieved even in the face of the
numbers of jobs processed during the year remaining static. This led to an increase in the overall
productivity of global forwarding of 17% which is measured by total jobs per FTE.

We know we still have a lot of work to do to get the Global forwarding business to where we want it to be.
The efforts of the Global forwarding team will now turn to executing the sales and gross profit initiatives
while continuing to target the fixed cost base. Together, these will deliver sustainable growth to the
business.

We're also very pleased with the outcome of the refinancing during the year. In October last year we
completed the second issuance in the US private placement market of $250 million US dollar equivalent,
with this being the first time any corporate has raised funds in Singapore and Hong Kong dollars in this
market. Proceeds from this transaction were used to repay a portion of the first tranche of Singapore debt,
with a balance of SGD250 million being extended for a further two year term. In addition, we transacted a
reduced HKD1.8 billion syndication in April for a term of five years.

The support shown by our lenders has been extremely positive, and together with a reduction in undrawn
facilities of AUD90 million has allowed us to keep the effective cost of debt at around 2.5% while at the
same time extending the average duration of our debt from 1.9 to 3 years.

Finally, I'd like to provide further colour on our cost initiatives, previously touched on by Brian. We have
always been mindful of costs, and over time we've done a very good job in flexing variable costs as a
response to changes in volume. As you'll see from this slide we have delivered in excess of AUD100
million of cost savings to partially offset the impact of inflation on our cost base. Now we are really starting
to see the benefits of a number of the programs we have been working on over the last year to realign our
fixed cost base.
CapEx benefits from our sustaining fleet in property investments leading to lower repairs and maintenance
and rental costs, plus getting us greater fuel efficiency, procurement benefits from greater leverage with our
suppliers from consolidating our spend, and restructure benefits from specific programs being initiated right
across (technical difficulty) business. We are confident that these programs coupled with a continuous
improvement focus right across the business will deliver sustainable cost reductions into the future and
provide significant leverage for increased earnings as economic conditions improve.

Page91of170©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.With that I'll hand you back to Brian. Thank you.

BRIAN KRUGER: Thanks Grant. I think in terms of a summary, we believe we've delivered a pretty solid
result in what has been a fairly difficult market environment for a number of our businesses.

We've talked a lot about what we've achieved in terms of cost and productivity initiatives in 2014.
Importantly, we know we can continue to deliver significant savings in 2015. We continued our good record
in terms of generating cash, and we've rewarded shareholders again with a further increase in our dividend
payout. For the future we've continued capital investments that will drive sustainable improvements in
customer service, as well as providing capacity to grow.

We've also worked on the cultural issues that will drive long-term value for our shareholders and our
employees. Those issues include safety, collaboration, continuous improvement, employee engagement,
more consistent use of operational metrics, and improving our organic growth capability.

The work on organic growth capability is obviously very important as we've become less reliant on
acquisitions as a source of growth in recent years. The benefits of collaboration are very evident, with our
One Toll cross-selling program that delivered an incremental AUD65 million in revenue last year.

We've established some new service offerings that all offer exciting growth opportunities, including
significant progress in the rapidly growing B2C market. You may have seen our announcement yesterday
in relation to a fantastic new contract to provide production related logistics work for Chevron on Barrow
Island. It's great timing. That's a great example of how we're replacing the construction-related contracts
that are rolling off over the next year or so.

There's also some other large and growing market sectors like pharmaceuticals and agriculture, where Toll
is currently a relatively small player that we think may provide some opportunities to leverage our existing
domestic capabilities. So we'll be busy assessing those opportunities over coming months.

We've already spoken about the investments in our network businesses that will ensure we're as well
positioned as possible to benefit from any improvement in economic conditions. Of course Toll global
forwarding and Toll global logistics both give us great platforms to capitalise on opportunities to support our
customers in offshore markets.

So while we're conscious that the topline that we've just presented to you doesn't currently reflect the work
we've been doing in these areas, we are confident we're setting the right platforms to drive organic growth
over the medium to long term.

So finally, in terms of our outlook for the rest of the new year, I think it's fair to say that the external
environment for most of our businesses is expected to remain fairly challenging. However, we do expect to
see improvements in earnings from both our cost improvement activities, as well as recent new contract
wins and other growth initiatives, such that we are currently expecting to deliver higher earnings again in
fiscal 2015.

So with that, we'd like to thank all of you in the room and those of you on the phone for your time this
morning. We're now happy to open it up to any questions. I think first if we can go to any in the room.
We've got a microphone if anybody would like to ask a question.

Okay, it looks like we've got silence in the room. We might go straight to the phones.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Simon Mitchell, UBS.

SIMON MITCHELL, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning Grant and Brian.

BRIAN KRUGER: Simon.

GRANT DEVONPORT: Good morning Simon.

SIMON MITCHELL: Just a question on the guidance. Are you comfortable with that guidance regardless of
the outcome on the Singapore Defence contract?

BRIAN KRUGER: Yes, is the short answer.

SIMON MITCHELL: Okay. On the cost out --

Page92of170©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.BRIAN KRUGER: Sorry Simon I'll just expand a little bit. Obviously we're continuing to do that work at the
moment, so irrespective of the outcome there, we're going to have those earnings for a portion of the year
in any event.

SIMON MITCHELL: Okay. So even in -- even under a worst case outcome of a loss of that major contract,
you're still comfortable that you can offset the impact in FY15?

BRIAN KRUGER: Yes.

SIMON MITCHELL: Okay. Just on the cost out, thank you for giving some guidance on costs in FY15 of
AUD40 million to AUD50 million. I take it that that is similar to the AUD100 million you saved in FY14, so
therefore it's a gross number against 3% inflation.
GRANT DEVONPORT: So Simon, yes just -- well just to be very clear, the AUD40 million to AUD50
million only relates to the restructuring costs and provision that we booked in fiscal 14. So AUD44.4
million restructuring costs, the AUD40 million to AUD50 million only relates to that. Obviously the slide
that we put up on the cost reductions is there to demonstrate that we will continue to deliver cost savings
from other things like CapEx benefits and procurement, but the AUD40 million to AUD50 million is only
related to that restructuring cost and provision.
SIMON MITCHELL: Okay. So should we think around something like the AUD100 million in FY14 could be
achievable again in 2015?

BRIAN KRUGER: Look Simon, it's early on in the year. So clearly there'll be cost savings initiatives that will
be undertaken that we haven't thought about yet. Yes, there's no reason to think it won't be that order of
magnitude. As Grant said, we already know that there's AUD40 million to AUD50 million coming from the
things that have been done late in fiscal 15. So certainly no reason to think there won't be a fair chunk of
savings on top of that as well from the other areas that Grant talked about.

SIMON MITCHELL: Okay. Just a question on express, good to see some metrics for us to understand the
movements in that division. The second half trend in down trading, or weight per consignment, could you
perhaps break that out by first half, second half?

BRIAN KRUGER: Look well, it's a good question and one that we've obviously been keeping a close eye
on. I'm not sure we could say that we've seen the bottom in that metric yet. So just to refresh everybody,
we're talking about the average weight per consignment in Toll global express's domestic operations.

I don't think we've seen enough change there to say we could see the bottom, but the rate of decrease in
that metric has certainly slowed in the second half of the year, and into the first part of this year.

Does that answer your question? So we saw a significant drop in the first half. The rate, it continued to drop
in the second half but at a much slower rate. It appears like -- if you looked at the last few weeks we'd
probably want to say it's stabilised but there's not enough data to make that call yet.

SIMON MITCHELL: Okay. Thank you. That's all in keeping with what we've seen with other players in the
industry.

BRIAN KRUGER: Yes it's an interesting observation. We probably didn't see the change in that metric in
our business as early as what a lot of our competitors did. I'm not sure what the driver of that was, but
obviously we kept a close eye on it, but it certainly has had an impact in 2014. As you say, it's consistent
with what's going on with most of our competitors, both domestically and internationally.

SIMON MITCHELL: Okay. Just a last question, I know you're unable to give detailed commentary on the
Singapore Defence contract, but just interested in the management changes in ST Logistics and what we
should be thinking about those in respect of the discussions?

BRIAN KRUGER: Yes look, you shouldn't read anything into that. So Yeow Beng, that was his -- it was
always a planned retirement that would take place for him. So Yeow Beng Lim had been the CEO of our
ST Logistics business in Singapore, which does the work that we're tendering for at the moment.

His retirement's been planned for quite a while, so you shouldn't read anything into that. His replacement,
Vincent Phang, has been in the chair and doing a great job. Vincent's been with our business for a number
of years now. So yes, very, very smooth handover and you shouldn't read anything into that change
happening at this point in the tender process.

SIMON MITCHELL: Okay. Thank you very much.

BRIAN KRUGER: Okay.

Page93of170©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.OPERATOR: Anthony Moulder, Citi.

BRIAN KRUGER: Good morning Anthony.

ANTHONY MOULDER, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Morning all. A few questions. Just a follow on from
Simon's about Singapore. Are you able to tell us, or give us some detail, as to when that contract actually
ends?
BRIAN KRUGER: No I'm not mate, I'm sorry. We'll -- as soon as there's some news on it, we'll let you
know. I did indicate earlier, the comment I made is that we're still doing the work at the moment obviously.
ANTHONY MOULDER: Sure. Okay. On the AUD40 million to AUD50 million cost reductions, if I break
that out, it looks like some of those are already pre-announced, as far as project forward, as well as the
additional restructuring announcement in late May I think it was. Are you able to break out as to what of
that, if any, is new?
BRIAN KRUGER: Yes, so when we announced the re-organisation in May, we talked about AUD10 million
to AUD12 million being related to the reduction of six divisions to five. But you're right, the AUD40 million
to AUD50 million includes that, plus any additional savings from project forward in this fiscal year.
ANTHONY MOULDER: So on my calculations, there's an extra AUD5 million that you're calling out on
cost savings, if I add it up, what has previously been announced relative to the AUD40 million to AUD50
million. Does that sound right?

GRANT DEVONPORT: No.
BRIAN KRUGER: No, we haven't given that number mate. So we talked about AUD40 million to AUD50
million over a number of years in global forwarding. We delivered AUD20 million last year. Clearly there'll
be some incremental savings on top of that in the current year. It will be probably a bit less than AUD20
million in the 2015 year.

So no, your maths aren't right there mate. It's a much more significant number than that coming from other
than project forward initiatives in 2015.
ANTHONY MOULDER: Right okay. I'll revisit that AUD15 million to AUD25 million I thought was still
remaining for FY15 and project forward.

Lastly, B2C has obviously been a cost led growth initiative. Can you give us some confidence -- or what is
the confidence that you have that it's still where Toll should be as opposed to focusing more on delivering
more B2B volumes?

BRIAN KRUGER: Yes. It's an interesting question. You're right, it is costing us to push harder in that
market at the moment. The cost -- the big issue where we've got cost issues at the moment is probably in
our last mile delivery work. That will improve as we grow our volumes. So we know that we're in -- in these
early phases we're probably not going to be earning the margins from the business until we get our
volumes up.

There's no question in my mind it's one of the most rapidly growing, if not the most rapidly growing, logistics
market in Australia, still. I still think there's enormous growth to come in that market over coming years,
because Australia has a relatively low penetration of online retail sales.

There is one very large provider in that market at the moment, almost with a monopoly position. We're quite
uniquely placed to take them on I think, given our depot network capability around the country. The one big
advantage that they had over us that was going to be difficult to solve, which is the retail outlet network to
deal with a lot of failed deliveries that they have, we've largely solved that problem with what we've been
doing with the newsagents and with ParcelPoint. We've now got something like 1300 alternative delivery
points which we think gets us over that hurdle.
So I'm convinced Anthony, that it is a market we have to play in. We'll probably -- we are seeing some
cannibalisation of our existing B2B businesses, as customers grow their B2C element of their business. So
we really can't afford not to be there. It's both though, I think a defensive play and an offensive play for us.
As I say, we're uniquely positioned really I think to make a success of it.

ANTHONY MOULDER: Some of that leads into the restructuring of Toll IPEC around the price points et
cetera that you talked to. What other restructuring initiatives do you have to offer, I guess, a wider suite of
price points for customers as they do trade down in that stage?

BRIAN KRUGER: Yes, I probably don't want to talk too much about what we're doing from a competitive
perspective on the pricing front at the moment, other than the observation which I made during the

Page94of170©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.presentation, which -- to deal with the lower average consignment weights, one of the things that we have
done in the market is actually introduced a higher minimum charge per consignment. That's part of the
response. There are other things that we are looking at doing as well from a pricing perspective, but I don't
necessarily want to talk about those this morning.

Look, the other -- the restructuring change, the big thing that's gone on within Toll IPEC is that it was
previously a business, even though it's a national network business, it was very much run or organised
along state-based structures. That meant we had a lot of different processes, a lot of different approaches
going on in different states. That was really hampering the effectiveness of that business operating as a
true network.

We've recently, in the last month or so, announced the restructure of that business so that is now a
nationally-based structure. We think that's going to drive significant -- well it's -- first of all, it's taken some
overheads out, but second of all we think it will drive a significant improvement in consistency of processes
and sharing of best practice across different parts of that Toll IPEC network.
ANTHONY MOULDER: I'm certain. Last question if I could, I think you called out One Toll initiatives as
AUD65 million revenue benefit. Where would I see that? In slide 8, it talks (technical difficulty) describe
detail around the makeup of the change in revenue year-on-year?

BRIAN KRUGER: Yes it's largely in the net up trading, down trading figure. It would be incorporated in that.

ANTHONY MOULDER: Okay perfect. Thank you very much.

BRIAN KRUGER: Okay.

OPERATOR: Matt Spence, Merrill Lynch.

MATT SPENCE, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICAMERRILL LYNCH: Hi guys. Thanks for that.

BRIAN KRUGER: Hi Matt.

MATT SPENCE: Brian, you mentioned some contract wins at the end of FY14, start of 2015, and obviously
that Barrow Island feeds into that. Appreciate you might not want to comment on individual contracts, but
can you tell us in which divisions those wins were in?
BRIAN KRUGER: Look, I'm happy to talk about a few of them, which we've announced publicly. So some
of the ones -- the Shell contract which is significant. It's I think AUD50 million a year over five years, will be
in Toll liquids with our re-organisation, with the new divisions.

We'll obviously be giving you guys a lot more information about the restructure. That Toll liquids business
now sits in Toll global resources. So that's where you'll see the benefits from Shell. We're literally
implementing that new contract at the moment. So whilst it was done in fiscal 2014 the benefits from that
will largely start to flow in fiscal 2015. That's one.

We've talked about significant expansion with Santos as well. That's largely in Toll global resources. The
Coca-Cola contract, we've also announced a significant increase in the scope of the work we're doing with
Coca-Cola. That's actually a great One Toll example. The benefits from that work are actually spread
across four or five different divisions.

GRANT DEVONPORT: Inpex.

BRIAN KRUGER: Inpex is another that we've announced, which will be in resources. So obviously a
number of them in resources but there are also contract wins going across the rest of the businesses as
well.

MATT SPENCE: Great, thanks. I just note the second half EBIT growth is almost 9% after just 1% in the
first half. A fair bit of that is down to cost improvements, but just to give us a feel for the revenue line, did
activity improve during second half 2014, so were the months of May and June a fair bit better?

BRIAN KRUGER: I think the short answer to that is no. Clearly there's a lot of variability across different
business units but as a group, no I wouldn't say that we saw any material pick-up in the top line across our
businesses. In terms of volume with existing customers, which I think is the question you're asking, we
haven't seen any material pick-up or recovery in the latter part of the year.

MATT SPENCE: Okay. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Scott Kelly, Morgan Stanley.

Page95of170©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.BRIAN KRUGER: Hi, Scott.

GRANT DEVONPORT: Morning, Scott.

SCOTT KELLY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Morning, Grant. Morning, Brian. First question with
respect to the sales investment that you're making in global forwarding. I was just wondering if you can put
some dollar around that; obviously you're not expecting that to offset the cost-out that you're targeting.

BRIAN KRUGER: The investment in sales resources?

(Technical difficulty)

GRANT DEVONPORT: We haven't given a number on that, Scott, but what we've said is in relation to last
year we made over AUD20 million of gross cost savings in forwarding and then offsetting that was to start
to invest in some additional salespeople, especially in places like the USA where we think obviously there's
a great platform there. So we haven't given a number but obviously that's going to drive a sustainable
increase in gross profit, which is the next phase of project forward.
BRIAN KRUGER: So I'm happy to give a number, if I can. Look, it will be less than -- the investment in
those new people will be well under AUD5 million.

I think the main point there though is at some point the ability to take costs out of global forwarding --
there's still opportunities there at the moment, but at some point taking costs out of global forwarding is not
going to be the main driver of improvement in earnings. We knew we had to take some significant action
last year and that will continue this year, but we're not going to just cost-cut our way to glory in that division.

We have to look at trying to get some growth in the GP line and I guess our view is that there is some small
level of investment in people capability that will help us drive that improvement. So that's the approach.
SCOTT KELLY: Okay. And with respect to express, I'm just wondering what your expectations are for
margins given that the changes that you're making ahead of the Christmas rush this year, do you expect
them to improve or does that depend on the economy and volume at the end of the day?

BRIAN KRUGER: Look, all other things being equal we would expect it to improve but as you rightly point
out that the Global express domestic operations here, and indeed the ones offshore, are very -- they still
have a relatively high fixed cost base so they're very leveraged to changes in volumes. So if we see a
deterioration in volumes that will obviously go one way; if we see a positive impact in volumes in the
business that will be a big help in improving the margins.

But given all the activities we've got going on, the new investments that we've made, particularly in places
like Bungarribee. As I said, all other things being equal I would expect the margins in Toll global express to
be better in 2015 than they are in 2014.
SCOTT KELLY: Okay, I [loath] to ask a tax question, but I'm just wondering if you can guide toward the
likely tax rate just for 2015. Obviously it was lower this year given the coastal shipping benefit. Is that
ongoing?

GRANT DEVONPORT: The benefit from the coastal shipping concession is ongoing, but I guess the
difficulty in guiding you to an exact rate, Scott, is more around the impact of other changes relating to
non-deductible expenditure and non-assessable income and so on.

So we've moved down from 29% to 26% this year; traditionally we've been around the 27.5%, so I think it's
in that sort of order. So I wouldn't be able to give you an exact guide for next year.

BRIAN KRUGER: Again, I think though that the important point is that the shipping tax concession will give
us a -- provided it stays around, will give us a permanent improvement in our effective tax rate.

GRANT DEVONPORT: All other things being equal.

SCOTT KELLY: Just reading into those comments, is that equivalent to 2.5% or is that a bit less?

GRANT DEVONPORT: Between 1.5% and 2%.

SCOTT KELLY: Yes, okay. Just last question if I can with respect to resource revenues for 2015 with
(inaudible). You are -- you do have some new contracts coming through but just a steady state at the
moment. What's your expectation for the top line for the year ahead?

BRIAN KRUGER: Yes. Look, again, the big issue that we're dealing with, and we've talked about this a lot,
and it's started to have an impact towards the end of fiscal 2014, will be the drop-off in the revenue and

Page96of170©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.earnings coming from the construction-related work we've been doing on Barrow Island. That's probably
the biggest --

GRANT DEVONPORT: And Gladstone.

BRIAN KRUGER: Yes, and obviously there's -- to a lesser extent we've also been doing
construction-related work in Gladstone. As you point out, we're part way towards resolving that issue with
some of the new contracts that we've announced, which are much more production-related contracts,
coming out of the energy sector.

At the moment have we completely replaced the revenues and earnings from Gorgon? No we haven't. Am I
confident that we will during the course of the year? Yes I am.

SCOTT KELLY: Okay. That's clear. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Cameron McDonald, Deutsche Bank.

CAMERON MCDONALD, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning, Brian. Good morning, Grant.

BRIAN KRUGER: Hi, Cam.
CAMERON MCDONALD: A quick question for you, just on the AUD100 million of cost savings. You're
saying you've delivered AUD100 million of cost savings and then the EBIT growth is only AUD25 million
or thereabouts. Presumably that is just the difficulty of the competitive marketplace.

GRANT DEVONPORT: Yes, so Cam, on the slide as we showed, the cost inflation was around AUD250
million. So yes, you're absolutely right. We still had an overall increase in cost by 1.8% but the AUD100
million went some way to offsetting that cost inflation. That's going to be the challenge year-on-year and
obviously we've taken action to try and increase those cost savings on an annual basis.
CAMERON MCDONALD: And Grant, just to confirm that AUD100 million is in addition to the reduction in
depreciation and amortisation of the [AUD34 million]?

GRANT DEVONPORT: Correct.

CAMERON MCDONALD: Right, so --

BRIAN KRUGER: Cam, I think you're --

CAMERON MCDONALD: -- the EBITDA line rather than the EBIT line?

GRANT DEVONPORT: Correct.

CAMERON MCDONALD: Okay.

BRIAN KRUGER: So Cam, I think -- if I can just add one comment there. I think your observation is that the
market conditions -- historically Toll has been very, very good across most of its businesses in recovering
the impact of -- certainly focusing on cost improvements but recovering the inflationary impact on our costs
through changes in rates to our customers.

We are still doing that to some extent but the competitive environment and the general soft, relatively soft
market environment, has made that more difficult to do in recent years. And that's why the importance of
lifting the focus on cost-outs is absolutely critical and we've got to treat our focus on cost reductions like
that phenomenon about not being able to put -- just consistently year-on-year pass on rate increases to
customers is going to continue.

CAMERON MCDONALD: Just two more questions if I can. Grant, around the CapEx guidance, have you
fully funded the increased fleet for the Shell contract?

GRANT DEVONPORT: Yes, we have.

CAMERON MCDONALD: So is that -- that's the FY14 or would you incur that in FY15?

GRANT DEVONPORT: There was a small amount in FY2015 but just to clarify your comment around
CapEx guidance Cam, what I did say was around our sustaining capital investment returning to around the
level of depreciation. Obviously the area that we can't say is capital expenditure we put towards growth,
new contracts.

We'd like to think that that significantly increases in the new year as the market improves. So I was more
just talking about sustaining capital expenditure.

Page97of170©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CAMERON MCDONALD: Yes, okay. But just to confirm that the majority of the Shell fleet, tanker fleet that
you needed to acquire was actually a cash outflow in FY14 despite having the headline CapEx number
actually come backwards.

GRANT DEVONPORT: Yes. Well, that's new fleet so that would be in our growth CapEx, Cam, because
that was a new contract.

CAMERON MCDONALD: Yes, but if you go to the cash flow statement you're saying that net CapEx has
actually fallen.

GRANT DEVONPORT: Correct. So gross capital expenditure was obviously up, but through our
divestments we -- our now net capital expenditure reduced by AUD38 million.

CAMERON MCDONALD: Yes. Okay. No, that's great. And just lastly, on TOPS. You've initially -- I think
when you initially developed TOPS you did it to a plot ratio of just over the 50% mark. Is that now fully
leased and is there any earnings upside potential that would not require you to further develop that site?

BRIAN KRUGER: It's pretty well fully-leased. So as you know, Cam, we've got a number of single user
facilities on the site. In fact, the bulk of the facilities on the site are single-user buildings. They are
obviously all fully-tenanted.

We've got the two multi-user buildings which is the ramp-up warehouse and the office space are in the
mid-90s I think in terms of -- I'm just looking at David Jackson -- at the moment they're both in terms of
mid-90s in terms of that space that is being tenanted. So there's a little bit of upside there but not much.

The variability in earnings going forward to some extent will be driven by the amount of vessels that call at
the base and that's driven by the amount of oil and gas exploration and production activity going on in the
region. I'd say during last year the level of vessel calls has been around average, hasn't been particularly
high or particularly low, so I guess you could say there is some upside and downside from that particular
metric.
We're still looking at opportunities though to better utilise space on the site. So what do I mean by that?
We're using a lot of space on the site at the moment for lay-down areas that potentially could be more
productively used in building other facilities, but then we'll need to find another spot for lay-down areas.

So there are still some upside opportunities in terms of better utilising the space, but I think you said
without capital, it would require some additional capital investment obviously if we do some more
development on the site.

CAMERON MCDONALD: Presumably you --

BRIAN KRUGER: Sorry, that was a longwinded explanation. Hopefully it makes sense.

CAMERON MCDONALD: Yes. No, that's fine, but presumably you wouldn't be spending that capital
without having a contractual -- customer contract on the back end of that. You wouldn't actually be doing it
on --

BRIAN KRUGER: Yes, absolutely right. Absolutely right, yes.

CAMERON MCDONALD: Okay. No, that's great. Thanks, guys.

BRIAN KRUGER: Okay.

OPERATOR: Andrew Gibson, Goldman Sachs.

BRIAN KRUGER: Morning, Andrew.

ANDREW GIBSON, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Hi, guys. Just a couple of quick ones for you. Just first
of all, just cash or reconciliation highlights about AUD51 million on disposal of assets, and you've called
out about AUD34 million in significant items. So that suggests there's a few other components, so i.e. the
balance is not a significant item? Is that the correct way of interpreting that?
GRANT DEVONPORT: So of the -- so Andrew, I think you're talking about the sale of businesses
investments on the face of AUD57 million? Of that, AUD57 million, AUD47 million was in relation to the
sale of KSU in Japan and the property holding company in Hong Kong.

ANDREW GIBSON: Okay, I was just looking at the cash flow reconciliation back in the annual report. It's
suggesting profit on asset sales of AUD51 million and I'm just comparing that to the AUD34 million you've
called out in significant items.

Page98of170©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.GRANT DEVONPORT: Yes, so the profit, obviously we have profit on sales in relation to other fleet that we
-- in other properties that we would put into normal operating results. The reason we've called out
(inaudible) in KSU is because they are sales of businesses.

ANDREW GIBSON: Okay. I understood that you had profit on asset sales every year, so is the right way of
interpreting this to suggest that you've got another circa AUD16 million to AUD17 million above the line?

GRANT DEVONPORT: That sounds about right. I'll check that number for you, but that sounds about right.
ANDREW GIBSON: Sorry, another little niggly one, just on the restructuring costs of AUD44 million, did
they all relate to the second half initiatives, or was there some first half stuff in there as well?

BRIAN KRUGER: Predominantly the second half, so these were programs that were commenced in the
second half of the year.

ANDREW GIBSON: Okay. Then just on the projects, so on Gorgon, do you expect a flat-ish earnings
profile this financial year versus last? Or do you expect to see that starting to roll off this financial year?

BRIAN KRUGER: It'll definitely be starting to roll off this financial year, mate. As I said, I think I mentioned
earlier in response to one of the questions, we've started to see both in terms of the people we have
employed and the equipment we have on the island, we started to see a reduction in that from the peak
levels during fiscal 2014.

That will continue during fiscal 2015. We obviously respond to Chevron's requirements, so it's a little hard
to be exact with how that will happen, but certainly their expectation and ours would be that we will be
continuing to see a wind down in the work we're doing there during this year. As I said earlier, the goal is to
replace that, whether it's with Chevron or other customers, with more operationally based contracts and
we've already had some success in that area.

ANDREW GIBSON: Okay and then just another quick one on TOPS, again, you're suggesting that you're
at run rate now, but do we expect further earnings growth in 2015, just given that you maybe hit that sort of
capacity utilisation towards the back end of 2014, or was it pretty well there for most of 2014?

BRIAN KRUGER: Look, some small level of improvement, but certainly not the level that we saw in fiscal
2014.

ANDREW GIBSON: Are you roughly at that sort of 15% return that I think you alluded to a number of years
ago?

BRIAN KRUGER: Yes, it's consistent with our business case which is, in fact, probably a little bit better
than the original business case.

ANDREW GIBSON: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Adam Dobson, Macquarie.
SAM DOBSON, ANALYST, MACQUARIE GROUP: Hi guys, it's Sam Dobson. Just a couple of, or a
question on PGF, just wondering if you can talk through the investments that you're making there in people
and I guess the context there is, how we've seen gross profits per TEU, gross profit per tonne declining
now for the last three years and we're not seeing really an improvement in [the] capacity, particularly in
Asia. I'm just wondering what you think that will actually deliver.
BRIAN KRUGER: I'm sorry mate, I just missed the start of that question. Would you mind just repeating the
start of it for me?

SAM DOBSON: Sure. Just a follow up on PGF and the investment that you're making in people there. I
guess just wondering what you think the benefits will be given the fact that we're not seeing an
improvement in the capacity environment and we're now seeing gross profit per TEU and gross profit per
tonne declining over the last three years.
BRIAN KRUGER: Yes, okay, it's a good question. First of all, I'm not sure I agree with your conclusion
about GP per TEU and GP per kilogram of airfreight declining over the last three years. This is probably,
the most recent 12 month period, has been the first time we've actually seen the level fall in GP per TEU
and GP per kilogram of airfreight and I think we've put those numbers into the release. Prior years, we've
actually done a good job at maintaining the absolute level of gross profit dollars per each of those
measures. That's point number one.

Point number two is, it is, those measures are very much a function of capacity and the competitive
environment in the Global forwarding sector, so clearly we don't have a lot of control over those two issues,

Page99of170©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.other than being clever about which customers and which markets we target. So I expect those general --
we're not forecasting any change in the general conditions in the Global forwarding market, but our goal is
to target increasing our share in those sectors where we can generate higher GP per kilogram or per TEU.

I've talked about this earlier, but by way of example, a lot of our ocean freight at the moment is actually full
container load, where typically forwarders will earn a lower margin moving a full container of a customer's
product. Where we can increase our margin in that area is actually growing our share of the less than full
container load market, so actually adding some value through consolidating freight into containers. So
when we talk about bringing more people on, one of the areas of focus will be looking at that sort of
opportunity and trying to grow our share of that part of the market.
SAM DOBSON: Right and just to confirm, you said previously you think that roughly sort of a AUD5 million
investment, is that correct?
BRIAN KRUGER: It's actually less than that. We haven't given you the exact number, but I'm trying to let
you know we're not about to put on another 500 people into that business; it's a much smaller investment in
some, we hope, high quality sales and marketing people that can give us some GP growth in the right
areas.

SAM DOBSON: Yes. Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Carolyn Holmes, JP Morgan.

BRIAN KRUGER: I think we might have to make this one the last one, I think. So go ahead Carolyn.

CAROLYN HOLMES, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: Very small, short questions. Grant, the impact of
currencies on the results, do you have a number?
GRANT DEVONPORT: Yes, AUD5 million after tax. So we called out AUD3 million increase in net
interest and expense, so obviously AUD8 million impact at EBIT and AUD5 million at profit before tax.

CAROLYN HOLMES: Excellent and just finally, the associates profit in the second half was wonderful. Do
you expect that that's going to continue going forward?

GRANT DEVONPORT: Not something I could give you an answer on easily, Carolyn.

CAROLYN HOLMES: Well do you know what was driving the improvement in the second half? It went from
nearly nothing to AUD6 million and it's obviously a significant improvement.
GRANT DEVONPORT: Yes, we had improvement right across the board, so I called out Cargo Services
and Prixcar. I think we also had improved performance from our Toll dnata associate as well. So all of
them, all those three improved in the second half.

BRIAN KRUGER: Yes, obviously we'd like all three of them to continue to improve, but they, as Grant said,
that was really across the -- they're probably the three biggest investments I think we have in associates in
--

GRANT DEVONPORT: Plus Mermaid Marine.

BRIAN KRUGER: Oh Mermaid Marine, the Broome joint venture. So yes, amongst those, we saw
improvement in all of them; nothing material in any individual one, but they all contributed to the
improvement.

CAROLYN HOLMES: Great, thank you.

BRIAN KRUGER: Alright, thank you everyone again. I appreciate all the questions coming from on the
phone, everyone's attention for the morning and we'll talk to you all again soon. Thank you.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this
web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon
current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those
stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more
specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and
believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the
assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results
contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

Page100of170©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF
THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE
AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR
INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO
WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE
COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE
BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND
THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER
DECISIONS.]

CO tolhld : Toll Holdings Ltd | socal : Chevron Corporation
IN

i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | i77002 : Freight
Transportation Arrangement | icargo : Freight/Cargo Transport | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction | itsp :
Transportation/Shipping

NS c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content

Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin :
FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter

RE usa : United States | melb : Melbourne | sydney : Sydney | tasman : Tasmania | victor : Victoria (Australia) |

apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | namz : North America | nswals : New
South Wales

PUB CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
AN Document FNDW000020140821ea8i0002t

Page101of170©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.