Treasury thirsty for acquisitions

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Treasury thirsty for acquisitions

RICHARD GLUYAS, Beverages
537 words
22 August 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
19
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

TREASURY Wine Estates has met its profit guidance and is scouring the US for wine deals at its
favoured premium end of the market, as two potential private equity bidders continue due diligence at
the world’s second-biggest winemaker.

New chief executive Mike Clarke yesterday maintained a long Treasury tradition of asset writedowns,
with a well-flagged $280.6 million impairment charge, mainly related to 2011 pre-demerger
acquisitions, contributing to a $100.9m bottom-line loss.

However, Treasury’s $193m in EBITS (earnings before interest, tax and the accounting standard on
agriculture) in constant currency terms was within guidance range of $190m-$210m.

While Mr Clarke declined to offer any profit guidance for 2015, describing it as a reset year with a
range of initiatives underway, he said the troubled Australasian unit had bottomed, after recording a
9.4 per cent slump in volumes and a 31.5 per cent slide in EBITS to $75.1m. “I would hope there’s
upside from here,” he said.

Two separate bidders — Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and junior partner Rhone Capital, as well as TPG
Capital — have made $5.20-a-share indicative bids for Treasury, valuing the winemaker’s Penfolds,
Rosemount, Lindemans and other brands at $3.4 billion.

Mr Clarke and chief financial officer Tony Reeves are heading a small bid team, overseeing the due
diligence process and trying to ensure there’s minimal disruption to Treasury’s transformation plan.

But the Treasury chief made it clear yesterday that he had his own acquisition agenda, which is
largely focused on the premium end of the US market — the country’s fastest-growing category.

Acquisitions were possible, he said, but so were alliances.

“You can rest assured they will be financially accretive to the organisation, if we were to progress on
that front,” he said.

Citi analyst Gino Rossi said Treasury’s result was better than expected, but Australasia was still
struggling.

“The 2015 financial year is likely to be another difficult year for Treasury,” he said. “While the Penfolds
release will provide a significant boost to growth, the company is facing other headwinds.” Treasury
shares eased 13c to the indicative bid price of $5.20. At the troubled US business, EBITS increased
by 12.1 per cent to $74.9m, although on a constant currency basis it retreated 7 per cent to $80m.
Treasury revealed it hadn’t destroyed all the low-end commercial wine it had previously
foreshadowed, following inventory problems.

Page255of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Clarke said there were also opportunities to accelerate growth in Asia, particularly in north Asian
countries like China, Korea and Japan, where a shift in consumer preferences from beer to wine was
underway. In its home market, Treasury would concentrate on selling its premium range.

Overall, while volumes fell 6.4 per cent, there was a 7.9 per cent rise in net revenue per case to
$56.85, indicating that Treasury was selling less wine but at higher prices, in line with the strategy.Mr
Clarke said that people who were “outside looking in” at Treasury were supportive of the group’s
turnaround, and he wanted to implement it regardless of the company’s owner.

trzwn : Treasury Wine Estates Ltd
i426 : Wine | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge :
Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods
cacqu : Acquisitions/Mergers | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Shareholdings
| cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140821ea8m0000n

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page256of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.