GPM Metals Inc. announces signing of Earn-in Joint Venture Agreement with Rio Tinto Exploration Pty for the Walker Gossan Lead-zinc-Silver Project Northern Territory Australia

HD GPM Metals Inc. announces signing of Earn-in Joint Venture Agreement with Rio Tinto Exploration

Pty for the Walker Gossan Lead-zinc-Silver Project Northern Territory Australia

CR Distributed by Contify.com
WC 534 words
PD 27 January 2014
SN India Energy News
SC ATENER
LA
CY Copyright © 2014. Contify.com
LP

English

TD

New Delhi, Jan. 27 -- GPM Metals Inc. (TSXV:GPM) ("GPM") through its wholly owned subsidiary DPG
Resources Australia Pty Limited ("DPG") announces that it has entered into, an Earn-In/Joint Venture
Agreement with Rio Tinto Exploration Pty Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of Rio Tinto Limited ("Rio Tinto")
(NYSE: RIO); covering base metal exploration and development rights, in relation to certain granted
exploration tenements and tenement applications in McArthur Basin Mining District, Northern Territory,
Australia (The "Walker Gossan project").

GPM may increase its interest to 75% by completing a Feasibility Study within 3 years of completing Stage
One.

Rio Tinto may elect to contribute pursuant to its participating share, not contribute and be diluted or
convert its interest into a Net Smelter Return (2.5%) royalty.
There are rights of first refusal on purchase and sale of interest for both parties at fair market value.

GPM will be responsible for all negotiations with the Northern Land Council for consent to issue the
exploration licence applications and work programs to be conducted by GPM under its sole rights or as
operator.
DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY

The 166,000 hectare Walker Gossan project is located within the Walker Trough, a package of Middle
Proterozoic carbonate sediments, situated in Arnhem Land in the Northern Territory of Australia.
Geographical maps and geological setting illustrations are available on the company's web site.
(www.gpmmetals.ca/projects/australia).

The primary area of interest is the Walker Gossan. Gossanous outcrops with highly anomalous lead
values were discovered by CRA - Conzinc RioTinto of Australia (predecessor to Rio Tinto Limited) in 1970
and a tenement application was made to the Government of the Northern Territory in 1972. An agreement
under the Aboriginal Land Rights Act is required prior to grant of the tenement. To date the area has been
held under tenement application and no exploration has been undertaken within the 40 years which have
followed the discovery of the gossan.

The Walker Trough is part of an extensive Middle Proterozoic carbonate sequence which occurs from
South of Mount Isa through to Darwin over an area of approximately 600,000 square kilometres which
hosts one of the great metallogenic belts of the world.

The region includes a number of major silver, lead, zinc and copper deposits. These include the Mount
Isa, George Fisher and MacArthur River mines owned by Xstrata; the Cannington Silver Mine, regarded
as the largest silver mine in the world, owned by BHP; the Century zinc deposit, one of the largest zinc
mines in the world and owned by MMG Mining of China; and several other deposits.

The Walker Trough region was identified by the Northern Territory Geological Survey team as being a
direct analogy of the Pb-Zn endowed Batten Fault trough which contains the MacArthur River Zinc mine.
Further, it was considered the "hottest untested exploration play in The Northern Territory" in a 2004

Page190of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.publication of the Northern Territory Geological Survey.
"http://www.nt.gov.au/d/Minerals_Energy/Geoscience/Content/File/Docs/CORE/NTExplnOpportunities.pdf"

CO craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd | minsie : GPM Metals Inc. | rtz : Rio Tinto PLC | rtzcra : Rio Tinto Group
IN

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i2114 : Copper
Ore/Nickel Ore Mining
cnatrd : Natural Reserves/Resources Discovery | c22 : New Products/Services | c24 : Capacity/Facilities |
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | nterry : Northern Territory | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

NS

RE
PUB Athena Information Solutions Pvt. Ltd.
AN Document ATENER0020140128ea1r0006z

Page191of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.