For a century, the mansion sat above Sydney Harbor. Then China ’s nouveau riche arrived.; The construction of a 5-story concrete structure above Sydney Harbour shows clout of Chinese elite.

SE
HD

BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Foreign
For a century, the mansion sat above Sydney Harbor. Then China’s nouveau riche arrived.; The
construction of a 5-story concrete structure above Sydney Harbour shows clout of Chinese
elite.
By A. Odysseus Patrick
1,046 words
18 June 2014
Washington Post.com
WPCOM
English
Copyright 2014, The Washington Post Co. All Rights Reserved.

SYDNEY — In recent weeks, wrecking crews have embarked on a job that symbolizes the
international economic clout of the Chinese elite: razing an Australian mansion with stunning views of
one of the world's most picturesque harbors.

Craig-y-Mor, an elegant 106-year-old home owned over the years by several prominent Sydney
businessmen, was bought in 2008 by the son and daughter-in-law of a former senior member of the
Chinese Politburo for 32.4 million Australian dollars (about $30 million).

The new owners, Zeng Wei and Jiang Mei, sought permission to demolish the two-story brick house
and replace it, at a cost of $4.5 million, with a five-level modern concrete structure with huge windows.
The plan horrified some neighbors and government officials, who thought the new building would be
too big and unattractive. After the municipality refused to allow the demolition, Zeng's lawyers
appealed to a state judge, who overruled that decision.
From London to midtown Manhattan to Hong Kong's Victoria Peak, wealthy Chinese — often
connected to powerful political figures — are buying up some of the world's best real estate. Australia
relies on China to buy much of its two main exports, coal and iron ore. But many say there's a
downside to Chinese investment: surging property prices.

Even though Australia is sparsely populated, house prices in its biggest cities are comparable to those
in Washington, San Francisco and Paris.

Sydney's average house price rose 15 percent to the equivalent of $613,000 in the year ended March
31, according to RP Data-Rismark, a research firm. Apartments overlooking the city's famous Opera
House sell for more than $10 million. Many younger college-educated Australians find it impossible to
afford homes close to their workplaces without parental assistance.
"A generation of Australians are being priced out of the property market. Many face a lifetime of
renting," an analyst at investment bank Credit Suisse, Damien Boey, wrote in a recent note to clients.

Credit Suisse estimates that 18 percent of all new houses and apartments in Sydney are bought by
Chinese citizens. In Melbourne, the figure is 14 percent.

These figures are likely to rise. To stimulate the economy, the Australian government recently
expanded a program to grant permanent residency to foreigners prepared to invest at least 5 million
Australian dollars (about $4.6 million) in Australian businesses. Ninety percent of the applicants so far
are Chinese.
Concerns that Chinese buyers could be driving a property bubble are so widespread that the
Australian Parliament recently began an investigation into the possibility.
Research given to the inquiry by two academics found that people with Chinese surnames paid
slightly less than other buyers for similar houses and apartments in Sydney, suggesting they are tough
negotiators and aren't pushing up prices.

Page74of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Many Australians aren't convinced, according to submissions to the inquiry from the public.
"Widespread injustice will continue with Australians being outbid by foreigners on an uneven playing
field," a woman named Pat Sutton wrote to the investigators.
The concerns reflect a belief among many people that Chinese citizens are using cities such as
Sydney — an 111/2-hour flight from Beijing — to protect their wealth from theft or seizure by the
Chinese government.

Zeng and his wife may have had another reason to choose their new home apart from Australia's
strong defense of property rights and the 180-degree views of Sydney Harbor. Feng shui expert Gary
Khor recently told the Sydney Morning Herald that Point Piper, the wealthy suburb where Craig-y-Mor
is located, contains positive energy because it overlooks calm, moving water and has a hill to its rear.

Powerful ties

Little is known about Zeng's personal or professional life. His father is Zeng Qinghong, the vice
president of China from 2003 to 2008 and a player in the leadership maneuvering over the past
decade that led to the rise of President Xi Jinping.

Foreign Policy magazine reported in 2012 that Zeng Wei was involved in the clandestine privatization
of the state-owned Luneng power generating company, which had over $9 billion in net assets.

Zeng, who is reportedly in his mid-40s and has young children, didn't respond to a letter seeking
comment on the Sydney home. John Landerer, managing director of the law firm that represented him
in his dispute with the municipal council, declined to comment. The architect designing the new house,
Stephen Gergely, referred questions to a representative of the Zeng family, Gavan Slaughter, who also
did not comment.

Workers began demolishing the home last month, an event that was front-page news here.

"They are knocking down something that was modest and thoughtful and replacing it with something
that doesn't even have a thought in its head," said Elizabeth Farrelly, Sydney's most prominent
architecture critic, in an interview.
Bill Malouf, a veteran real estate agent whose firm brokered the sale of the house, said in an interview
that Craig-y-Mor wasn't in need of renovation. Chinese buyers prefer modern, symmetrical houses
lacking the ornate detail common to many of Sydney's grand older homes, he said. Views of the
Sydney's iconic Opera House and Harbor Bridge are important, he said.

"He was always going to do a major renovation," Malouf said of the buyer. "There was nothing wrong
with the house."
The construction site at Craig-y-Mor has now turned into a regular stop on the Chinese tourist circuit,
along with Bondi Beach and the Harbor Bridge.

"We get minivans every day and private cars on weekends," neighbor Bob Gilman, a California
businessman who has lived in China, said in an interview. "A Greyhound bus came one day."

Recently, a vehicle carrying tourists blocked Gilman's car. His Pennsylvania-born wife, Denise, asked
the driver — in Mandarin — to move it, prompting embarrassed tittering from the group. "They all want
to have their photos in front of the house that belongs to a famous Chinese official," she said.

foreign@washpost.com

RE

IPD
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | china : China | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales
world
Washington Post
Document WPCOM00020140617ea6h007sm

Page75of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.