Lowy family may benefit from Westfield split

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Commercial realestate
Lowy family may benefit from Westfield split

Carolyn Cummins
499 words
24 May 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
43
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

The next five weeks until the end of the current financial year are going to be busy, with agents and
fund managers of listed and unlisted trusts predicting a flurry of deals.
The biggest and most written about so far is the proposed demerger of the Westfield Group to form
Scentre in Australia and New Zealand and Westfield Corp for the northern hemisphere business.

Shareholders will vote on the deal next Thursday, May 29, and while the argy-bargy is still on between
some investors, the Australian Shareholders' Association and the company, the tone of the remaining
investors seems to be turning to a win for the Lowy family. The two main proxy advisory groups, CGI
Glass Lewis and ISS, have thrown their support behind the scheme, but the only vote that matters is
after 2pm on May 29.

Elsewhere, there is the battle between Stockland and Australand, which is also tipped to move
forward in the coming weeks.

There is talk in the market that Stockland's chief executive, Mark Steinert, is looking to make a big
divestment, possibly of the Waterfront Place office asset in Brisbane, to raise cash to alter the current
scrip offer.
Office assets such as those being sold by the Singapore Government Investment Corp, including 175
Liverpool Street, are expected to hit the market.

Already, a long line of buyers is showing interest in 52 Martin Place. Then there are the buildings in
the same area to be left vacant by Westpac in the coming years, which leasing agents say are also
being viewed by potential tenants.
On the listed real estate investment trust (REIT) market side, the sector is being traded well as a
safe-haven investment in times of economic uncertainty.

Brokers say the REIT index has performed well as local institutional investors by the trusts as a form
of a bond, as the trusts bring in the stable recurring income from rental revenue.
According to the Asia Pacific Real Estate Association, the REITs in Asia may be a good option for
gaining exposure to direct real estate, with the added advantage of liquidity and much lower
transaction costs.

A report by IPD and led by Bryan Reid, vice-president of IPD, which focuses on short-term linkage in
four key markets in the Asia-Pacific region (Australia, Japan, Hong Kong and Singapore), says there
are strong correlations to support the case for using the listed market to achieve some exposure to
commercial property during the last quarter of 2014.

Vale Sabina Rust

Page99of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The retail industry lost one of its brightest lights this week with the passing of Sabina Rust. Together
with her husband, Michael Lloyd, Rust was the co-founder and editor-in-chief of Shopping Centre
News, an industry must-have because of its Big Guns, Little Guns, CBD Guns and Mini Guns surveys.
She will be sorely missed.

ccummins@fairfaxmedia.com.au

CO
IN

RE
PUB
AN

aurhld : Australian Shareholders' Association | westgp : Westfield Group
i815020602 : Real Estate Investment Trusts | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150206 :
Investment Trusts/Funds | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv :
Investing/Securities | ireest : Real Estate
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140523ea5o0005s

Page100of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.