TVI’s Amazon Bay Iron Sands Joint Venture Partner to Enter into Deal for Plastics to Fuel Conversion Technology

HD

TVI’s Amazon Bay Iron Sands Joint Venture Partner to Enter into Deal for Plastics to Fuel
Conversion Technology

WC 824 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

13 November 2014
ENP Newswire
ENPNEW
English
(c) 2014, Electronic News Publishing. All Rights Reserved.

Release date - 12112014

TD

CALGARY - TVI Pacific Inc. (TSX: TVI) (OTCQX: TVIPF) announces that Foyson Resources Limited, a
company in which TVI holds a 20.04% equity interest and is TVI’s joint venture partner on the Amazon
Bay Iron Sands Project in Papua New Guinea, has entered into an agreement with Integrated Green
Energy Limited to acquire exclusive licenses to commercialize initially IGE’s plastics to fuel technology
and then its biomass to both fuel and energy conversion technologies.

As announced by Foyson, this agreement reflects their strategy of acquiring a cash flow project to assist
in funding development activities at the Amazon Bay Project.

Clifford James, President and Chief Executive Officer of TVI, stated: ‘Given that TVI holds a significant
stake in Foyson, we are pleased to see their intention to enter into a potential cash flowing business with
IGE, which could increase the value of our investment and represent a potential source of funding for our
Amazon Bay Iron Sands joint venture project.’
IGE is an Australian company with a focus on the development of its waste conversion technologies to
produce sustainable energy resources. The technologies are applicable to both processing
non-recyclable and waste plastics-to-fuels and for power generation in remote locations by processing a
hybrid biomass. IGE currently operates a semi-commercial demonstration plant producing industry
standard diesel suitable for use in conventional diesel engines.

As set out in the non-binding term sheet signed between Foyson and IGE in September 2014, Foyson
intends to acquire exclusive licenses to use IGE’s waste conversion technology in Australia, New
Zealand, China, North America, India, South East Asia, Papua New Guinea and Fiji. Secondly, Foyson
intends to acquire non-exclusive licenses to use IGE’s technology in other jurisdictions globally, with IGE
to grant no more than three licenses to any party in any jurisdiction.

Thirdly, Foyson intends to acquire IGE’s existing pilot-scale plastics to fuel conversion plant at Berkeley
Vale on New South Wales’ central coast. The intention of the term sheet is that Foyson will be required to
construct and operate new plants based on the existing Berkeley Vale plant over the next four years.

The term sheet also required Foyson to carry out two private placements with parties associated with IGE
for a total of 235 million shares. The first of these placements, involving a placement of 135 million
shares at $0.0025 per share, was completed in October 2014, resulting in TVI’s original equity interest of
23.01% being diluted to 20.04%.

The term sheet states that the remuneration to be paid by Foyson for IGE will be performance based. To
obtain the maximum remuneration in terms of Foyson shares and options, the operating facilities utilizing
the IGE technology must earn annual EBITDA in excess of $20 million.

In order to complete the arrangement, Foyson plans to undertake a consolidation of its share capital and
issue 70 million convertible performance shares and 70 million convertible performance options to IGE.
The performance securities will be issued to IGE in tranches, with the vesting conditions for each tranche
linked to each plant or new plant generating $5 million EBITDA per annum.

Page13of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The first tranche will be linked to the existing plant and has a performance period of two years from
completion of the IGE transaction. Each multiple of $5 million EBITDA generated will result in the vesting
of another tranche of performance securities.

About TVI Pacific Inc.
TVI Pacific Inc. is a Canadian resource company focused on the production, development, exploration
and acquisition of resource projects in the Philippines and Southeast Asia. TVI’s affiliate, TVIRD, in
which TVI holds a 30.66% indirect interest, has to date produced copper and zinc concentrates as well
as gold and silver from its Canatuan mine.
TVIRD has now commenced production of high-iron/low nickel ore at its Agata nickel DSO project and is
working towards completion of a Definitive Feasibility Study for an innovative nickel processing plant at
the Agata mine site. In addition, TVIRD continues to advance its Balabag Gold-Silver project towards
development.

In addition to retaining a 30.66% indirect interest in TVIRD and other Philippine subsidiaries, TVI
continues to directly hold (i) 20.04% equity interest in Foyson Resources Limited (‘Foyson’) (ii) a 14.4%
equity interest in Mindoro; (iii) its 10% interest in the Amazon Bay Iron Sands project (for which the
exploration license is held by Titan Mines Limited, a company in which Foyson holds 50% shareholding
and has an option to acquire the remaining 50%) and (iv) its 100% investment in shares of TG World
Energy Corp.

Contact:

Shirley Anthony Investor Relations TVI Pacific Inc. Tel: 778.999.2771 Email:
shirley.anthony@tvipacific.com

[Editorial queries for this story should be sent to newswire@enpublishing.co.uk]

CO
IN

NS

travv : TVI Pacific Inc | wndbul : Foyson Resources Ltd.
irenewf : Renewable Energy Facility Construction | i502 : Heavy Construction | i5020044 : Power Station
Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm :
Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c184 : Joint Ventures | npress : Press Releases | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions |
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Electronic News Publishing Ltd.
AN

Document ENPNEW0020141113eabd000kl

Page14of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.