Australia : YANCOAL plan for Moolarben mine expansion approved by NSW

Australia : YANCOAL plan for Moolarben mine expansion approved by NSW

HD
WC 400 words
PD
23 June 2014
SN Mena Report
SC MENREP
LA
CY
LP

English
© 2014 Al Bawaba (Albawaba.com). Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com Company

TD

Yancoal s plan to expand its operations at the Moolarben mine situated within the Western coalfields is
approved by the NSW Planning Assessment Commission (PAC) in Australia. The company with the
Stage 1 Modification 9 approval will be able to extract an additional 30 million tons of run of mine (ROM)
coal over the life of the mine. Yancoal possesses 80% stake in the mine, which at present runs at a
capacity of eight million tons per annum. The Stage 1 project comprises three open cut mines - OC1,
OC2 and OC3, one underground mine (UG4), a coal handling and preparation plant (CHPP), in addition
to a raw and product coal stockpiles, a rail loop and rail loader and office and workshop support facilities.
The Moolarben Stage 2 project subject to regulatory approval, would double production and increase
Yancoal's production by more than 25% over five years. The stage 2 project includes one open cut (OC4),
two underground coal mines (UG1 and UG2), and additional infrastructure.

On reaching full production, the coal complex is likely to produce 17 million tons per annum of ROM coal,
and employ 450 people. Chinese coal miner, Shenhua, and Russian technology and manufacturing
corporations, Rostec, has signed a MoU regarding prospects of joint development of coal deposits in
Siberia and the Far East , the companies said in a press statement. Andrei Korobox, CEO of RT-Global
Resources, a subsidiary of Rostec, and Shao Tzuntze, the chairman of the board of directors of Shenhua
International signed the MOU. As per to the statement, the two companies plan to work on the
development of the Ogodzhinsky coal deposit in the Amur region, as well as on the construction of the
coal maritime terminal Port Vera in Primorsky region. RT-Global Resources earlier this month, decided to
join the port construction project and to act as the project coordinator. The Russian company has in
addition signed an agreement with the Amur region authorities on cooperation in the integrated
development Ogodzhinsky field. Gerbikan-Ogodzhin Coal Basin is situated in the Amur region with the
total estimated coal reserves 1.6 billion tonne. The development of the field was included in the Russian
government s programme to develop the country s coal industry, as well as in a memorandum of
understanding and cooperation signed between China and Russia in 2010.

CO yaptyl : Yancoal Australia Limited | yankua : Yankuang (Group) Corp | ynzmn : Yanzhou Coal Mining Co

IN

NS

RE

Ltd
i5020017 : Harbor Construction | i502 : Heavy Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | i112 : Coal Mining Support Activities | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
cpartn : Partnerships/Collaborations | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
russ : Russia | austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | eeurz : Central/Eastern
Europe | eurz : Europe | ussrz : CIS Countries

IPD Minerals and Mining
PUB Al Bawaba.com, Inc.
AN

Document MENREP0020140623ea6n003if

Page71of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.