No Shale-Gas Revolution Yet for Australia; Pumping Viable Quantities of Fuel Will Take Time, Due to Varying Geological Conditions

SE
HD

BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
ED
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
No Shale-Gas Revolution Yet for Australia; Pumping Viable Quantities of Fuel Will Take Time,
Due to Varying Geological Conditions
By Ross Kelly
682 words
26 September 2014
03:33
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Don't expect Australia to join the ranks of shale-gas producers world-wide anytime soon.
According to the country's third-biggest oil-and-gas company, Santos Ltd ., it could take up to a
decade for reserves of the fuel locked up in the Australian Outback to be pumped out in viable
quantities.

Shale gas has become a booming business in the U.S., thanks to new technology enabling the
commodity to be economically extracted from dense underground rock formations. An abundance of
the fuel has led to its selling more cheaply than imports of more traditional types of energy.

Shale gas now accounts for more than a third of the natural gas used in the U.S., and has given the
economy a boost by enabling households and industrial users to cut their fuel bills.

The success of the U.S. producers has inspired companies elsewhere to look at extracting the fuel.
But replicating the boom in other countries such as Australia will take time because of the need to
procure expensive equipment for drilling and extraction, and due to varying geological conditions.

Australia has large shale-gas formations similar in size to the Marcellus and Bakken formations in the
U.S., but producers are still in the early stages of testing if their geological properties are similar
enough to support commercial production.

"It all seemed to happen very quickly in the U.S., but the science behind it wasn't developed
overnight," said James Baulderstone , head of unconventional gas at Santos, in an interview. China,
too, has struggled to develop its own vast shale-gas reserves, as producers confront rough terrain and
poor infrastructure.

Australia has been experiencing a gas boom, but one underpinned by the discovery of conventional
resources in deep waters off its northwestern coastline. Another new source is gas trapped onshore in
coal seams on the country's eastern coast.

Shale gas is a different variety of unconventional fuel trapped in rock formations typically found
thousands of meters underground.

The cost of producing shale gas in Australia is likely to be higher than for other resources, because of
the need to acquire technology to undertake the complicated process of smashing the rocks open with
sand, chemicals and water in a process known as hydraulic fracturing, or fracking.

"We need to make sure we have the right technology, and understand the nature of the shale-gas
resource," Mr. Baulderstone said. "We're in the learning phase now for the next 5-10 years."
He said demand for new sources of domestic energy supply would intensify as conventional
resources diminish in more mature production hubs such as the Cooper Basin in central Australia,

Page45of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.which supplies much of the eastern and southern parts of the country. The development of
unconventional types of gas would become increasingly necessary by around 2020 to offset the
decline in the Cooper Basin, he said.

The country still has untapped conventional natural-gas resources, like the Browse basin offshore
northwestern Australia, but much of the recently discovered fields have been earmarked for exports to
Asia if and when they are developed.
Mr. Baulderstone said coal-seam-gas production, particularly in New South Wales state, may help
take up the slack from about 2018 for the following five or six years. Shale gas production in the
Cooper Basin itself could form a third wave of production.

The pace of that evolution may be influenced by factors such as fluctuating demand for natural-gas
exports from producers of liquefied natural gas, or LNG, and environmental regulations governing
coal-seam gas extraction in New South Wales.

Two years ago, Santos said it had sold a small quantity of shale gas from its Moomba-191 well,
without disclosing the cost of producing it. Chevron Corp . is also active in the sector, last year
agreeing to pay up to US$349 million for a stake in Beach Energy Ltd .'s central-Australian shale-gas
prospects.

sants : Santos Ltd
ifrack : Fracking | i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300002 : Oil Exploration | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | iexplo : Natural Gas/Oil Exploration | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction | imet :
Mining/Quarrying | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cnatrd : Natural Reserves/Resources Discovery | gpol : Domestic
Politics | c24 : Capacity/Facilities | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Business
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document WSJO000020140925ea9p006vd

CO
IN

NS

RE
IPD
PUB
AN

Page46of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.