Precinct primed to sell

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Precinct primed to sell

BUSINESS PROPERTY WITH MARTIN RASINI
591 words
23 May 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
61
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

PARTIES that last year invested some $15 million in Southport Central retail property have begun
releasing outlets to the market as the Southport business hub rides a wave of resurging interest.

The 13 outlets are at the base of Southport Central Tower 2 and each has recently undergone an
upgrade.

They are available in one line or individually in an offers to purchase campaign closing on June 19
that is managed by Lian Lee and Wayne Devenport, of Ray White Commercial Southport, and David
Liu, of Neptune Realty.

The tenancies are on a single title and it is understood the groundwork is done for strata-titling which
will occur if that is where interest lies.
Ray White Surfers Paradise Group commercial property director Greg Bell said strong, solicited
interest in the outlets — particularly from superannuation funds — as well as Southport’s
infrastructure-driven renaissance had prompted the owners to act.

He said they had rejected a long-term lease offer from a federal government department, opting
instead to undertake a sales campaign.

“They believe the planets have aligned and the Southport CBD is once again the place to be, thanks to
factors such as the light-rail system, Broadwater Parklands and plans for a China Town precinct,” Mr
Bell said.

“They tested the leasing waters but found there was stronger interest from prospective buyers,
motivated by the improving economy and Southport’s revival as a major business centre.” The
tenancy’s title is held by company GCPI, linked to Asian and Dubai interests, which bought it from
receivers in early 2013 for $2.8 million.
The parties in June last year outlaid about $13 million to secure the remaining 39 unsold Southport
Central retail outlets, at the base of Tower 2 and Tower 3.
Mr Bell said demand for retail property on the Gold Coast was growing. “End-users haven’t had a
great deal of choice, especially for premises that are central, modern and relatively new,” he said.

“We expect a strong response from owner-occupiers who recognise the revitalisation that is occurring
in Southport and move to secure a position in the area’s premier retailing hub.

“Record low interest rates have brought this option within reach of more and more business owners,
for whom buying is a better investment than leasing.
“The campaign presents an opportunity for business owners to secure a stake in what is undoubtedly
the standout retail precinct of the city’s most promising suburb.” Mr Bell said Southport Central had

Page131of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.become the epicentre of CBD activity in Southport and was experiencing daily foot traffic from 4500
people.

“Southport’s retail heart has switched from the mall to Southport Central,” he said.
“Southport is the Gold Coast’s latest hotspot thanks to the wealth of major improvements that are
happening or in the pipeline.” Five of the tenancies are leased while the remainder range from 37sq m
to an 847sq m space that is ideal for a boutique supermarket or food emporium.
In addition to its retail precinct, Southport Central has more than 600 apartments and 30,000sq m of
office suites.

It fronts Scarborough, Lawson and Garden streets and is on the route of the city’s light-rail system.
Major recent property deals in Southport include the sales of three large development sites to
Chinese buyers.Mr Bell said the sales campaign foreshadowed an impending spike in construction of
highrise apartment buildings as Southport continued to cement its position as a residential hotspot.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

ereal : Real Estate Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020140522ea5n0001p

Page132of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.