China 's uneasy manufacturing sector keeps investors on edge

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
China's uneasy manufacturing sector keeps investors on edge

Max Mason
692 words
25 January 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
10
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

STOCKS

The Australian sharemarket fell for the third consecutive week, following a surprise increase in
inflation and an indicator showing China's manufacturing sector contracted for the first time in six
months.

The ASX200 slipped 22.1 points, or 0.4 per cent, to 5240.9 on Friday, taking its losses for the week
to 65 points, or 1.2 per cent. The broader All Ordinaries lost 21.2, or 0.4 per cent, to finish Friday's
session at 5254.3.
On Thursday, the HSBC-Markit Flash Purchasing Managers' Index, a survey of China's factories, fell
to 49.6 for January, slipping under the key reading of 50, which indicates expansion. This came after
data on Wednesday showed Australian consumer prices had risen 0.8 per cent in the final quarter of
last year, fanning talk of an interest rate rise later this year.
"The China data seems to be playing out with some volatility. That looks set to stay with us for
another week or so, going into the Chinese new year. That seems to have been a negative
sentiment globally," Equity Trustees chief investment officer George Boubouras said.
However, one month's data was not indicative of an abrupt slowdown in China. "The [International
Monetary Fund] is still quite comfortable with robust China growth around 7.5 per cent, and 7.3 per
cent next year," he said.

Among the sectors, IT stocks were the worst performers for the week, dropping 3.5 per cent. Material
finished 2 per cent lower, while consumer discretionary lost 1.9 per cent.

"Heading into reporting season for February ... it is pretty clear the early signs are that discretionary
retailers, right across the board, are not seeing the benefits [of an improving global economy],
therefore the domestic economy will not be able to sustain high cash rates in the year ahead," Mr
Boubouras said.

Industrials was the only sector to finish higher, rising 0.4 per cent.

Mixed corporate earnings from the United States also weighed on the local bourse. The Dow Jones
Industrial Average particularly suffered, with three consecutive days of losses up to Thursday.

"A lot of eyes are on the US reporting season, which although looks ... somewhat better than
analysts are going for, I've been a bit underwhelmed by some of the results," BBY private client
adviser Henry Jennings said.

Locally, Mr Jennings was expecting weak results for reporting season: "This reporting season, I think
we're going to see the word 'challenging' used quite extensively."

Page205of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.One of the biggest movers this week, shares in The Reject Shop plummeted 31.6 per cent after the
discount retailer reported comparable sales were flat in the final quarter of last year, despite opening
33 stores in the first half.

The result follows disappointing figures from Super Retail Group last week, which saw its stock fall 14
per cent.
Santos reported better than expected sales revenue, but doubts remain over the oil and gas
producer's flagship Gladstone LNG project, with investors worried Santos may not have enough
onshore gas to fill the processing capacity at the project. For the week, shares dropped 4.6 per cent
to $13.85.

Shares in Insurance Australia Group finished the week 2.1 per cent lower at $5.60, after Australia's
biggest general insurer warned of lower than expected revenue increases. The company had
previously advised a 5 per cent to 7 per cent rise in premiums, but lowered that to 3 per cent to 5 per
cent, as increased competition forces premiums down.

Despite record production figures, BHP Billiton shares ended the week 2.2 per cent lower at $37.04.
Iron ore production from the miner's Pilbara operations reached a record 98 million tonnes in the
first half of last year.

Defying the general market trend, Newcrest shares rose for the week, up 3.2 per cent to $9.48.
Newcrest reported it had produced more than 1.2 million ounces of gold this year, and was
continuing to reduce its costs of production.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140124ea1p0004y

Page206of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.