Australia’s Crown International Woos Indonesian Investors

Business

SE
HD Australia’s Crown International Woos Indonesian Investors
WC 667 words
PD 6 April 2014
SN The Jakarta Globe
SC JGLOBE
LA
English
CY Copyright 2014. PT Jakarta Globe Media.
LP

TD

Sydney-based property company Crown International Holdings is seeking to raise Rp 1.5 trillion ($134.6
million) by attracting Indonesia’s elite to invest in property in Australia. Crown, founded by
Indonesian-born businessmen Iwan Sunito, who is the chief executive, and Paul Sathio, is targeting to
raise A$1 billion ($924.3 million) globally this year to fund its future projects in Sydney, Melbourne and
Brisbane. Iwan said Australia has great investment potential, with Crown’s apartments seeing 15 percent
to 20 percent annual growth in price. “Crown is known for its prime development," Iwan said. “In particular,
Sydney is lacking apartment supply with a backlog of about 10,000 units." Iwan also expects demand to
increase in line with moneyed students coming to Australia. “It’s estimated that 500,000 students will come
to Australia annually in 2020, up from 400,000 now. Those students are likely to buy apartments and
invest here," he said.

China is also one of the biggest potential buyers, with the country’s state-owned enterprises expanding
abroad, Iwan said. “Investing in Australia is more predictable, as the country is stable economically and
politically. We can also tailor the investment to match the client’s needs in term of risk and return," said
Prisca Edwards, Crown’s head of transactions in the Australasian region. According to Edwards few
financial institutions have expressed interest in the company’s global investment fund and the company
will be pursuing private individuals to meet its fundraising goals. Crown currently has A$3 billion worth of
projects currently under construction or awaiting construction. The company’s Sydney projects include
Skye by Crown, a 20-floor apartment in North Sydney, V by Crown, a 27-storey residential tower in
Parramatta, Viking by Crown, a 10-floor apartment complex in Waterloo and Top Ryde City Living, a
seven-tower apartment complex in Top Ryde. Edwards said the investment return for individual investors
can be tailored to each investor’s need, in term of the return payment period and risks. For an investor with
a short-term view, Edwards recommends Skye by Crown, in which the company has only nine units left
for sale from 242 units offered. “Buying into Skye is very low risk, as we’ve almost sold all units," Edwards
said. Construction of Skye’s project will start this week and is expected to finish in 18 months. After the
project is completed, investors will have their money returned with some yield, making it ideal for a
short-term investment, Edwards said. Australian property buyers must only pay 10 percent of the
property price for a down payment. The down payment is then locked in a separate trust fund and the
company must use funds from its own capital, bank loans, or investment from third parties to complete the
construction. Developers receive full payment from buyers after the construction is finished. Such
schemes ensure that a developer will complete its project, providing greater protection for buyers.
Investors can also gauge the soundness of their investment in the apartment project simply by looking at
the number of units sold. In Indonesia it is a different story; where sometimes developers require full
payment from buyers to fund their project construction. It is not rare for Indonesian apartment
developments to end midway through construction with the developer filing for bankruptcy, with both
investors and buyers losing their money. Several Indonesian clients have shown interest to invest in
Crown global investment fund, Edwards said. Crown also offers options for investors with a medium-term
view. “We are acquiring some new land. These new areas will take three to four years to develop as we
have to secure permits," she said. Established in 1996, Crown is now one of the largest developers in
Australia. Edwards says Crown is known for its iconic and award winning apartment developments in
Sydney. The Jakarta Globe was invited to Sydney by Crown International last week.

IN
NS
RE

i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | indon : Indonesia | queensl : Queensland | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz
: Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | nswals : New South Wales | seasiaz : Southeast Asia

Page247of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB PT Jakarta Globe Media
AN Document JGLOBE0020140406ea4600003

Page248of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.