China FTA not a game-changer: Rabobank

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

China FTA not a game-changer: Rabobank

Mark Beyer
679 words
10 December 2014
Business News
WABN
English
© Copyright 2014 Business News Pty Ltd.

Australia's free trade agreement with China is likely to deliver significant benefits to agricultural
exporters but the gains will be mainly indirect and apparent over the longer term, a report by Rabobank
has concluded.

The specialist agribusiness bank has downplayed some of the optimism flowing from last month's
signing of the FTA, saying it would not be a game-changer.

It noted that Chinese demand for agricultural products has grown significantly in recent years in the
absence of an FTA.
China is Australia's largest export market for wool, cotton, mutton and dairy, the 2nd largest for lamb,
the 3rd largest for beef and 4th largest for wine (on a volume basis).
Rabobank said the initial winners from the FTA would be Chinese consumers, who would gain from
lower prices as import tariffs were removed.

"Benefits are also likely to be captured at the strongest points along the supply chain, where
concentration and market power allow price maker advantage," its report said.

Rabobank said producers would still benefit in the form of higher market share, as Australian products
become more price competitive relative to other exporters.

"This will become increasingly important in stimulating demand in this nascent market, which then has
the potential to feed into higher global prices," it said.
"The question then becomes one of the propensity of Chinese consumers to keep purchasing more,
and the capacity of Australian producers to produce more to meet this demand."
Rabobank said supply constraints would be a particular challenge in the dairy sector.
Chinese demand for dairy produce is tipped to grow by 3.5 per cent per year, presenting a big
opportunity, whereas Australian liquid milk production has been decreasing for the last 12 years and
flat for the past five years.

Milne AgriGroup owner Grahm Laitt, who established a joint venture with Gina Rinehart's Hancock
Prospecting this year targeting beef exports to Asia, said the industry had seen opportunities in China
well before the FTA.
"The reality is that the Chinese herd is declining," he said.

"There are other suppliers, but there are also lots of other markets."
Mr Laitt said the FTA would improve trade sentiment with China.

"It says they are open to trade, and that encourages relationships to develop; we shouldn't
underestimate how important that is."

Page182of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Laitt said the biggest barriers to trade were often institutional, around issues like quarantine
clearances and government approvals.
He noted, for instance, that Harvey Beef is the only abattoir in WA that is licenced to export to China.
Mr Laitt's joint venture involved the sale of a 50 per cent interest in the Liveringa and Nerrima cattle
stations in the Kimberley, for $40 million.

The Liveringa Station Beef joint venture has also acquired a mothballed abattoir at Waroona south of
Perth, which will re-open after its beef herd has increased in size.
Like Mrs Rinehart, Fortescue Metals Group chairman Andrew Forrest is another iron ore miner
investing in the cattle industry.
Mr Forrest's private company Minderoo paid $30 million for Harvey Beef this year, adding to his
extensive Pilbara pastoral interests.

Another significant development this year was the signing of a joint venture between Bunbury meat
processor V&V Walsh and Chinese importer Grand Farm.
Their agreement, valued at $1 billion, could see the Walsh business, owned by brothers Greg and
Peter Walsh, process an extra 500,000 lambs and 30,000 cattle a year.
In the dairy sector, Hancock Prospecting announced plans last month to invest $500 million buying
5,000 hectares of farm land in Queensland and building an export-focused processing plant.

Hope Dairies, majority owned by Hancock Prospecting, plans to process 30,000 metric tonnes,
equivalent to 35 million tins, of infant formula per year, and begin exporting in late 2016.

"Australia has some of the finest agricultural products in the world and we need to position ourselves to
meet the demands of our region," Mrs Rinehart said in a statement after signing the Hope Dairies
agreement.

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

i412 : Animal Slaughtering/Processing | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood
: Food Products
c184 : Joint Ventures | c312 : External Markets | gtrade : Tariffs/Trade Barriers | mlvstk : Livestock/Meat
Markets | e512 : Physical Trade | c18 : Ownership Changes | c31 : Marketing/Markets | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic
News | gcat : Political/General News | gdip : International Relations | gpir : Politics/International
Relations | m14 : Commodity Markets | m141 : Agricultural Commodity Markets | mcat :
Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion
Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Business News Pty Ltd
Document WABN000020141210eaca000gp

Page183of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.