Aquila in play as Baosteel loses patience

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Aquila in play as Baosteel loses patience

SARAH-JANE TASKER TAKEOVERS
709 words
6 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
19
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

CHINA’S Baosteel has launched a surprise $1.4 billion bid for Aquila Resources, teaming up with
Brisbane-based freight giant Aurizon and saying it has lost patience with the progress being made on
the miner’s key iron ore asset.
The state-owned giant, one of China’s leading iron ore and steel producers, advised Aquila’s executive
chairman Tony Poli of its $3.40-a-share offer on Saturday morning before deciding to go direct to
shareholders yesterday. The market reacted positively, sending Aquila’s shares 36.27 per cent higher at
$3.34.

The deal, if it passes several hurdles, is set to deliver a significant windfall to Mr Poli, who could receive
about $404.9 million for his 28 per cent stake.
Baosteel Resources vice-president and chief financial officer Wu Yiming said the company, which has
a stake of about 20 per cent in Aquila, took a position in the company in 2009 to assist the
development of its iron ore and coal projects.
The jewel in the crown is the $7.4bn West Pilbara iron ore project in Western Australia and the Eagle
Downs coking coal project in Queensland.

“After five years we haven’t seen any projects started. We have been very patient but we have become
frustrated,” Ms Wu said. “What we are going to do now is get things started. If our bid is successful our
intention is to progress development of the Eagles Downs and West Pilbara iron ore project.” Ms Wu
said the company had approached the Aquila board over the weekend but was not successful in
meeting with them so instead decided to release the bid to allow shareholders to judge it. “We are still
open to constructive dialogue between the bidders and the board of Aquila,” she said.
Success in the offer would substantially increase China’s direct participation in the Pilbara industry,
dominated by Rio Tinto, BHP Billiton and Fortescue Metals Group.
Mining analyst at Baillieu Holst, Adrian Prendergast, said the move on Aquila would give Baosteel a
“solid foothold in the Pilbara in terms of both acreage and potential to develop an independent
infrastructure network” to that run by Rio, BHP and Fortescue.

Aquila, which has appointed Goldman Sachs as its adviser, said that since 2009 it had numerous
confidential discussions with Baosteel about its potential direct participation in the West Pilbara project.

“However, the unsolicited proposal, to acquire control of Aquila, is a new development,” Continued on
Page 22 Continued from Page 19 Aquila said in a statement. Aquila jointly owns the West Pilbara
project with resources private equity house AMCI. AMCI is a jointly owned subsidiary of AMCI
International (51 per cent) and POSCO (49 per cent).
AMCI said last night it was committed to the iron ore project and had no plans to sell its interest. “We
consider the joint bid provides a credible pathway to development of the project,” AMCI Capital chief
executive Harris Antoniou said.

Page177of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Aquila and AMCI have been in dispute over the budget for the iron ore project, which has been on a
“go slow”.

The bidders said that Aquila shares had not closed above the offer price since May 2012, adding that
the $3.40 offer was a “significant premium” to the market value of Aquila’s underlying operating assets.
The parties said they considered the likelihood of a counter bidder emerging with a superior offer as
“low”.
Australia’s largest rail freight operator, Aurizon, will emerge with a 15 per cent stake in Aquila and head
up the infrastructure arm to develop the rail and port to support the iron ore project, if the bid succeeds.
Aurizon chief executive Lance Hockrdige said it was a genuine partnership with Baosteel that
underpinned a nation-building project: “We believe in Baosteel we have a world-class customer and
partner. A partner who needs the iron ore.” The bid requires no Chinese regulatory approvals or
funding conditions. The deal, however, is still dependent on receiving approval from the Foreign
Investment Review Board.Aquila has advised its shareholders to take no action, saying that it had
formed an independent board subcommittee to consider and evaluate the bid.

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

baois : Shanghai Baosteel Group Corp | dorval : Aurizon Mines Ltd | hclamn : Hecla Mining Co
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | imet : Mining/Quarrying |
ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining | isteel : Steel Production
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | reqrmm : Suggested Reading Metals/Mining | redit : Selection of Top
Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140505ea560005d

Page178of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.