Mr Xi takes a trip to Tasmania

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Mr Xi takes a trip to Tasmania

733 words
19 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
40
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

International relations China's President got a sales pitch from an unlikely source when he visited
our southernmost state, writes Tony Walker.
China's President Xi Jinping came to Tasmania, he saw and he prompted a stream of superlatives
from his hosts, including ubiquitous West Australian Andrew Forrest who was on hand to welcome
his "friend".

Warming up a crowd at a forum organised by the state investment promotion authority TasInvest,
Forrest told an audience of business people, "Xi is a guy who, if he says he's going to do
something, he's going to do it."

This was a prelude to an enthusiastic sales job on Tasmania by Forrest who could hardly have
been further away from his natural habitat in the mining precincts of the Pilbara.

"This is a fabulous, fabulous opportunity for Tasmania," said Forrest, who was a co-signatory to the
agriculture co-operation agreement with China in Canberra on Monday.

"There's not a square inch of the state you couldn't use for eco-tourism, agriculture or industry.

"I'd like to say this is an economic turning point for Tasmania,'' Forrest added.

His address was greeted enthusiastically by several hundred attendees, including representatives
of Chinese companies.
In the audience, former Tasmanian MP and president of the Australia China Council Warwick
Smith gave Forrest a high five after he finished speaking.

It was that sort of day in a state that found itself – unusually – at the centre of attention by virtue of a
brisk visit by Xi and his wife Peng Liyuan, who arrived in an Air China presidential jet a day after
the Chinese president's historic address to the Australian Parliament.
The centrepiece of Xi's Canberra visit was the signing of a free trade agreement between China
and Australia, and a declaration by Xi that Beijing was elevating its relationship with Australia to
that of a comprehensive strategic partnership.

Tasmania hopes the FTA will help boost exports and stimulate investment in a state that has been
lagging behind its mainland counterparts.
Tasmania exported $644 million worth of goods and services to China in 2012-13, double that of
its next biggest export destination, the United States. Half of the exports to China were foodstuffs.

Several commercial agreements were signed to coincide with Xi's presence, including one between
Hydro Tasmania and the Shenhua Group to build and install 10 wind turbines using Chinese
technology.

Page39of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.With his visit to Tasmania, Xi was honouring a pledge he had made to former premier Lara
Giddings, who had extended an invitation when she met Xi in 2013 soon after he became
president.
China's leader was greeted at the airport by flag-waving schoolchildren. He was presented with a
purple lavender-smelling bear named Bobbie, then whisked to Scotch Oakburn College where he
met Year 5 students who had written to him in Mandarin.

Xi's program included an encounter with three Tasmanian Devil pups – Bella, Possum and Lulu –
and lunch at Hobart's Government House where he sampled Tasmanian whisky and dined on
abalone, regarded as a delicacy in China.

Then followed a visit to the Hobart waterfront for a signing ceremony of a memorandum of
understanding to expand scientific co-operation between Australian and Chinese scientists in the
Antarctic.

Prime Minister Tony Abbott and Environment Minister Greg Hunt were on hand for the signing. Xi
described scientific exchanges as a "bright spot'' in the relationship.

Out on the Derwent, river protesters had other ideas. A spokeswoman was quoted by the ABC as
saying, "We are here to ask him to please support marine reserves in the Antarctic."
The protesters were demonstrating against Chinese resistance to expanding marine reserves.
Business was not neglected in a day when Tasmania put itself on show for a powerful Chinese
visitor.

At the TasInvest conference, speakers including Bank of America Merrill Lynch economist Saul
Eslake and chairman of Tourism Australia Geoff Dixon talked up Tasmania as a source of
good-quality foodstuffs, and as a tourist destination.

Dixon told The Australian Financial Review Tasmania could look forward to increasing numbers of
Chinese who were increasingly looking for pristine destinations.

"Tasmania has really got what the world wants,'' he said. He noted a recent Tourism Authority
survey, which found Australia ranked first among 15 countries for its food and wine sold to China.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gpol : Domestic Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations
austr : Australia | china : China | tasman : Tasmania | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141118eabj0000s

Page40of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.