China Bolsters Economic Ties With Australia

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business/Financial Desk; SECT
China Bolsters Economic Ties With Australia

By REUTERS
831 words
18 November 2014
The New York Times
NYTF
The New York Times on the Web
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.

CANBERRA, Australia -- China and Australia on Monday sealed a trade agreement that significantly
expands ties between Asia's largest economy and one of Washington's closest allies in the region.
Separately, China said on Monday that it was giving Australia more access to its capital markets and
allowing it to clear renminbi stock trades, measures that would bolster Beijing's efforts to free
Chinese financial markets and promote global use of its currency, the renminbi.

The trade deal will open up Chinese markets to Australian farm and service-sector exports while
easing limits on Chinese investment in resource-rich Australia.

Prime Minister Tony Abbott and President Xi Jinping signed a memorandum of understanding for the
agreement at a ceremony in Parliament in Canberra.

Mr. Abbott, who has also signed trade agreements in the past year with Japan and South Korea, said
of the agreement, ''This has been a 10-year journey, but we have finally made it.''

Mr. Xi praised the deal in an address to Parliament, pledging to deepen cooperation with Australia
while reaffirming China's willingness to resolve territorial disputes with its neighbors through
diplomatic means.

''As long as we have our long-term and the larger interests in mind, increase positive factors and
remove obstacles, we will certainly forge a closer and more comprehensive strategic partnership
between us,'' he said.
China is already Australia's top trading partner, with bilateral trade of around $130 billion in 2013.
Australia needs China's help in making the transition from exports based on minerals like coal and
iron ore to others like food and agricultural products directed at Asia's growing middle class.

Paul Bloxham, an economist at HSBC, said in a research note that the agreement ''should help to
support Australia's great rebalancing act, from mining investment-led growth towards the nonmining
sectors of the economy.''

Once the agreement is fully carried out, 95 percent of all Australian exports will enjoy duty-free entry
into China, Australia said.

Washington and Beijing have competing visions for free trade in the Asia-Pacific region, with the
United States pushing its 12-country Trans-Pacific Partnership pact, which excludes China, and
China promoting its Free Trade Area of the Asia-Pacific framework.
In the trade agreement signed Monday, a 3 percent tariff on coking coal, used in making steel, will be
removed immediately, and a 6 percent tariff on thermal coal, used to power plants, will be lifted
within two years for shipments from Australia.

Page86of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The agreement gives Australian dairy farmers tariff-free access to China's lucrative market for infant
formula within four years, without the so-called safeguard caps that now restrict competitors from
New Zealand.
''Australia has been marginalized from being a major exporter to China in the last few years, one of
the reasons being that milk production has been going down over the last decade,'' said Sandy
Chen, a dairy analyst at Rabobank in China.
Australia's winemakers, which now sell more than $175 million worth of goods to China each year,
will see tariffs eliminated over four years. Dairy companies -- including Bega Cheese and the
Warrnambool Cheese and Butter FactoryCompany, which is owned by Saputo of Canada -- are
probably among the greatest beneficiaries of the deal.

In the service sector, the main winners will be health care providers like Japara Healthcare and the
private hospital operator Healthscope, as well as financial services companies like the Australia and
New Zealand Banking Group and the Insurance Australia Group.
On the other side of the deal, private Chinese companies will be able to make single investments of
up to 1.078 billion Australian dollars, or $950 million, in Australia without needing a review by the
government's regulator. The limit had been 248 million dollars.
Also Monday, the Chinese central bank announced that it was allowing more access to its markets
by giving Australian investors the right to invest up to 50 billion renminbi, or $8.2 billion, under the
Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor program. The program was created to give foreign investors a
way to use renminbi to buy Chinese stocks and bonds.
''It's making it much easier for Australian fund managers to be able to access the domestic Chinese
market,'' said Andrew Whitford, general manager and country head for greater China at Westpac
Banking.
The Chinese central bank also said it was allowing Australian banks to clear renminbi trades.
Clearing banks handle all parts of a currency transaction and in doing so reduce the costs and time
taken for each deal.
Xinhua, the state-run news agency, also said China was improving the Australian central bank's
access to its interbank bond market by increasing the central bank's investment quota to 10 billion
renminbi.
Encouraging greater use of the renminbi globally is important to the Chinese government's long-term
plans of reforming its economy and reducing its exposure to the dollar.

NS

RE

IPD
PUB
AN

e512 : Physical Trade | gdip : International Relations | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat :
Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Business/Financial Desk
The New York Times Company
Document NYTF000020141118eabi0008i

Page87of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.