Southern Inlands Brekkie Blog | Thursday, November 27, 2014

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

news
Southern Inlands Brekkie Blog | Thursday, November 27, 2014

1,326 words
26 November 2014
Goulburn Post
FGOULP
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

Good morning, and welcome to the Southern Inlands Brekkie Blog. Each morning we'll keep you up to
date with what's happening around the region, including the latest local news as it breaks and the best
of what's happening around Australia and around the world.

Keep refreshing the page to see updates.

8.30am JINDABYNE: Kristian Blackmore-Lee from Jindabyne Central School is one of 37 Year 11
students from schools across the Illawarra, South East, and South Coast to be presented with a Victor
Chang School Science Award for outstanding achievement in scientific studies on Tuesday November
18 at Figtree High School.

8.15am CANBERRA: Developers of a proposed multi-million dollar shopping centre for Gungahlin - an
expansion of The Marketplace - hope it will become the dominant centre in Gungahlin, a new
development application reveals. The expansion of the complex, planned for the site of the current
Woolworths car park on Hibberson Street by the Vinta Group, will cost nearly $27 million and balloon
the total area taken up to about 10,000 square metres, including a new two-storey car park for 500
cars.

8.00am COOMA: Mission Australia has taken over the reins as the region's crisis accommodation
provider, with the organisation setting its sights on tackling homelessness in the community. Mission
Australia will begin a new chapter in local crisis accommodation services after being awarded the
region's Specialist Homelessness Service (SHS) tender. Monaro Crisis Accommodation Service
(MCAS) had operated as the region's emergency housing provider for the last 25 years before the
state government awarded the tender to Mission Australia.

7.45am JINDABYNE: Jindabyne Central School's (JCS) Year 12 drama students have been
recognised as some of the best in the state with their HSC group performance to be showcased in a
major stage production at Sydney's Seymour Centre. The JCS students are among only a dozen Year
12 groups selected from every public and private school across NSW to be invited to perform at
OnStage, a presentation of group and individual performances by Higher School Certificate (HSC)
drama students.

7.30am GOULBURN: TV service has been restored in Goulburn following a power failure to a
broadcasting generator owned by Prime, WIN and Southern Cross 10. A main power failure is the
culprit behind outage, it has been confirmed, which lasted about 50 minutes. The problem occured
when the backup generator failed to kick-in. Read more.

7.15am CANBERRA: A motorcyclist has been killed in a high-speed head-on collision with a truck on
the Monaro Highway south of Tuggeranong. Officer in charge of traffic operations Sergeant Rod
Anderson said it appeared the motorcyclist died instantly. "This has been one of the worst collisions
we have seen in the last few years," he said.

7.00am COOMA: Monaro wool businesses are set to benefit following a recent visit from a Japanese
delegation who indicated an interest to purchase local wool for their ventures. Representatives from
MUJI, Motohiro Osaka and Motohiro Sydney were given a guided tour of the Gordon Litchfield Wool
sheds at Polo Flat, with the delegation inspecting the wool as part of a regional tour into Monaro wool
practices.

Page182of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Need a national news snapshot first thing - well, we have you covered.

" To check out the front pages of Fairfax publications for today, click here

It was all about the ARIAs last night as hip young, and not so young, things from the music industry
celebrated 2014 in Sydney. Chet Faker and Sia were the big winners. Find out who won what here.

" Helmets could soon be compulsory in Ballarat cricket in the wake of the tragic Phillip Hughes
incident.

" A $1 million zipline course is taking shape on the Illawarra escarpment as tourism behemoth Merlin
Entertainments Group takes off on a dramatic expansion of the Illawarra Fly Treetop Adventures site.

" Farrer MP Sussan Ley has responded cautiously to Albury Council's support for same-sex marriage,
saying she was waiting for legislation to come before Parliament before spelling out her views on the
issue.

" Few people know better than cricketer Rick McCosker what a weapon a new ball can be in the
hands of a genuine fast bowler. The former Test opener had his jaw broken attempting a hook shot
against England's Bob Willis in the 1977 Centenary Test. He reflects on the Phillip Hughes incident.

" Deakin University's Warrnambool campus is worth $53 million a year to the region's economy plus
another $6m to the rest of the nation, according to a commissioned economics report.

" When Debra Tropea's little boy Cruz became severely dehydrated during a traffic jam on Friday, she
never expected the kindness of even one person - let alone 30,000 of them. Read more about the
search for the kind-hearted truckie.

" Struggling graziers have been dealt another blow with the Water Reform and Other Legislation Bill
passed in Queensland Parliament.

" Qantas's new fleet of larger, faster planes will mean 10,000 more passengers can complete the trip
from Wagga to Sydney each year.

MOUNT ISA: A cattle station worker has been flown to Brisbane after she was trapped under more
than 1000 kilograms of hay bales while working on Taldora Station near Julia Creek.
LAUNCESTON: The state government has chosen a Singapore-based company as its preferred
operator for a direct international shipping link. Infrastructure Minister Rene Hidding told State
Parliament the government expected to enter into a Memorandum of Understanding with shipping
company Swire ''in the near future''.

GOULBURN: Clive Palmer has vowed his party will extend its influence beyond Canberra's Parliament
House. However, they won't be in a position to stand a single candidate at the NSW election next
March.

WAGGA WAGGA: Plastic is not always fantastic, especially when it comes to Christmas trees. This is
the message Dennis Blackett is promoting as he urges the community to embrace the festive spirit
and buy real pine trees.

VICTOR HARBOR: The Middleton businessman who slaughtered six miniature horses at Clayton Bay
in December 2013 may be out of jail in 18 months.

REDLANDS: Brisbane's G20 meeting of world leaders, designed to promote economic growth and
peace, has fuelled the Redlands koala wars.

WARRNAMBOOL: A long-time Warrnambool drug dealer who was so desperate to make money he
substituted rock salt for ice has been jailed for six months.

"BENDIGO: With the conclusion of the international exhibition The Body Beautiful in Ancient Greece
from the British Museum, staff at Bendigo Art Gallery have been busy working behind the scenes to
install works from the permanent collection.

" As protests spread around the United States on Wednesday night, reinforced National Guard and
police engaged in a tense stand-off in Ferguson, sparing the township much of the violence that tore
through its streets on Monday.
" Daryl Davies, a retired commercial pilot, paid the equivalent of about $500,000 in Thai baht for his
dream three-bedroom home in Chom Tawan, one of the most prestigious residential developments

Page183of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.on Phuket. But a Thai court has authorised an auction of the homes of Mr Davies and more than 40
other buyers to the highest bidder if millions of dollars owed to the Industrial and Commercial Bank of
China by the project developer are not repaid by a December 17 deadline.
" Hong Kong police have arrested high-profile student protest leaders Joshua Wong and Lester
Shum, as authorities moved to clear a key protest camp at the heart of a pro-democracy civil
disobedience movement that has swept the financial hub for two months

Life is looking pretty peachy for Gracetown surfer Jacob Willcox. The 18-year-old just celebrated the
end of his high school years, as well as his success in being named this year's hottest surfing talent by
Surfing Life magazine.

RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria
(Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | queensl : Queensland
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FGOULP0020141127eabq00005

Page184of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.