What's news

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

What's news

432 words
30 May 2014
China Daily-Hong Kong Edition
CHNDHK
14
English
Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Company. All rights reserved.

Philips, Alibaba sign deal for services in China
Philips (China) Investment Co Ltd and Alibaba Group Holding Ltd signed an agreement that will see
Alibaba provide Philips with a cloud computing service while it provides smart products to customers in
China. The two companies also intend to cooperate on big data exchanges and analysis, so they can
be better informed of useful data; including product needs, purchasing behaviors, user feedback, and
development trends.

Dutch pension fund to buy 20% of Chinese warehouser
Dutch pension fund APG Asset Management will pay up to $650 million for 20 percent of Chinese
warehouse firm Shanghai e-Shang Warehousing Services Co Ltd and set up a joint venture to expand
in China, the companies said on Thursday. E-shang, backed by private equity firm Warburg Pincus,
and APG aim to tap strong demand for warehouses as Chinese e-commerce booms. The joint venture
plans to develop and run modern logistics real estate assets across China.

Baosteel's $1.3b takeover approved by Australian govt
Chinese iron and steel giant Baosteel Group Corp moved closer to securing an A $1.4 billion ($1.29
billion) takeover of Aquila Resources Inc after the Australian government approved the deal on
Thursday. Baosteel Resources Australia, a subsidiary of the Chinese parent's overseas development
arm, and Australian rail freight operator Aurizon Holdings Ltd have made a conditional offer of A $3.40
per share in cash for the iron ore and coal firm.

Yuan strengthens for first time after five days of decline

The yuan strengthened for the first time in six days as some investors judged excessive the slide that
brought the currency within 0.1 percent of its weakest level since 2012. The yuan gained 0.25 percent,
the most since May 6, to close at 6.2399 per dollar in Shanghai. It had dropped as much as 0.11
percent, China Foreign Exchange Trade System prices show. The currency lost 0.35 percent in the last
five trading days.

Nation spends more than US on shale gas development
China's effort to catch up with the United States in developing shale gas is coming at a big cost. It's
spending four times as much developing some fields, according to a Bloomberg report. China has
mandated targets for its producers, such as China Petroleum & Chemical Corp, also known as Sinopec.
Sinopec estimates it will spend an average of $10 million per well at its Fuling site. That compares with
costs as low as $2.6 million per well in parts of the US.

CO
IN

RE

alibab : Alibaba.com Corporation | peain : Koninklijke Philips NV
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | iebus : E-business (B2B) | iecom :
E-commerce | ielec : Consumer Electronics | iint : Internet/Online | itech : Technology
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

Page35of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

China Daily Information Company
Document CHNDHK0020140529ea5u0001i

Page36of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.