The breath of Chinese whispers

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
The breath of Chinese whispers

Christina Zhou
820 words
9 March 2014
Sunday Age
SAGE
First
18
English
(c) 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

SUNDAY EXPLAINER
A growing number of Chinese buyers are parking money in Australian houses but are they really
responsible for pricing locals out of the market? Let's take a closer look, says Christina Zhou.

■WHAT'S ALL THE FUSS ABOUT?
Increasing interest from Chinese buyers in Australian property is stirring up heated debate. They are
snapping up off-the-plan apartments and making their presence felt at auctions of prestigious Melbourne
properties - multimillion-dollar homes that are sometimes then left unoccupied or torn down. Some
observers worry lax laws are encouraging land banking and asset hiding, at a cost to local residents and
heritage.
Others say Chinese investors are driving up prices and displacing first-home owners or that buying
expensive houses is a fast way for rich investors to gain permanent residence. Dog whistling, some
scoff: the furore is anxiety about multiculturalism colliding with our national obsession - residential
property.
■WHAT ARE THE RULES ABOUT WHAT FOREIGN INVESTORS CAN BUY?
Many pundits point out overseas investors can buy off-the-plan properties only with the Foreign
Investment Review Board's approval.
But there are exceptions. Temporary residents can buy one established dwelling to live in, on condition
they sell the property when it's no longer their residence. And temporary and non-residents can buy an
established property for redevelopment, provided construction begins within two years.

Buying multimillion-dollar properties only to knock them down and rebuild is common near prestigious
schools without heritage overlays such as Balwyn North and Glen Waverley.
For some Chinese families it's the only option to live in the area; others simply prefer new homes. And
many of these buyers are locals who may be second or even third-generation Chinese.

■WHERE ARE THEY BUYING?
Overseas Chinese buyers typically target pockets of Melbourne, such as areas close to good schools,
communities with cultural connections and residential growth zones.

Locals could find stronger competition in certain suburbs such as Box Hill, Balwyn and Glen Waverley.
But just like local buyers, offshore Chinese buyers can be split into different categories based on net
worth, and this largely determines what and where they buy.

Page174of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.■ARE THEY PRICING LOCALS OUT OF THE MARKET?

Despite considerable media coverage of recent house price increases because of strong competition
from Chinese buyers, the latest HIA-Commonwealth Bank Housing Affordability Report for the
September 2013 quarter shows housing affordability was the highest since June 2002. Chinese and
local buyers also typically target different properties. In the lower price ranges, many first home buyers
are either looking for lifestyle or an affordable entry to the market; Chinese investors who buy off the
plan are looking for a long-term investment. However, anecdotal reports suggest Chinese demand has
contributed to rising prices in specific areas, such as Balwyn.

■WHY ARE THEY SETTING THEIR SIGHTS ON AUSTRALIA?

A combination of reasons, including education, migration and investment diversification. There also is no
private ownership of land in China, with home buyers given 70-year leases.

Clean air and affordability are also drawcards.
Compared with major cities such as Shanghai, Australian real estate is a cheaper place to buy a
property (large homes in a desirable location in major Chinese cities can easily cost up to $10
million-plus).
The Chinese government is also actively encouraging citizens to buy property overseas to ease the
heat in China's property market.
But while China may top the list of foreign investors in Australian property, data from Juwai.com,
listings portal for Chinese buyers to find international property, shows Chinese buyers' top preference
is the United States.
China poured $5.9 billion into Australian residential and commercial real estate over the year to June
30, 2013, according to the latest Foreign Investment Review Board approval figures. But Chinese
buyers bought $8.2 billion worth of US homes in the 12 months ending March 2013, according to the
National Association of Realtors.

■IS SOMETHING SINISTER GOING ON?
There is no doubt some Chinese buyers are moving their assets to Australia because of Chinese
regulations limiting the quantity of property bought domestically and surveillance on citizens spending
large sums of money.
But anxiety about Chinese investors as opposed to non-residents from other countries is perplexing.

According to Juwai.com co-chief executive Andrew Taylor, their numbers are increasing, but from a low
base.

They have been catching up to investors from countries such as the United States and Singapore.

They surpassed them in the offshore buyer rankings only last year.
And while many in the property industry elsewhere spruik the idea that buying a mansion is a ticket to
permanent residency this is not the case.

The Significant Investor Visa, that rewards complying investments of $5 million Australian assets such
as direct investment into Australian proprietary companies and government bonds, specifically excludes
direct investment in residential property.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

e1121 : Home Sales/Housing Affordability | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic
News | ereal : Real Estate Markets
china : China | austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SAGE000020140309ea390001k

Page175of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.