Caution shown on agri potential

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Caution shown on agri potential

ANDREW BURRELL, AGRIBUSINESS
411 words
24 July 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
23
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

DON’T expect the dining boom to overtake the mining boom anytime soon. That was the message
yesterday from business leaders amid ongoing hype about Australia’s role in feeding the rising middle
class of Asia.

Asked whether he might follow in the footsteps of miners Andrew Forrest and Gina Rinehart and seek
to invest in beef or other agribusinesses, Woodside Petroleum chairman Michael Chaney said such
diversification was not part of Woodside’s plans.

“Woodside is likely to be building on its strengths and staying in the petroleum business that it’s in,” he
told The Australian & Deutsche Bank Business Leaders Forum in Perth.

“Notwithstanding the importance of the sector — I think the food and agribusiness sector has a really
important role to play in Australia — I don’t think it can replace mining in its importance in the
foreseeable future, but it’s a pretty exciting area.” Mr Forrest, the founder of Fortescue Metals Group,
bought Western Australia’s biggest beef producer, Harvey Beef, for more than $30 million in May,
seeking to capitalise on China’s booming demand for Australian food.
Mrs Rinehart then paid about $40m for a 50 per cent stake in two vast Kimberley cattle stations in a
joint venture with private company Dowford Investments, which is owned by the Laitt family.
Mrs Rinehart and Mr Forrest have grown rich from China’s soaring demand for the Pilbara’s iron ore,
and they view Australian beef as having similar potential.

Mr Chaney said if he was chairman of Perth conglomerate Wesfarmers, where he was once chief
executive, he might look at buying a company such as Harvey Beef.

“But if Woodside bought Harvey Beef, I think there’d be some serious scratching of heads,” he said.

Some business leaders have questioned whether Australia’s “food bowl” ambitions are realistic.

Stockbroker and agriculture investor Colin Bell told The Australian this week that the nation had
neither the water supplies nor the arable land to be able to meet Asian demand for food.

But Rio Tinto chief executive Sam Walsh described agriculture as a “huge opportunity” for Australia.
“These are critical issues; critical issues for the world, but critical issues for Australia and, let me say,
an opportunity for Australia,” he said.“With the mass of land that we’ve got, with the expertise that
we’ve got in relation to agriculture, it’s a huge opportunity.”

CO
IN

NS

wodpet : Woodside Petroleum Ltd
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural
Gas/Oil Extraction
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News

Page70of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140723ea7o0003h

Page71of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.