Whiz kid takes on own case

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Whiz kid takes on own case

EMMALINE STIGWOOD EMMALINE.STIGWOODS@NEWS.COM.AU
356 words
17 October 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
20
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

FORMER corporate whiz kid Matthew Perrin has dusted off his legal books to represent himself in
court.
The Gold Coaster, who graduated top of his university law class in 1996, yesterday appeared in the
Supreme Court in Brisbane where he is fighting for millions from liquidators called in when his
company Christie Qld collapsed in 2009 owing up to $60 million.

Previously Mr Perrin has engaged leading law firms to represent him at numerous court hearings. He
did not indicate if he was just representing himself for yesterday’s brief mention or whether he would
now be taking on the whole case himself.
At stake is about $16 million in payments from the remains of the company originally set to go to
ex-wife, Nicole Bricknell.

The case was to go to trial this month but has now been delayed, probably until next year.

Mr Perrin told the court he would like the case to be moved forward quickly given how much time the
liquidator had taken to gather material. He said most of the delay was because different accountants
were used by each side and extra reports were needed.
Mr Perrin is trying to claim that money Ms Bricknell lent the company in its dying days should now be
paid to him as he struck a deal with her to take over the debts as part of their divorce settlement.

But liquidator Julie Williams has insisted Ms Bricknell waived her right to the bulk of the money when
she signed forms indicating only about $6 million was owed.
At his peak Mr Perrin’s worth was estimated at $132 million including property, shares and influence
as his role as Billabong CEO before failed investments in Chinese supermarkets and a major
mortgage dispute with the Commonwealth Bank.

Ms Bricknell fought off the bank by claiming Mr Perrin forged her signature on mortgage documents to
raise money against their Cronin Island home without her knowledge.Fraud charges against Mr Perrin
are still before the Brisbane Magistrates Court for hearing later this year.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

gcrim : Crime/Courts | c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal Action | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat :
Political/General News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive News
Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
brisbn : Brisbane | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr :
Australia
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020141017eaah0001p

Page301of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Page302of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.