Mining M &A transactions fall to decade-low $5 billion

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
MiningM&A transactions fall to decade-low $5 billion

Joyce Moullakis and Amanda Saunders
943 words
5 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
17
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The value of miningM&A transactions so far this year has fallen to about $5 billion, the lowest level
in a decade. But bankers are tipping bargain valuations could spur opportunistic deals in the next 12
months, with gold expected to be the hottest sector.

Macquarie Capital resources banker Justin Mannolini says a lack of confidence has been hampering
deals, and interest from Asian buyers in the Australian mining sector is at a low ebb.

"Valuations across some sectors are so compressed relative to highs that there is an increased
likelihood we will see more in-market consolidation and more opportunistic M&A," Mr Mannolini said.
"If you look at the junior gold sector, valuations across the board are off upwards of 80 per cent."
The Perth-based banker tips companies with market capitalisations of about $1 billion – the "larger
small cap players" – could drive the next leg of M&A activity by making opportunistic plays for smaller
cap companies.

But he did not expect much activity until at least the March quarter.
"Most M&A is likely to be corporate on corporate, rather than sovereign wealth funds, or Chinese
SOEs [state-owned enterprises]," he said.
"We're not seeing a huge demand out of south-east or north Asia, for investment into mining and
metals in Australia just at the moment. I think there is a feeling that most commodity markets are
reasonably well-balanced, so there is no particular strategic need, out of China anyway, to sponsor
new greenfields developments."

Advisers in the resource sector are keeping close tabs on the availability of financing, commodity
prices and the Australian dollar as the lacklustre year draws to a close.
Australia's mining sector transactions total US$4.6 billion ($5.3 billion) since January 1, the lowest
such year-to-date total since 2004 when there were US$2.8 billion worth of transactions, Dealogic
data shows.
The year's tally is well below the most recent peak of US$33 billion in 2011, and puts mining in fifth
place as a sector behind the busiest industries of property and real estate, and oil and gas.

The value of transactions carried out since January 1 in different sectors with figures quoted in $US
millions. Dealogic The sale of Glencore Xstrata's $US5.85 billion Las Bambas project to a
consortium led by Melbourne-based, Chinese-owned miner MMG, is the largest deal this year, while
Baosteel Group and Aurizon Holdings' acquisition of Aquila Resources also sits within the top ten
transactions.

Page164of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.But there have also been speedbumps, including the stalling of Chinese suitor Guangdong Rising
Asset Management's (GRAM) tilt at junior miner PanAust. Bankers were also kept on alert by hype
around Swiss miner and commodities trader Glencore's potential renewed interest in industry
behemoth Rio Tinto.
"In terms of activity, while this year has seen the re-emergence of a number of larger deals in mining
(including MMG's acquisition of Las Bambas and the planned BHP Billiton demerger), the larger
deals are more reflective of particular situations rather than a broader trend back to the large-scale
miningM&A seen in 2008-12," said Russell Keating, Citigroup's local head of metals and mining.
"At the moment there, you're probably hearing some unnecessary hysteria in and around mining, in
reality, the current environment is an expected and normal part of the mining cycle, which will
produce a different set of transactions over the next 12-24 months, than we've seen over the last five
years.

"It is going to be a place where there will be activity but it will now be a different form," he added
noting the influence of recent market volatility and the relative demand for various commodities,
particularly from China.

But Macquarie's Mr Mannolini says a lack of confidence has been hampering deals, rather than
volatility.

"You can't necessarily blame it on volatility; volatility has been relatively suppressed."

"I think the problem has just been confidence – as a bidder, overcoming the fear that you are going to
pay $5 for something now, when you could have got it for $3 tomorrow.

"That is the insidious nature of a deflationary environment."

Mr Keating also outlined that a softer commodities market meant mergers and acquisitions would be
primarily driven by opportunism, material synergies and merger-of-equals type activity.
"Copper has been far and away the most active and attractive commodity in M&A terms which is a
function of its geological scarcity and attractive demand fundamentals," he said.

Clayton Utz Partner Rory Moriarty said the coming year would see improved, but not bumper levels
of, activity in the mining industry, as divestments continued and strategic players sought out
opportunities over the medium to long term.

"There will be stronger levels of activity but obviously not back to the peaks of more recent years," he
said. "The key driver will be interest from inbound investors that have a medium- to longer-term
outlook. That sort of interest is not going away."
Mr Moriarty also highlighted strategic cornerstone investors and resources-focused private equity
firms as key players that would participate in future activity.

"Target boards are recalibrating their expectations of how deals will be struck and terms," he said, of
the narrowing of expectations between targets and suitors.
UBS managing director Campbell Stewart contrasted muted deal activity at the big end of mining
sector to the potential for a string of transactions at the smaller end.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

mcqbnk : Macquarie Group Limited
i814 : Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit |
ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141104eab50001m

Page165of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.