As China 's real estate market cools, the nation's new property moguls look to Australia

HD
WC 1,297 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

As China's real estate market cools, the nation's new property moguls look to Australia

1 November 2014
National News Agency Lebanon
NANLEB
English
© 2014 NNA Lebanon. All Rights Reserved. Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company

To set foot in a real estate expo in China is to run a frantic gauntlet of sales staff thrusting glossy
pamphlets into every open hand they can find.

Vying for the attention of cashed-up investors is always competitive at major property events; with
hundreds of property developers spruiking dreams of home ownership - and not just in China.

TD

In exhibition halls in China's major capital cities, prospective buyers are just as likely to come across
promoters for house and land packages in suburban Melbourne, or off-the-plan inner-city apartments in
central Sydney, as they are for a luxury development in China's southern beachside resort of Sanya.

But after years of heady growth spurred building - and buying - of high-rise apartments on a mind-bending
scale, property prices in China have slid backwards for five straight months, prompting fears of a deeper
price correction.

Althoughmany property analysts remain confident the government is able to intervene if needed to prevent
a full-blown property crisis, the sector is routinely fingered as a major risk factor amid the slowing
trajectory of China's seemingly inexorable economic rise.
Chinese property prices are at this critical juncture, Wang Peng, the managing director of property
developer Hanya Federal, told Fairfax Media. He says prices in second- and third-tier cities - essentially
those outside Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou - are especially fragile given local developers continue to
build.

If you're a rational investor, you'll be selling all the houses you don't need. If you don't, in a few years you
won't be able to, he says. Many, many people are selling their house in China and buying elsewhere,
maybe in Australia, maybe in the United States.

The evaporation of easy returns has seen top-end property developers earnestly branching out away from
Chinese real estate, and seen some of the country's most prolific businessmen invest in Australia.

Property mogul Wang Jianlin, a former military officer, who owns the most movie screens across the world
thanks to the acquisition of the US-headquartered AMC Entertainment, last year flew in the likes of
Nicole Kidman, John Travolta and Leonardo DiCaprio to celebrate the ground-breaking ceremony of his
Qingdao Oriental Movie Metropolis - a movie studio he hopes will help China surpass Hollywood as the
centre of the film universe.
Recently bumped from top spot of China's rich list by tech giant Alibaba founder Jack Ma, Wang
established an Australian arm of his sprawling Wanda Group empire in August. Funded with an initial
cash chest of $1.7 billion, Wanda Australia's first foray will be a joint venture with fellow Chinese group
Ridong to develop the $1 billion Jewel hotel and apartment resort complex on the Gold Coast, amid a
string of acquisitions in London, Madrid and other parts of Europe. Wanda has the stated ambition of
becoming the largest owner of five-star hotels across the world.

In the past five years, Wanda's income has grown at [an average of] 35 per cent a year, Wang said last
year. I think this is a normal speed, but some feel it's too fast. But if we took regular steps to grow, we
wouldn't be able to become No.1 in the world.

Page154of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Even more diverse is the extraordinary spending spree of Xu Jiayin, chairman of conglomerate
Evergrande and co-owner (with Jack Ma) of arguably the richest football club in Asia, Guangzhou
Evergrande Taobao.

Just last month, Xu, also known as Hui Ka Yan, caused a stir when he jetted into Australia with his
entourage in a private Airbus A319, scouting for deals on the Gold Coast, and in Brisbane and Sydney,
according to sources.
Evergrande this week launched its own infant formula after acquiring New Zealand dairy producer Cowala
Dairy. It is spending 10 billion yuan ($1.86 billion) to take on China's cooking oil and grain markets -
ventures which have already been prominently advertised on Xu's Guangzhou football club jerseys.
Evergrande has also launched its own brand of bottled water and an expansion into solar energy and
wine-making, all in the space of a few months.

They're taking the spray-and-pray approach, says Michael Cole, a Shanghai-based real estate analyst.
They're trying out a bit of everything to see what they can do with their cash, now that they no longer get
the returns they used to on real estate development.

Financial analysts have cautioned investors against Evergrande's aggressive diversification strategy,
concerned with its cash-flow and rising debt.
Credit ratings agency Fitch downgrading the company's credit rating to BB- after noting a large increase
in its net debts, following record land acquisitions last year and this year's investments in an array of
businesses.
Goldman Sachs said this week that investors should avoid Chinese developer bonds altogether, as
builders in the world's second-largest economy increase note offerings to help refinance some $US13.4
billion worth of debt due next year.

Not helping sentiment was the shock arrest last month of Agile Property's Chen Zhuolin on corruption
charges, causing shares in the Chinese real estate developer to plummet.
Foreign lenders in China have already been stung by a string of suspected fraud cases and problem
loans in the country as Beijing investigates company executives and seizes assets in a crackdown on
corruption.
Fairfax Media has learnt that Xu himself has been interviewed by China's Central Commission for
Discipline Inspection, according to three sources: a senior property executive, a person with knowledge of
corruption investigations in Guangdong, and a businessman with ties to China's elite.

Xu was questioned in relation to his close ties with Wan Qingliang, the party boss of Guangzhou who was
arrested on corruption charges in June and expelled from the Communist Party after a party conference
last week.

There is no suggestion that Xu has acted improperly or that he faces corruption charges himself.
Evergrande declined to comment.
But as word spreads within the tight-knit business community in southern China, it appears Xu's
seemingly high-risk expansion strategies can in fact act as insurance. By gaining an international profile,
and by virtue of his large debts owed to state-owned banks, observer believe he can become too big to
fail.

What is the return of the deal in terms of the investment return, and what is the return in terms of the PR
value of the company? Cole says. The international deals do help quite a bit.

Back at the property expo in Beijing, Wang Peng, remains busy convincing interested investors to sell in
China and buy in Australia.
Wang himself, who amassed a modest fortune by riding China's property boom, has traded in his Beijing
apartments for an apartment in Sydney's Ryde, and a house and land package in Point Cook, on the
western fringes of Melbourne.
Backed by a multibillion-dollar head company, Hanya has launched a 110-apartment development in
Melbourne's Box Hill aimed at convincing other Chinese investors to make the same switch.
Demonstrating the buying power of cashed-up Chinese investors, Wang says Australia is popular
because property prices are perceived as cheap compared to what is available in the big cities in China.

Page155of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Australia also has lower home loan deposit requirements compared to China, where banks often require
around one-quarter of the property's value upfront, amid tightening lending conditions.
The amount of Chinese developers entering the Australian market is increasing exponentially, Wang
says, and the only reason these businesses dare to venture into this market is because there is the scale
and the demand.

NS

RE

gmovie : Movies | gsell : Selling a Home | gcat : Political/General News | gent : Arts/Entertainment | gpersf
: Personal Finance | greest : Real Estate/Property
china : China | austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) | beijin :
Beijing | guang : Guangdong | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS
Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales

IPD Real Estate
PUB National News Agency Lebanon
AN

Document NANLEB0020141101eab1000s8

Page156of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.