Press Release: Silver Spring Networks Showcases Smart Street Lights Vision for Australia

Press Release: Silver Spring Networks Showcases Smart Street Lights Vision for Australia

HD
WC 965 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

18 August 2014
14:00
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

Silver Spring Networks Showcases Smart Street Lights Vision for Australia
Highlights How the Internet of Things Can Help Future Cities Meet Energy, Economic, Health & Safety,
and Transportation Goals

TD

MELBOURNE, Australia--(BUSINESS WIRE)--August 18, 2014--
Today at the Australian Smart Lighting Summit, Silver Spring Networks, Inc. (NYSE:SSNI) showcased its
vision for the future of smart city and smart energy infrastructure in Australia. In his presentation, "Street
Lighting Controls: Why They're Ready Today, Important for Tomorrow and Critical in Australia," Mr. CJ
Boguszewski, Global Commercial Lead for Smart City Applications for Silver Spring, highlighted the
opportunities for Australian councils to leverage Internet of Things (IoT) technology to help modernize
critical infrastructure such as intelligent and adaptive street lighting.
"By establishing an open, standards-based IP network underpinning multiple applications, from energy to
public lighting to traffic light systems to disaster sensors, cities can leverage network economics to
cost-effectively deploy new smart infrastructure services to their citizenry over time," said Boguszewski.
"With our smart energy networks deployed in Victoria, South Australia and Western Australia, the market
has made strides in proving out the critical role technology plays in helping modernize its energy and
municipal infrastructure. The next step is advancing to more sophisticated IoT applications, and intelligent
street lights are often the onramp to smarter cities."

Cities today in Australia are faced with costly, ageing infrastructure. Street lights, for example, can
consume as much as 40 percent of a city's energy budget. Smart public lighting networks can help drive
reductions of more than 10 percent in street light energy consumption and can help lower maintenance
costs by up to 30 percent. When combined with LEDs, Silver Spring's Smart City Solution can help deliver
up to 60 percent in energy savings over traditional high-pressure sodium street lights and can help
reduce maintenance costs by up to 35 percent.

Silver Spring's Smart City Solution is comprised of its proven IPv6 wireless networking platform and
management and control software optimized for smart city devices. In addition to smart street lighting,
cities can leverage the open network platform for the deployment of additional smart city services over
time, greatly lowering long-term costs and accelerating speed of deployment for these new services for
their citizens.
Silver Spring's networking platform has connected over 2 million homes and businesses in Australia to
energy providers such as Citipower & PowerCor, Jemena, United Energy and Western Power, helping
improve energy efficiency and to empower consumers to make smarter energy decisions. In New
Zealand, Silver Spring has been selected by SmartCo, a consortium of electricity lines companies, to
deploy an advanced smart grid network across New Zealand, and has already begun deployments with
member company WEL Networks. In Asia, the Singapore Power Group is leveraging a countrywide IPv6
smart infrastructure networking platform from Silver Spring to allow eligible customers in Singapore to
now choose from a variety of retail energy providers and purchase electricity at wholesale market prices.

Page179of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Silver Spring Smart City Solution has been selected for programs in global cities including
Copenhagen, Dublin, Glasgow, Miami, Oslo, Paris, and Dongguan in China to help with the economic,
environmental, health and safety, and traffic and transportation challenges they face today.

For more information on Silver Spring's Smart City solution, please visit
www.silverspringnet.com/smartcities.

The Australian Smart Lighting Summit is endorsed by the City of Melbourne and is being held at the
Melbourne Convention & Exhibition Centre from August 18-19. For more information, please visit:
www.lightingconference.com.au.

Join the Silver Spring Networks Conversation

-- Follow @SilverSpringNet on

Twitter

-- Like Silver Spring Networks on Facebook at

www.facebook.com/silverspringnetworks
-- Read the Silver Spring Connect blog at

www.silverspringnet.com/silver-spring-connect/

About Silver Spring Networks
Silver Spring Networks is a leading networking platform and solutions provider for smart energy
networks. Silver Spring's pioneering IPv6 networking platform, with over 19 million Silver Spring enabled
devices delivered, is connecting utilities to homes and business throughout the world with the goal of
achieving greater energy efficiency for the planet. Silver Spring's innovative solutions enable utilities to
gain operational efficiencies, improve grid reliability, and empower consumers to monitor and manage
energy consumption. Silver Spring Networks' customers include major utilities around the globe such as
Baltimore Gas & Electric, CitiPower & Powercor, Commonwealth Edison, CPS Energy, Florida Power &
Light, Jemena Electricity Networks Limited, Pacific Gas & Electric, Pepco Holdings, Progress Energy and
Singapore Power, among others. To learn more, please visit www.silverspringnet.com.

Forward-Looking Statements

This press release contains forward-looking statements about Silver Spring Networks' expectations,
plans, intentions, and strategies, including, but not limited to statements regarding Silver Spring Networks'
projects in Australia, New Zealand and Singapore, and the benefits to cities of IoT technology, smart
infrastructure and Silver Spring's Smart City Solution. Statements including words such as "anticipate",
"believe", "estimate", "expect" or "future" and statements in the future tense are forward-looking
statements. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions,
which, if they do not fully materialize or prove incorrect, could cause our results to differ materially from
those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties include those
described in Silver Spring Networks' documents filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission. All forward-looking statements in this press release are based on information available to
Silver Spring Networks as of the date hereof. Silver Spring Networks assumes no obligation to update
these forward-looking statements.

CONTACT:

Silver Spring Networks

Amy Cook, 650-839-4183

Global Communications

acook@silverspringnet.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

August 18, 2014 00:00 ET (04:00 GMT)

CO

slvspg : Silver Spring Networks Inc.

Page180of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS

RE

i347 : Electric Lighting Equipment | i3303 : Networking | i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | icnp :
Consumer Goods | icomp : Computing | idurhg : Durable Household Products | ielec : Consumer
Electronics | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances | itech : Technology
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | npress : Press Releases | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | usa : United States | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific
| ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North America

PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020140818ea8i00084

Page181of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.