letters continued

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

letters continued

1,588 words
26 May 2014
The Chronicle (Toowoomba)
APNCHR
Main
11
English
Copyright 2014 APN Newspapers Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

letters continued

Development

Airport bonanza

WHAT a remarkable couple of years this has been for Toowoomba.

I think it started out with the reconstruction of the down section of the Toowoomba Range Rd after three
quarters of a century and the extensive repairs to the Warrego Hwy. Then the announcement of the
Wellcamp Airport was followed by the construction of the CBD ring road. Finally the last federal budget
settled once and for all the Toowoomba Range Bypass and it appears that some money has been put
aside to begin preparations for the long-awaited Melbourne to Brisbane rail which will also service
Toowoomba.

The stage has been set for giving Toowoomba unprecedented impetus to become Australia’s boom
town. Indeed, the Wellcamp Airport will be a great service to enable people to fly to many destinations
but it is the freight department that has even more potential. The foundations, easy access pavement
and minimum preparations mean that this airport will have been completed at a real cost far less than
most other airports in the world – so it will be able to offer very attractive landing fees. There are very
few houses within a five-kilometre radius of Wellcamp and 24-hour operation is a distinct probability; a
facility that will be the envy of any other airport in Australia.
This combined with the ease of aircraft achieving their desired bearing to fly to China will result in air
companies being able to offer low freight rates to that huge market. They will be able to transport
unlimited quantities of meat, milk, vegetables, fruit, flowers and other items we have forgotten. What
has never been stated is that gluts of production of vegetables in the Lockyer could easily be a thing of
the past as farmers will have access to a huge expanding market in China and, indeed, other Asian
countries. As the farmers can access further water from Wivenhoe Dam, it is possible that they may find
large expansion of vegetable production very profitable. We must not forget that our fruit growers up
Stanthorpe way could easily find the Asian market. Undoubtedly this will make Toowoomba a very
attractive tourist destination to see and also to taste our many undeveloped attractions.

Another item easily forgotten is that all these aircraft exports make it possible for aircraft companies to
offer extremely attractive rates as back-loading for imports of high value electronic items from China
and this will mean construction and operation of large warehouses to hold and distribute these goods.

The construction of the bypass will mean that access to the airport will be made very much easier for
residents of Ipswich, western Brisbane and the Lockyer Valley. The eventual operation of the railway
from Melbourne to Brisbane will also benefit the airport in passengers and freight. But all this simply
means that there will have to be an extreme increase in numbers of workers required. It is probable that,
as a result, Toowoomba’s population will double in the next 15 or 20 years and again double within the
next 50 years. The era when Toowoomba was a city small in comparison with coastal cities will soon be
gone forever.

PETER AND BETTY SHERIDAN, Toowoomba

Page14of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Politics

Leaders benefit

WHEN will politicians, especially prime ministers and Cabinet ministers be made accountable for poor
management?
Australian company law ensures that directors and managers are accountable to ensure proper
business management on behalf of the shareholders, and directors can be prosecuted and jailed for
bad planning, lies and broken promises to shareholders, and mismanagement which costs the
company and its shareholders substantial financial loss.

Obvious corporate examples in recent times are Alan Bond and Christopher Skase, who were both
hounded by the regulator for alleged misdemeanours.

Bond of course was jailed, and Skase suffered an agonising death in exile, and trauma for his family
due to unending threats, harassment and high court action from the regulator as well as ASIO.

Conversely, prime ministers and premiers resign after totally destroying the economy they are entrusted
with, then travel the world in excessive first-class luxury at taxpayers’ cost, with free airfares and
half-million-dollar superannuation for life with a further drain on a fragile economy.

There are no repercussions on the blatant lies and bad management, resulting in a once-proud Australia
losing its financial credibility with a debt of almost $500billion.

Why aren’t these dismal failures made to pay for their abysmal leadership?

The Queensland Labor government with Peter Beattie and Anna Bligh totally destroyed the economy,
but now revel in huge superannuation payments and high-profile jobs earning more millions. To inflame
old wounds, Beattie was presented with an undeserved Order Of Australia, which makes an absolute
farce of these awards.

This system of political impunity makes me sick and, until all of the politicians creating these massive
losses are brought to justice for their incompetency, nothing will change and Australia will still continue
to be governed by fools, liars and imbeciles.

BRIAN J H SAYERS, Millmerran

Council

Pollution pit

COULD TRC confirm why they are allowing a small commercial waste depot to operate on a rural
residential block on the Gore Hwy at Westbrook please? Rubbish is brought onto the site then dumped
and burnt. We residents then have to suffer the stink and smoke for days after.

Machinery is working all day moving dirt and we get the dust and noise.

Plus what are the legalities of that massive pit so close to the road. According to TRC website that land
is not for commercial use. We, the residents, have spent more than $300,000 to buy here, only to have
the pollution across the highway. This has been happening for quite some time so I don’t think TRC can
keep burying their heads in the sand.

Also a note to the new neighbours: to have your motorbikes start up at 4pm on a Sunday afternoon, not
happy Jan.

Councillors please step out of the CBD and see what is happening on the outside of Toowoomba. If you
can’t drive yourself to Westbrook, just look on the satellite. You do have access.

S. WALKER, Westbrook

Pension

Out of touch

HOW absolutely stupid is Joe Hockey and his “hangers on”...how can a man of 69 do the same work as
a man aged 30. A lot of that age have trouble climbing ladders and carrying heavy weights etc, as well
as having arthritis and associated complaints, and many younger than that are not fit due to ill-health.

Page15of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Joe Hockey has probably never done an honest day’s work in his life, the same with most politicians,
and they are completely out of touch with the real world.

I wonder how long it will be before the “bubble bursts”. The politicians won’t be happy until Australia
becomes worse than some third world countries, and it is rapidly heading that way.

Maybe they will think differently when the “bubble” does finally burst – I hope I am around when that
happens, which it will. Australians are pretty easygoing, but push them too far and things will be quite
different, and people will only take so much.

It’s the parasites’ fault the country is in such a bad way, not the people’s.

MICHAEL D’ELSA, Toowoomba

Language

Husband please

LET me reverse this issue please. I have been married to my husband for 36 years. He is my husband.
I don’t care what other people call themselves at all, as that is their business. But in my case, with three
terms in local government – 11 years – I must say that I got absolutely sick of getting public invitations
that were inviting me as Cr Annette Frizzell and partner.

It was quite simple, if they didn’t want to know my husband’s name, or couldn’t be bothered to ask. I
refused to go. Simple as that.

I used to get very annoyed at the time that my husband’s name meant nothing as I thought these people
must think I am running around with “Tom, Dick or Harry”. That’s the way I saw it.

Surely to God they must know my husband’s name by now?
I am not meaning any insult to persons with partners. That is their business.

But I married a man who was given a name by his parents at birth. He deserves that name and not for
me to introduce him to people as my partner – how insulting.

I flatly refused all invitations inviting “my partner”. He is my husband and that’s that.

ANNETTE FRIZZELL, Oakey

Finance

Divided we fall

I WAS astounded at the nonsensical decision by the Federal Government to cut $80billion from
education and health to reduce the deficit. This government does not realise that education is the
powerhouse of a growing economy and this nation’s future depends on a highly educated workforce if
we are to remain competitive in the global community. With massive cuts to science and the CSIRO,
one can clearly see that this government has absolutely no vision for this country’s future. And if the
government wants people to work till age 70, then people are going to need all the health care they can
get. This budget has effectively created an underclass and divided the people, and divided we will fall as
a nation.

DAVID FREDERICKS, Toowoomba

NS
RE

IPD
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Community - People
APN Newspapers Pty Ltd
Document APNCHR0020140525ea5q0002t

Page16of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.