Arrium's rude awakening

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Arrium's rude awakening

1,340 words
16 September 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
34
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Matthew Stevens
There are echoes of the global financial crisis in Arrium's whopping $754 million capital raising that
highlight just how unprepared many in the industry have been for the implosion in iron ore prices.

Arrium, the steelmaker formerly known as OneSteel, is seeking to raise almost its entire market
value in equity. This is even more unusual given the company was paying out dividends to
shareholders just under a month ago.

It is one of the largest rights offers the market has seen for a while and reminds many seasoned
investors of the rash of emergency raisings companies were undertaking in the global financial crisis.
The move shows just how quickly the iron ore price has deteriorated.

While the commodity has lost 40 per cent of its value in the past nine months, it was a sharp 12.5 per
cent fall to US$83 a tonne in the last month that set the alarm bells ringing for Arrium chairman Peter
Smedley and his advisers at UBS.
Arrium, which was spun out of BHP in 2000, will not be the first company whose fortunes are linked
to iron ore to go cap in hand to shareholders.

While it does have first-mover advantage by shoring up its balance sheet before the financiers come
knocking, there is no dressing this up as good news either.
Arrium missed an opportunity to shore up its balance sheet when an iron ore price recovery last
year saw its share price in good shape, topping a high of $1.81 in early January.

Instead, it has taken a rude awakening to address the huge amount of debt on its balance sheet.
Arrium which had a market capitalisation of $888 million at Friday's close, was carrying net debt at
June 30 of $1.7 billion.
This will fall to $976 million once $732 million in net proceeds from the raising are thrown at the
problem, reducing interest costs by $20 million a year.
The company is paying the price for a spending spree just before the financial crisis. Arrium has
transformed under Smedley to become the nation's fourth-biggest iron ore exporter.

It acquired rival Smorgon Steel and took on a lot of debt when it bought grinding media business
Moly Cop for $US932 million ($1 billion).
Its iron ore capability has expanded quite significantly to 13 million tonnes a year.

The timing of that expansion has been unfortunate.

Page28of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Many shareholders will not be happy about doubling their investment in the company in the current
market conditions.

But the raising has also been structured to attract new investors.

Arrium's gearing was at 31.4 per cent before the raising, which meant a lot of fund managers would
not touch the company with a barge pole.

This will now fall to 17.9 per cent, which should open the door for new investors who have been
wanting to get back into the company.

Arrium's desire to broaden its investor base is reflected in the structure of the raising, which includes
a $656 million entitlement offer and an institutional placement of $98 million.

A renouncable rights issue means Arrium can focus a bulk of the raising on existing shareholders,
who can either take up their rights, sell them on market or renounce them and get paid through a
bookbuild.

This is a fairer system for retail shareholders, which is important in this case as Arrium's shareholder
base is made up of 60 per cent of institutions and 40 per cent retail.

This is a hangover from the BHP demerger, which meant it started life with a large register.

But a key motivator in the structure was to attract new investors who may find it safe to go back into
the water now that the debt is being paid down.
While the board has acted responsibly to deal with the threat of a further decline in iron ore prices,
the rationale for such a massive raising still has many investors scratching their heads.

The spin is that the raising is a continuation of chief executive Andrew Roberts' strategy to reduce
the company's debt which he has been doing although not on the scale of Monday's announcement.

But Roberts, who inherited the job from Geoff Plummer last July, did not see this coming when he
delivered a solid set of annual results last month.

It was not just the price drop alone that led to the decision. Roberts says the negative market
sentiment, the collapse of Western Desert Resources a week ago, and commentary from the majors
also contributed.
He says the decision to pay out $40 million in dividends, which is arguably small compared to the
size of the raising, was made in the context of a record year when Arrium doubled the size of its
business and iron ore prices trading sideways from June 30 to mid-August.

It is easy to argue that with the benefit of hindsight, Arrium should have repaired its balance sheet
earlier – a lesson many companies learnt the hard way in the global financial crisis.
But this is something that would not have been playing on the board's mind when iron ore was
trading above US$100 a tonne and the business was making significant free cashflow.

When the price deteriorated over the past three weeks, the board was advised to take a long-term
approach to the problem rather than trying to predict where iron ore prices might go. It is understood
there was no pressure from Arrium's banks but enough people in the company were spooked that it
would be caught out if prices kept falling.

The board looked at other options but selling a major asset for a fair price would be difficult in the
current environment.

The board also needed a solution quickly and in a way that it could control. This is not unlike the
approach BHP Billiton chief Andrew Mackenzie took with his decision to spin out half the mining
giant's assets rather than opting for asset sales in a tough market.

While there is rationality in Arrium's approach, no-one can accuse it of being prepared for a rainy
day.

Some analysts have been warning this could happen for some time.
Deutsche Bank said in June that a drop in the iron ore price to $US75 would require Arrium to raise
equity,

Page29of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Western Desert Resources has been the most high-profile victim of the iron ore price implosion after
falling into receivership a week a go. More are expected to follow.
A string of iron ore players have break-even prices about US$83 a tonne and look vulnerable,
according to analysts.

Rio Tinto, BHP Billiton and Fortescue, meanwhile, are continuing to ramp up supply.

The raising is not the kind of swan song Smedley envisaged as he prepares to hand over the job to
Jerry Maycock in November.
There will inevitably be comparisons to the $1.2 billion takeover bid from Korean steel group Posco
which Smedley rejected in October 2012.

With the benefit of hindsight that now looks like a bad move but shareholders would never have
supported the bid at the time, particularly when iron ore prices were healthier than they are now.

While the consensus of analyst forecasts point to a price recovery, Roberts says one or two things
still need to change before prices come down. This includes tight credit conditions in China and
deeper discounts for lower grade ore.
Arrium's decision to swap debut for equity does give it some headroom around its covenants and
should insulate it against further price deterioration.
This will be helped by further cost reductions and a strong mining consumables business.

But there is no hiding the fact this is not an ideal situation and a sign of more bad news to come for
others leveraged to the iron ore price.

michael.smith@afr.com.au Twitter @MikeSmithAFR

Matthew Stevens is away

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i211 :
Metal Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c1512 : Dividends | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140915ea9g0002o

Page30of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.