Plan to kickstart stalled mines

Plan to kickstart stalled mines

The Australian

HD
CR
WC 581 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

3 November 2014
00:00
theAustralian.com.au
NLAUSW
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

TD

DENHAM Capital is eyeing a suite of stalled mining projects as it readies to launch its new
Australia-focused mining venture.
Denham has recruited former Karara Mining chief executive Steve Murdoch to run the new business,
called Auctus Minerals, and will back the venture with $US130 million in capital.

Boston-based Denham is one of the largest resources-focused private equity firms globally, with the
group involved in about 40 different ventures around the world.
Mr Murdoch said Auctus was looking to secure development-ready mining projects that were struggling
to secure finance through traditional channels.

Construction costs were falling sharply on the back of the downturn in the resources sector, he said,
opening opportunities for groups like Auctus that were backed with significant amounts of capital.

“There’s some real quality projects out there which for a range of reasons, particularly with the negative
sentiment in the market, have found it extremely difficult to get traditional sources of funding and have sat
there and not been developed,” Mr Murdoch said.

“The combination of the guys at Auctus Minerals and Denham Capital is a very powerful combination,
because we have the ability, skills and confidence to be able to drive these projects forward and we have
access to the capital, experience and culture of Denham.”

Mr Murdoch will be joined at Auctus by former Karara chief financial officer Paul Sims, and Mr Murdoch’s
former colleague from Cape, Terry O’Connor.
He said the team he had assembled had deep experience in managing profitable mining operations in
low commodity price environments. “There’s been a generation of professionals and executives in the
Australian mining industry who haven’t gone through cyclical lows,” he said.

“They’ve had a sustained period of massive capital injections, particularly in Western Australia where
there’s been an extended period of the party going on. We understand what it takes to run a tough
executive team.”

Mr Murdoch was also the former general manager of metallurgy at Mount Isa Mines, where he helped
drive a return to profitability despite the low commodity prices of the time.
The managing director of Denham in Australia, Bert Koth, said the firm had spoken to investors exposed
to Karara Mining’s namesake iron ore project in WA and was told that Mr Murdoch had helped save the
troubled development from collapse.
Karara, a joint venture between China’s Ansteel and Australia’s Gindalbie Metals, has battled numerous
challenges and overruns during its development.

Mr Koth said the feedback about Mr Murdoch’s time at Karara, and his history at Mount Isa, had
convinced him Mr Murdoch was the right man for the job. “This is one of the few teams out there in the
Australian market that has a steady long-term record of eliminating redundant dollars,” he said.

Page83of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.He said Auctus had already looked at about 1000 projects around the company, and had narrowed down
a list of several possible ventures — mostly in base metals — that could be pursued in the months ahead.

“There are a number of companies out there that are financially constrained, cannot raise the
development capital and in some cases are run by management that is not ideally suited for the
development stage of a mining project,” Mr Koth said.
Earlier this year, Denham recruited former Gloucester Coal managing director Barry Tudor to run
Pembroke Resources, a new venture focused on acquisitions in Australia’s coking coal industry.

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

NS
RE
PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document NLAUSW0020141102eab2000s0

Page84of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.