Qenos eyes NT gas after Santos

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Qenos eyes NT gas after Santos

Angela Macdonald-Smith
452 words
14 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
5
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Plastics maker Qenos has emerged as the latest manufacturer with an appetite for Northern
Territory gas to supplement supplies secured from Santos that will guarantee the survival of its
Botany plant for the next five years.
Chinese-controlled Qenos is about to start talks with a potential gas supplier from the NT, chief
executive Jonathan Clancy said at Botany after signing a five-year extension on the ethane supply
contract with Cooper Basin gas partners Santos and Origin Energy .

"The volumes that this plant can take are beyond the contract that we are currently signing," Mr
Clancy said. NT gas is "absolutely on our radar".

The Cooper Basin ethane supply deal, which extends a contract that ends on December 31,
underpins a $50 million investment required in 2015 for a maintenance turnaround at Qenos.

Without it, the plant faced closure, with the loss of more than 300 direct jobs and many more indirect
jobs. Qenos is jointly owned by China National Chemical Corp and private equity group Blackstone
.

The new contract has been secured at a "modest" price increase, according to Qenos, thought to be
10 to 20 per cent depending on the volumes received.

Negotiations on the contract renewal had been ongoing for over a year amid a widening crisis in gas
supplies in NSW where the development of coal seam gas resources has almost stalled.

Complicating the talks were different levels of appetite among the Cooper Basin joint venture
partners to do a deal, with the third venture partner Beach Energy opting out of the deal with
Qenos.

Santos's vice president eastern Australia, James Baulderstone , said the extension to the Qenos
contract showed his company was "committed to ongoing supply to the domestic energy needs of
the east coast market".
"Natural gas provides around 45 per cent of the energy requirements of Australia's manufacturing
sector, and this transaction with Qenos highlights that unless NSW can secure future gas supplies,
businesses and jobs will be at risk," he said.

"This makes the debate real."Need for gas
Speaking in Botany at the signing, NSW energy minister Anthony Roberts said the government
understood the critical need for gas in the state to preserve jobs and investment.

Qenos's plant in Port Botany is the country's sole producer of polyethylene, supplying hundreds of
other manufacturers in packaging, agriculture and other sectors.

Page154of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Qenos' interest in NT gas comes after fertiliser maker Incitec Pivot signed an initial accord earlier
this week to buy NT gas from explorer Central Petroleum . The NT formally invited expressions of
interest from pipeline developers to build the gas pipeline required to delivery NT gas south.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

boral : Origin Energy Ltd | sinoch : China National Chemical Corp | sants : Santos Ltd
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | i16 :
Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16101 : Electric Power Generation | i25 : Chemicals | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | ieutil : Electric Utilities | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction | iutil : Utilities
cpartn : Partnerships/Collaborations | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c11 : Plans/Strategy
nterry : Northern Territory | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141113eabe0000g

Page155of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.