Chinese group wants 50 dairy farms, two factories

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

news
Chinese group wants 50 dairy farms, two factories

ALEX SINNOTT
541 words
17 October 2014
The Warrnambool Standard
FWARST
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

A CHINESE investment group has its sights set on at least 50 south-west farms as several of the
region's leaders voiced concerns about the proposed mega dairy deal.
Investment firm Linear Capital announced its masterplan will involve the development of two new
processing plants and the "acquisition" of dozens of dairy farms.

Apart from a vaguely-worded statement, Linear declined to comment on the proposed plan
yesterday, or whether it wanted to buy farms or come to some sort of lease arrangement.
The Standard understands several dairy farmers have already signed up to the Chinese-Linear
deal as part of a lease deal, while other landholders have made in-principle agreements with the
group.
Former United Dairy-farmers of Victoria (UDV) president Doug Chant said the reticent style of
Linear Capital had left many in the south-west concerned.
"The approach of this Chinese investment group has been secretive, very secretive," Mr Chant
said.
"As a patriotic Australian and dairy farmer, I cannot understand how anyone can support this
model.
"I"m all for selling produce to China and reaping the benefits. But it is madness to sell our assets
to the highest bidder and hope everything will be rosy. It won't."
Tasmania-based Linear Capital is acting for a Chinese company which it describes as having
"established brands and long experience" in China.

Moyne Shire mayor James Purcell said the state government should impose a 50 per cent stamp
duty on foreign investment in farmland.

The Vote 1 Local Jobs party founder said the cash raised would then be redirected into a first farm
owners grant.

"Foreign investors understand that south-west Victoria is prime agricultural country yet no one in
government does," Mr Purcell said. "We should be charging 50 per cent stamp duty on all foreign
purchases of Victorian land, be it farming or residential.

"All funds raised would be redirected into assisting the next generation of south-west farmers. It's
about smart foreign investment, not a free-for-all approach that we currently have."
Mr Chant said he understood the pressures many dairy farmers of retirement age felt, but a
Chinese deal was a "poisonous option".
"It's been suggested that this is a way for dairy farmers to retire with dignity," he said.

Page228of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."There's no dignity in this. I've got no problem with farmers from any country coming here and
setting up a farm as an individual. This is different. This is a foreign government, not a foreign
company, a foreign government that will control large slabs of the south-west."

Linear Capital has a particular focus on linking farms in the Camperdown, Cobden, Heytesbury,
Simpson and Terang districts " traditionally considered prime dairy territory.
What remains unclear is the location of two milk processing plants proposed by Linear, or
whether the group would acquire existing sites such as Murray Goulburn's Koroit factory or
Warrnambool Cheese and Butter at Allansford.

Both the Victorian Farmers Federation and UDV president Tyran Jones have broadly supported of
the Linear-Chinese proposal. But Mr Tuohey said the Chinese company should use domestic
labour first.

i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming
| ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
china : China | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FWARST0020141018eaah00001

IN

RE

PUB
AN

Page229of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.